 If you are thinking seriously about cutting off all communication with someone, then it is also important to think seriously about what the result of doing that might be. In addition to the emotional effects, detaching from someone may also affect your financial, social, or professional life.

Try to make arrangements for any negative effects of detaching from someone. For example, if you have children with someone, then you will need to make arrangements so that you can still see your children on a regular basis. If you rely heavily on someone for financial support, then you will need to find a way to support yourself.
 If you have made the decision to detach permanently from a relationship, knowing why will help you stick to your decision and save you from getting involved in the relationship again. Reflect on what your life would be like without them present and how they might react.


Write down or record yourself talking about why you are deciding to detach from someone. These will serve as reminders when you feel yourself wanting to go back.
Make a list of reasons why you should detach. On this list might be because they create too much chaos, they take advantage of you, that you were losing yourself in them, and so on.
 To permanently detach from someone, you have to cut off contact and get out of that person’s daily life, at least for a while. If you keep a person in your life who you truly want to detach from, you are setting both of you up for emotional pain.Even if you still want to be friends, you need time away from the person to heal from the emotional attachment before you can attempt being friends. Otherwise, your past is too fresh, and you will be tempted to settle into old habits of intimacy.
 Another step toward detaching from someone is getting off of social media for a few days or weeks. Your relationship with this person, whether romantic or platonic, was most likely public on social media, and people may ask you questions. You may also see their posts, which makes it difficult to detach entirely.


Social media also records all of your text interactions, so it is easy to read old posts and recall old feelings, none of which help you detach.
You may want to consider making a general post to your friends to explain the situation so that they don’t talk to you about it.
You may also want to delete the person you are detaching from off of all social media so that you can no longer see their profile or communicate in this way.

