 It shouldn't be greasy. Also brush your teeth, smell good, and wash your face.;
, Middle school is a difficult time - you never know who is having a bad day. Just one smile can brighten someone else's day.
, This is key to have people respecting you more. A confident attitude is about standing up straight, holding your head up and striding manly around school. Walk like it everyday and soon you'll feel more confident and you'll see that people will think of you with more respect, too.
 This is the the golden rule to be popular. You have to be yourself or people might avoid you. If the person you're trying to be friends with doesn't want to be friends with you, then it's their loss, not yours. Don't let anybody change you. If he/she doesn't like you for who you are, then move on to a different person.
 Nobody likes a liar and if you do lie then it's going to catch up to you in life. The truth might be embarrassing.
 It's so easy to be popular. All you have to do is say hi to everybody in your school or compliment others if you want to. Saying hi definitely breaks the ice. You can also compliment others, by saying things like: "Hey dude, nice shoes. Are you a skater dude or something?" He most likely will respond back - if he doesn't then find somebody else. Same goes with complimenting girls; don't say something like: "Hey, I love your hair." Or "I really like your shirt today." Treat her like a Guy. Say similar things. If she doesn't respond then move on. There are tons of boys and girls who like you. You just have to find the right people.
 During your conversations with people, try to find things you have in common. This will make your friendship last for a long time. Don't agree on everything; you're going to have one thing you like that he/she doesn't or something that he/she likes that you don't.
 Sit together at lunch so that you and your friend can know each other better.
 Join Facebook, Myspace, Twitter or YouTube. You're going to find at least somebody from school, so add him/her as friends and you'll get to know each other online.
,