 A real estate agent should be able to market your house more effectively than you would. She will be able to sell your house faster and for a better price than you would. She will charge a fee of 5-7% of the total sale price of your house, but will often be able to compensate for that with a higher sale price.


Studies have shown that when real estate agents sell their own homes, they do so for on average 3% more than they sell their client’s houses for. That suggests that agents undervalue houses to sell them quicker. However, the increased volume of buyers they attract can counteract this effect.Conversely, home owners have a tendency to price their houses too high. This will mean that your house might languish on the market for a long time., There are a variety of services that help you list your own home. Visit fsbonetwork.com and www.homesbyowner.com for a list of local organizations that provide help pricing and advertising houses.Visit Forsalebyowner.com to have your house listed on a variety of online databases, including the MLS.


In the end you might not be able to avoid paying half of the commission. That is because your real estate agent would usually split half of her commission with the buyer’s real estate. To secure the deal, you might need to give 3% of selling price to a buyer’s agent. Approximately 10% of home sales are conducted by the owner., One of the most difficult parts of selling a home is picking a price that people are willing to pay, without going so low that you lose money in the sale. Begin by looking at comparable properties online to see what owners are asking for them. You should strongly consider finding a local appraiser to perform a professional valuation.Remember, you bought your house because it was to your taste. Not everyone will have the same preferences. It is very difficult to be objective when pricing your own home.
 Think about what makes your house special, take pictures that highlight its strengths and then cast a wide net. You should take out advertisements in local newspapers. You should also spend some money to have your price listed on the local “multiple listing service” (MLS). Don’t forget to design a sign to put outside of the house; this can often be an effective advertising tool because buyers interested in the area might already spend time there.


This process can cost money. The principal location for listing houses (MLS), can charge $400 a month.</ref>http://www.bankrate.com/finance/real-estate/sell-your-own-home.aspx#slide=2</ref> Forsalebyowner.com charges around $80 a month for listing your property, though rates vary depending upon how extensive your advertising package is. Zillow, Yahoo! Real Estate, and Craigslist are free.Be sure to discuss any high-end fixtures or appliances that you have in the house. These might not be conveyed with pictures alone.If you do plan to pay the buyer’s agent, advertise this on the listing. Otherwise, agents will be less likely to inform their clients about your property.</ref>

, If you do find a buyer, you will ultimately need to draw up a contract. An improperly constructed sale contract can make you liable for a lot of money. It is important to have expert assistance from a lawyer who specializes in real estate.


The services of a lawyer should cost at least $300 per hour.
If you there are structural problems with the property that are not disclosed in the contract, you could be liable for a lawsuit.