 The concealer that is your perfect match has to be a shade that is a little warmer than the shade of your natural complexion. The blue and/or gray color creating the look of tired circles needs to be counteracted with an orange color.Fair skin tones need an orange that is a light-medium shade of peach. A true orange or dark peach shade work for dark and medium skin tones, respectively.
How the concealer formula is packaged can be telling of how much coverage you will receive. Concealers that come with sponge wand offer the least amount of coverage. Concealers that come in stick form offer a coverage that’s moderate. For the fullest amount of coverage, get a concealer in pot form., Dot the concealer in a thin layer underneath your eyes. Make sure that the position is low enough that the dark circles there are completely covered.


Don’t concern yourself with the concealer appearing too orange. Any problems with color will work itself out during the blending step.
To brighten up your eye area even more, dot your eyelid with concealer too.
If you opt to not use your finger for application, use a small, pointed brush to assist you with applying the concealer.
 Apply your foundation all over your face, careful to not remove the orange concealer as you blend the concealer into the foundation. Use a Makeup sponge for a seamless flawless finish.If you don’t use foundation, layer a concealer that is the same shade as your skin on top of the orange concealer that is already there.
Blend the two concealers together with your Makeup sponge until it looks like your skin.
 This is optional, but if you’ve blended to your heart’s content and still see your circles, add another layer of concealer that is lighter and thinner in consistency. Place two dots under your eye and use the pointed brush to blend the concealer in softly., Dust the powder over your concealer with a small eyeshadow brush. This both sets the concealer while also creating a highlighted effect to the makeup look.