 A common way to treat valley fever is to treat the flu-like symptoms. The main treatment is to get plenty of rest. Many cases of valley fever are mild. It may present like a minor cold or mild flu, so taking it easy and resting may be all you need. Make sure to drink plenty of fluids. Valley fever often goes away on its own.Rest helps your body fight off the infection. You can stay at home to allow your body time to recover.
Valley fever is not contagious, so you don’t have to worry about spreading it to others at work or school.
 A diet that helps create an environment where fungi won’t grow may help kill the valley fever fungus. You should significantly reduce your intake of dairy, sugars, beer, and foods that contain yeast. These foods encourage fungus to grow and thrive inside the body.Try not to eat milk, cheese, or yogurt while you are trying to treat valley fever. Eliminate sugars, including those coming from honey, fruit, or fruit juice.
Restrict intake of beer and other foods or drinks containing yeast.
Focus on eating foods that are unprocessed or uncooked during the treatment period.
 Another way you may be able to naturally kill the fungus is through supplements. You can try taking vitamin C, E, B complex, and A-plus to help promote an environment inside your body where fungi won’t thrive. Turmeric is a common antifungal that can be taken to help kill the fungus. Garlic is an antifungal herb that can be eaten or taken as a supplement that may help kill the fungus.Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium supplements may help restore a health normal flora within the gut.
You may also want to try aloe vera, basil, cinnamon, cloves, magnesium, manganese, oregano, thyme, wheat germ, or zinc. They all have antifungal properties that may help.
 Always use caution when using natural remedies to treat valley fever. You should talk to your doctor or a naturopathy doctor before choosing to use a natural remedy over a medical one. Valley fever is usually mild and may respond well to natural treatments, but certain people are at a higher risk for severe symptoms or cases of valley fever.If you have a severe case of valley fever or have a compromised immune system, always see your doctor.

