 Conduct an internet search for “floatation therapy,” “restricted environmental stimulation technique,” “REST,” or “floatation spa.” Make a list of the floatation therapy providers in your area. There are a growing number of floatation therapy providers across North America. Depending on your location, you should be able to find at least one or two providers. If there are none in your area, consider going to a city with many floatation centers such as Seattle or Toronto.You may find companies with a specific focus on floatation therapy.
You may find spas that provide floatation therapy alongside massage and other forms of therapy.;
, Do some research on the floatation therapy providers on your list. Look to see if they offer choices with regards to the type of floatation therapy environment such as pods or open concept floatation therapy. Whereas some services offer only the pods, others offer floatation rooms or cabins that some people find less claustrophobic.If you experience claustrophobia, you may want to find out if the spa offers a floatation room. Floatation rooms have normal size ceilings and walls so that you will be less likely to feel claustrophobic. Some people with claustrophobia say they are fine with the traditional floatation pods.If you are looking to undergo floatation therapy alongside massage or other spa treatments, find out if the provider offers the services you are looking for.
 Find a floatation therapy provider with a convenient location. You should look for a provider that is located in close proximity to your home, gym or doctor, depending on your personal needs.


If you are hoping to go to the gym or do a yoga session prior to floatation, you should check the distance between your gym or yoga studio and the floatation center. Floatation therapy helps reduce blood lactate levels in athletes after exercise, so try to find a provider that is close to the place you do your exercise.If you have limited mobility, you should consider choosing the closest provider to your home.
If you are pregnant, you may want to find a location that is accessible to your midwife or the hospital. Talk to staff and get a feel for whether they have any experience with clients who are pregnant., Find out the price for a session of floatation therapy at each of the providers on your list and see where you can get the best deal. Some providers may offer spa packages including massage and floatation therapy. You may also be able to purchase multiple floats as a package, which can sometimes save you money. Finally, some places will be membership based and offer cheaper floats for members.You can expect to pay approximately $60 for an hour in a floatation pod.
 Based on services, proximity, price and other considerations, choose a floatation therapy provider. If you are still not sure after your initial research, you may also want to try out a few of the providers in your neighborhood. After a few visits to various providers and interaction with staff members, you should get a sense of your favorite floatation provider.
 Floatation tanks were invented by the researcher John C. Lilly with the goal of isolating the mind from everyday perceptual experience. They were widely used in the postwar period, fell out of favor in the nineteen eighties and have recently regained popularity. They are mostly used for anxiety, depression, sleep disorders, exercise recovery, and athletic performance. However, they can also help with a wide range of other conditions such as arthritis. Writers and creative workers sometimes say that floatation therapy helps them brainstorm new ideas.Floatation therapy has been effective in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder, sleep disorders, and depression.Floatation therapy is effective in reducing blood lactate levels after exercise.