 A book can be famous for several reasons. Among them are the following:


Historical and social significance of the book. Darwin's "On the Origin of Species" is famous for delivering his theory of natural selection, which became the prevailing theory of evolution.
How famous the author is. Part of an author's fame can be determined by how much his words have carried outside his own writing. William Shakespeare wrote nearly 40 plays, text from which has been quoted in other literary works, in broadcast media, and in conversation.
First appearance of a famous character. Arthur Conan Doyle's 1887 "A Study in Scarlet" was the first appearance of Sherlock Holmes, arguably the most famous fictional detective, while Edgar Rice Burroughs' 1914 "Tarzan of the Apes" marked the first appearance of the famous feral man in book form.;
, A number of book collectors prize first editions of books in areas that interest them, and sometimes outside of them. Determining if a book is a first edition, though, is often as much about determining the book is not a first edition as determining that it is.


Some first editions display the words "First Edition" on the title page, but many don't.
A first edition book will have only a single publication date, while a reprint will have multiple publication dates, include the word "Printing" (as in "Second Printing") or "Edition" (with an ordinal number other than "First"), or display a series of numbers, with the lowest indicating which printing it is.
In some cases, a book may be reprinted by a publisher other than the publisher who originally published it. It may be described as "First (publisher name) Edition" to indicate that the press is not the original publisher of the work.
 Some book collectors specialize in collecting old books on a specific subject, such as science or medicine, or books that were part of an exhibition such as 1963's "Printing and the Mind of Man."

, As with most collectible items, the fewer copies of an old book that exist, the more valuable each individual remaining copy is. While determining the number of private owners is difficult at best, you can look up how many copies are held in public, corporate, and collegiate libraries by consulting a reference such as the National Union Catalog, a printed reference, or WorldCat, an online database.
 A book's condition has an impact on how valuable it is, although this may be offset somewhat by its age. Factors in evaluating a book's condition include the following:


If the book has all its pages and plates
If the book has its original binding
If the binding is secure (front and back boards of the cover are firmly attached)
If the pages are stained or discolored

, The history of who owned the book, or its provenance, can have an impact on its value, particularly if the owner was famous. A bookplate with the owner's name, a handwritten signature, or an author's autograph mentioning the owner's name can help to establish provenance.

