 With the arrows pointing up, loop a band from the first center peg to the first left peg.


Next, loop a band from the first left peg to the second left peg, then the second to the third.






Continue down the left line until you reach the second to last peg.






Then loop a band from the second to last peg diagonally to the last middle peg.






Go back to the beginning and repeat this for the other side, until you have bands all around the perimeter of the loom. , Push all of the perimeter bands down.


Then, place a band in Color A (whatever color you want) on the second peg of the middle row and the second peg of the right row. Then place five more bands going from the middle row peg to each of the surrounding pegs, in a clockwise motion. This should leave you with a starburst or asterisk shape.






Push down all bands as you go.
 Place a band from the fourth peg of the middle row diagonally to the fourth peg of the right row. Do the clockwise bands again until you have another burst with a bottom that overlaps with the top of the first burst. Continue doing this until the whole loom is filled (inside the perimeter).


Keep pushing down the bands each time.






You can change the colors of the burst as you go.



Double up a band in the perimeter color and place it on the final middle peg. Then double up another at put it at the center of the burst.






Keep placing these doubled bands at the center of each burst until you reach the end.
 Turn the loom around so that the arrows are facing you.


Then, hook the bottom loop of the closest starburst from the first middle peg and pull it up (careful not to dislodge the other bands on the peg)






Loop it onto the center peg.
 Next, starting from the center of the burst and moving counter-clockwise, use your hook to grab the first half of each band and loop it onto the peg it starts on (going center, peg, center, peg, center, peg, and so on). Always be careful not to dislodge the other bands on the center peg. You should be left with something that looks like a flower or a sun. Do this process for all of the bursts.
 Starting with the band that goes around the bottom right and bottom center pegs, grab the end that's wrapped around the bottom center peg and pull it down (without dislodging the other bands)


And over the bottom left peg, so that both ends of the band are on that peg. Then, do the same for the band which wraps around the bottom right and second to left pegs.






Proceed until the entire left side is done, ending when you hook the last left side band onto the last middle peg.






Then go back to the start and do the right side of the loom.
 Reach your hook down through all of the bands on the last middle peg.


Grab a new band that you hold in your fingers, pull it up through the bands, and then slide your hook through the loop of the new band, so that it's completely wrapped around the hook.






Then, holding the hook in your hand with the loop still around it, pull the whole bracelet off of the loom.
 Add new bands onto the loom, around five of them all down one side.


Loop the the band from the first peg onto the second peg, then the second peg onto the third, third onto the fourth, and so on. Then, take the first loop on the end of your bracelet (on the side without the hook) and treat it like another rubber band, adding it to the chain you've started on the loom. Next, chain the bands from the end with the bracelet all the way down to the first band.
 Add a C clip or s clip to the last band on the loom, take the whole thing off of the loom, and then clip the C clip or s clip onto the loops on your hook. Take your hook out and you're done!

,