 Because freckles often appear when the skin has increased exposure to the sun, the best way to avoid getting freckles, or to at least prevent your freckles from becoming more pronounced, is to avoid too much sun. When going outside, try to wear a hat and clothing that will cover up areas of your body that are prone to freckles.


Of course, if you are someone who has a redhead complexion or whose skin always has freckles, you can't avoid them completely, but to keep from getting more freckles and from damaging your skin, avoid the sun when you can.
The sun's rays are strongest between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., so during these times seek shade., This is the obvious answer to keep your skin from being damaged, but it is often neglected when it shouldn't be. No matter what your skin type, you should always wear sunscreen. Choose a sunscreen that has an SPF of at least 30 and is water resistant. Your sunscreen should also be broad-spectrum protection, protecting against both UVA and UVB rays.People often neglect sunscreen on cloudier days, but even on those days your skin can be penetrated by up to 80 percent of the sun's rays. Be careful around sand, snow or water because they can easily reflect the sun's rays, increasing the risk of damaging your skin.
Reapply sunscreen about every two hours, or according to the directions on the bottle. If you are swimming, make sure you leave enough time for the sunscreen to dry on your skin before you get into the water.
 Many treatments and some natural products like lemon juice make your skin more susceptible to sun damage, as the pigmentation is affected. If you are receiving a treatment from a clinic, always consult with your dermatologist about how to best care for your skin. When possible, avoid going outside shortly after treatments so your skin can heal before exposed to the sun.
 If you have freckles because of genetics or fair skin, as opposed to sun damage, then you should learn to love them and embrace them. Don't feel ashamed by your natural skin -- you'll deal with a lot less hassle if you just accept them as they are, rather than trying to find ways to cover up your freckles. Also, freckles tend to fade over time so if you feel yours are too dark, take comfort in knowing that as you get older their color tends to fade.

