 Up until now, toddlers have mainly scribbled when drawing or writing on their own. They understand that letters are suppose to mean something that someone can say out loud, but they don’t know how to read those letters on their own. In order to help toddlers recognize and understand letters, teach them how to spell their own names.Toddlers often recite stories based only on visual clues. The same may happen with their name. It may appear like they’re reading their name, but in fact they recognize the visual look of their name and simply know that it means their name.
 Toddlers love story time. And while it’s fun for them and you, it’s also a great learning experience. The best way to use reading to teach letter recognition is to read the words while toddlers can see the words in the book. You may even want to follow along with your finger so they know which written words correspond to which sounds., There are all sorts of neat bath toys out there, including letters that can be stuck to the tiles beside the bath tub. While you’re giving your toddler a bath, play with the letters and help your toddler spell words on the wall. The words don’t have to be ‘real,’ but you can help your toddler say the letters as they’re put on the wall.This is a great opportunity to have your toddler spell their own name.
 Using your driveway or sidewalk, write out several letters of the alphabet. You can use any set of letters, but you might want to consider using the letters in your toddler’s name. Once drawn, ask your toddler to go to a specific letter (and help direct your toddler if necessary). After awhile your toddler should be able to recognize the letters without help.Games like this work best if they’re repeated over and over again. In the case of this game, each time should include slightly different letters put in different places.
 It might seem silly, but the letters of the alphabet that are in cereal or soup can also help your toddler with letter recognition. While your toddler is eating, point out specific letters and ask what it is. Correct your toddler if the letter isn’t know., Another great way to help teach your toddler letter recognition is to use bean bags. Each bean bag should have a different letter of the alphabet on it. You can turn the bean bags into a game by asking your toddler to toss the bean bag with a specific letter on it.These bean bags are also useful for simply displaying the letters when playing at the table or on the carpet.
 You can either buy your own set of magnetic letters, or you can make your own. Either way, they can be used on any flat metal surface, including: the fridge, a metal baking tray, or sometimes even a chalk board. Ask your toddler to find specific letters in the bunch, or isolate a specific letter and ask your toddler what it is., A creative alternative to writing letters out on paper, or seeing them on a specific material, is to actually form each letter with or on a toddler’s body. Toddlers could lie on the floor and write different letters using their body and other props.