 Your gecko may have stopped eating if it has fallen ill or is suffering from an injury. If you suspect your gecko to be ill, you should take it to your veterinarian for an examination. Carefully examine your gecko for any of the following signs:A skin infection may be identified by any area that is red, swollen, or emitting pus.
A respiratory issue can be identified by plugged nostrils, laboured breathing, or any unusual noises during respiration.
Metabolic Bone Disease may cause your gecko to have weakness in its legs and jaw or the inability to stand. It may also cause swelling in the abdomen as it can become impacted from the inability to have a bowl movement.
Your gecko's eyes may also become cloudy if it is ill or have an infection.
 Life-cycles can have an impact on how much, or how little, your gecko wants to eat. If you know how old your gecko is, you can gain some understanding as to what is the normal amount of food your gecko should be eating.Freshly hatched geckos may not eat for up to a week.
Young geckos may eat once or twice a day.
Older geckos appetite may slow down considerably. Lessened appetites are normal in these older geckos and are not necessarily indicative of a medical issue. It may only need to eat once every two days.
Females, however, are are prone to reproductive problems which can interfere with appetite. If you have a female give her an area in which she can lay eggs so that she doesn't feel inhibited. If the problem persists, then always get her checked by a veterinarian experienced with the species.
 You may be able to feed your gecko by hand, if it is comfortable with you picking it up. There are a few methods of food preparation that may work better than others. Some experimentation may be required to find which method your gecko likes the best.Fruit nectars can be applied to a Q-tip. The Q-tip is then placed near the gecko's mouth. If your gecko finds it appealing, it should begin licking and feeding from the nectar on the Q-tip.
You may simply hold your gecko in one hand and a prey item in the other. Introduce the prey item to the gecko, holding it up to its mouth. Your gecko may take interest and start eating.
If your gecko doesn't take live prey items from your hand, you may need to crush the prey before presenting it. Once crushed, the prey is gently rubbed on the gecko's lips to encourage it to eat.
Do not force feed your gecko.
 Diagnosing any medical issue on your own can be difficult. If you notice that your gecko is not eating, you should take it for a visit to your veterinarian for a proper examination. Your veterinarian will be able to accurately diagnose and will work with you to help restore your geckos appetite and health.You may need to bring a fresh stool sample.
Keep any gecko that you suspect to be ill separate from other geckos you may have. This will keep any potential diseases from spreading to healthy geckos.

