 This is a common rookie mistake in Blackjack. Splitting 10s essentially sacrifices a great hand for a very slim chance at an even better one.See below:


If you play a pair of 10s, your hand has a value of 20, which is quite good. If you split 10s, you need to get an ace to improve your stance — anything else will give you a hand that has an equal or lesser value. Statistically speaking, splitting tens is most likely to give you two hands worse than the first one.
Some card-counting experts suggest splitting 10s in very specific situations. For example: if you're counting cards and know that there are lots of 10s left in the shoe, it can make sense to split 10s against a dealer showing 5 or 6 (which suggest a weak hand). This way, you stand a reasonable chance of getting at least one 20, while the dealer will have to get lucky to match or beat you., Splitting a pair of fours just gives you two weak hands, so it makes no sense. Remember that splitting requires you to double your original wager — this means splitting fours is usually a money-losing proposition.


When you hit on a pair of fours, it's impossible to bust out — the highest you can go is 19 if you get an ace, which is a pretty decent hand. If you split your fours, you're likely to get left with a less-valuable hand (if you get a two or three) or a hand that is possible to bust out on if you hit (if you get an eight or higher). You need to get a five, six, or seven to be better off than you were originally.
 When you see a pair of 5s, forget that they're a pair and treat them like a single 10. Double down on a 10 against anything but a dealer's nine, 10 or ace. For these three possibilities, just hit.Splitting a pair of fives is like splitting fours, only worse — you give up a strong starting hand for a very slim chance at getting something better. With a pair of fives, you can't bust out and you have a chance of getting 21 on the first hit. If you split, you'll be left with a weaker hand (if you get a two, three, or four) and/or a hand that it's possible to bust out on if you hit (if you get a six or above). There's really no way to come out ahead by splitting on fives.

