 If you don't want to use tissue paper, you can simply draw on your bottle with permanent markers. This will give you a translucent, stained glass effect.


If you make a mistake, dip a q-tip in rubbing alcohol, and "erase" the mistake. Wipe the area dry, and continue drawing.
 To make the paint stick better, consider buffing the entire bottle using a fine grit sand paper. Paint the entire bottle a solid color first, wait for the paint to dry, then add details, such as flowers.
 If you don't have a lot of supplies on hand, you can always decorate the bottle with stickers. For example, you could paint a bottle dark blue or purple, wait for the paint to dry, then cover it with silver or gold star stickers.
 Unroll about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of tape, and press it down on the bottle, right against the bottom edge. Keeping the roll of tape close to the bottle, start winding the tape around the bottle. When you come back to where you started, overlap the tape by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and snip the tape off. Start your next row just above the first one; you can also overlap the rows a little.


If the tape extends over the top of the bottle, fold it inwards, inside the bottle.
 You can cover the entire bottle, or just small portions of it, with buttons, gems, or rhinestones. Make sure that you focus most of your design on the bottom however; if you glue too many things towards the top, your pencil holder will fall over.


For a more colorful pencil holder, paint it or cover it with tissue paper maché first.
 Draw a line of glue along the top rim, and press the string down onto it. Start wrapping the string around the bottle. adding a line of glue every few inches/centimeters. When you reach the bottom of the bottle, draw another line of glue, and press the end of the string into it., Use a hole punch to poke holes ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) apart along the rim. Thread some yarn through a yarn needle, and use the needle to weave the yarn in and out of the holes. This will give you a more colorful rim.
 You will need to do this just after you have cut the bottle, but before you decorate it. To tell whether or not your bottle is made out of PET or PETE plastic, turn it upside down and look at the bottom. If there is a recycling symbol with a 1 inside it, it's PET/PETE plastic.Turn on your iron and make sure the steam setting is turned off. Consider wrapping a sheet of fabric or tin foil over the bottom of the iron to keep it clean.
Press the bottle, cut-side-down against the bottom of the iron.
Every couple of seconds, lift the bottle to see the progress. As the plastic warms up, it will start to curl in on itself, creating a neat rim.
Turn the iron off and let the bottle cool before you start decorating it.

