 The only way to fly in Survival Mode without cheats is to use a pair of wings called "elytra." You'll need plenty of equipment and resources to find these wings, as they are only available in the End, the final zone of the game. Read this guide for instructions and advice on how to find and defeat the Ender Dragon.


Elytra were added in Computer Edition official release 1.9, Pocket Edition official release 1.0, and Console Edition in the December 2016 update. If you are playing on an old Console world, select More Options from the world select menu and choose Reset End to get the new version with Elytra.;
, Defeating the Ender Dragon activates two portals. The one in the center, with a dragon's egg on top, is the end portal. Walking through it will give you an achievement and return you to the overworld. To explore the rest of the End zone, look for the other portal. This one is near the edge of the island, too small to walk through, and usually floating high in the air.If you walk through the end portal, you can return to the End zone using the same portal you used the first time.
 Since the gateway is too small to walk through, you'll need an Ender Pearl to teleport through to the other side. This will take you to one of the other islands in the End zone.
 End Cities are tall towers or groups of towers made from yellow and purple blocks. You may need to explore the End zone for a fairly long time before you find one., Each End City has a small chance to include an End Ship floating nearby. Walk into the cabin of the ship and defeat the shulker guarding the treasure.Throwing another ender pearl is the fastest way to reach the ship. Some ships have a nearby walkway where you can stand to throw the pearl.
The End City itself has treasure, but never an elytra.
 Break the item frame behind the treasure chest, and a pair of "elytra" (beetle wing cases) will drop onto the floor. Pick these up and equip them to your chest slot.
 With the elytra equipped, you can press the jump button in mid-air to start gliding. You will fall very slowly, and move forward as you do.


You can press up to rise higher, but if you do this too sharply, you will stall and start to fall faster.You can still take falling damage if you are moving too fast when you hit the ground.

