 While it is true that people have been killed and injured on roller coasters, these are most commonly due to people breaking riding rules set by the park. The International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions calculates the odds of experiencing a fatal injury on a ride at fixed-site amusement parks (such as Disney, Six Flags, etc.) to be one in 750 million.Learn about what kind of safety standards parks have to follow.


Far more people are affected by car accidents than by roller coasters, but people are rarely afraid of riding in cars.
You could plan which coasters to ride before you go to the amusement park and you could specifically research those coasters to find out the safety features and what their track record is like. Park websites should include safety information.
 Understanding the design of the structure and the physics at work can reassure you of their safety. You can learn how potential and kinetic energy are at work during the ride, or about how the train is attached to and slides along the track. For example, most roller coasters are attached to the track by rollers both on top of the track and on the bottom side of the track, which makes the ride safer.The main benefit of learning about coasters is that once you know some of the physical aspects, it won’t be as mysterious to you.
 Besides the scientific aspects of roller coasters, you could also reassure yourself by learning about their long history, such as when the first one in American was built (1884!). Learn about how the earliest coasters were constructed versus new techniques used today. One of the greatest safety advancements was the implementation of computers systems that control and monitor roller coasters from the start of the ride to the finish. Other improvements to safety features include padded headrests, ratcheting safety restraints, and magnetic braking systems, all of which were designed with rider safety in mind.Visit the website of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA) at www.iaapa.org for lots more information on safety features, regulations, and advancements.

