 Trays and gels designed to whiten teeth can be purchased over the counter at most supermarkets or drug stores. Such methods are fairly effective, 80% of users reporting results.


Read the instructions on the gel and tray you purchase so you know exactly how the product should be used. Some trays should be worn for a few hours a day while others are worn every night.Squeeze the recommended amount of peroxide gel onto the whitening tray. Insert the trays into your mouth. Place them into your mouth and gently close your mouth. The gel that is included with these rays is carbamide peroxide instead of hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide is the kind of gel used in a dental office and it is activated with a lamp. The carbamide peroxide does not require a lamp. If you feel extra gel running over your teeth, wipe it away. Remove the trays after the required amount of time has passed.While this method is effective for most people, some users report teeth sensitivity and sore gums as a result. If you have these side effects, cease use and talk to your dentist about whether the product is safe for you.;
, Whitening strips, which cost $20 to $30 per box, are a relatively cost effective way to whiten teeth and they can work even better if you have done a teeth whitening treatment in the past. Hydrogen peroxide is placed on a strip that's placed over the teeth and left on for a set amount of time to increase whiteness.


Read the instructions before using your whitening strips. The duration the strips are left on and how to apply varies from product to product. Some strips actually dissolve so they do not require removal but still it would be best to avoid swallowing your saliva during the procedure. Remember that any whitening substance has a certain amount of toxicity.Be careful when applying the strips. The hydrogen peroxide can burn hands and gums. Do not leave the strips on longer than recommended, as this can cause gum sensitivity and a burning sensation in the mouth.Check your gums in the mirror to see if there are any changes that usually look like white lines over the gum line. You can also breathe through your mouth or try drinking a bit of cold water to check your teeth sensitivity.
This method is best used if you're not trying to white teeth fast as it can take up to a few weeks to work., Paint ons are a popular, relatively inexpensive over-the-counter product that allow you to apply whitening gel directly to the teeth. However, this method is tricky as the chemicals that whiten teeth can leak onto gums and hands, causing burning and irritation, and the substance is also washed away by saliva. You must also order paint-ons via delivery, as the chemicals contained in them need to be delivered in a sealed package. This method also takes awhile to work. It might be a few months before you see results., Whitening devices are closed system mouth pieces that apply heat and light to teeth. This accelerates the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide, resulting in whiter teeth. While somewhat more expensive than other methods, whitening devices tend to work quicker. You can expect to see results in just a couple of days.Check with your dentist first to see if you can safely use one of these devices.

