;
, You can also take the picture with the back camera, but its more difficult as you can’t see yourself on the screen to adjust your position.
 When taking the proper selfie you should always be conscious of the lighting as it can really affect picture quality. Natural lighting is always the best, position yourself so that the light hits your face.


Be aware that too much light exposure can hinder the picture quality, as well as hide features on your face.
 When taking an individual selfie, there many aspects you have to take under consideration. Do you want a full body picture? Do you want medium close up (chest to the top of head)? Decide which before proceeding.
 If you're taking a full body picture, make sure that the area is clutter free.
 Make sure the mirror you're taking the picture in is clean. This is the only selfie you don't have to point the camera at a specific angle.
 If you're taking a close up selfie, you should know what is your "good side". Adjust the phone a little to the right or left, depending on which side is more appealing to you.


It also helps to show other facial expressions to add character to your photo such as smiling, serious, off guard, etc.
 Also, if you're showing off a new hair style, earrings, make-up, you should position the camera where the viewer can see those things.
 When taking a selfie with a friend, it is even more complicated than taking one by yourself. The procedure is the same as an individual selfie but taking a selfie with a friend gets tricky.
 Positioning gets irritating. Angles that are flattering for you might not be as complimentary for the other person. Overall, it may take a little practice.


While taking a selfie at an angle, the individual holding the camera will have the dominant presence.
If you want to work with angles take turns holding the camera so one person is not assigned the “selfie sidekick.”

, This is a lot easier for close ups. It gives you the chance to work on the focus of the face.
 That is the best part of taking a selfie with a friend, it is the perfect opportunity to get weird with your face.
 Keep in mind that you may have to take the picture a few times from different angles to get the best shot.
 You can position yourself anywhere in the selfie. The position is right in the middle of the picture to draw viewers of the picture right to you.
 Before you click the button to snap the picture, be sure you've included everyone in the photo; this is a difficult task, so take your time.


Most group selfies are only able to include the head to shoulder span of every member in the photo.
 When posing for this picture, make sure you are all smiling, making a silly face, or even in the midst of just having a good time.


Caution: Beware of photo bombers! Though, they do add some amusement to the picture, especially if they're famous or hilarious.
 You are able to crop your selfies with the Instagram apps, and even use their filters and tools in varying degrees to finalize them before uploading them.


Sometimes Instagram can’t fit your entire picture into its square layout. If you want to keep your photos wide, you can download free apps like Photo Squarer to shrink the original photo, to upload a “wide-screen” picture on Instagram.
Sometimes you can’t choose among all your different selfies and might want to upload them all at once. You can download free apps such as Photo Grid or Pic Stitch to put together collages that you can upload on Instagram.
You might also want to check out the filter and editing options on your phone's camera before using Instagram or other apps.
 For example, Snapchat or VSCO Cam. This will help you to stay up-to-date on the latest trends.

