 It's located at http://www.bittorrent.com/. You can download BitTorrent for both Mac and Windows platforms.;
, This button is in the middle of the page.
 It's just below the "Compare Features" heading near the top of this page.
 In some cases, you may need to confirm the download or choose a download location before continuing.
 It's purple with white lines on it.


You may need to confirm that you wish to open the setup file by clicking OK before continuing.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the setup window.
 Clicking this button will confirm that you read and agreed with BitTorrent's terms of use.
 In most cases, BitTorrent will install a shortcut on your desktop. If any other options appear here, you can click the box to the left of them to de-select them.
 For Windows, on the second page on which you click Next, you can choose to prevent BitTorrent from starting up when you turn on your computer.
 When you download BitTorrent, it will ask you to install additional programs (e.g., antivirus software). While these programs are usually fine to download, clicking Decline if you don't want them will prevent them from downloading.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. BitTorrent will open, meaning that you can proceed with downloading your torrent.
 As of May 2017, it's located at https://kickass.cd/.


If you're asked to log in or register in order to download, you're on the wrong KAT site.
Since Kickasstorrents uses intrusive advertising, you may want to use an adblocker.
 This search bar is in the middle of the KAT webpage.
 This icon is to the right of the search bar.


For example, if you're searching for a book, you'd type in its title.
 When downloading a torrent, there are a few things for which you should look:



Seeders - The number in the "SEED" column on the right side of the page should ideally be higher (or roughly equal to) the number in the "LEECH" column.

File details - Make sure the file name, category, and any other information in the title matches exactly what you're looking for.

Quality (video only) - Look for at least "720p" in the title ("1080p" is ideal). Anything lower will have poor quality.
 You'll still need to look at a couple of things before actually downloading:



Comments - The user feedback here will give you an idea of how safe the torrent is.

Rating - You'll notice a yellow thumbs-up and a red thumbs-down in the top-right area of the torrent's page. If you see a large number below the thumbs-down icon, the torrent may be broken or unsafe.
 It's below the title of the torrent near the top of the page. Doing so will prompt it to begin downloading.


The torrent's download should only take a few seconds.
 Doing so should open it in BitTorrent. After a moment, the torrent will prompt the actual file to begin downloading.
 Once you open the torrent file in your client, it will begin connecting to seeders and downloading. Torrent downloads typically take a little while to "warm up", but once you connect to a few good seeders you should see your download speed reach the max limit.


Once the torrent is finished downloading, you'll be able to find it in the default "Downloads" folder, such as your desktop.
If you want to search for your downloaded file, type its name into Spotlight (Mac) or Start (Windows) and then click the pertinent file.

