 If you want to maximize the benefits of eating fruit, leave the peel on (unless it's inedible) to get more fiber and antioxidants than you would if you discarded the rind or peel before you ate it.Colorful skins often have the most concentrated amounts of nutrients in the fruit, meaning sometimes the peel is more healthy for you than the fruit itself.
The antioxidants in apple peels may help prevent cancer.Apple peels also are a good source of pectin, a type of fiber that helps control blood sugar and can decrease your cholesterol.;
, You should always wash your fruit before you eat it, especially if you're planning on eating the peel. However, it isn't necessary to use soap or special fruit washes to do it — rinsing under lukewarm water is sufficient.Plain water typically is enough to remove any dirt on the skin, as well as any pesticide residues that may be present.
Some fruits, such as apples and tomatoes, have waxier skins. The wax is harmless and you don't need to worry about scrubbing it off before you eat.
 Chewing your fruits break down rigid plant cell walls, opening up the nutrients for your body and allowing you to absorb more nutrients.Cutting and mashing fruits has the same effect, but make sure you use a sharp knife and eat them soon after. A dull knife may lead to electrolyte leakage, and you risk loss of flavor, texture, and nutrients if you cute the fruit and don't eat it right away., To maximize the benefits of eating fruit, eat it for breakfast. Eating fruit on an empty stomach is a great way to get nutrients and fiber to start your day.For example, you might include blueberries in a bowl of oatmeal, or slice up some strawberries or bananas on top of your cold cereal.
A fruit smoothie can be a faster option if you don't have a lot of time in the morning to sit down and eat breakfast.
If you want a bagel or toast, you can spread fruit on top. However, you should check the labels of any fruit spread carefully and make sure there isn't any added sugar.
 Your body better absorbs iron (from meat and non-meat sources alike) when it is consumed along with vitamin C, which both helps release the mineral and blocks other compounds in food that inhibit iron absorption.Using citrus fruits to glaze meat is a great way to tenderize your meat and help you absorb the iron. Examples include lemon or orange chicken and orange glazed pork chops.
 While most fruits are best consumed raw, cooking certain fruits actually increases their nutritional value. For instance, heating tomatoes increases the bioavailability of lycopene, and beta carotene.