 Making your own waffles means that the taste will always be superior to the commercial mix. Trying out different recipes might be enough on its own to provide a spiced-up waffle, and wikiHow has some excellent suggestions:


Make Waffles
Make One Egg Waffles

Make Belgian Waffles.;
, Even before you get to the stage of adding delicious waffle toppings, consider spicing up the waffle mix pre-cooking. Some delicious ideas include:

Add fruit, nuts, herbs, spices, or cheese. Each of these additions gives the waffle a new taste twist.






Add cocoa for a chocolate waffle.






Add crumbled crispy bacon to the waffle mix. The combination of salty bacon and sweet toppings naturally compliment each other.
Add pureed fruit for strawberry, peach, mango, etc., flavored waffles.






Make substitutions for water such as pineapple juice and chunks.
 Be daring and move beyond the butter or maple syrup. There is an infinite variety of choices possible! Some of these include:

Add chopped fruit, including strawberries, or stewed fruit.






Add various flavors of ice cream.






Smother it in cream and chopped banana slices.






Cover the waffle with chocolate.






Add cooked ham and egg. This is a great "cooked full breakfast" variant.






Sprinkle coconut over the waffle.






Slather jam or jelly on your waffle.






Shake powdered sugar over the waffle. While simple, it's a very effective flavor boost.






Make a fruit salad waffle. Use as many different fruits as you'd like to add flavor and interest.
 Waffles made into various novel shapes can be a brilliant way to spice up a plain waffle. This technique can be especially handy for kids and for romantic breakfasts.

Look for waffle shapes in your kids' favorite characters.






Heart shaped waffles make an interesting variation on the usual and are ideal for Valentine's Day or breakfast in bed for a loved one.






Any shape different from your usual shape can be fun.
 Rather than simply placing the waffle on a plate as if that's all there is to it, try a fancy presentation.

Layer the waffle.






Make a little mountain from the waffle.






Take the time to make the cream into little shapes such as stars. It can look very effective when evenly balanced across the waffle.






Make a waffle ice cream sandwich. Use two waffles for the edges and fill with ice cream. Use a knife to cut and square off the ice cream. See also Make a Peanut Butter and Marshmallow Waffle Sandwich and Make a Peanut Butter and Apple Waffle Sandwich.






Make a waffle "wrap". Fill with sliced meat and cheese, or roasted vegetables.
 Challenge one another to come up with the tastiest, most interestingly presented waffles for brunch one weekend. Whatever the weather, this can be a really fun way to cook up a shared breakfast together, and will definitely spice up your waffle experience!

