 Rest the fennel on its side on a no-slip cutting board. Hold it steady with your non-dominant hand.


While fennel is not known to be especially slippery, it is still a wise idea to hold it still on a resistant surface to prevent it from slipping away under your grasp. A silicone cutting board works especially well, but a standard wood cutting board can work well, too. Avoid slippery glass dishes or stone countertops.;
, Cut away the stalks and wispy fronds by slicing them off about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the bulb.The stalks and fronds can be discarded, but they contain a lot of flavor, so you should consider using them for other purposes and in other dishes.
Fronds can be used as a garnish. Stalks can be saved and added to fish stock.
If you decide to save the stalks and fronds, cut the bright green, wispy fronds off of each stalk. Discard any wilted, browning fronds or brown stalks.
Rinse the fronds in cool water and pat dry with paper towels. Place them in resealable plastic bags or plastic wrap until ready to use.
 Use a vegetable peeler to strip the stringy, wilted outer layer of the remaining bulb.This is especially important if the outer layer is wilted, discolored, or tough.
To remove the outer layer with a vegetable peeler, hold the bulb steady in one hand with the cut top end facing your palm and the root end exposed.
Pass the vegetable peeler down and around the outside perimeter of the bulb from top end to bottom end in even strokes.
 Use a sharp knife to cut the brown, dry root portion of the fennel off. The slice should be no thicker than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).


Hold the fennel down on its side with your non-dominant hand. Keep the knife in your dominant hand.
Discard the root once removed. It is not generally saved for use in other dishes.
 Wash the fennel bulb under cool, running water, gently scrubbing away any pieces of dirt or debris with your fingertips.


Pat the bulb dry with clean paper towels before proceeding further. If you do not dry the fennel, the moisture on the surface may make it more slippery and harder to hold steady as you cut it.
 Stand the bulb up so that it is resting on the trimmed root end. Steady it with your non-dominant hand while slicing it in half lengthwise with your other hand.


Use a sharp, sturdy kitchen knife with a smooth blade.
Make sure that the bulb is cut cleanly and perfectly in half from top to bottom.
 With the bulb halves still standing upright, cut each half in half again from top to bottom, forming quarters.


Continue holding the bulb steady as you cut the quarters.
 Cut into the center of each quarter, slicing the tough inner core away from the more tender layers beyond it. Leave the bottom part of the core intact, however.


You need to keep part of the core when cutting fennel into wedges. Otherwise, there will be nothing connecting the layers and holding them in place, and the wedges will fall apart.
 Continue cutting the fennel quarters from top to bottom to form wedges.


Use your non-dominant hand to hold the bulb still as you cut it. Cut carefully and mind your fingers to avoid accidentally cutting yourself.
 Stand the bulb up so that it is resting on the trimmed root end. Steady it with your non-dominant hand while slicing it in half lengthwise with your other hand.


Use a sharp, sturdy kitchen knife with a smooth blade.
Make sure that the bulb is cut cleanly and perfectly in half from top to bottom.
 Cut a wedge-shaped piece from the top center of each half down through the bottom to free the core.


Use your fingers to pick the core out. Discard once removed. It is not generally cooked or used for other dishes.
 The cut side of each half should face down.


The cut side is flat, so it'll be easier to hold the fennel still with the flat side against the cutting surface. If you have the rounded outer portion of the fennel facing down, it will rock back and forth as you attempt to cut it, creating choppy, uneven pieces.
 Each sliver should be about 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) thick.


The slices should be perpendicular to the fibers of the fennel bulb.
Use your non-dominant hand to hold the bulb still as you cut it. Cut carefully and mind your fingers to avoid accidentally cutting yourself.
 Stand the bulb up so that it is resting on the trimmed root end. Steady it with your non-dominant hand while slicing it in half lengthwise with your other hand.


Use a sharp, sturdy kitchen knife with a smooth blade.
Make sure that the bulb is cut cleanly and perfectly in half from top to bottom.
 With the bulb halves still standing upright, cut each half in half again from top to bottom, forming quarters.


Continue holding the bulb steady as you cut the quarters.
 Cut into the center of each quarter at an angle, removing a wedge-shaped piece from the center that extends from the top to the bottom.


Discard the core when done. It is not usually saved for other uses or dishes.
 One flat edge of each quarter should face down.


The cut sides of each quarter are flat and it will be easier to hold the fennel still with a flat side against the cutting surface. If you have the rounded outer portion of the fennel facing down, it will rock back and forth as you attempt to cut it, creating choppy, uneven pieces. You would also be more likely to accidentally cut yourself if the fennel were constantly moving back and forth.
 Use a sharp, smooth knife to chop the fennel quarters into tiny pieces. Separate the cut layers with your fingers to form even more pieces.


Finely chopped fennel should bee cut into 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) pieces.
Medium-sized chopped fennel should be cut into pieces that are 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) wide or smaller.
Coarsely-chopped fennel should be cut into pieces that are 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) wide or larger.
Fold your non-dominant hand into a loose fist or “cat's paw,” with your finger knuckles pointed outward. Place your hand on the fennel bulb in this position to protect your fingertips from the knife as you cut. Cut carefully so that you do not accidentally cutting yourself.

