 Caring for your retainer can make it easier for you to talk while wearing it, as a clean retainer will not carry any odors or plaque build up. Odors and plaque build up can make it difficult to feel comfortable wearing the retainer and having in depth conversations with others. Keep your retainer clean and appealing by brushing it with toothpaste and a toothbrush at least once a day.Ask your orthodontist about cleaning your retainer, as some retainers should be cleaned with water and a toothbrush, rather than toothpaste. Some toothpaste, especially abrasive toothpastes, can damage certain retainers.Allowing plaque and bacteria to build up on your retainer is also harmful to your gums and teeth.
If your retainer seems to be carrying a very strong odor, despite regular brushing, you can try soaking it in a carbon tablet dissolved in water. Or you can dissolving a spoon of baking soda into a glass of water and allow your retainer to soak.
 In order to do its job properly, your retainer should remain in your mouth most of the time. You should only take it out at mealtimes or when you are going swimming, as you do not want the retainer to come into contact with pool water.You should talk to your orthodontist about this rule, as some doctors have additional guidelines around when you should wear your retainer. You may be advised not to wear your retainer when you are playing contact sports or any other sports that can cause injury to your teeth or could break the retainer.
 To avoid losing the retainer or damaging it, you should put your retainer in its case when it is not in your mouth. Put the retainer case in your backpack so you have it when you go to school and need to remove your retainer to eat or make sure it is always with you when you go to swim practice. Storing the retainer in its case will ensure it is safe and ready to use.The case should have a few holes to allow air to flow in and keep your retainer dry. A completely sealed case promotes the growth of bacteria by preventing your retainer from drying.
 If you have been practicing speaking with the retainer for over a month now and are noticing it is still uncomfortable and tight in your mouth, you may want to schedule a follow up appointment with your orthodontist.Your orthodontist may suggest a different retainer for your mouth or adjust the one you have so it fits your mouth better. Some retainers can rub against your mouth due to a misplaced wire and your retainer may feel more comfortable with only a minor adjustment by your orthodontist.

