 An essential part of being a mentor is making yourself available to your mentee on a regular basis. If you join a mentorship program through a school, you will probably need to commit to a set amount of hours per week mentoring.Be honest with your mentee: you won’t have all the answers, so if your mentee asks for something you can’t help them with, don’t mislead them.Form a one-on-one relationship with your mentee. Give them your preferred form of contact, and let them know if it’s okay to contact you as they encounter obstacles in their work.
 Be a reliable mentor who is both professional and punctual. Your mentee will depend on your assistance and advice, and you don’t want to let them down. Remain consistently available to work with your writers, and you can help them grow and expand their talents.Keep track of meetings. Use a CRM, app, or calendar to schedule reminders and appointments., Young writers can be insecure about their abilities and will look to their mentors for reassurance. Take care to avoid hurting your protégé’s ego. Prioritize ideas over grammar; encourage your mentee’s innovative skills. Convey to your mentee that you enjoy discussing writing with them and that you learn from them as well!Deliver critiques with encouragement. Present your feedback as suggestions instead of criticism. Keep them impersonal, unless you are using “I” terms. For example, try saying, “I got confused here. Does this mean…?”Let your mentee know that they have potential. Say something like, "Every writer started somewhere. You are capable of being a successful, professional writer: the more you practice, the better you will get!", Focus on listening and guiding rather than teaching. Ask what stumbling blocks they have encountered while writing, and address their obstacles with helpful tips. Offer to review articles, stories or manuscripts they have written. After reading them, provide a constructive critique that focuses on positive feedback.Convey the main areas in need of more work. Limit feedback to helpful information you think your mentee can absorb. Identify errors using questions, such as “Could there be more information here?”.Feedback isn’t the same as editing; try to provide clear direction for improvement. Give suggestions in a positive way but without being too vague or general.Ask for feedback. Getting regular feedback from your mentee will help you become a better mentor.
 One of the most difficult parts of establishing a writing career is finding a way to become published. Offer to help them build a portfolio so they can pursue their writing careers. If you trust and believe in your mentee, utilize your connections to help your aspiring writers get their work published if possible.
 How much of a role natural talent plays in writing is a subject of debate.However, writing certainly takes a passion for the craft as it requires studying and a lot of hard work.The mentorship will have to taper off at some point when either there is no improvement shown, or the mentee is ready to stand on their own two feet.


Gradually reduce the amount of feedback you’re providing.You might say something like, “Writing can be a fun hobby. But if you feel this is your career path, it will take a commitment of a lot of time and hard work. Only you can decide where your true calling lies. I recommend that you start assessing your own work by self-regulating and gauging whether you’re improving.”