 Do your best to keep your phone fully charged before an outage strikes. Try to maintain a full battery by shutting off any unused apps and minimizing the brightness of your screen. Shifting your phone into airplane mode will also help to keep the battery full.When your phone is charged, keep your phone calls short to further conserve the battery and not tie up networks., Before a storm hits, go through your house and turn off all electronic items that could suffer from a power surge. Even with surge protectors, laptops, TVs, and certain appliances, such as stand-alone microwaves, could be damaged if not unplugged., For small electronics that you would like to use during an outage, such as a cell phone, include extra charging devices in your emergency kit. A car charger, for example, can help keep your cell phone powered up. Additional batteries can help keep your flashlights going.If you use a wheelchair or other assistance device, talk to the manufacturer about what non-electric charging options are available., In the event that the power is out for an extended period, there may be some important documents, like insurance coverage materials, that you need to access. Keeping copies of these items on a portable drive or Cloud location makes it possible to access them anywhere.These extra copies can also keep your information safe in the event that a power surge does damage your laptop or other devices.
 Choosing a generator can be a tricky process. It is often best to consult with an electrician who can instruct you regarding how to buy, install, and work your generator. Some generators tie directly into the home power source, whereas others are portable, but provide less overall power. Operating a generator safely is extremely important, as they can put off toxic fumes if not properly ventilated or installed.If you plan to use a generator, go ahead and install carbon monoxide alarms in all rooms and gathering spaces of your home., Many doors operate with electricity and you may want to drive your car even while your power is still off. First you’ll need to locate your door’s release lever. It may look like a plastic handle attached at the end of a rope towards the back of your garage or a metal slide-lever to the side of the doors. Practice lifting this release lever to manually raise your garage door without using electricity.If there are downed power lines in the street, it is generally not safe to drive and it may be better to keep your car in the garage protected.

