 Before you decide to travel in an airplane with your pet, it is important that you consider all the risks involved in this type of travel. Flying can be terrifying for animals, and extreme conditions cause animals to die on flights every year. Do your research and consider reconsidering your decision to fly with your pet., Many airlines and countries require that your pet have proper health clearances before traveling. This often includes a certificate of health along with proof of vaccinations. Check with your air carrier and country of origin and destination to get information on what health clearances are necessary for pets. Once you do this, set up an appointment with your veterinarian to ensure your pet is properly certified for travel.
 You should, at all costs, avoid flying with your pet in the cargo hold. Extreme temperatures, lack of pressurization, and elevated stress levels contribute to numerous deaths of pets flying in the cargo hold of planes each year. Instead, find an airline that will allow you to fly with your pet in the cabin., You should take a direct flight, and make sure you are on the same flight as your pet. Your pet should be wearing a collar that will not get caught in its carrier, and the carrier should have a travel label attached to it with your information. You should also notify the flight attendants that your pet is traveling in cargo, and carry a current photo of your pet with you., If you are flying with your pet during the holidays, it is important that your pet does not eat in the hours preceding the flight. This will help prevent your dog from vomiting during the flight if they experience motion sickness. It will also limit your pet’s need for a potty break during air travel., If your pet is traveling in an airplane, it will have to spend the duration of the flight in its travel carrier. The last thing you want is for your pet’s paws to get caught in the carrier due to unruly nails. Take time before you travel to clip your pet’s nails., It is important that you refrain from drugging your pet before or during air travel. Under no circumstances is it safe to sedate your pet before or during air travel. Sedated pets can have extreme reactions to pressurized aircraft, and sedating your pet increases the risk of death.