 You can use a yoga mat or a gymnastics mat; either way, you want a mat that is going to give your support and cushion while you attempt your headstand. Lay your yoga or gymnastic mat lengthwise in front of you.








If you are not confident enough to practice your headstand freely, you can place your mat up against the base of a wall.Anyone who has never attempted a headstand should first practice against a wall.
Practicing against a wall will help you find the initial balance and strength needed to hold a free form headstand.
 Kneel onto your mat. Bring your upper body down to the mat so your hands are out in front of you. Your body should now look like a table, with your knees lined up with your hips and your hands about shoulder-width apart.Bring your elbows down to rest on the mat.
 With your elbows already on the mat shoulder-width apart, bring your hands together and lace your fingers.Your thumbs should be extended upward, toward the ceiling. Your hands and elbows should look like a little triangle placed approximately 5 inches (12.7 cm) away from the wall.Tuck your chin and bring your head down to the mat. Rest the back of your head in your palms, while the crown of your head should be contacting the floor.








Adjust your head positioning until you find comfort and stability. You don’t want to put too much strain on your head and neck by having your forehead resting on the mat.
 Tuck your toes, so your toes and maybe even the balls of your feet are making contact with the mat. Lift your knees up from the mat in order to straighten out your legs.








Your body should look like an upside down ‘V’.
 Use your toes to slowly walk up the mat toward the rest of your body.As you walk, your buttocks will start to lift and align with your back. This will straighten out your spine and lift your shoulders over your ears.Keep your wrists, hands, forearms, and elbows strong and rooted into the mat.








You will start to feel less weight from your legs as you walk up toward your body. This is where tight core muscles come in. Your core muscles are going to lift your legs up and hold your body in the headstand position.
 When your body is aligned and your legs are feeling lighter, tighten your core muscles and slowly lift one of your legs.As you lift one of your legs, keep the other one near the ground to first find balance. When your one leg is in the air, gently hop your other leg off the ground, trying to straighten out both legs as much as possible. This is going to require a lot of strength from your abdominal core muscles. Use your core to lift up your legs, and use your arms to support and stabilize your body.








Check your body alignment by saying your name. If you’re aligned, you should be able to say it clearly, how you normally speak. If you can’t speak like you normally do, you may not be aligned correctly, and should come out of the headstand.If you are practicing against a wall, place your first lifted leg against the wall. As you find balance, lift your other leg up to meet your extended leg. The wall will give you support as you gain stability.
 Hold the headstand for as long as what feels comfortable to you. This could mean holding the headstand for a couple seconds or a couple minutes.When you are ready to come down, separate your feet and slowly shift your balance to bring one of your legs back down to the ground. When your foot contacts the floor (or is on the way down), bring your other leg down from the headstand pose and onto the floor.









When you completely back on the mat with your head still resting between your hands, straighten out your arms shift your buttocks back to rest on top of your heels.
Extend and stretch your upper body to relax and allow the blood in your body to circulate away from your head. In yoga, this is sometimes called a “child’s pose.”Try and hold this for about a minute so your body can readjust and relax.
Consider doing some soft neck rolls after performing a headstand.This can help prevent stiffness and tension after performing a headstand.
If you stand up too quickly after a headstand, you could experience lightheadedness, and even faint.