 Game shows are based around one or more types of skills. Game shows like "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" and "Jeopardy!" require the ability to recall facts, while "Wheel of Fortune" tests the ability to solve word puzzles. "Minute to Win It" and "Wipe out" each require physical skill, while "The Price is Right" requires a knowledge of prices. "Family Feud" requires an understanding of how people think in responding to survey questions, while "Let's Make a Deal" sometimes requires the skills of the other game shows, along with the ability to know when to trade and when not to trade for something else. Dating shows require a certain amount of physical attractiveness and an outgoing personality.


Look at the games you enjoy playing. If you're good at Trivial Pursuit, you probably would be best suited for a game show that tests your trivia skills, such as "Jeopardy!" If you enjoy word games like Scrabble, you may be best suited for game shows like "Wheel of Fortune" or "Lingo."
Look at your other hobbies. If you're a good athlete and relatively fearless, you'd probably prefer a physical game show such as "Wipe out" or "Minute to Win It." If you enjoy karaoke, you'd probably enjoy being a contestant on either "Don't Forget the Lyrics" or "The Singing Bee.";
, Game shows offer either material prizes supplied by companies in exchange for their being advertised on the show, or cash, which comes from fees paid by advertisers to have their products endorsed, or a combination of both.


Prizes are chosen mostly for their perceived television appeal as opposed to their usefulness to the contestant. In most cases, they are connected to a game, either thematically, such as the prize in the Prize Puzzle on "Wheel of Fortune" relating to the puzzle's theme, or to a point in the show's schedule, such as the prizes in the on-stage pricing games on "The Price is Right." If you can use most of the prizes the show offers, such as a new car or trip, you may be content to appear on a game show that features material prizes. If not, you should probably try out for a show where cash is the main prize.
In the United States, game show contestants must pay taxes on any prizes they win. If paying the tax on a high-value prize would be a financial hardship, you would probably be better off trying out for a show where cash is the predominant prize. (Contestants from other countries who appear on U.S. game shows may be exempt from such taxes, according to the rules of their native country.)

, Despite the advice above, you may find another, more pertinent reason for choosing to appear on a game show that's more important to you. If you've been a lifelong fan of the host, appearing on the show, or at least being in the studio audience, would give you an opportunity to meet that person. If you just want to show off, a game show that's relatively easy to get on may be your best bet; an avid costumer might enjoy appearing on "Let's Make a Deal."

