 In order to install a cold air intake on the Focus, the battery must be removed to run the pipe underneath. Begin by taking the cables off the battery and lift it from the battery box. Then unscrew the 3 bolts holding the box in, and remove it from the car, unclipping the cables from the back and side. This will give access to the snorkel pipe. Unscrew the snorkel from the plastic piece above the grill. Loosen the clamp on the intake pipe over the throttle body. The intake filter box will just pop out, so pull up hard. Then remove the snorkel. Remove the MAF sensor via 2 torx screws. Fit all parts of the cold air intake together to make sure they will work. Fit the MAF sensor into the new intake pipe. Fit the throttle body elbow and clamp over the throttle body but do not tighten. Fit the second pipe without the filter on it yet to the first pipe via straight elbow piece, and attach PVC hose from this pipe to the fitting on the valve cover. This piece is critical if you value a long life for your motor. Crawl under the car and attach and secure tightly the intake filter. Go back and tighten all clamps. Reinstall the battery and you're finished.;
, I recommend buying your own muffler and take it to a shop and have them install it with piping. Buying your own muffler will save you 200-300 dollars as shops overcharge for parts.
 A good rule to remember here is you get what you pay for. Always buy name brand and not cheap eBay junk; however not all eBay items are junk. Just use common sense. If a part is 90% cheaper than the normal part, its probably a badly designed knock-off. Remember to do only one side at a time, so if you forget how something went, you can refer to the other side that's still intact. For the front springs, remove the wheels and set the car on jack stands. Remove the brake line from the strut and unscrew the tie rod end link from the bracket. Unscrew the bolt that keeps the strut in tight on the rear of the knuckle. Take your foot and push down on the brake disc until the damper pops out of the knuckle. Unscrew the 3 bolts on top of the strut tower. The whole strut assembly should fall out for you. Compress the spring with an appropriate spring compressor, using EXTREME caution. Unscrew the bolt on top, removing the top assembly. Remove the spring. Compress the new spring and put it on the damper and make sure the slots are lined up. This is VERY important! Then put the strut back together and uncompress the spring. Installation is reverse of removal. Do the same for the other side. The rears are simple! Just take off the wheels and compress the springs and pull them out. Make sure on installation that the notches are all lined up.
 Taillights are simple, just a few screws and a thumbscrew. Just swap the wires. Headlights are just as easy. 3 bolts on top and one underneath. I recommend just leaving that one out. It doesn't hold it in any more than the 3 up top. Swap in the new headlights and connect the wiring connector.
 There has been debate on this topic, but personal research has shown a mild response increase. Undo the serpentine belt from the crankshaft pulley, and remove the bolt. Put the new pulley on and install a shorter belt.

