 It's important to start dreads with clean, dry hair. Use a clarifying shampoo to strip the oils and conditioners from your hair, since these can leave it slippery and make it difficult for your hair to dread.


Don't use conditioner or any styling products after shampooing your hair.
Be sure your hair is completely dry before you start the dreading process.;
, Each small section of hair will become an individual dread. Making sure they are all the same size will create a neater appearance when your dreads are finished; it's difficult to change the size once your hair has "locked."


Use a comb to part your hair and create square-shaped sections. Fasten each section with a small rubber band to hold it apart from the others.
The size of the squares is up to you. If you want medium sized dreads, go for 1" by 1" squares. 1/2" by 1/2" dreads are smaller and quite elegant, but they take longer to create and the maintenance is more involved.
You'll be able to see your scalp between the individual dreads. Some people like the patterned appearance of rows, but if you'd prefer a less rigid look, create a brick lay or zig-zag pattern instead.
 Take a section of hair out of its rubber band, and hold it out from your scalp. Insert your comb into the section of hair about an inch from your scalp, and comb the hair toward your scalp so that it begins to pack around the roots. Once the first section is packed, move the comb down the section of hair an inch and do the same thing. Continue backcombing until the whole section of hair has been packed, then secure the end with a rubber band. Finish the remaining sections.


As you backcomb a section of hair with one hand, use your other hand to twist it. This helps keep the section of hair in a uniform shape.
This process can take a very long time, especially if you have thick hair and are creating small dreads. Have a friend help out to save time.
Take the same amount of time with each section of hair, carefully backcombing and twisting. If you rush through a few sections, they won't dread up the same as the rest of your hair, and you might not be happy with the results.
 Each section of hair should have a rubber band securing the end, but you want to place another small rubber band around the top of each section, right against the scalp. The two rubber bands will keep the hair from unraveling as the dreads mature.
 Some people advocate for applying wax to the sections of hair while you're waiting for them to dread. It can protect the hair and help it stay in place. Others contend that waxing is actually counter productive, and that it prevents hair from locking up properly. Here are a few factors to keep in mind:


Dread wax may help if your hair is naturally fine, and you're worried the sections aren't going to stay in place. If your hair is coarse and won't have a problem dreading, you can skip it.
If you're going to use dread wax, use an all-natural brand with no chemicals. Certain chemicals and oils will cause your hair to smell bad, so be sure you go with a trusted company.
Go with plain aloe vera in place of dread gel if you'd like. Just make sure it has no other added ingredients.
 Use residue-free shampoo with no added conditioners or perfumes. Washing your hair often helps the sections of hair stay backcombed and begin the process of getting tight and smooth, or locking. The whole locking process takes at least 3 months.


You can buy a special dread bar to use to wash your hair, or simply use a shampoo with no perfumes or conditioners.
Smooth the bar or shampoo over your scalp, rub it in slightly, and rinse it out. Don't handle the actual hair more than you have to.
Don't blow dry or vigorously towel dry the hair, or the dreads may fray.
Wash your hair in the morning so it has time to dry before you go to sleep. You don't want mildew and mold growing in your hair.
 It's necessary to moisturize your dreads every few days to keep them from getting dried out and frayed. Spray them with a mixture of water and a few drops of tea tree or lavender oil. Don't use too much oil, since you don't want the dreads to look greasy.


Avoid using vegetable oil, almond oil, or other food-based oils. These will go rancid in your hair.
You can buy dread moisturizer products online.
 To keep your dreads looking neat, it will be necessary to tuck in the hairs that come loose throughout the day. You can use a crochet hook or a pair of tweezers to tuck the hairs back into the dreads, so they can knot back up.
 It's a matter of personal preference, but some people like to roll the dreads and blunt the ends to give them a rounded shape. Roll them gently between your hands for a few seconds each every few days. Make rounded ends by smashing the tips of the dreads against your palm and rolling them around. The hairs will roll up into the dread.


Be gentle when you handle the dreads, or you could cause them to unravel.
Don't pull on the dreads; you might cause the hairs to break at the scalp.
 After a few months, when your dreads are locked, you can free them from the rubber bands that have been holding them in place. Carefully remove the bands from the roots and tips of the dreads. You may need to cut them off with a pair of scissors.
 As the dreads begin to grow out, the new growth coming from your scalp will need to be incorporated into them. Rub the new straight hair between your fingers, rolling it against the dreads.


You don't need to rub the dreads often, since the new growth will naturally start knotting up into the dreads an inch or so from your scalp.
Don't work the hair at the roots too much; overhandling the roots can cause the dreads to fall out, especially once they start getting mature and heavy.
 Try to position your dreads so that they aren't flat under your head against your pillow at night. Don't wear heavy hats that will flatten them out. When you can't avoid flattening them, take the time to roll the dreads gently between your hands to help them regain their rounded shape.

