 Reward based training uses treats, praise, toys, and play as motivators to teach your dog new behaviors. This method of training teaches your dog that if he does what you want then he gets a reward. Reward based training is the best way to teach your dog new things because it is effective, simple, and it enhances your relationship.Do not use punishment as a training method. Older methods of obedience training rely on harsh treatment to train new behaviors, such as yanking on a choke chain. In this type of training, dogs behave out of fear, rather than making new connections between rewards and behaviors. Punishment based training is not advised because it can lead to other problems, such as anxiety and a poor relationship between you and your dog.;
, Reward based training works best if you know what motivates your dog. Common rewards include tiny pieces of food and special dog treats, but you can also use praise or reward your dog with a game or a special toy.Using reward-based training is simple. When the dog performs an action that you wish him to repeat, then acknowledge the good behavior and give your dog his treat right away.
 The timing of the reward is crucial because it helps your dog understand what behavior is being rewarded. Therefore, it is important to give your dog his reward at the exact same moment that your dog performs the desired behavior.


For example, when teaching a dog to sit, you should give the reward as soon as his behind touches the ground. This will ensure that he knows he is being rewarded for sitting down., A popular way to mark good behavior is to use a clicker. When the dog is learning a new action, the clicker works better than offering praise or a treat. Dogs are used to hearing us talk, so he may not associate your talking with his action. However, the clicker is a novel sound that your dog will hear only during training sessions, so it will help him know what he is supposed to do.To use a clicker, you will first need to train your dog to understand that the click-clack sound means a reward is on the way. You can do this by clicking the clicker and then giving your dog a food reward at the same time. Do this several times and your dog will begin to understand that the clicking sound means a treat is on the way.
 Use the clicker to get your dog to associate the sound of the clicker with commands as well. Command your dog to sit and click the clicker at the same time that you say sit. Repeat this exercise a few times to reinforce the connection between the clicker and the sit command.Always choose brief command words, preferably with a harsh first syllable such as "Sit" or "Stay". This is because only listen to the first one or two syllables and a harsh sound is easier to hear than a soft one.

