 Like all predatory animals, dogs are stimulated by seeing bursts of motion and creatures—especially prey-sized creatures—running or flying away from them. Your dog may instinctively see the birds as prey, and will consequently bark and chase the birds.You’ll notice that the same instinct kicks into effect when your dog sees other fast-moving or loud animals, including squirrels, rabbits, snakes, and chipmunks.;
, Dogs who display excessive barking or hyperactivity—including when they see birds—may simply need more exercise. A lack of exercise often leads to loud, poorly behaved, and easily distracted dogs. Make sure your dog is getting plenty of exercise each day; this may diminish their excitement when seeing birds.Although the amount of exercise your dog needs will vary by breed, puppies should be given multiple, short walks or play-sessions throughout a day, while adult dogs may benefit more from a single, longer and more rigorous walk.
Take time to walk your dog daily (unless you live in an area where your dog can run on its own), and be sure to play with your dog—whether indoors or outdoors—daily also. If your dog is of an especially active breed, consider training your dog to compete in agility, rally, or dog shows., Dogs are naturally territorial creatures, so your dog may bark or act aggressively because it’s afraid that the birds threaten its territory. If your dog is barking to defend its territory, teach it to stop barking after 3 or 4 barks by giving the command “quiet” and then gently holding the dog’s muzzle shut.Once your dog remains quiet, give it a treat, and praise and pet the dog.


Continue this behavioral training until the dog remains calm once you have given the “quiet” command, or until the birds have left the vicinity.
You may also need to restrict your dog’s field of vision when it’s indoors, so that it can’t see out of the windows and feel obliged to protect its “territory.”, You can do this by walking your dog around your backyard, or a nearby park, with a leash on. If there are birds in the area and your dog starts to bark or run after them, simply bring the dog back inside (or back to your car).On the other hand, when your dog is quiet or well behaved around birds, praise the dog and give it a treat or a piece of food to encourage its good behavior.
Eventually, your dog will learn that it receives a reward when it is calm and well behaved around birds, and should change its behavior accordingly.
 If you can capture your dog’s attention and direct it away from the birds, you can help your dog to behave calmly when it is tempted to run or bark. If your dog is barking at nearby birds, instead of dragging it away, simply walk over holding a dog treat—or a piece of meat or hot dog—in your hand. Then, lead your dog away from the birds—this will distract your dog, and it should quiet down.Teach your dog a "Look" or "Watch me" command to make this easier.


Give the dog the meat once it has quieted down, and praise its good behavior.
If you want to bring your dog indoors (or back to the vehicle if you’re on a walk), you can lead it inside once it’s quieted down. Over time, the dog will learn that its calm behavior is rewarded, and will be less inclined to bark at or chase after birds.