 Would it be found? There was an ancient expanse of rocks and dust very much like the moon but add air and water, the planet Earth, and so look for life where it has no known cause, no genetic design and no so no plan.

Life is active (such as forming organelles inside a semipermeable membrane in plant or animal life, absorbing food and excreting waste, and creatively using energy, such as for reproducing, etc.). And one would expect an action to have a cause in physics or biology, or life that had a cause. Would you expect to see life without a genetic cause or plan? Is that probability a high expectation?



 

;
, That is: "no creative ability", since it is a only some concepts of ratios; so probability has no power by adding more and more time. Probability is a number like: zero or infinitesimally small, versus a high probability, say 99.9% and everything between the extremes.


So, if there were no cells with cytoplasmic, reproductive life in previous billions (thousands of millions) of years, then what random chance is there of life to form by adding similarly thousands of millions of years -- without a cause, design or plan and so to form the reproductive living cell(s).
Even, recently dead cells that have every material thing, including genetics, needed for life except that once it is truly dead then the greatest of sciences can not bring it back to life; yet did "nature" take non-viable (non-living) materials and "at some fortunate moment" form life of, for and by nothing?
Thinking of creation by "chance"... If the universe were created by chance (without an intelligent creator), then what power did billions of years and chance have? Is that any increasing powers of creativity by sterile/lifeless time passing?

, Do you feel that lucky? So did "mother nature" get so lucky that she created life without a plan, without sterile lab conditions and with no pre-existing organic, reproductive form of life (from any previously existing life)?

, Where is that coming from or going? Why is there a question in the first place: So, life causes the ability to have a potential for science... Just because intelligent life exists, then there could be a question/hypothesis about un-caused life appearing some day. But life causes theories... another billion years of non-living matter seems empty of life -- without a cause.
 That is all we know: scientifically it has not been proven beyond a doubt how cells began. No, DNA and RNA couldn't make it very far with no cell in which to operate, no organelles, no nucleus, no food, no biological energy, no organization? Having no place or way for life to begin is as good as saying it could not reasonably happen...

