 This trick will give you insight into who views your profile, but Facebook isn't confirming exactly who they are. This list that Facebook keeps is determined by a variety of factors: who comments on your posts, who you message frequently, who looks at your Facebook the most often, and more.


There is no way to see JUST who looks at your page the most, and any app which says that it can tell you that is lying and a scam.
You'll have to learn how to interpret the list that this trick gives you. For example, look out for people showing up towards the top of the list who you know you don't message and you don't comment on their stuff. If someone you never interact with shows up pretty high on your list, you'll know it's because they're looking at your page.
 You will need one which allows you to view the source code for a website. Google Chrome is one of the easiest browsers to perform this trick with. You cannot do this from mobile browsers or the Facebook app; you will need a browser on a computer.
 You will be looking at the source code for your profile. You can quickly access it by logging into Facebook and then clicking on your name in the upper-left corner underneath your profile image.
 If you are using Google Chrome, right-click the background and choose "View page source". You can also use the Ctrl+U shortcut (⌘ Cmd+U on a Mac). Other browsers usually have this option under the "View" menu.
 You can search the source code by pressing Ctrl+F (⌘ Cmd+F on a Mac). This tool will search all of the text on any given page for the term you type in. Type InitialChatFriendsList into the Find box.
 The numbers which immediately follow are the identification numbers of the profiles of your friends. You will see a string of numbers, each set in quotations and followed by "-0", "-2", or "-3". Copy the string without the - and the final number. Paste this after the ".com/" when looking at the main Facebook page. This will bring up the profile so you know who it belongs to.
 Copy the string from the source code, omitting the "-X" from the end of the number. For example, if the first person on the list is "1111111-2", copy "1111111" to your clipboard. Open a new Facebook page and paste this number at the end of the address. Using the above example, the address would look like "www.facebook.com/1111111". Press ↵ Enter to load the page and find out who's profile it is.
 To do this, you will need to look up the person's profile ID number. The easiest way to find this is to open a picture that the person has uploaded, and then try the various numbers that appear in the address bar. One of these will be the profile ID.


Once you know the profile ID, you can use the Find tool to see where that ID appears in the list. The closer it is to the top, the more connected you are to that person.

