 From a side (lateral) view, the spine is normally curved much like the letter "S" in order to best support the body, allow for flexibility and to protect the spinal cord. However, when viewed from behind (posterior), the spine should appear fairly straight and not deviate too much to either side. Many people have a few degrees (less than 10) of lateral deviation that's typically ignored and not diagnosed as scoliosis because it doesn't cause any problems. There are many potential causes of scoliosis, including congenital spine deformities (present at birth), spina bifida, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, spinal infection, trauma from accidents and certain spinal tumors, although in more than 80% of cases the cause is unknown, or idiopathic.Although boys and girls develop scoliosis at about equal rates, girls have a much higher risk of severe scoliosis, which often requires surgery.Scoliosis can run in families (genetic link), but most people diagnosed with scoliosis don't have a family history of the condition.;
, Scoliosis is relatively straightforward to measure on spinal x-rays, but curves are not considered significant until they are greater than 25 – 30 degrees.As such, mild and moderate curvatures are not even considered for surgery, regardless if they cause discomfort or not. Mild-to-moderate scoliosis may cause some noticeable deformity, but it's usually too difficult to tell with clothes on. In many cases, the diagnosis of scoliosis sounds much worse than how the condition actually presents or any symptoms that it may cause. People with mild-to-moderate scoliosis live normal lives and can even become top-class athletes, so don't get overly upset or concerned with an initial diagnosis of scoliosis.


Common deformities related to scoliosis include: a prominent shoulder blade that creates a hump, one hip higher than the other (uneven waist), ribs that protrude more on one side, listing to one side while standing or walking, a head that's not centered over the torso.
Most mild scoliotic curves develop without the child or parent realizing because they appear gradually and often don't cause back pain., Although a scoliotic curve is considered significant at around 30 degrees, that's still not enough to warrant surgery. It's not until a curve reaches 40 degrees in an adolescent that a doctor starts to even consider surgery, and then only if there are signs of fairly rapid progression and/or serious symptoms.However, as curves approach 45 – 50 degrees in a younger teenager, then most doctors recommend surgery not only to combat the growing deformity for cosmetic reasons, but also to reduce the risk of disabling symptoms. Severe scoliosis (a curve greater than 80 – 90 degrees) can be disabling because it pushes the rib cage against the lungs and heart, making it difficult to breathe and forcing the heart to work harder.Scoliotic curves located in the mid back (thoracic region) grow and worsen more often than curves in the upper (cervical) or lower (lumbar) regions of the spine.
Signs and symptoms of scoliosis typically begin during the growth spurt just prior to puberty — between the ages of nine and 15 years old.Once a teenager's bones stop growing, the risk of scoliosis progression becomes very low.
 The basic idea of scoliosis surgery is to realign and fuse together the curved vertebrae so that they heal into a single, solid bone. All spinal fusions use a bone graft, which are small pieces of bone that are placed into the spaces between the vertebrae to be fused. The bones then grow together, similar to when a broken bone heals. However, there's typically a choice of bone graft used: it's either taken from somewhere on your body (such as the pelvis bone) or allograft bone is used (taken from a deceased donor).Allograft bone is sterilized and often mixed with your own marrow to improve its bone fusion capability. The main downside to using your own bone for grafting purposes is that the donor area can hurt for a long time (weeks or months).


Spinal fusion surgery is very successful in stopping curves from progressing and improving the patient's appearance.
With surgery, most severe curves (50 degrees and more) are reduced to less than 25 degrees, which are hardly noticeable.Metal rods (made of either titanium, cobalt chromium or stainless steel) are typically used to hold the spine in place until fusion happens. The metal rods are attached to the vertebrae by screws, hooks, and/or wires and then usually removed at a later time.
 Most scoliosis operations involve cutting into the back where the curve is most pronounced, but sometimes with more complicated cases, the surgeon will go through the chest and address the front (anterior) side of the twisted vertebrae. Going through the front is more traumatic for the body and involves slightly more risk, but most scoliosis surgeries go in through the back side to address thoracic curves (between the shoulder blades and below in most cases). Scars are inevitable, but fade pretty well with time. especially if you keep the incision wound clean and apply aloe vera and vitamin E regularly once the wound is fully healed and your surgeon has said that this is OK.Incisions to repair a single scoliotic curve are generally about 10 inches long. Don't be too self-conscious about the scar as it's not very noticeable after about six to eight months.
Although it typically takes at least three months for vertebrae to fuse together well, it will take an additional year or two for them to fuse completely., The decision to get spinal surgery is bound to cause anxiousness and probably a little fear, so help mitigate that by getting it done at a convenient time that allows for proper healing and recovery. Most surgeons agree that scoliosis rarely requires urgent emergency surgery (even in adolescents), so plan the surgery around a summer break if you're still in school.If you're a working adult, consider saving up your vacation days and getting it done during cooler months, which will make your recovery indoors more comfortable and it will be less tempting to be active before you're truly ready.


Although the first couple of days involve significant pain, this pain will be managed by your surgeon and his team. It gradually fades away such that most teenagers can return to school within three to four weeks after surgery.
For adults, return to work is difficult to estimate because of all the factors involved — age, overall health condition, type of surgery performed and profession.
 Each patient's hospital stay varies depending on their age, overall health condition and surgical procedure. In general, most hospital stays are four days, but it may last up to seven days.Depending on your surgeon, an epidural catheter may be used, an epidural catheter may be inserted into your back to control pain for the first three days then removed. A catheter is also placed in your bladder for two to three days so that you don't have to walk to the bathroom and risk falling. You'll have a physical therapist helping you get out of bed and instructing you to move and walk over the course of your stay. By the fourth day, you should be able to climb stairs. If you need more time to reach physical milestones, don't worry because everybody heals at different rates.


Before being discharged, spinal x-rays will be taken to ensure there are no problems with the implants and/or spinal alignment.
The bandaging covering your incision shouldn't be disturbed until a follow-up visit with your doctor (about one to two weeks), so you'll have to take precaution while bathing yourself.
Remember that the more immobile the spine is kept, the better it will fuse together, so any bending, lifting, and/or twisting is discouraged for about three months post-surgery., As you're preparing to leave the hospital your doctor will likely give you some strong prescription medication for the pain — probably morphine-like opiates. Although these are very effective at controlling pain, they can become addictive if taken for much more than a few weeks.As such, you'll be encouraged to switch to over-the-counter acetaminophen (Tylenol) as soon as possible once you get settled in at home. By three to six weeks after scoliosis surgery, pain medicine of any kind should no longer be necessary. If you're having trouble weaning yourself off pain medications, consult with your doctor about effective approaches.


Be careful not to take any medications on an empty stomach, as they can irritate the lining of your stomach and increase the risk of stomach ulcers.
Never take analgesics, such as acetaminophen, at the same time as NSAIDs. Mixing different drug classes can create worse side effects.
 As a general guideline, once you're at home, you shouldn't be very active (aside from some walking) for about two weeks.This is the most important time to heal, both physically and mentally. During this time, the dressing over the incision should not be disturbed, so be prepared for numerous sponge baths. For the first 6 months, activities should be mainly related to daily living — no heavy lifting, running or jumping is allowed. After eight to 10 months, if everything is healing normally, then light activities may be allowed (ask your surgeon what he recommends). At 10 – 12 months, running, jumping and non-contact sports are usually allowed.


Any physical contact or jarring type activities common in sports such as football and hockey are restricted for up to a year or more post surgery, so be prepared to miss at least a full season of sports if not more.
After spinal fusion surgery most people have enough spinal motion to perform all activities of daily living and most sports. However, most surgeons will not allow patients to return to contact sports following spine fusion surgery.
 The physical trauma and pain of scoliosis surgery, as well as the emotional stress caused by fear is a lot to take, especially for adolescents who might feel their lives are ruined. If all the stress is too much to bear, then don't hesitate to contact a school counselor or have your doctor refer you to a mental health professional. In addition to helping with stress, anxiety and depression, cognitive-behavioral therapy can also help with musculoskeletal pain.Dispelling the myths of scoliosis is also very helpful at alleviating stress because the truth is that the vast majority who need surgery lead completely normal lives.

Females who have scoliosis fusion (even in their lower spines) can still become pregnant and deliver babies normally.Fusion surgery rarely stunts growth and has minimal effects on height. In fact, straightening curves sometimes adds a 1/2 inch to a person's height.
In extremely thin patients the metal rods / implants can sometimes be felt, but rarely seen, so there's no need to be self-conscious.

