 Have them waiting for it when you bring it home so that your puppy can immediately start playing with your family and going for walks. This will help the puppy to become comfortable in your home and immediately jumpstarts the puppy socialization process.


Be sure that the collar is the right size for your pup, not so tight that it restricts the puppy's breathing and not so loose that the puppy can wiggle out of it.
 If you do, you will need to purchase a crate and a pad to go inside it. Crate training can have huge benefits for your dog, as dogs have a natural instinct to find a safe space to call their own. While it may take some time for your puppy to adjust to sleeping in a crate, eventually most dogs find it a comforting and enjoyable space.


Your new puppy should be trained to sleep in its crate but it will need to be taken out during the night to go to the bathroom and it should not be stuck in a crate all day. Other than at night, your dog should not be left in their crate for more than 4 hours.
Crate training can also be helpful for housebreaking your puppy. Dogs naturally do not like to go to the bathroom where they sleep, so taking your dog out of the crate and outside to go to the bathroom can help teach them when and where to go.
 When you bring a puppy to an unfamiliar place for the first time, it will need to get accustomed to its surroundings. Make sure that all doors to the outside are closed but then allow it to roam about the house to sniff and explore its new environment.


Close any rooms that you want to designate as "off-limits" to your puppy. This way it won't become attached to any off limit spaces and you can avoid having to train the puppy not to go there later.
 Socialization is important for your puppy's development. It allows your pup to learn normal dog behaviors through exposure to other dogs and humans. It is best to begin socializing your puppy when it is a few weeks old. During that time, puppies are most accepting of new experiences and new people or dogs., Try to make sure that your puppy gets about an hour of exercise and/or play time per day. Don't over-exert your puppy by taking it on long runs, but do allow your puppy to run around the yard and go on walk at least once per day.


Different breeds need different amounts of exercise per day. Make sure to do your homework to find out how much exercise your particular puppy needs.
To avoid injury or damage to developing bones and joints, avoid prolonged forced exercise, such as long runs, until your puppy is closer to adult age. This varies between 1 and 2 years old depending on their overall size.
 Make sure that you have vaccinated your puppy and that the other dogs are friendly before allowing it to do so.


Once your pup has received at least its third set of vaccinations from your veterinarian, you can safely begin taking it to areas where other puppies and dogs go. Before its reached this stage, letting it spend time indoors with as many different people and other healthy dogs as possible will help in its socialization.
After its third set of vaccinations, try to start out with short walks around the neighborhood or playing short games in your backyard to gauge how quickly your puppy tires out or if it requires more exercise.
 Taking your puppy to a local dog park not only allows them to exercise and burn off some of that puppy energy, but it also is a really great way to socialize your puppy so they are familiar with other types of dogs whether they be large or small. Dog parks are also a great socialization tool for introducing your puppy to all kinds of people as well.
 This can be the best part of having a puppy and is key to keeping it healthy and preventing boredom, which can lead to unwanted behaviors, such as excessive barking and chewing. A stimulated puppy makes for a smart, happy, and healthy puppy who will tend to be more obedient than other puppies. Playing with your puppy is a great way to incorporate exercise each day and also build up the relationship and bond you have with your puppy.


Puppies love attention and affection, so during playtime, use a lot of positive reinforcement to let your puppy know that it is playing appropriately and that you love them.
A nice rub behind the ears or pat on the head goes a long way when telling your puppy that they are being good and that you care about them.You can help your puppy adjust to its new environment by spending as much time as possible interacting with it, but also be sure to give it time to be quiet and rest as needed. By playing, loving, and just interacting with your dog, it will soon begin to feel more comfortable in its new home.
 Cuddle and pet it every day. After all, puppies are babies that need to be nurtured and loved. Make sure to give your puppy positive signals and pet it frequently.

