 Sometimes it will have an hourly event which will give you some KinzCash. Other times it has things in the W-Shop for sale. Other times it will have coupons where you can buy something of your choice for usually around 25%-50% off. Other times it will let you play extra games such as Balloon Dartz, Trivia Blast, or let you get extra spins on the Wheel of Wow, and sometimes gives you an extra Wacky Bingoz ball or a Wacky Bingoz coupon, and sometimes you get to spin other Wheels like the Wheel of Yum, Wheel of Wishes, and Wheel of the Month.


Look on the Today's Activities page. Sometimes there will be free food, cash, items, or coupons for the W store. There is also a tab that has all the dailies you can do once a day like the Wheel of Wow, Spree, Wacky's Bingoz, Jumbleberry Fields, or the Wishing Well. These get you Kinzcash, food, furniture, etc.
 There are three good reasons to do so:


You get free money every day and you get more every day.
You get free food every day you do it.
If you fill up the heart and do it every day for a week, your name will be put into a drawing. If you get picked, you get a free exclusive item which you can't buy.
 Do this once a day, or use coupons of an Hourly Event to spin it more than once a day. Normally, this only gives you a small item or a little bit of Kinzcash. But you can do this every day, and the free money will start to add up. If you do spin the wheel for fifteen days in a row, you'll get a bonus item, and if you can manage to spin it fifteen times in one day, you get an extra prize.
 Seeds from the Daily Activities page whenever possible and use them to play the game. If you win, you get a lot of KinzCash, but if you lose, you just don't have the seed anymore.
 It is guaranteed to get 100 Kinzcash! Often, you can get at least one food item and at least 15 Kinzcash as well.
 There are a lot of different questions for different age groups. Answering these will get you tons of Kinzcash.
 You will get lots of food from gardening and you only have to buy it once.

