 The ideal first runner has an explosive takeoff and never gets disqualified for false starts. This position also requires fast running around the bend of the oval track., The second runner should perfect their baton handling skills, as the second leg involves both receiving and passing the baton. This is a straight leg, so this is a good spot for a fast sprinter who is not really good at bends/curves.This is a great spot for your fastest runner if they are much faster than the other three.This is especially true if your fastest runner is also great at baton handoffs.
 In general, shorter runners are best around curves because they can accelerate faster than taller runners. This position also benefits from good baton handoff skills, and from the ability to compete under the pressure.Although unorthodox, it could be smart to put your fastest runner here if they are also good on bends. A 200m specialist could do well on this leg., Many teams place their fastest runner last, perhaps so they can claim the glory! In fact, psychology may be more important than raw speed. This runner cannot get discouraged if they start the fourth leg behind the other teams. Choose a competitor who thrives under end of race pressure.If your two fastest runners are much faster than the other two, place them second and fourth. This allows you to maximize the distance they run.At high levels of competition, choose a runner with advanced finishing techniques.This includes "lifting," a running form with light ground contact and rapid knee lifts, and lunging, a carefully timed forward fall so the chest crosses the finish line sooner., All of your planning above will fall apart if an athlete can't perform consistent baton handoffs. Consider these problems before you finalize the positions, and don't hesitate to rearrange if issues arise during practice:


Size differences: If one runner is much taller than another, they may have trouble exchanging batons smoothly. Space them out so they don’t have to do a baton exchange.If a pair of athletes do not practice well together for temperamental reasons, and the coach cannot solve this problem, consider rearranging so they don't have a handoff together.
If one athlete is particularly poor at passing, consider placing them fourth. If an athlete is poor at receiving, consider putting them first.
 There are generally three methods of passing the baton: the upsweep, the down sweep, and the push pass. Try all three and see which your teammates prefer:Upsweep: the outgoing runner runs with their hand behind them at hip level, palm down and thumb outstretched to form a V shape. The incoming runner inserts the baton upward between the thumb and fingers.
Downsweep: similar to the upsweep, but the outgoing runner's hand is palm up and receives the baton in a downward motion.
Push pass: the outgoing runner holds their arm high up behind them, with the palm sideways and the thumb pointing down. The incoming runner holds the baton vertically and pushes it into the palm.
 When all goes well, the relay race is a smooth series of transfers, with no awkward jerks across the lane or switching from an athlete's left hand to the right. Practice this pattern until all four runners find it automatic:First runner holds baton in right hand and runs on the inside edge of the lane.
Second runner holds baton in left hand and stays on the outside.
Third runner holds baton in right hand and stays on the inside.
Fourth runner holds baton in left hand and receives on the outside.
 Each baton handoff must occur inside a 20-meter changeover zone, between two yellow marks. The outgoing runner can start running up to 10 meters ahead of the changeover zone, but can only receive the baton within the zone. Use tactics as well as trial and error to find an exchange position that maximizes speed and smooth handoffs:


Ideally, you can exchange the baton about 5 meters from the end of the zone.This gives the outgoing runner more time to accelerate before receiving.If the athletes have trouble with a quick handoff, or if they get nervous and slow down while waiting, exchange the baton just past the middle of the zone.If one athlete is significantly faster than the others, they can receive earlier in the zone, carrying the baton for more than 100 meters.
 A huge mistake in relay racing is to slow down before you release the baton. The best way to prevent this is to form the habit of "running through the zone." Keep up a full sprint until you're about halfway through the next leg.If both runners have positioned themselves well (on opposite sides of the lane), the incoming runner should be able to run close behind without fearing a collision.
 The 4x100 is all about speed. To prepare for the race, do drills such as hill sprints, suicides, and sprinting around comes to work on your agility and speed. Hill sprints are especially good for improving acceleration., You don’t want the first time you run the race to be at the track meet or event. Run the event several times at least, at full speed. Have a coach or friend who is knowledgeable about running time each of your attempts. Also, have your friend or coach watch each runner and offer any critiques that they might have., After doing warm ups, make sure that every runner is in position. The first runner should be positioned on the starting blocks, holding the baton in his or her right hand.The second runner should be positioned at the acceleration zone 10 meters before the first exchange zone. Each exchange zone is marked on most tracks by large, usually red, triangles. There should be a smaller triangle that marks the acceleration zone, which is where the second runner should be positioned.
The third runner should be at the second acceleration zone before the exchange zone, and the fourth runner should be at the last acceleration zone.
 As soon as the whistle is blown, the first runner should start sprinting. Make sure that they lean in and accelerate through the bend in the track. They will run slightly more than 100 meters to the first exchange zone.


Make sure that the runner runs on the inside of their lane, on the left-hand side, so that they can pass the baton to the next runner’s left hand.
 The first runner, with the baton in their right hand, will approach the exchange zone. The second runner should have their head turned, watching the incoming runner. When the incoming runner is about 7 meters from the outgoing runner, the outgoing runner should turn their head back and start running with their hand out. The first runner will hand the baton over to the second runner, who will take the baton in their left hand if the first runner hold it at his/her right hand.Make sure that the baton exchange happens within the exchange zone because your team will be disqualified if it happens before or after the zone.
 The second runner will a straight leg of the track for another 100 meters. Make sure they are running on the right side of their lane. Meanwhile, the third runner will start running as soon as the second runner approaches the exchange zone. The second runner will pass the baton from his or her left hand into the right hand of the third runner.


Again, be sure that the baton exchange happens within the exchange zone.
 The third runner will run around the bend on the track, the baton in their right hand. As they approach the last exchange zone, the fourth runner will start running with their hand out, and the incoming runner will put the baton in their left hand, making sure the exchange happens within the exchange zone., The fourth runner, with the baton in their left hand, will run another 100 meters past the exchange zone to finish the race. Make sure that the fourth runner doesn’t slow down before the finish line, and instead sprints until they have crossed the line, with the baton still in their hand.