 Children who have a history of skin problems can develop thousands of blisters. This can be painful and increase the risk of scarring. Use the treatments described above to reduce the itching and talk with your physician about other topical and oral medications to reduce the discomfort and pain., Areas of blisters can become infected with bacteria. They will be warm, redder, tender to touch and can also leak pus. The pus is darker in color and not clear the way the fluid from the vesicles is. Call your doctor if you notice these changes to areas of the skin. This bacterial infection must be treated with antibiotics.Bacterial infections can also affect other tissue, bone, joints and even include the bloodstream, called sepsis.
Each of these infections are dangerous and require immediate medical attention.
Symptoms of more generalized infection to the bone, joint or bloodstream include:
Fever over 101 F
Area is warm and tender to touch (bone, joint, tissue)
Joint is tender or painful to use.
Trouble breathing
Chest pain
Worsening cough
General feeling of being really sick. Most children have a fever that resolves early with the chickenpox and although they have symptoms of a cold, they will often still play, smile and want to go for a walk. Children who are septic (infection in the blood) will be quiet, want to sleep often, have a fever over 101 F, increased heart rate and increased rate of respirations (more than 20 breaths per minute)., Although not common, these complications are very dangerous and can result in death.Dehydration during which the body does not have enough fluid to function properly. This affects the brain, blood and kidneys first. Signs of dehydration include decreased or concentrated urination, being tired, weak, or dizzy, or having a fast heart ratePneumonia with symptoms of increased cough, fast or troubled breathing, or chest pain
Bleeding problems
Infection or inflammation of the brain. Children will become quiet, sleepy and complain of a headache. They may be confused or difficult to arouse.
Toxic shock syndrome, Shingles is a painful, blistered rash that happens on one side of the body, trunk or face that can cause numbness and which is caused by the same virus which causes Chickenpox. The virus remains dormant in the body until later years when the immune system is not as strong. Pain, often burning pain, and numbness often resolves within weeks but other long-term damage can occur to the eyes and organs if they are affected. Post-herpetic neuralgia is a painful neurological condition that is difficult to treat and can result from shingles.Call your doctor right away if you think you may have shingles, as antiviral medications are often prescribed for this, especially if it is caught early. Older adults may benefit from a vaccination for shingles.

