 You can use a warm paraffin wax treatment, which is available from drugstores. If you do not have one, you could put a wet cloth in a freezer bag and heat it up in the microwave for 30 seconds to one minute. Then, put the warm cloth in a towel, so it doesn’t scald your skin, and apply it to the sore joint. Leave it on the sore joint for twenty minutes.You may want to re-heat the wet cloth after five or ten minutes. Make sure not to heat the cloth too much or you may burn yourself. Heat it up for about 30 seconds to one minute. If you need to heat it more, then only heat it for five to 10 seconds at a time until it is the right temperature.
If you have a heating pad, you could put it on your nightstand for easy accessibility. However, never sleep with the heating pad on your back because you may burn yourself. Only leave it in place for about 10 to 15 minutes and then remove it to give your skin a chance to cool down.;
, If you take a bath, put some Epsom salts in the water. Epsom salts have magnesium and sulfate, which help you relax and can loosen stiff joints. You can get Epsom salts at most drug stores or health food stores.If you prefer, you could take a warm shower.
Keep in mind that psoriasis may be irritated by Epsom salts, so use caution when using them during a psoriasis flare-up.
 To ease morning stiffness, try turning up the heat in your home. You could also set a programmable thermostat so that the heat increases to a desirable temperature when you wake up.


Programmable thermostats typically have an option to set the temperature for “sleep time” as well as “wake time.”
If you have a very erratic life and tend to wake up at different times depending on the day of the week, consider getting a programmable thermostat with seven-day programming. This type of thermostat allows you to set a different heating schedule for each day of the week., Doing things like walking, yoga, and tai chi may also help to relieve joint pain. Doing regular exercise may also help to increase your range of motion and flexibility. Moderate exercise can also improve your endurance and help you to lose weight if you are overweight or obese.Talk to your doctor about healthy exercise options for you.
Start slow if you have been sedentary for a while.
Choose activities that you enjoy doing to increase the chances that you will stick with it.
 Some people have found relief from joint pain using massage therapy, acupuncture, and accupressure.Look into these alternative therapies and try one or more of them out to see if they help to relieve some of your symptoms., If you are overweight or obese, then losing weight may help to ease your joint pain, especially if you are taking a biologic medication for your psoriatic arthritis.Talk to your doctor about a healthy diet and exercise plan if you think that you may need to lose some weight., Place your forearm on a table with your hand dangling over the edge. Relax your hand completely. Then, raise your hand up with your palm facing forward. Clench your first, and then relax your hand again and return to the starting position. Repeat this exercise ten times., Let your head slowly relax to one shoulder until you feel a stretch in the opposite side of your neck and your shoulder. Let your head slowly relax in this position for five seconds. Then, repeat the stretch on the other side.If you are just waking up, remember to stretch slowly and carefully.
 While sitting down, press your toes to the floor and raise the arch of your foot to shorten your foot. Relax, and then repeat the stretch. Repeat the stretch on the other side until you have completed ten stretches on both feet.
 Lying down on your back, pull your feet up so your toes are pointing to the ceiling. Then, point them down. Repeat this stretch ten times. Finally, circle your feet around in a clockwise direction. Repeat this stretch ten times., Stand up straight with your feet parallel to one another. Exhale and bend forward from your hips, letting your arms dangle in front of you. Inhale, and gradually lift your torso up again. Lengthen your torso and stand up straight. Repeat three or four times.You should avoid pushing yourself with this stretch. If you do not feel up for this stretch, try going for a walk around the house and taking a shower beforehand.
 Instead of rushing off to work with stiffness, try waking up a bit earlier and taking time for a shower and stretching. You will feel better if you give yourself time for self care in the morning.


Try setting your alarm clock for half an hour earlier than normal. You can spend the extra time applying heat to your joints and doing gentle stretches.

