 Our bodies are made up of 75% water. We need water to live. So drink up! Bottled water, filtered water, or (in most places) water straight from the tap will do just fine.One rule of thumb is to drink eight 8-ounce glasses (2 liters) of water per day.
Another good rule is to drink half of your body weight in ounces. So if you weigh 140 lbs., you should try to drink 70 ounces of water per day.;
, Coconut water is delicious and filled with electrolytes, so it makes an excellent alternative to water on hot days. If you have been sweating or working out, replenishing your body’s electrolyte stores is a great way to stay hydrated. Look for unsweetened varieties, as sugar hinders your hydration., If drinking water is too bland for you, you can enjoy diluted fruit juices. Choose natural, 100% juice options with no added sugar, such as apple juice or cranberry juice, then just add water. The higher your water-to-juice ratio, the more healthy hydrating power you’ll receive.Be sure to read ingredient labels.
Avoid fruit punch and cranberry juice cocktail, as these tend to have added sugar.
Avoid juices with artificial sweeteners added (such as sucralose or aspartame), as these are not great for hydration either.
 Spice up your glass of water by adding a bit of fruit. Slices of lemon or lime are classic choices and can make your glass of water more refreshing. You can also think outside the box with slices of cucumber, mandarin orange, or grapefruit. A simple slice of fruit can improve the taste of your water, and may even add a bit of Vitamin C to your drink., Anything high in sugar or caffeine is going to dehydrate your body, so avoid beverages with exceptionally high levels of both: energy drinks. These powerful mood-altering beverages can actually be dangerous in the summer heat.Not only do these drinks cause dehydration, they have adverse effects as well, which can increase the risk for cardiac complications, such as palpitations, tremor, shaking, agitations, shaking, chest pain, ischemia, dizziness and paresthesia (numbness and tingling).
If you do consume an energy drink, be sure to compensate with lots of extra water.
If you must enjoy an energy drink, limit yourself to one, and do so with caution.

