 Popularity is not some elusive, impossible goal that only the "cool kids" can attain. Being popular is just about having friends and acquaintances, and all this really requires is a kind heart and open mind. Say hello to your classmates, and ask people how they're doing if they feel down. Never reject a potential friendship based on someone's outward appearances or hobbies, as you'll find that most people are friendly if you give them the chance.


That said, you should accept that not everyone will be your friend. This isn't your fault, it is their decision. Simply move on, continuing to be polite and friendly, and know that there are many, many more people in the world.
 You don't need to be super skinny in order to be healthy. Regular exercise is proven to enhance your concentration, well-being, and happiness, and you don't have to do grueling solitary runs to get the benefit. Go for a swim, ride your bike, play a sport, or take a few hikes. You can even adapt many of your hobbies into "exercises," such as taking photography walks or listening to a new album every time you hit the gym.


In general, you should aim for 30 minutes of exercise a day.
Grabbing an exercise buddy makes exercise more enjoyable, and it is easier to stick to your schedule., A healthy diet promotes a healthy head of hair, nails, skin, muscles, and mind. Teenagers have fast metabolisms that allow them to eat almost anything without major weight shifts, but a healthy diet will give you greater energy, focus, and general well-being no matter what age you are. Of course, the occasional treat is acceptable, but you'll be surprised how much better you feel on a better diet overall. A healthy diet includes:


Regular meals, including breakfast, lunch, and dinner, every single day.
At least 3-4 fruits and vegetables a day. The vitamins and minerals in fresh produce are essential for a developing brain and body.
Lean proteins like chicken, fish, eggs, and beans.
Eating slowly. Wait 10 minutes before getting seconds, as it takes your body time to realize that it is full. This will eliminate over-eating.
Cutting back on fast food, sugary sodas and candies, and fatty foods like pizza and fried options.
 Do things on time, and never ever leave your room messy. If you're happy and organizes at home, the happiness will be reflected everywhere else in your life. Moreover, research has shown that an organized and clean physical environment can help you defeat stress and feel more in control mentally as well.Take 10-15 minutes once a week to relax, put on some music, and tidy up. If you just do a little a week it will keep you ahead of the dreaded "deep clean."

, Read books, check out the news, and make an effort to see the movies, plays, and events that appeal to you. One of the best parts of being a teenager is the feeling of constant growth that comes with being young. The best way to keep this feeling alive is to expose yourself to as much new material as possible. Teachers and school are great for this, but you should also follow your own passions. Where does your mind lead you? This is often the stuff that will make you happiest. It can also open the doors for your future, and show you potential careers or goals for life.