 The action movie hero or heroine is the core of your movie. They dictate what "kind" of action movie you're watching (spy, heist, war, sci-fi, Western, etc.), the setting, and the general plot of the movie. A lot of the popular action movies are character driven, (Bond, Kill Bill, Die Hard, The Hunger Games, etc), which is why they get so many sequels. People love the main character in these movies, so make sure we love yours. A good hero:



Is competent. They will find a way to defeat the bad guy, and generally act calm under pressure.

Has something worth fighting for. It could the abduction of a child (Taken), or the desire to save the world and do their duty, (every Bond movie ever). In general the more specific the need, the better the movie.

Is relatable. You might ask how a super spy is relatable to the average person, but there is always a way. This is why John McClain is just an everyday cop on Christmas vacation, why many good heroes always seem to have a sense of humor, and all of Tarantino's action stars spend a scene or two just chatting with friends about pop culture.You can write groups of heroes too, as evidenced by The Avengers, Mission Impossible, and Ocean's 11. Still, all of these movies still have 1-2 central characters that the audience can follow and bond with (ie. Iron Man/Captain America, Ethan Hunt, Danny Ocean).;
, A good villain is the secret weapon of a great action movie. For evidence, look no further than Star Wars and its arguably most famous character, Darth Vader. Good villains bring out the best in your hero by amplifying the action and tension, so don't just throw in a generically evil Russian or murderous alien without trying to make your villain unique. Good villains:


Are challenging. They cannot be easily beaten, and usually have the upper hand for the majority of the movie.
Have understandable motives. The audience needs to believe that the villain has reasons for his/her behavior other than "they are evil."
Will do anything to reach his/her/its goals. Agent Smith in The Matrix is a great villain simply because he is unfazed even by death. He has a goal, and he will do anything possible to make it a reality.Is the opposite of your hero. This makes the conflict especially poignant. Both Vader and Luke had their families murdered but took different paths out. Both Frodo and Gollum held the ring, but one resisted and one succumbed. This ying/yang is the basis of all good conflicts., Action movies are generally unique because of their villains, settings, and heroes. They are not often known for highly original plots or stories. This allows you to focus more on original action, characters, and settings instead of plots. You'll find that 99% of all action movies follow this structure almost perfectly, even when they seem "different":The Set-Up: This introduces the characters, setting, and the world of the movie. More often than not it is with an action scene showing the hero or villain at work, as you want to get to an action scene within the first 10 pages. We need to know why the hero is the hero, and why they're awesome.

The Opportunity/Issue: A major problem or crisis arises. The villain strikes again or makes themselves known to the hero, a mission is assigned, the team is put together, etc. This is when the movie must kick into high gear, as the mission gets started. This is roughly the 1/3 mark of your script.

The Point of No Return: Hot on the trail of the villain, the hero(s) have had some major successes (usually shown by action scenes) by now. They have the villain on the ropes and the conflict is escalating. This is roughly the halfway point of the movie.

The Major Set-Back: Something terrible happens that puts the entire mission in jeopardy -- the hero is captured, a trusted friend dies, the group fails to avert a crisis, the villain has a secret plan, etc. This moment needs to bring the hero(s) as low as they can go. This comes at the 75% mark of your story.

The Climax: Your main character(s) has a final push to save themselves and the world either by escaping or defeating the villain. This must be your biggest or best set-piece, the action scene or fight that is the culmination of the entire movie.The Resolution: With the villain defeated, the last 5-10 pages show the conclusion of the adventure -- the villain in jail, the two heroes kissing, or even the brief of the next mission.
 They don't necessarily need a ton of acting experience, but they do need to be willing to work long hours to get your movie made. Make sure they are willing and able to take orders from the director. To save your money and time, try and get actors with decent athletic ability, allowing them to sell stunts and action scenes with ease.


You should highly consider hiring a stunt coordinator is you want to do any large-scale stunts or professional fights. They will bring ideas, experience, and safety equipment that you need to shoot properly., Making a movie takes a lot of gear, including cameras, microphones, lights, and special effects. You need to be sure you have everything you need to film before you start shooting.



Cameras: You'll generally need at least 2 cameras, and preferably 3. However, modern camera advancements have made it possible to film a movie with an iPhone 6, or Go Pro cameras. Most importantly, you want cameras that shoot in the same format (1080i, for example), otherwise the video quality will change with every cut.

Microphones: If you're short on cash then spend you money on audio equipment, as audiences are proven to notice bad sound before video. While you can use the attached camera microphones, a Tascam or shotgun mic is a great investment to instantly improve your movie.Lighting: 5-10 cheap clamp lights and extension cords have lit many an indie film, but get a professional 3 or 5 piece kit if you can. However, variety of bulbs, clamp lights found at home-improvement stores, and high-heat spray paint (to color light bulbs) is a great substitute.Essential Accessories: You'll need memory cards, a backup hard drive, tripods, light reflectors, extension cords, black tape (to cover or tape down wires), and computer video editing software. You may also want some fake blood., Action movies are known for eye-popping scenery and locations, which may seem daunting to an independent filmmaker. But good locations are not only on beaches and mountains. Blue Ruin, for example, is one of the most visually striking action movies in years but takes place on rural roads, plain forests, and bland suburban houses.


Go location scouting with a camera or a friend to find small areas that you could shoot in.
Adapt your script, when necessary, to fit new locations if you can't afford to go somewhere "perfect." This can lead to surprising innovations.If you want specific locations, like sci-fi cockpits or spy agencies, you may need to build your own set.
 Set-pieces are the action scenes. They are the 3-5 big moments in your script, from the opening action scene to the climactic showdown at the end. These are the hardest things for an indie filmmaker to put together because most set pieces cost a lot of money, time, and crew members to pull off. The challenge is to think about ways you can create a great set-piece with limited resources. From there, you need to make simple budget, see how much each scene will cost, and adapt your script accordingly.Chase scenes are a staple of action movies, but filming a bunch of cars at high speeds on the road is nearly impossible without a huge budget. But running characters, bikes, or hiding from the villain in a cool location are all much more doable. Look, for example, at the conclusion of Silence of the Lambs, which is a great, tense basement chase.
Rescues, bomb diffusion, and other preventative scenes are a great way to build suspense on a budget. You don't need to pay for an explosion special effect or gory death scene because the hero rescues everyone in time.
Cat and Mouse scenes, when two characters sneak around each other, trying to get the upper hand, cost very little and are great ways to build tension before a fight scene.
Check out prop warehouses online for cheap ways to spice up action scenes. A great prop can make any scene much more exciting and original, and can come from anywhere. Jason Borne kills a man with a toothbrush, for example, in one of the best action scenes of the last decade.