 This is one of the most vitally important steps in dealing with any car warranty. There's a big difference between the comprehensive warranties that come from a manufacturer and a dealer's warranty.


Assess coverage options for your warranty. One of the biggest differences between the manufacturer's warranty and a dealer's lot guarantee is that a manufacturer's warranty is something that the car-making company stands behind, repairing cars up to a certain manufacturer standard, and honoring this comprehensive warranty at all participating dealerships. By contrast, the dealer's warranty may only be honored at the individual shop and may not include the same kinds of standards or attention to detail provided in a manufacturer's warranty.;
, Many warranties have a specific coverage period and cost coverage for the classifications of parts and labor separately. Vehicle parts may be covered much longer than the labor on fixes. Evaluate this part of your warranty to understand what is really covered from a parts and labor perspective.
 For the two different classifications of parts and labor, a specific time frame usually applies. Manufacturer's warranties might have a longer time frame, like 5 to 7 years, where the kind of temporary warranty that comes from a used car dealer's lot may be as short as 3 to 6 months for both parts and labor.
 Another very important step is to understand what is and is not covered in your car warranty.


Assess the nature of your car warranty. Some warranties are comprehensive, and these are often called "bumper-to-bumper" warranty deals. Others are part specific, including drive train and engine warranties that don't cover peripheral systems.
Look for exclusions. Many auto warranties have specific exclusions for different parts and situations involving mechanical breakdown. Knowing what is not covered can help you plan for situations where you need to arrange for repair costs out of your pocket.
 A good number of warranties require the vehicle owner to keep accurate service records in order to be covered. Read the fine print and comply with these and other requirements.
 Where many manufacturer's warranties indicate they will replace with OEM or originally specified parts, a dealer's warranty will usually only cover any necessary fixes with whatever parts or systems the shop finds appropriate. This aspect of a warranty changes its inherent value, so talk this over with the warranty providers to better understand how you are covered for parts replacement.

