 None of the other engines have this option, and it is very helpful for specific searches. Access the menu by clicking the gear shaped icon in the top right corner of the Google image search screen.


The options from here are pretty self-explanatory. Each field has a different variable you can modify to filter the search. You can tell Google to bring up results only with or without certain specific words. You can enter all kinds of specifications, such as image size and aspect ratio, color search information, image type, file type, you get the picture.
Usage rights is a very important search option now offered by all major search engines. This is the result of a widespread effort to differentiate between public domain, copyrighted images, and everything in between. You will find more filter options for this in the advanced search section of Google than anywhere else. How you use this feature will depend on what you plan on doing with the images you find.
 If your searches are coded accordingly, you can get precise results no matter what search engine you use.


Placing the word OR in caps between search terms can give you a variety of results you might not get from searching just one term. For instance, searching a thing like Nicolas Cage OR Nic Cage OR Nicolas Kim Coppola OR Edward Malus OR Charlie Kaufman OR Castor Troy OR Terence McDonagh OR Peter Loew is very likely to bring up every known photograph of Nicolas Cage on the entire internet.
Use the minus sign to exclude search results associated with a particular term. For instance, searching for Nicolas Cage –Johnny Blaze will exclude photos of his character in Ghost Rider from your search results.
Did you know there is a quick little code you can use to search for results within a specific website? For instance, if you type site:thesun.co.uk "Nicolas Cage" into any image search engine, your results will be limited to photographs of Nicolas Cage from The Sun tabloid.
Use Safe Search to exclude adult content. For instance, if you enter safesearch:Nicolas Cage, you can be sure all results are safe to view at work.

