 Act as if you didn’t hear the person at all. Keep doing whatever you were doing. Teasing is only fun for the other person if you react. If you were talking to friends, keep doing that. If you were reading quietly, continue doing so. Don’t allow the bully to disrupt your activity at all.Practice anticipating what the “joke” may be so that it does not catch you off guard. Let's say you know a certain person always teases you about your hairstyle or voice. Prepare yourself by running her usual taunts through your head. At the same time, tell yourself she is wrong and inaccurate. Then, when you hear them from a bully, you are less likely to be as affected by them.
Teasing usually goes for something very obvious and can even be something you have no control over like your name, something physical about you like being short or a host of other personal traits. The bully can't tease you if things like your name rhyming in a funny way or being short is something you already accept.;
, The bully may be hoping for a big reaction—don’t give him the satisfaction. It may be difficult but try not to change your facial expression from what it was before the bully said something.Avoid rolling your eyes or even fake smiling as this could signal you are trying to “appear” okay for the sake of your audience. Instead, keep your mouth flat and your eyes diverted from the person so as to not give him any of your attention.
 Take the power away from the teaser by simply moving to another space. Teasing needs an audience; walking away leaves the person who is doing the teasing without an audience.Walking away is like leaving the punch line off of a joke—it just doesn't work that way. The interaction between you and the person who is teasing you is what keeps this joke going.
Walking away without offering a response defeats the purpose of the teasing and, more times than not, ends the joke. When you do this, you take back the power in the bullying dynamic. You send the message that "I don't have time to participate in this foolish behavior."

, Respond with a cool one-liner, such as a question or light-hearted joke. If the person teasing you is looking for a laugh, take back the power and make anyone watching laugh with you. If you are being teased for making mistake, re-enact what happened in a silly way so you own what was funny. You getting attention is the last thing the person teasing you wants. Laughing at yourself also takes away the power of the joke.Getting a funny response or being asked a question is something the person who is teasing you will not expect. She will probably not have a comeback and this ends the teasing.
Say something cool like "Do you seriously find yourself so funny that the same lame joke makes you laugh day after day? I'm actually ready for you to come up with some new content."
An alternative to humor is to perfect your "I'm not impressed" face. If you can master a deadpan face that says "I'm not amused," that's the only comeback you'll need. Two raised eyebrows and a neutral mouth indicate that you are waiting for the punch line — showing that you don't think it's funny. Ultimately you're putting the spotlight back on the bully and letting her know that you are not affected.
 Confidence is a fast way to end teasing because you quickly show the teaser he is not getting the reaction he wants from you.Using a firm and loud voice to tell the bully to stop also draws the behavior out of the shadows and to the attention of friends or adults around you if you need support. For example, if a person keeps imitating you in every class, you can say “You’re not funny. Stop,” or, “Got it. Please stop now.”

, Walk in a group to minimize your chances of being called out. In-between classes, at recess, or after school, be sure to stick with friends to reduce the bully’s chances of teasing you. Using the buddy system is a great way to avoid giving the teaser your full attention. It also sets you up to have positive support nearby after being teased.Stay engaged with your friends during free periods. Walk to class or wherever you need to go with a group. Just be sure you’re not going to be with people who react or laugh along with the bully. This defeats the purpose.
Being with friends also makes it easier to pretend you do not hear if the teasing starts up again. Your friends may even join in with your ignoring, making it even harder for the bully to get the attention she is hoping for.
 Do not let fear keep you from telling a trusted adult or friend about what is happening. It is even more important if you are fearful of physical violence or threats.Telling adults what is happening can help everyone be safe. If this is an on-going problem and it has happened over and over, be sure to tell this adult about everything that has happened. You can confide in your school’s guidance counselor, your favorite teacher, a coach, or even a friend’s parent if you are worried about telling your parents.
Simply say “This kid at school is always picking on me. I try to ignore it, but it’s getting really hard. What should I do?”

, When you encounter bullying, it's easy to only look from the lens of how the behavior affects you. Aim to look at it from a different point-of-view. Consider that the person teasing you must be in a really bad way to have to constantly belittle and taunt others to feel good about himself.


Research shows that many kids that go to school and bully others are often victims of bullying at home. Even though the behavior upsets or hurts you, try to refrain from perseverating a cycle of bullying., Walk with your head held high and shoulders back. Stand up straight, don't be afraid to make eye contact, and make your posture open and expansive. A bully needs a victim to feel poorly about herself in order to have made his point. If you walk with confidence, you are subtly telling the bully that you are not the victim.Keeping your head up also gives you a full view of what is ahead of you that you would not see if you are hiding or looking down.
 Keep it handy. Focus on activities that you are good at and find friends who share those activities in common. Have fun doing things you are good at.Your list might mention that you’re a great friend, good at basketball and science, and that you enjoy play your musical instrument. Whenever you feel down or upset about the teasing, run this list of attributes through your mind to remind yourself that you have so much to be proud of and happy about.
Recognize that you cannot control how others interact with you but you can control how you react to them. Maintain positive encounters with friends and classmates. Look for friends who value you and build you up. Be this friend to someone else.
 If you are not taking good care of your mental and emotional health, bullying can have an even greater impact on you. Finding healthy ways to cope with stress can make you more resilient and capable of handling teasing.


There are a variety of ways you can cope with stress in your life. You can turn to your spirituality, exercise to release those "feel-good" endorphins, read a good novel, or spend time with good friends. Just make time to regularly include stress-management activities into your day or week., Be assertive. A bully wants all the attention focused on what she is doing. Using your voice takes away this attention. Using a calm and stern voice will draw attention to the situation and let the bully know you are being serious.Say “Hey, you keep calling me names and it’s annoying and mean. You need to stop or I will tell the teacher.” Bullies usually do not like an audience of too many witnesses so getting attention by using your voice may be an effective way to end teasing.

