 Confidence does not come from a specific look, brand, or attitude. Confidence is natural and should come from inside you. When you fake confidence, it can come off as conceited, especially if you think your purchases or style are your primary value. Take a look at what you have to offer as a person, and build confidence from there., Pride is just another way of saying you have high self-worth. There’s no better way to display this than your walk. You come across as insecure when you walk with your shoulders slumped and your face turned towards the ground beneath you. Instead, pull your shoulders back, lift your chin, and walk with your head held high.For extra points, smile at everyone you meet. Doing so helps you show confidence while still being friendly and approachable.
 How you dress sends a message to the outside world about how you want to be perceived. Everyone has their own individual style, of course. Whether you enjoy dressing in business suits or tattered jeans, you can make it your business to wear clothes that are clean and well-fitting.


When you shop, go for quality over quantity. You may be able to splurge on only one dress, but if it is of high-quality it may last far longer than cheaper pieces. No need to wear flashy logos or accessories.Dressing extends to your hygiene, too. Keep your hair cut and styled. Manicure, or at the very least, clip your nails regularly. Find a signature scent that speaks to you and wear it often.
 Cocky people often boast about superficial aspects of their lives like money, clothes, cars, or dates. To demonstrate pride without arrogance, highlight your meaningful strengths.Think about what makes you a great person beyond those superficial things. Maybe you’re a great listener, an excellent problem-solver, or super creative.
Make a list of your positive traits and accomplishments. Review it regularly to feel pride about yourself., There’s hardly a better way to feel pride about yourself than being an effective communicator. Effective communicators understand how to carefully balance speaking and listening so that they do not dominate conversations. Here are a few tips to be a more effective communicator.


Have open body language. Leave your arms and legs uncrossed and relaxed at your sides.
Remove any distractions when you’re communicating such as cell phones or televisions.
Make regular eye contact. Smile, nod, or gesture as appropriate.Don’t interrupt—wait until the speaker is finished before replying.
Remember that part of being a good speaker is being a good listener. Allow others to engage you or an audience without cutting them off or ignoring them.

