 Even for adults, the thought of getting poked with a needle can be frightening. Kids, with their big imaginations, tend to be even more afraid. About 2-8% of children have an actual phobia of shots, but all kids need to feel compassion and care to face an injection.
 A recent study that examined ways to help babies in pain showed that breastfeeding reduces pain in infants.The familiar, soothing action helped calm infants down while they got shots. Their heart rates remained stable, and the babies did not tense up or cry. If breastfeeding is not an option for you, try one of the following with your infant:


Give him or her a pacifier to suck on
Provide soothing skin-to-skin contact
Swaddle the baby
Give him or her glucose water drops with a pacifier
Place a musical mobile 20-25 cm (8-10 inches) above the baby, Children learn from their parents, so don't put negative ideas about the shot in their heads. Talk to them about what will happen at the doctor’s office, but act like it's a normal part of life, not a big deal they should worry about. The more relaxed your attitude toward the shot is, the more relaxed your child will be when getting one., To avoid unnecessary anxiety, call the shot something more positive. "Booster" or "super booster" reframe the injection as something that will make them strong, not hurt them.
 One of the scariest things about getting a shot is not knowing what's going to happen. These books provide information about the process and can make children feel more secure.
 One successful strategy is to have the health care provider give the child a choice of how many boosters they want to receive. If your child is due for one shot, have them ask "Do you want one or two boosters today?" If your child is due for two shots, ask "Do you want two or three?" Children almost always choose the smaller number, and in doing so, feel like they had a say. If the health care provider gives them a choice in the matter, children relax and feel more in control of the situation.
 However, it doesn't always work perfectly, so your child might still feel some pain. It's a prescription cream, so talk to your pediatrician ahead of time about whether they recommend using EMLA on your child.
 Before getting the shot, talk to them about what they are going to hold, look at, or do during the shot to distract themselves. Some children may want to sing, while others might prefer to hold a bear or favorite blanket. Children sometimes find it calming to be quiet and look a parent in the eyes for comfort. Talking about what you're going to do ahead of time will help your child stay calm in the moment.


You can also distract the child by reading a book, playing music, or playing an educational game with him or her during the shot., If you show how worried you are about your child's reaction, chances are good that your child will pick up on your anxiety. Instead, be a good coach. Tell him or her that they're doing a great job, that you've never seen anyone be so good at the doctor's office before. Cheer them on: "You can do it! You're doing great!"

, It might be as simple as a lollipop or ice cream cone, or you might go big with a trip to the zoo.


Don't tell them that the prize depends on whether they cry or not. Crying during the shot is alright. They just have to make it through the doctor's visit to get their reward.
 Doctors don't recommend giving children Tylenol before getting a shot. It's actually normal for the body to have a low-grade fever after a shot.Only if the fever rises above 101 °F (38.3 °C) should you use Tylenol to bring it down. A little bit of pain or fussiness after a shot is also normal, so don't use a pain reliever unless your child complains about a lot of pain.

