 Tap on the home button on your iPad or iPhone, then look for the app with the gray gear icon.;
, Scroll down the Settings menu until you see this option, and tap it to access it’s settings.
 Once in the iCloud settings menu, find and tap the slider that says “Show On Screen.” You can then find the iCloud Drive app in your home menu.


Note that you may have to update it to iCloud Drive first, if you haven’t yet.
 The best part about the new iCloud App is that it’s pretty easy to use, though that may be due to its limited functions (for now). Upon opening the app, you can already view your files and select them by tapping. When you select a file, you can choose to delete it, move it, or share it by tapping the icons on the top, similar to how the Photos app works.


You can’t actually edit the files using the iCloud Drive App at this point, just organize it, so if you want to edit it before synchronizing, you’re better off editing it from its app or from the computer itself.
All changes are reflected in your iCloud Drive in all devices.
You can also search for specific files using the search bar on top.
 Select a file to move to open it, and tap the move (folder) icon. A list of destinations in your iCloud will be displayed. Tap on the folder where you want to move the file.
 Select a file, and tap the trashcan icon at the top. Be careful as deleting from the app deletes the file from the iCloud Drive itself, and all apps synchronized with it.
 Select a file to share, and tap the AirDrop icon, which looks like a box with an arrow pointing upwards. A pop-up will appear; from this pop-up, choose which app or person you want to share it with.

Sharing the files from iCloud will just place a copy in the program you share it to.
, iCloud Drive lets you store up to 5 GB worth of data for free, but for bigger storage you’ll need to subscribe to its storage plan, which is a monthly subscription. In Storage, tap the “Change Storage Plan” button, and browse the different offers.


The current monthly subscription choices are 20 GB for $0.99, 200 GB for $3.99, 500 GB for $9.99, and 1 TB for $19.99.
 Then when you have chosen one that you like, tap it and select the “Buy” option on the upper-right hand corner of the screen. You’ll automatically be charged through whatever your payment plan is, and an email will be sent to you by Apple to the email registered in your Apple ID. If you can’t pay, then iCloud will not let you edit, remove, move, or delete any files currently in it until you manage to pay.