 If you suspect that you might have moles in your garden, look for mounds of dirt on the surface of your grass. Moles will typically leave heaps of dirt the size of baseballs or softballs when tunneling. Check daily as these mounds can appear quickly as moles make their way through the yard.A typical mole might make between 50-100 mounds in a single month.;
, Moles tunnel deep into the ground, usually at least 10 inches under the surface. If you notice raised swellings of earth under the grass in your garden, try stepping on it lightly. If the ground gives away under your foot, this is a strong indication that you have moles.
 Moles tend to dig alongside structures, tunneling below the surface. Check along your house foundation and driveway for shallow moles runs, evidenced by raised ridges and mounds. Other structures to check the borders of should include:Walkways
Lawn borders
Garden sheds
Fences

, If evidence of moles in your garden subsides, keep checking for evidence for the next few months. When the supply of insects in the upper soil becomes scarce, moles will simply dig deeper and leave less evidence than they do when digging shallow tunnels. Moles may even use dirt from their mounds to fill in old tunnels while digging in deeper soil, giving you the false impression that they have left your yard., Look online for pictures of moles to know exactly what you are looking for in your yard. They are small mammals with front flippers, webbed feet, no visible ears, and a pointed, bald snout. Moles are typically only 7 inches long (approximately 18 cm) and weigh about 4 pounds., Moles are most active in the spring or fall. To spot one, observe your yard in the early morning or evening. While moles only tend to appear above ground surface when they are looking for a mate, you might observe active signs of their tunnelling (e.g. dirt being tossed, grass moving).








Moles are also likely to appear outdoors after a warm rain, when things are moist and temperate.

