 Some apples work better than others for baking and cooking, and this applies to both dried and deep fried apple rings. Look for crispy apple varieties that will hold their shape when heated, such as:Braeburn
Fuji
Honeycrisp
Gala
Pink Lady
Granny Smith
Golden delicious;
, Run the apples under cold water and scrub them with a vegetable brush or cloth. This will remove excess dirt and bacteria.With a sharp knife, cut away any bruises or soft spots on the apples if you're going to deep fry them. Bruised flesh is safe to eat, but it will become mushy when heated.
 This is more important for deep fried apples, and is optional for dried apple rings. Apple peel contains a great deal of fiber and other nutrients, so you may want to consider leaving the apples intact for dried apple rings.To peel the apples, use a sharp knife to peel off the skin. You can also use a vegetable peeler or mechanical apple peeler, which is a hand-powered crank device that turns an apple on a spit and peels it with a blade.
 Use an apple corer to remove the core from each apple. It’s important to use an apple corer, because taking out the center of the apple will give you the traditional apple ring shape.Hold the apple still with one hand and center the corer vertically over the top of the apple core. Push the corer all the way through the apple, then pull it back out to remove the core.
If you don’t have an apple corer, use a thin, long, and sharp knife to cut out the core from the center of the apple. Cut a small circle around the core, remove the knife, and push the core out through the bottom.
 The easiest way to do this is with a mandolin, because it will ensure uniform thickness for each slice. Press the bottom of the apple onto the mandolin using the vegetable holder. Use swift downward motions to slice the apple into rounds. If you don’t have a mandolin, slice the apples by hand with a sharp knife.


For dried apples, slice the fruit into rings that are one-eighth to one-third inch (3.2 to 8.5 mm) thick. Thinner rings will dry faster, but can easily become crispy and hard.For deep fried apples, slice the rings one-quarter inch (6.4 mm) thick. Lay each ring out flat in a single layer. Take a small biscuit or cookie cutter and cut a smaller ring from the center of each apple slice. Then, do the same with a medium biscuit cutter so that you get a small, medium, and large apple ring from each apple slice.If you have shaped cookie cutters in graduated sizes, you can use these instead of plain circles to make shaped apple rings.
 Fill a large bowl with cold water and squeeze in the juice from one lemon. This will prevent the apples from browning. Let the apples soak for about five minutes.


To add a hint of floral nuttiness to the apples, add 1 teaspoon (6 ml) vanilla to the bowl as well., After five minutes in the lemon water, remove the apples and lay each slice flat on a clean towel. Gently pat each slice dry. You can also season the apples with spices such as:¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) cinnamon
⅛ teaspoon (0.625 g) ginger or cardamom
Pinch of cloves
Any combination of the above, or any other spices you wish to experiment with

