 Find the small bony bump behind your ears and begin your massage there. Place your right knuckles under your right ear and left knuckles under the left ear, and then slowly glide both knuckles down to the back of your neck.Now place your right index finger below the right ear and likewise with the left. Using your fingers, make circular movements toward the back of your neck.
Finally, place your right and left index fingers on the back of your neck at the base of the skull. Move the fingers slowly — and gently — toward your ears. Continue this motion back and forth down the neck, until you reach the base.
Repeat these exercises several times per day, if you want.;
, First off, “walk” your fingers from the base of your skull to the bottom of your neck, feeling for knots and tender spots. Gently stroke any that you find, lengthwise, until they feel better.Next, cup your right hand and place it over the left shoulder where the inside corner of your shoulder blade is. Rub here while gently rotating the left shoulder joint, concentrating on any tender spots. Repeat with the opposite arm.
Examine the back of your neck along the spine. Feel down the backbone. Again, you can rub or make small circles as you go and apply different pressure for tender areas. You can also do this by placing a rubber ball between your neck and a wall.
The massage might feel a bit uncomfortable but, at the same time, pleasant. Don’t overdo it. It should not hurt.
 Some people think that pressing certain “pressure points” on the body can relieve pain in the neck and elsewhere or lessen headaches and depression. There are several such points on the neck. One is at the base of the skull. Find the two hollows there and hook your thumbs into them, pressing upward. Hold for one minute while taking slow, deep breaths.Another pressure point is right behind the ears — this is called the Dokko in acupressure. Feel for this place and press it very gently. At the same time, try also pressing the spot where your nose meets your forehead, right between the eyebrows.
You might also try massaging points that aren’t on the neck, but supposedly affect neck, shoulder, and back pain. For example, you can press the “Large Intestine 6” or “He Gu” spot. This is on your hand, on the muscle webbed between your index finger and thumb. Use deep and firm pressure on the point for several seconds.
Try also the “Triple Energizer” or “Zhong Zhu” spot. This is located on your hand between the pinky and ring finger, in the groove between the third knuckle. Press and hold the spot for several seconds.
 There are other points that correlate to what are called "trigger points." These points are similar to acupressure points. In fact, both types of points show similar locations in 71% of cases.Take your right hand and reach over to your left upper shoulder. Pinch the shoulder muscle between your thumb and index or middle finger. If you feel pain going into your neck or head, you’ve just found a trigger point. You can hold the pressure for 30 seconds to one minute, and then move to a new spot in that area. You may find several points in this area.
Rotate your head to the right. Use your right hand to feel a cord-like muscle in the right front of the neck. This muscle should "pop out" as you turn your head to the right. Gently pinch this muscle with your right thumb and index or middle finger. Again, see if this recreates your neck pain. If it does, you’ve discovered a trigger point. Hold the pressure for 30 seconds to a minute. You can go up and down the length of the muscle to find more trigger points.

