 How to care for your plant will depend on what climate you live in and how you wish the plant to look. Roses in zones 4 and 5 (where temperatures dip to -30 degrees F and -34.4 degrees C) may need protection during the winter. Consider planting your roses near covered areas and bushes.


Roses in the hotter zones will need shade to protect them from wilting in the summer heat.
 Plant your rose in a sheltered area with moderate sun. Since Lenton roses prefer alkaline soiland areas near trees and large plants, look for a spot where shrubs and bushes grow naturally. Such spots may be near a large tree, in the corner of the garden, or near a pond.
 Alkaline soil with a pH of 7.6 to 8.5 is ideal for Lenton roses. Buy a soil pH test kit at your local garden center and test the pH of your soil. Be sure to use soil that you dig up from 4 inches (10.2 cm) below the surface to get a good sample. Wear gloves while collecting your soil. Touching the sample with your hands could influence the pH. Break up the soil and allow it to dry.


Put the dried soil into a clean container. Put distilled water and the chemical that comes in the test kit into the container with the soil. Shake up the container then and then let the soil settle. Check the color of the water in the container against the chart that comes with the kit to determine what the pH of your soil is.
 The amount of lime necessary depends on the texture of the soil and how much the pH needs to be changed. If the soil is sandy, 1 ¼ pounds of lime will be required to change the pH of 25 square feet of soil from 6.8 to 7.8. Heavy clay soil will require 2 ¾ pounds of lime to make the same change.


Work the lime into the soil to a depth of 6 inches (15.2 cm) if the Lenton rose has not already been planted. If it is already growing in the garden, gently work the lime into the top few inches of soil around the plant.
 Lenton roses grow best in organically rich, fertile soil that drains quickly. If the Lenton rose has not yet been planted, work a 3- to 6-inch depth of organic matter like well-aged cow manure, compost, sphagnum peat moss or leaf mold into the soil. Work it in thoroughly to a depth of 8 to 10 inches (20.3 to 25.4 cm).


If the Lenton rose has already been planted, gently work the organic matter into the top 4 to 6 inches (10.2 to 15.2 cm) of soil around the rose. Be careful not to damage its roots. The organic matter will improve the texture, fertility and drainage capabilities of the soil.
 Dig a hole twice the size of the plant. Place a layer of peat moss in the hole and then place the roots directly above the moss. The plant have at least three inches of topsoil over its roots to help it survive during the winter months.


Leave the stem clear when returning the soil to the hole. This will encourage growth while discouraging diseases from affecting your rose.

