 The most popular sponges for applying liquid foundation are egg-shaped blending sponges made of antimicrobial foam. Both name brand and generic varieties are available at your local drugstore or cosmetics retailer., Use your regular products, and allow a few minutes for your moisturizer to fully absorb.









For a really flawless finish, you may also apply a makeup primer at this time.
 Immerse the sponge completely in water, and squeeze it several times to make sure it gets thoroughly saturated. Then wring the sponge out so that it is damp, but not sopping wet. You can wrap the sponge in a towel or washcloth and squeeze to quickly remove excess water.
 You can either use the back of your hand, a small dish, or a folded up napkin. Don't pour out too much. You can always add more later.
 Sweep it back and forth a few time, until the surface of the sponge is covered in a light, uniform layer of foundation.
 Instead of rubbing the foundation on, use quick dabbing motions to spread it around your face. Begin around the nose and cheeks, and continue applying with small, quick motions until you have an even coverage all over your face. Use the rounded, larger surface of the sponge or beauty blender for the larger areas on your face, such as your forehead, cheeks and jawline.









Pressing the foundation in will create a flawless finish and fuller coverage by evening out skin texture.
By rubbing or using strokes to apply your foundation, you risk applying an uneven amount to different areas of your face. This can also create lines where little hairs are present on the face.
 The pointed tip of the sponge is made for smaller areas, like the creases of the nose or around the eyes. Use a stippling or bouncing motion (short, quick dabs) to apply and blend with this part of the sponge.
 Again, use a stippling motion to blend along the hairline, jawline and ears. Press the foundation into your skin by using dabbing motions. Do not sweep or rub the foundation in.
 Wait 2-3 minutes for your foundation to dry. Blot with a tissue, if needed, and apply other makeup. Then apply a translucent finishing powder gently with a puff, or fluffy brush, and get ready for the compliments to come pouring in!








, When finished, rinse your sponge thoroughly with water, squeeze it out, and allow it to air dry. You should also clean your sponge with soap or a mild shampoo on a regular basis. Apply a small amount of soap, shampoo or brush cleaner, and squeeze your sponge several times until it is nice and sudsy. Then rinse thoroughly until no more bubbles appear, and allow to air dry.









If your sponge has an odd smell or if it is not blending as well as it used to, you need to clean your sponge.
If you do not clean your sponge regularly, it can grow bacteria and cause pimples or other skin irritations.

