 Maybe you have sunset-hued hair that cascades down your back. Maybe your eyes are a deep, coffee-brown color. Maybe you have elegant collar bones, strong, sturdy thighs or set of wide, quarterback-caliber shoulders. Whatever it is, don't be afraid to play it up! When you shop for clothes, choose your hairstyle, and pick out colors to wear, think about how you can make your favorite features stand out.

The change you make can be small, like buying more v-necks to reveal your pretty neck, or putting your baseball hats away to show off your high, handsome forehead.
On the other side of the coin, you can downplay features you don't want to show off. Don't get too carried away with this, though - it'll be obvious you're trying to hide something. Instead, focus on the features you're proud to accentuate.;
, Hair is one of the first things people notice about each other, so looking your best means finding a style and hair care routine that makes your hair look great. No matter what your hair color, texture and length, there's a style out there that will bring out its beauty. To find that look that works best for you, try the following:


Find a haircut that works for your face shape. For example, longer, layered looks look great with oval-shaped faces, while pixie cuts are pretty on rounder faces.

Care for your hair in a way that keeps it healthy. Dying it too much, using glue-in weaves, chemical straightening and other treatments can damage your hair, making it look dry, dull or limp.

Style your hair every day before you go out, even if it just means combing it and adding some pomade or gel. If you're going to a fancy event, take the time to wash, dry and style it well.

If you have facial hair, keep it neat and trimmed, whether you have a full beard or long sideburns.

If you're losing hair, there are a number of methods you can try to make it thicker. However, don't feel like you have to cover it up with a combover or cap. Getting regular trims and washing your hair regularly will keep you looking nice. Own your hair, no matter what it looks like!

, Your eyes are an important feature to think about when you're getting ready for your day - after all, everyone you talk to is going to have the opportunity to look at them closely. Making your eyes look great starts with getting a good night's sleep, but there are a few things you should do in the morning to make sure they look bright and attractive:

Moisturize the area around your eyes. Use a cream to moisturize your eyelids, under your eyes, and in the creases near your temples. You can use a moisturizer every night before going to sleep, too.
Keep your eyebrows neat. Use a tweezers to shape your eyebrows, or go to a salon to get them waxed or threaded. This will bring out the best in your eye shape.

Take care of undereye circles by applying cool cucumber slices or teabags for 5 minutes.
Wear eye makeup if you'd like. Eyeliner, eye shadow, and mascara work together to make your eyes look bigger and brighter.
 Wearing a genuine smile will truly capture people's attention. If you tend to walk around looking solemn, you'll give people the impression you're closed off, and they'll look away. Plus, frowning creates wrinkles and doesn't give your facial features the chance to shine. Having an easy smile is a simple way to make yourself look better every day.


If there's anything preventing you from wanting to smile more, take measures to change it. For example, if you're self-conscious about your teeth, have them straightened or whitened.
Brushing your teeth every morning before you go out will help your smile look bright and attractive.
Condition your lips with chapstick so you won't hesitate to smile wide. You might also consider using a lip scrub to exfoliate your lips if they tend to get dry and flaky.
 Improving your posture is an easy fix that will make a huge difference in your appearance right away. If you tend to hunch a little bit, make a conscious effort to stand up straight. Throw your shoulders back and keep your head erect. When you're seated, don't slouch in your chair. No matter what type of figure you have, you'll look better if your posture is upright and elegant.


Improving your posture takes some practice. You'll have to consciously stand up straight and sit erect for weeks before it comes naturally. It can help to stretch and do light exercises each day.
 This is an important way to look your best, but it eludes a great number of people. You may aspire to fit into a size that's a little too small, or perhaps you drape yourself in fabric in order to hide something you don't particularly want to show off. Either approach to wearing clothes results in a distorted look. Put your best foot forward by choosing clothes that are the correct size for you. Believe it or not, you will look a lot better!



Wearing a bra that fits well can drastically change your appearance. Spring for a great bra and you'll notice the difference.
Shapewear only goes so far to smooth out your curves. The better approach is to choose clothing that fits well, rather than trying to squeeze into a size too small.
 Do you love wearing shorts in the summer, but you're embarrassed to expose your thighs? Wear them anyway! Wear sleeveless shirts, take off the bulky sweatshirt, and put on strappy sandals when you feel like it, no matter your body shape. If you're covering yourself up when you wish you could wear something less confining, it will show in your demeanor. Unless you want to do this for personal reasons, there's no reason you can't bare as much skin as you want, no matter your size or shape.


That said, don't bare too much skin in venues where it's inappropriate. You wouldn't want to show up in a short cocktail dress when everyone else is wearing formal floor-length gowns, or wear a sleeveless shirt to a nice event where others are wearing collared button-downs.
 Your style should start with what feels good to wear, be it high heels and pearls or a t-shirt and shorts. Work on figuring out what style of clothing makes you feel the most like yourself, and the most confident presenting yourself to other people. It doesn't matter what your style is; as long as its an expression of your personality, you'll be able to rock it.


If you've always worn a black hoodie and jeans, and you're not sure how to branch out, start by changing up one piece at a time. Wear a neatly ironed collared top instead of a sweatshirt one day. Does it make you feel good? Do you feel like yourself in it? If not, try a different style next time. Keep changing it up until you start getting a feel for what you like.
Swapping clothes with a stylish friend can be a helpful way to experiment without shelling out too much money. Also consider shopping at thrift stores, where there's a huge selection of a range of different styles.
 It can really help to have good examples of the type of people wearing the clothing and hairstyles you like. Is there a celebrity or other public figure whose style is particularly attractive to you? Once you have a few people in mind, pay attention to how their wardrobes are built. What colors and fabrics do they tend to rely on? How is their clothing usually cut? What accessories do they wear most often? When you have a clear picture, you can start incorporating similar pieces into your wardrobe and trying them out for yourself.


Style blogs are filled with pictures of people trying out different outfits. Find a few bloggers who have taste similar to yours and following along - they'll often give details about where their clothes come from. The great thing about blogs is that they're created by people of all backgrounds, shapes and sizes, so unlike fashion magazines, they reflect reality. That's a lot more helpful when it comes to figuring out what might work for your particular features.
 Do you lean toward cool tones or warm tones? Do you love black and white or prefer muted earth colors? Preferences aside, knowing what looks great with your particular complexion can help you look more beautiful. As a general rule, try to choose colors that don't exactly match your skin - contrast is good!If your skin is dark, choose warm-toned pastels, bright colors and rich, deep colors like copper and gold.
If your skin is medium, choose jewel colors or shades of blue or red, and steer clear of brown or tan colors.
If your skin is olive, go with pink, red, green or brown to bring out the best in your skin.
If your skin is fair, peach, strawberry, navy and dark green will all help accent your rosy hue.
 It's also OK to throw style rules out the window and just wear whatever you want - as long as you feel comfortable in it. Maybe you've heard that tall people shouldn't wear high heels - so what? If you like them, wear them. Or on the other end of the spectrum, it's commonly said that shorter people shouldn't wear maxi skirts - but if you have a gorgeous one in your closet, you'd better not let it languish there! What matters when it comes to style is your confidence. If that's there, heads will turn as you pass by, and people will want to know your secret.
 Sunglasses, jewelry, watches, bags, and other accessories can add just the right touch to an outfit. They help you look more put together, which is an important part of looking your best. After getting dressed, decide how to complete your look.


A solid-colored top usually pairs well with a statement necklace, which adds a bit of interest to the look.
If your hair is pulled back, consider putting on a pair of earrings to draw attention to your chin.
Men can accessorize with watches, ties and cufflinks, as well as other jewelry.
 Part of looking your best is looking the part - and that means putting a little forethought into your outfits. While there's nothing wrong with standing out, you should do it in a way that also allows you to fit in. Don't wear something so out of place that people are distracted by your outfit instead of seeing the person wearing it.


If you're going to a special event, find out if there's a dress code. Find a way to adhere to it that allows you to express your personal style.
 No matter what you're wearing, if your skin looks dull and dry you won't be showing the world your best self. Have a skin care routine that makes you look fresh, healthy and vibrant from head to toe. This will mean different things for different people, but there are a few general approaches that make sense for everyone:


Wash your skin without using harsh detergents. Use a gentle soap that will encourage your skin to retain moisture, which helps it look healthy.
Exfoliate your skin a few times a week. Use a dry brush or a body scrub to slough off dead skin cells.
Moisturize your skin with lotion, cream or oil to keep it supple and soft.
 These two simple grooming habits will help you look clean and fresh, even if you're not wearing anything particularly special.



Give yourself a manicure or pay for one every few weeks.
Decide what hair you want to keep and what you want to remove. Shave, wax, or thread the hair that you'd prefer not to have.
 For a healthy body shape and vibrant hair and skin, it's important to eat plenty of vitamins every single day. Cut back on sugar, processed foods, refined flour, salty food, and fried food for better overall health - and a more beautiful appearance. Incorporate more of the following foods into your diet:


Fruits and vegetables. The importance of eating a variety of fruits and vegetables- preferably steamed, sauteed or blended, rather than juiced, fried or boiled - cannot be understated. Try to make fruits and veggies the bulk of your diet.
Healthy fats. Eat avocados, nuts, fish, eggs, and other healthy fats containing omega-3 fatty acids for healthy skin, hair and organs.
Lean protein. Go for chicken, fish, eggs, lean beef, pork, tofu, and other good sources of protein. Steer clear of processed meats, like lunch meat or beef jerky, since these have lots of additives.
Whole grains. Oatmeal, spelt, whole wheat, and other whole grains are also part of a balanced diet.
 If you feel tired, dull, and a little lifeless, perk yourself up by drinking water. Lots of it. It will have a huge impact on the appearance of your hair and skin, as well as giving you more energy - which, in turn, will also help you look your best. Aim to get at least 8 glasses every single day.


Replace sugary drinks with water or herbal tea whenever possible.
Avoid drinking too much alcohol - over time, it will definitely affect the appearance of your body and face, not to mention making you feel ill or sad the day after drinking. When you do drink, have a glass of water for every glass of alcohol.
 Using tobacco products is a sure way to age your skin and hair, and that won't help you look your best. Start taking steps to quit smoking and using other tobacco products as soon as you can.
 Getting your blood flowing and strengthening your muscles will help you look your very best. Your skin will have a healthy flush, your posture will improve, and your arms, legs and torso will look more shapely. If you don't already exercise, it's never too late to start.


Weight training is key when it comes to building muscle.
Consider joining a team to get exercise and socialize at the same time.
Try yoga if you're not into high-energy sports.
 Part of looking your best is being aware of your body's needs and making time to meet them. When you're feeling run down and stressed, your body suffers, and it shows. It's important to learn how to take care of yourself well. You'll know you're doing it right when you look in the mirror and see that healthy, happy glow.


Get plenty of sleep. Try starting a schedule so you can make sure you get at least 7 to 8 hours every night.
Take time to relax. Whatever you do to relax, make time for it several times a week. Take a long, hot bath, go for a walk, hang out with friends, play some video games, read a book or cook yourself a healthy meal.
Go to the doctor regularly. Staying on top of any health problems is an important part of self care, too. Take care of medical problems before they get out of hand.

