 Whether you are actually sick or not, carry some tissues with you and do your best to look miserable. People on planes are usually on their way to work or vacation. No one wants to or can afford to contract your illness., No one wants to sit next to an annoying, loud passenger. Speak loudly into your phone. An even better option is turning up the music in your headphones. This is a noise that will continue for the duration of the flight even after cell phones are disabled.


Either way, you will appear not to be able to hear anyone or respond if they ask you to get up from the aisle seat so they can get into your row., Southwest Airlines will allow larger passengers to occupy two seats. They prefer that you let them know beforehand by purchasing an extra ticket, so they can reserve that seat on the plane. The distance between armrests is 17 inches. If you do not fit, you qualify for the extra seat.Once you complete your trip you can apply for a refund of the cost of the second seat.
You can be awarded the second seat free of charge at the gate, but run the risk of the flight being full and not having an additional seat available.
 Put down your tray table and spread out. Use the things you have at your disposal to appear busy and spread across the empty seat while others are boarding the plane. You don't want to just set a bag in the seat and save it, but you can make sitting in the empty seat far less convenient to other passengers.Put down your tray table on the aisle seat and start working on your laptop to make moving a disturbance. Spread your files across the empty seat.
Set up a meal on your tray table. Spread the bag of food and some of the food items on the seat next to you.
 This is especially useful in the aisle seat. Get out your neck pillow and close your eyes to deter people from disturbing you to enter the row.You can also lean your head on the empty seat to make it seem like an uncomfortable seat option.
 This is sometimes frowned upon, but not explicitly disallowed. Tell the other passengers that you have a travel companion with a later boarding position and you would like to save the seat for them. You can also say that your companion is in the bathroom, but will be returning to that seat.Sell this by placing your carry-on bag under the seat you are saving.
Be prepared to be met with contention from boarding passengers wishing to sit in the empty seat.
If you don’t actually have a companion you are saving the seat for, you can be found out and lose the seat or anger some passengers.
 While the flight attendant hopes to help you have a comfortable flight, the main concern is every passenger's safety. Ultimately you want to follow the rules and do as the flight attendant says. In fact, if you are too unruly, you could be removed from the plane. Don't make your seat the empty seat!