 Is it because you don't read well? Are you easily distracted? Do you read slowly? You may need to simply keep reading (reading takes practice), give yourself time (slow readers can still enjoy reading), and give yourself a quiet space.;
, If you have a choice, find a book that you'll enjoy. This is an age in which there are novels on every conceivable topic.



Librarians can help you find a book that's of interest to you. You may be surprised how enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and helpful librarians are on a number of books.






Better bookstore staff often can offer guidance. Often, top selections for genres are displayed...usually these have broad appeal.
In a given category (young adult literature, romances, historical fiction, sports writing, etc.) there are lists of top selling or highest recommended books. This can be found at places like Amazon.com, The New York Times Bestsellers list, and more. If something sells well, it's probably good.
 Try books that appeal to a large age range, as they are time tested, usually reasonably easy to read, and fun. English language suggestions: Charlotte's Web, The Harry Potter Series, The Chronicles of Narnia, Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass

, There are a lot of novels that aren't traditional books: graphic novels, or Japanese manga, for instance, may be more your taste.
 One of the biggest things that prevents many people from reading is their mindset. Instead of thinking thoughts like, "I can't read well" or "I read too slow", focus on the positive aspects of reading. Reading allows you to process thoughts faster and to learn and explore different ideas and cultures.
 Read the back cover or inside front cover. Both, if possible. Figure out the basic plot of the story. If there isn't any information on the book covers, Google it. Watch out for spoilers, though!

, Your reading nook should be somewhere quiet where you can concentrate without distractions. Try to avoid rooms where loud talking and electronic noises could mess with your ability to comprehend what you're reading. If you can't find a place in your house to read, try the library, a cafe or coffee, or better yet, the great outdoors! Beaches on lazy summer days make just as great of a place to read as your own backyard does!

, Set aside time for reading. But make this reasonable for you. For one person it may be 15 minutes, for another an hour--there's no perfect amount. But be sure it's enough time to make it useful to forward the story, but not so long you get restless, bored, or fatigued.
 If this is true of you, realize you are using time as an excuse...the TV, computer, game console, or cell phone can wait.
 The reward could be a monetary gift, such as a dollar in a little jar. When you complete your book, you will have enough for a night out with your friends, or to go out to dinner. Or, fill a jar with 10 or 20 marbles. For every hour you read, take out a marble. When you finish the book, count how many marbles are left. The fewer marbles missing the better. Mark a certain reward before finishing, and see what you've earned!

, You might be an individual that process books better through listening than with reading...and that's perfectly OK. It's understanding and enjoying the novel that matters, not whether you read it or heard it. A bonus is that you can listen while driving, cleaning the house, and other places reading won't work.
 Unless you are reading a particular novel for an assignment, remember that you don't have to read a book you find boring, offensive, or confusing. This is something you are doing for fun. Try your best, but don't give up reading completely just because one book ruins the experience.


Many bookstores, communities, libraries, and more have book discussion groups. It can really be motivating to keep you with a book, help your understanding of a novel, and meet new people. Some groups are specific (Oprah book club, teen groups, science fiction fans, graphic novels, mothers, and more.) If you happen to be a student, this can really help you in your literature classes in school!







