 In order for your child to be happy later in life (and in order for you to gauge your child's happiness), it's important to teach your kid to express emotions and feelings. Some children may have trouble doing this on their own, but you can work on ways to help your child identify emotions and express them accordingly.


Try having your child make a list of current feelings. Then talk about why your child feels that way, taking time to focus on each emotion/feeling.
Have your child draw his or her feelings. Drawing is a great way to express what's going on internally, especially if your child is resistant to talking about feelings or has a hard time expressing emotions.
Just like adults, some kids are simply more private and withdrawn than others. It doesn't necessarily mean there's anything wrong or being hidden from you, but check in with your child to let her know that you're there if she needs to talk., A great way to help your child feel more stable at home is by sticking to a consistent routine with your kid. Make yourself consistently available for emotional comfort, and make sure you're always supportive of your child. This may take time to develop into a consistent routine, but it's important for your child's happiness and sense of comfort.
 If your child has never journaled before, help him get started. If he already keeps a regular day-to-day journal, add an inspiration journal to his writing routine.


Having an inspiration journal can help your child learn that his experiences are important and meaningful. It can also help him get back on track when he's having a bad day in the future.An inspiration journal can be as broad or as specific as your child likes. Start out by having him write about his daily discoveries, experiences, questions, and of course, inspirations.
 Exploring new places and things together can be an excellent bonding experience. It can teach your child a new level of curiosity, as well as a new way of seeing and thinking about the world.Visit a museum together, take a dance class, or learn a new hobby together.
Take little adventures to the park, or go on a short road trip to see something exciting and interesting.
Make sure the adventures you take are interesting to your child. Ask him for input or suggestions, or run your ideas by him before you set out on the road.
 Studies have shown that "mastery" - the acquisition of skill and success, can be tremendously important for a developing child. It can help him feel a sense of purpose, develop goals, and feel pride over his accomplishments.If your child enjoys certain activities, like watching hockey games or dance competitions, ask him if he'd be interested in enrolling in classes or a competitive league.
Don't push your child to engage in any sports or leisure activities he doesn't enjoy. Let him decide if and when he's ready to start pursuing something in earnest.
Make sure you don't develop an overly competitive attitude towards your child's activities. Remember that your child won't win every game/competition, so focus on praising him for his efforts and telling him how well he performed.
 Gratitude extends beyond feeling grateful for physical things. It's important to teach your child to take stock of the positive experiences in his life, the loving family he's surrounded by, and the skills and hobbies he enjoys.Encourage your child to appreciate the "little" things, like a walk through the park on a nice day, or having a glass of his favorite juice.
Try keeping an actual chart on the wall or on your refrigerator. Have your child fill in the chart with things he loves about his family, himself, and the world around him.
 Most children experiences ups and downs from one day to the next, but some children suffer from clinical depression, behavioral problems, and trauma. If your child experiences any of the following symptoms on a regular basis, consider finding a child therapist for your son or daughter:


developmental delays (speech, language, or toilet training)
learning or attention difficulties
behavioral problems, including excessive anger/aggression, bursts of "acting out," bedwetting, or eating disorders
a noticeable decline in grades and scholarly performance
frequent or recurring episodes of sadness, tearfulness, or depression
social withdrawal, isolation, and/or a decreased interest in activities that were previously enjoyed
becoming a victim of bullying, or bullying other children
insomnia
excessive sleepiness
frequent or excessive school tardiness or missed classes
unpredictable mood swings
signs of substance abuse (including alcohol, drugs, prescription medication abuse, or solvent abuse)
difficulty transitioning through changes in life

, If you believe your child might benefit from therapy, it's important to find the right therapist. In addition to therapists, you may want to consider a psychiatrist (medical doctor with training in psychotherapy and pharmacology), a clinical psychologist (therapist with a doctorate degree and advanced training in psychology), or a clinical social worker (often trained in psychotherapy, but not always--check to see what credentials are required in your state).


Start by asking your child's pediatrician for a referral or recommendation. If you don't have any luck there, you might ask a trusted friend, relative, or coworker.
You can also search online for qualified childhood therapists in your area.
Once you find a therapist you're interested in, ask her if she is willing to meet with you for a short consultation or talk on the phone. You should try to get a sense of the therapist's personality before agreeing to regular appointments.
Some therapists will charge a fee for consultations, while others will not. Find out in advance what to expect so that you are not surprised when you receive a bill.
Make sure the therapist you're considering is licensed to practice in your state. You should also look into that therapist's credentials and experience.
Find out how long the therapist has worked with children and adolescents.
Consider whether your child would like this therapist, and whether the therapist would be perceived as friendly and approachable.
Ask what types of therapy (cognitive behavioral therapy, etc.) that therapist specializes in.
Check whether your health insurance plan would cover therapy appointments for your child.