 Punish is Johanna’s Q ability, wherein she swings her mace to slow and damage all units within a short range. This skill takes advantage of Johanna’s durability to engage and then hold enemies in position either to facilitate your escape or to make it easier for teammates to position themselves and rain damage down upon the target. Punish can be talented to return mana on each swing, to hit slightly harder and/or to slow affected targets down even further.;
, Condemn is Johanna’s W ability, and it is one of those skills that make her so effective at disrupting enemy formations. After a short delay, it will damage, pull and stun all targets caught within its radius—extremely useful for clumping up the enemy teams so that your allies can rain down area-of-effect abilities on them. You can invest many talents into Condemn to help deal with large numbers of enemy minions, cast it more often, make you move faster while it charges up and deal additional damage to targets caught within its radius.
 Shield Glare is her E ability, which causes enemies within a long, narrow cone to take damage and miss all their basic attacks for a brief period of time. This is especially useful for neutralizing enemy heroes that rely on auto-attacks to deal damage, like Illidan, Raynor, or Tychus. You can talent Shield Glare so that affected enemies will take damage when hit and/or you heal yourself for each enemy affected by Shield Glare.
 Falling Sword is Johanna’s first ultimate ability, and it sends her flying up into the air towards an area to deal damage and briefly stun enemies near the landing zone. This is especially useful for penetrating the enemy formation to target their softer support and assassin heroes as well as escaping bad situations where you are caught out of position.
 Blessed Shield is Johanna’s second ultimate ability, which is a skill shot that involves tossing out a shield in a straight line to damage and stun a target before bouncing to additional targets for slightly less damage with a short stun duration. The skill’s relatively short cooldown and potential for disabling enemies from afar makes it especially useful when you practice landing those shots, although it can be a bit tricky to use when there are a lot of enemy targets blocking the way.
 Iron Skin is Johanna’s trait, wherein activating it with the D key will give her a hefty shield while simultaneously making her Unstoppable. This is what makes Johanna such a hard tank, because it not only adds to her innate toughness but also makes her immune to stuns, slows, roots, and other nasty effects for as long as Iron Skin is up. You can pick talents that let you cast Iron Shield more often, make it absorb even more damage and/or make you move a lot faster when you take damage.
 There are four different ways you can build up Johanna. The first is the Hard Tank, which is all about building Johanna in such a way that she cuts a significant portion of the damage thrown at her. This is most effective against enemy compositions that depend on abilities that rain down burst damage against their targets (e.g., Jaina, Kael’thas, Kerrigan) while being somewhat useful against other forms of sustained damage. You will, however, deal little to no damage on your own—meaning that enemies can ignore you for longer periods of time and focus on your teammates instead. This build will also work best when you have a competent healer to keep your health up during the course of the fight. The key to using this build is to charge in, check the enemy advance to protect your team, and buy enough time for your team to position themselves to kill the enemy team.



Talent Build: Reinforce > Amplified Healing > The Crusade Marches On > Falling Sword > Hold Your Ground OR Spell Shield > Imposing Presence OR Holy Renewal > Indestructible

, The Sustain Tank is similar to the Hard Tank in terms of play style, but with one crucial difference: you trade your short-term toughness for long-term survivability. This build is all about being able to take a series of hits and then healing the damage you just took. This build will work a lot better against heroes that rely on basic attacks to deal their damage (e.g., Illidan, Raynor, Valla, Tychus, etc.) and being able to recover a significant portion of your health on your own.



Talent Build: Regeneration Master OR Reinforce > Laws of Hope > Battle Momentum > Falling Sword > Hold Your Ground > Holy Renewal OR Imposing Presence > Indestructible OR Storm Shield

, The Controller is all about trading some measure of survivability for being able to keep enemies within arm’s reach. This makes it a lot easier for your teammates to get into position and finish off those who you’ve trapped with your control abilities. It also gives you the ability to make it harder for the enemy team to get past you to target your softer, squishier allies while also making it easier for you to catch up to fleeing enemies and prevent them from getting away. This build is particularly effective for ganking enemies and for blocking hotly-contested chokepoints. You will, however, not be able to take as much damage as the dedicated tank builds, so you need to be careful not to overextend yourself.



Talent Build: Knight Takes Pawn > Eternal Retaliation > Conviction > Blessed Shield OR Falling Sword > Subdue > Fanaticism > Radiating Faith OR Heaven’s Fury

, Lastly, the Brawler is all about giving Johanna enough sustained damage to punish enemy teams who ignore you in team fights. Sure, Johanna isn’t Illidan or Raynor when it comes to damage output, but choosing the Brawler build lets you do a surprising amount of damage for a warrior. This gives the added benefit of forcing enemies to retreat from the fight and heal up because of the damage you’re putting out. You won’t be able to take as many blows or chase down enemies as often as you like, but you’ll still be tough enough to exchange blows on the front line. This works particularly well when you have another warrior on the team or don’t have enough assassins to quickly take down enemy targets.



Talent Build: Righteous Smash > Roar > Battle Momentum > Falling Sword > Burning Rage > Blessed Hammer > Heaven’s Fury

