 As much of socializing happens at work, you may lose touch with some friends in retirement. It's important, however, that you work to stay social. Humans are social creatures by nature, and you'll need social support from friends and family members in retirement.Work on maintaining connections from work. While you may not see work friends every day anymore, you can try to meet outside of work. Make a point of getting cocktails with friends from work a few times a month.
You can also try to make new friends. Many people feel their friend making years are over in retirement, but this is not the case. Traveling, volunteering, taking classes, and joining a senior community center can all help you make new friends., As time goes by, you tend to lose touch with certain people. Friends from college, high school, old jobs, and other places fall to the wayside. Take retirement as an opportunity to reconnect. It can be fun and fulfilling to spend time with forgotten friends.


Try to call up an old friend on the phone, or write him or her a letter or e-mail. It may feel a bit awkward, especially if a lot of time as passed, but your friend will probably be happy to hear from you. People understand life gets in the way, and some friendships taper off.
Consider going to visit an old friend. You can take a trip to your hometown, for example, and see any friends that still live there. If you've been meaning to visit your old college roommate in Seattle for years, take your retirement as the chance to do so.
 Social media can help you stay connected during retirement. As you won't be going out for work, you may not have a chance to stay up-to-date on the lives of friends. Creating a Facebook account can help you stay close to those around you, and allow you to interact with others online. If you do not already have social media accounts, it's a good idea to make some in retirement.
 Retirement can be a great time to spend time with your family. Take a trip to visit out of state relatives. Offer to babysit your grandchildren. If you have older grandchildren, make time to call them each week.Many retirees consider moving closer to family. If you'd like to stay close to your kids and grandchildren, you may want to consider getting a small home or apartment close by.

