 The first step to beginning the day the right way is ending the previous night the right way. Without sufficient restful sleep and some night-before planning for the morning ahead, your chances of getting your day off to a great start are much reduced.


Do as much of your morning preparation as possible the night before. Lay out your clothes, prepare your breakfast and lunch, or at least set your menu. Pack your bag and keep your coat, keys, etc. in the same place so you don’t need to hunt for them. Save your morning time for preparing your body and mind for the day ahead, instead of hunting for your wallet in the couch cushions.For more detailed information on night-before preparation, including determining the right bedtime, reducing screen time, and putting your body into sleep mode, visit How to Be a Morning Person.;
, Your day can’t really begin until you manage to get out of bed. It is typically best to get out of bed as soon as possible after waking up, and set up roadblocks against the urge to climb back under the covers.


Actually rising from bed properly, by stretching your spine, then each arm and leg, all while breathing slowly and deeply before sitting then standing, can get you off to a good start.Simple steps like locating your alarm clock so that you have to walk across the room to shut it off, splashing water on your face, or making the bed can help get and keep you up and moving. Again, you can consult How to Be a Morning Person for more details.
Leaving the room to drink a glass of water can prove doubly effective, as it gets you away from the bed and helps counteract nighttime dehydration, which can cause a lethargic body and mind., We all intend to exercise more frequently, but the later in the day you plan your exercise time, the more likely it will be bumped aside by a backlog of work or plain old exhaustion. Take care of it first, before your daily responsibilities start piling up.


Exercising first thing after waking up (and before eating) not only shakes off any grogginess, it also kick-starts your metabolism for the day.Even if an early morning jog, bike ride, or kickboxing session isn’t in the cards for you, taking 10 to 15 minutes doing some simple yoga poses offers health benefits and helps prepare both body and mind for the day ahead., Your mother always said it was the most important meal of the day, and your food choices in the morning can indeed shape your eating habits (and how you feel) throughout the day. A good breakfast gives you more energy and focus, as opposed to when your stomach feels like an empty pit or is stuffed to the gills with unhealthy junk.Smart breakfast choices can include Greek yogurt with fresh fruit and flax seeds, oatmeal with dried fruit, or a vegetable omelet, among many others. Good, nutritious, quick breakfast recipes can be found easily online.
Some people advocate for eating the same healthy breakfast (like that veggie omelet) every day, which cuts down on the time spent thinking about what to have for breakfast and then making it.
If the notion of having the same breakfast every morning can’t pass muster with you, cycling through several healthy options each day may be a beneficial compromise.

