 Hamsters live in individual burrows in the wild and need a cage or tank that mimics this environment as best as possible.Get an aquarium tank or a solid-bottomed wire cage to ensure that your hamster has enough space.


Make sure any tank is at least 10 gallons (37.9 L), though consider getting the largest one you can afford. Make sure the tank or cage has a wire mesh top to keep your hamster from escaping.Consider getting your habitats secondhand to save money if you have several hamsters. Check them for flaws or cracks, which may not be worth the savings.
Be aware that you should only have one hamster per habitat because they are territorial, solitary, and may be aggressive. Buy individual tanks or cages for each animal.This can also prevent unwanted reproduction.;
, Hamsters are very sensitive to temperature changes and their surroundings. Place the tank or cage inside of your home in a spot that is warm and away from other pets that may scare or harm your hamster.Make sure the area is in a spot that has a consistent temperature between 65 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 25 Celsius).Avoid places that get drafts, such as garages or breezeways, or are exposed to high heat from direct sunlight or heating devices. These can undermine your hamster’s health or kill it. Instead, consider putting the hamster cage in your living, dining, or entertainment room. A finished and heated basement or kitchen may also work. Remember to keep the cage away from food preparation or storage surfaces.
Be aware that hamsters are nocturnal and may keep you awake if the cage is in your bedroom.
 Your hamster’s habitat will need bedding to make her home comfortable and ready for burrowing. Line the cage with at least 2 inches of bedding and add more paper material for nests.Line the habitat with Timothy hay, aspen shavings, processed corncob or pelleted bedding. You can purchase these at many pet and home stores. Avoid pine and cedar chips, the fumes of which can harm your hamster.
Place some paper towels or tissues along with the bedding for your hamsters to make nests.
 Beyond bedding, your hamster will need toys and places in which to hide and sleep.Decorate the tank or cage to promote your hamster’s health.


Place an exercise wheel in the habitat. Hamsters love to play and the wheel will allow them to run around and get exercise.
Incorporate a small box or item such as a flowerpot where your hamster can sleep and hide. Cardboard tubing, such as a toilet paper roll, is also a great option.Include a chew toy for your hamster made out of a safe material such as unpainted wood, dog biscuit or rawhide. Like other rodents, hamsters’ teeth grow continuously and having something on which to chew can wear down their teeth and keep them healthy.Get several toys and place them in your hamster’s habitat to keep her busy and happy.
 Hamsters eat hamster mix, which contains seeds, grains, cracked corn and pellets to promote their health. Your hamster also needs a water bottle to ensure her hydration.Put the food in a small dish and refill it as necessary. You can also offer your hamster small, bite-sized amounts of fresh fruits and veggies such as spinach, lettuce, carrots, or apples. Make sure to avoid chocolate, candy, and junk food.
Attach a water bottle with a drinking tube to the side of the cage. Make sure the tube allows fresh water to flow continuously., You will need to do general spot cleaning of your hamster’s habitat on a daily basis. At least once a week, you should remove all bedding and clean the entire cage as well as the surrounding area. This promotes the health and happiness of your hamster.


Clean up feces, old food, or soiled bedding every day. You can easily do this when refilling your hamster’s food and water.
Disinfect and clean the cage at least once a week or more often if necessary. You’ll need to replace the bedding, disinfect the habitat walls, and wash the food and water dishes.
 Take your hamster out of her habitat and put her in a safe place while you do this. This can allow you to safely clean the cage without your hamster nipping you.Allow your hamster to have “outside time” in a safe space while you clean. Make sure he is in an area that is screened off or secured so that he can’t escape. You could also put him in a separate cage or your bathtub, so long as the drain is covered. Some other places you could put her are in a hamster ball, a securely covered and ventilated box, or even an empty dresser drawer.
Give your hamster food pellets to occupy him while you clean. It’s important to either place your hamster in a space that is secure or where you can watch him.
 Keeping your hamster’s food dish refilled and clean helps him stay healthy and happy. Put new food into the dish as needed and wash the dish at least once a week.Give your hamster just enough food to keep her from getting hungry.
Remove crumbs or any other material, like feces, before you refill your hamster’s food dish.
Clean the dish with hot, soapy water or in your dishwasher at least once a week. If your hamster sprayed or defecated in it, you’ll also need to remove the food and disinfect it. Allow the dish to dry completely before putting in new food to prevent bacterial growth.
 It’s vital to the health of your hamster that she have clean and fresh water every day. Pour out water at least once a day and replace it with fresh water.Remove anything floating in the water before you refill it. Clean the bottle in hot, soapy water if necessary.
Check to ensure the water is flowing properly from the tube once it is clean. You can do this by placing your finger under the bottle and pressing on it.
Wash the bottle in hot, soapy water or your dishwasher at least once a week.
 Your hamster will urinate and defecate usually on one spot of her bedding. You can remove soiled areas daily but you should replace all of the bedding at least once a week. This minimizes the risk of infection and reduces odor.


Remove any soiled areas of bedding and droppings every day. Your hamster may use the same spot to urinate and defecate so focus cleaning and removal on that spot as a part of daily cleaning.
Make sure to replace any soiled paper towels or tissues.
Clean and disinfect the habitat walls and floor at least once a week and more often if needed. You can use a disinfectant or a vinegar and water mixture. Allow the habitat to dry thoroughly before you replace any bedding, toys, or dishes. This prevents the growth of bacteria or ammonia that can harm your hamster., Just as the dishes and bedding can get soiled, so can your hamster’s toys and hiding spaces. Once a month, clean all of the toys and replace anything that is broken or could harm your hamster.


Use a mixture of vinegar and water to clean your hamster’s toys including her exercise wheel. Wipe them off and then allow them to dry completely. As the toys dry, inspect them for cracks or other flaws that could harm your hamster. Consider throwing away broken toys.
Avoid disinfecting chew toys because cleaners can harm your hamster. Instead, throw them away and replace them with new wood blocks, dog biscuits, or chew toys.
Throw away any paper toys and replace them with new ones to prevent bacteria growth.
 If your hamster lives in a wire cage, she may kick out bits of bedding or food into the area around it. Vacuum or sweep up any areas around her cage that are soiled and disinfect them if necessary.


Disinfect any areas of the floor or walls on which your hamster sprayed with a disinfectant cleaner or mixture of vinegar and water.
 Once you’ve cleaned your hamster’s home, reintroduce to him to it. Give him a treat for behaving while you cleaned.

