 Most of us make immediate snap judgements when we see or hear a person. This doesn't mean we need to act on them, or that we're bad people for thinking of them. However, it's good to recognize that these judgements can prevent us from relating with people. The first step is to notice when you make these judgements.


Do you avoid certain topics with certain friends because you assume they won't be interested?
Do you get annoyed or anxious when you see a stranger on the street or public transportation, before he has said or done anything to deserve it?
Do you dislike people with certain superficial traits, such as a tattoo or a choice of activity?

, A common complaint by people who have trouble relating to others is that other people are shallow, immature, or even stupid. Dismissing someone with these insults makes it unlikely that you'll ever discover another side to her.People having fun can often be annoying to people who don't share their idea of enjoyment. If someone parties more than you would like, or acts hyper and obnoxious in a group of friends, consider that you might still get along with her in a calmer environment.
Fashion choices, makeup, or even choice of activity are often more superficial than people think. Don't let your stereotypes get in the way of a conversation.
Keep an open mind about other people's lifestyles. Activities you look down on may be fulfilling for other people, or provide benefits that your lifestyle doesn't. Even if someone admits to "guilty pleasures" that don't appear to be beneficial, consider that these may reduce stress or boost energy levels before she returns to more productive or challenging activities.
 It's easy to stereotype someone based on his accent, his use of "text speak," or even a certain phrase that annoys you. Before you respond, imagine yourself or a respected friend making the same statement with a different tone or word choice. Does it sound more reasonable?

, If you want to meet new people, find a way to start conversations. It's easier to get an accurate idea of someone's personality once you're chatting. Here are a couple simple ways to accomplish this:Ask a simple question to get started. If you smoke, ask whether the other person has a light. Ask a stranger in a big city whether she come from the city or moved here from elsewhere.
If something funny or alarming happens nearby, make a comment on it, or just make eye contact and raise your eyebrows.
Bring along a conversation starter, such as a dog or a noticeable, unusual piece of clothing.
 At least one study suggests that reading "literary fiction" or realistic fiction can increase your ability to relate to other people.This may be due to these works explaining characters' motivations or showing their experiences in a more realistic setting, which can help readers understand the motivations of people in everyday life.


This probably has no effect unless you are reading a story that you feel emotionally involved in.If reading a story feels like a chore, stop and try to find literary fiction you may enjoy more.
 Train yourself to read body language and facial expressions by turning the volume and subtitles off and trying to figure out what is going on.If you have difficulty with this, try watching the films with a friend who is good at reading body language, and have her explain her interpretations to you. Move on to watching by yourself once you have more practice.


Watch foreign language films without subtitles to practice interpreting tones of voice as well.

