 Exhibit the same behavior you want your child to display, instead of bribing them to do it. Children watch your each and every move and take in both the good and the bad. If you only do certain things because you expect to receive something after, they will too. Instead, do what you’re supposed to because you should.


Talk to your children about what you’re doing so they understand. For example, you could say “I’m bringing our neighbor some soup because they don’t feel good and it may make them feel better.” Or, “I’m returning this wallet I found because it doesn’t belong to me and the owner really needs it.”, Try to figure out why your toddler is behaving particularly badly, instead of bribing them to stop acting that way. Your child may exhibit out-of-character behavior if they are upset or sick. Take this into consideration before you think about bribing.


For example, ask your child if they want to take a nap or if they want food. Being tired and hungry are major triggers of temper tantrums. Acknowledging these needs can stop the temper tantrum and prevent you from rewarding bad behavior.If tantrums or defiance have become a chronic problem, consider consulting a mental health professional to look for a larger problem.
 Your child may consistently react badly to certain situations. Sometimes these situations are avoidable, and sometimes they aren’t. Do what you can to remove these triggers, or at least prepare yourself for them. Doing so can stop you and your toddler from losing control.


For instance, if you know that getting up and going to preschool usually causes a temper tantrum, do what you can to remove as much stress as possible. This could mean your child going to sleep in what they will wear the next day, or having them eat breakfast on the way to school. Preparation can stop you from bribing them to get dressed or eat their food.
 Compromising on naps is one of the leading causes of misbehavior.
 Understand you’re going to hit bumps in the road. Parenting isn’t one-size-fits-all. Unfortunately, talking to your toddler isn’t always going to work in the midst of a full-blown temper tantrum. You may need to resort to bribing sometimes, and that’s OK. Doing your best is all you can do.


Explain to your child why you had to do what you did, and that it’s not always going to happen. Putting this out there teaches them that they won’t always get a reward when they throw a fit and that next time, perhaps they will be punished for their behavior.