 To measure the height of the existing window, go from the top of the sill to the bottom of the head jamb.


For a truly accurate reading, measure the window at three locations — the left, middle, and right of the window — and then take the smallest measurement (the measurements may not be different).Use this as your reading.;
, To measure the width of the existing window, go from the jamb on left side of the window to the jamb on the right side of the window. Again, measure across at the top, middle, and bottom, selecting the shortest distance as your true measurement.
 Take a measuring tape and measure from the top left of the frame to the bottom right of the frame, and the from the top right of the frame to the bottom left of the frame.If there's a difference of less than 1/4 inch (0.635 cm) in the diagonal lengths of your frame, you can make small adjustments with shims when you install the new windows. If the difference between the two numbers is larger than 1/4 inch, you should consider replacing the entire window frame.
 This is why you measure the existing window before you remove it.
 If you can, remove them without damaging them, as you'll reattach them once you've installed the new window.


If you happen to damage the inside stop pieces while removing them from the window, take a bit of wood filler and mold it onto the damaged part of the stop. Once it's dried, sand it and the surrounding wood down. Consider giving the stop a new coat of paint before reattaching to the frame.
 Once the inside stops are gone, this should be a fairly easy procedure. If, however, the inside sash is connected to a weight by a chain, simply cut the connecting chain or chord and let the weight fall down to its well.
 Remove the parting bead and throw it away. Then, remove the outside sash in the same way that you removed the inside sash, slashing any chains or chords that connect it to a weight.


Do not remove the exterior stops from the window frame. These stops will help guide the window in installation and nest it afterwards.
 To get the window frame prepped for its new upgrade, do the following before proceeding to installation:


Remove any weights from their wells. Hoist the pulleys to the frame or remove the pulleys entirely.
Drive in any protruding screws or nails out. You may want to cover them with wood filler and a putty knife, wait the filler patch to dry, and then sand and paint over it to make it inconspicuous.
Remove all the old caulking with a putty or utility knife, if necessary. Make sure the opening is free of all caulking and other things that will get in the way of the new window.
 It's probably best to try not to attempt this task without professional help.
, Locate the bumper stops and begin to slide them over into the middle of the frame. Do this until four mounting holes in the side jambs become visible.
 Some people prefer not to work with the expander, also called a header, because it decreases the available space in the window and makes replacing the trim harder. Use at your discretion.
 Check to see if the window is plumb and level (using a level, of course).
 There should be four mounting screws, one for the bottom and top of each side jamb. Install them gently, taking care not to deform the paneling on the side jamb.
, If you do notice gaps or faulty motion on the windows, check for any adjustment screws built into the side-jambs, using them to correct the window frame.
 Your project is officially done.
