 If you don't remember the exact date, just ask! It would be really embarrassing to get the date wrong. Once you know the date, write it down in your calendar so you don't miss it next year.
 First you should ask her, but don't be surprised if she acts like she doesn't want anything. She does not mean nothing. You should plan to get her something, or at least spend some time with her.


If you don't want to ask directly, pretend you already have the present and ask her to guess what it is. Chances are, the items she guesses are things she wants, and will give you some ideas.
 If she says she wants something specifically, get it for her. If it's too expensive, get her something totally different. For example, if she says she wants a certain kind of perfume, but it is too expensive for you, don't get her a different kind of perfume. Get her something like a necklace, instead.
 Making a present shows that you care enough to spend time and effort. Either way, consider the following:


Get her a framed picture of you two. For bonus points, make or decorate the frame.
Write a list of the reasons you love/like her. She will just DIE of happiness if you do this. Make sure the list is sincere and meaningful. It must be at least 10 reasons why. Hand write it, even if you have really bad handwriting. She will keep it forever! A handwritten love letter is an excellent choice, too.
Some girls love flowers. If she has a green thumb, get her a potted plant so she can take care of it.
Try jewelry. This includes a necklace, bracelet, or pair of earrings. Do not get her a ring unless you're planning to propose. Also, stick to the basic silver or gold (anything more colorful just screams middle school). It doesn't have to be expensive, just meaningful. Try Claire's for jewelry under $20, or look at your local art and wine festival for an artistic selection. If you're handy, search the wikiHow category on jewelry for pieces you can make yourself.
Get her a joke gift. For example, if you two have an inside joke about monkeys, get her a stuffed monkey, or make her a sock monkey.
Get her a sweatshirt or tee shirt from a memorable place you two went. For example, if you went to an Angels game, get her an Angels sweatshirt. If you haven't yet been somewhere memorable together, take her somewhere special and make that part of the gift.
If you have awhile until your girlfriend's birthday, make her a scrapbook of the places you two have gone. Include pictures, ticket stubs, etc. Note that this takes a lot of time to be really good, so if you're only thinking of it the night before, save this thought for next year.
Get her a book or journal. Write something on the inside front cover to give it a personal touch. Help her keep a journal of your relationship if it seems appropriate to do so.
Get her her favorite candy.
 A birthday gift doesn't have to be a physical object. Just do something different than how you normally hang out. Go to a sit-down restaurant. If that is too expensive, make her a romantic picnic with candles and flowers. Don't forget beaches, nature, museums, landmarks, the theater, and concerts, if she likes any of those things.
 Make her a card, even if you are a bad artist. She will think your stick figures are cute! If you buy a card, make sure to hand write something personal on the inside.
 If you can't wrap presents, find someone who can.
 She will love it, just because it's from you.

