 This is not a task only to be accomplished through dating. The more you get to know them, the more you can tell if you see them as a friend or something more. Talking and doing fun activities with the person will reveal this more and more.


How do they act when things go right? Do they brag and enjoy winning at the expense of others, or do they appreciate other's efforts as well?
How do they respond when things go wrong? Do they shout-n-pout, or do they figure out how to make it right again?;
, What makes them stand out from the others? There are many physically attractive and smart people out there. But if you see something beyond looks and smarts that really catches your attention, you've marked this person as unique and probably like them.


The most attractive person might be thoroughly ugly on the inside, whereas a plain person in the crowd could have the personality that's most compatible with yours.
 If you find yourself thinking about this person several times a day, and they are happy thoughts and maybe your heart beats a little faster, then you are most definitely in like.
 When you like someone, you will find yourself laughing at things even if they aren't that funny. This is a natural attempt to make them feel appreciated.
 If you've had one conversation between you and this person who is stuck in your head and you can't stop telling people about it, this means it was important to you, and you probably like the person.
 If you've planned your walking speed to catch a glimpse of him or her as many times of the day as possible, there is a good reason for that. Could it be that you like them?

, Do you get butterflies when you see them? You know, that nice but funny feeling in your stomach? You probably like them already, because they make you feel good without even talking. Go ask them out!

, Think about how you feel if you touch him or her, by accident or on purpose, and if you're still thinking about brushing shoulders several hours ago in school, then that is a special thought and you probably like him or her.
 Do something you really like doing, like biking or snowboarding, and you are still thinking about him or her, you probably like him or her.
 If you feel you're ready for a relationship, and are confident enough for a positive response, then just go ahead and ask them out. If you're unsure of their feelings for you, ask! Be patient with their response, and always try to understand them from their point of view.

