


Educate yourself on the issue before you begin promoting a delicate issue your nonprofit organization supports. You should know about the issue, why it's a sensitive topic and some of the problems or misconceptions surrounding the issue.
Compile a list of important facts and statistics related to the sensitive topic. This will help you promote a delicate issue supported by your nonprofit organization by preparing you to answer commonly asked questions and deal with individuals that question your organization's support of the issue.;
,,


Clearly identify your nonprofit organization, what it stands for, and why it is associated with the delicate topic you're promoting. This will increase public awareness of the topic and your organization.
, Making important goals known will keep the focus on the issue and what you're trying to accomplish instead of on the controversy that surrounds it.



Remember to leave out any emotional or opinionated wording when you promote a controversial issue for a non profit organization. Keep your language neutral and stick to the facts about the issue and why your organization is offering support. Inflammatory or potentially offensive language could damage your promoting opportunities and give potential supporters a negative impression.
Be sure that all staff members of your organization are knowledgeable of the issue you're promoting so everyone is prepared to answer questions related to it. Even staff members who are not directly promoting the issue could be questioned about it. Hold educational sessions to brief everyone on the issue.
,


Reach out to support groups and facilities that are related to the issue you're promoting. These sources will likely give your promotional efforts a positive response and offer support for the cause.
, Try to involve all of the local businesses and members that regularly donate or volunteer for your nonprofit. This will show more support and awareness for the issue you're promoting.



Certain broadcasting laws limit the content of broadcast promotional advertisements. Similar laws are in place for print ads and publicly displayed promotional material. Be sure to follow all of the laws for displaying promotional material for the issue in public places. This will prevent negative public opinion toward your organization or it's support of the issue.
Reach out to other nonprofit groups in your community and ask for their support in raising awareness of the issue. This could increase your networking opportunities and help you raise more support.
