 Be precise as to why you object to being stereotyped in that way, and take actions to counteract.


If you must, make a priority list. Start with the stereotypes that you dislike the most, and work towards counteracting. As time goes on, work your way down the list.





;
, Don't just shop at one or two stores, go into several stores and just look. You don't necessarily have to have a shirt from every store in the mall, but don't be a brand snob. You can shop at American Eagle and still like the Target brand. You can shop at JCPenny and still go to Hollister or PacSun. Shop for clothing anywhere you see clothing you like, not what you think others will like. Clothing and fashion is first and foremost a reflection of your own personality. The most important thing is don't be afraid to try something new.
 You can have a favorite color, but that should not be the only color you wear! Don't just hate a color just because it may be associated with a certain group or clique. You can wear black without being "emo," and you can wear pink without being a "prep." Now, there are some colors that just don't look good on certain people, so know what works for you and looks good on you before you decide to totally ban that color from your wardrobe.
 Don't copy people. If you see someone's outfit that you like, don't ask them where they got it and go copy the same exact look and wear it the next day. You can have the same clothes as others, but it's all about the style. Add your own accessories to things.
 Don't expect people not to label you if you label yourself. Don't try to fit in any kind of stereotype, for example, don't categorize your style as "emo", "preppy", "gangsta" or "punk".
 People may also stereotype you based on who you hang out with. If your friends are only skaters or only emos, you will most likely be placed into that stereotype too.
 If you call somebody "an annoying prep", that person will most likely call you back "a weird emo" or something. Be tolerant and don't judge people for how they dress or who they hang out with.
 As a teenager, your personality is still under development and you're influenced by everything around you in creating your own unique personality. Find some positive traits in every type of behavior and blend them in with your own. For example, you may appreciate the nerds' intelligence and maturity, the preps' optimism, confidence and sense of style, the emos' sensitivity and romantic nature and the punks' nonconformism and thirst for justice. If you take what's best from everything, you're on your way of becoming a well-rounded, wonderful person.

