 Is your friend only late when she's meeting up with you? Consider whether it's chronic lateness or rudeness directed specifically at you. Tailor your communication with them accordingly. It's probably less acceptable to yell at someone for being late to your birthday party if they were late to every birthday party they've ever been to.
 There is nothing wrong with telling your friend nicely that if they aren't there by a certain time you are just going to go on without them. That's perfectly reasonable, mature and un-threatening. If your friend really wants to participate in the activity with you, he or she will be sure to make it on time.


In some cases, after 20 minutes you'll have to leave. It's gonna suck; it's gonna be a waste of your time, but hopefully the point will have been made. The next time they ask you to do something, tell them you're not going to get ready, go, wait, and just go home. Be firm but rational -- your time matters!

It's a great reason to get them to come to you. If you can stay comfortable, it's less of a big deal.
 Your time is important. When your friend is late, it's a blatant indication of how they don't respect you. Tell them this! It cuts into your productivity, it's rude, and above all it's completely unnecessary. After the talk, straight up ask them if they are going to be late the next time you have plans. Have they heard you loud and clear?


There are ways to point out things that bother you about your friends without hurting them. Keep your tone level and your words neutral. Use "I" statements and smile.
 If you are upset about them being late all the time, chances are there is something that you do that bothers them just as much. Be fair and let them critique you too. That will even the playing field and help you deal.
 Never let the late guy be responsible for transportation or carry the opera tickets. An already irritating situation can take a turn for the worst when the guy with the birthday cake is late and isn't answering his phone.


If they ask for responsibility, be honest! They need to get in gear if they want to be a part of the action.
 If you have a group of friends that hangs out all the time and cutting the one person out because they're always late isn't really an option, get crafty. Come up with something like, "Whoever is late has to pick up the check." If the entire group agrees on it, it could be incentive to change!