 Fireflies live in various habitats and various regions of the world. They are most often found near standing water, especially water sources in forests, fields, and the areas in between. Ponds, streams, and marshes are good places to look, especially if there is tall grass nearby.In seasonal areas, they are usually most prevalent right after the rainy season.
In the U.S., fireflies are found in most states east of the Rocky Mountains.;
, The secret to catching fireflies is starting just before sunset. Most fireflies will start to glow before it’s completely dark, and the day’s final rays of sunlight will help you see them when they’re not lit up as well. Further, fireflies only glow for about an hour after sunset.Use your hands instead of a net, as nets are more likely to injure the fireflies. Make cups with both of your hands and close them around a firefly like you’re trying to cover a tennis ball.
 Artificial light will cause fireflies to glow less, and it will make it harder for your eyes to adjust to the darkness. If you do wish to use a light for safety, opt for a camping headlight with a red light setting.Remain quiet and move calmly while hunting fireflies. In addition to artificial light, loud noises and sudden movements will frighten them away.
 Any type of translucent jar will work. Glass is best for enjoying the light the fireflies produce. Do not use the jar’s lid - with or without holes. Instead, fasten a thin piece of cloth or a very fine metal mesh around the jar’s top with a rubber band.Before placing the fireflies in the jar, place an apple slice and a piece of paper towel soaked with water at the bottom of the jar. This will keep them fed and hydrated.
 Place the jar itself in a warm, dark, and moist location. Keep artificial light away from the jar, as this will diminish the insects’ desire to glow. They will glow the most if they are placed in a location where they can see other fireflies glowing.Let the fireflies go the same evening you catch them. They will glow the most right after your catch them, and will glow less and less until released.

