 Admitting the problem is the first major step in dealing with it. If you first recognize the signs of your problem, you can then learn to modify your behavior.


Signs and symptoms of a gambling problem include: getting a thrill from taking gambling risks, taking increasingly bigger gambling risks over time, a preoccupation with gambling, reliving past gambling experiences (through imagination or telling stories), using gambling as a way to escape problems or negative feelings, feeling guilt or remorse after gambling, and repeated failed efforts to cut back on gambling.Additional social issues associated with gambling include: taking time away from work or family life to gamble, concealing or lying about gambling, and borrowing money or stealing to gamble.;
, Gambling excessively can cause many issues including: relationship problems, financial issues, legal problems, occupational concerns (job loss), substance use, poor health, and mental health issues (such as depression).Do you lose time from work to gamble? Do you extend yourself beyond your means by gambling away money that you have set aside to pay your rent, mortgage, or other bills? Do you use credit cards to gamble? Are you secretive about where the money's gone to after you've gambled?
Make a list of all of the consequences you have encountered due to your gambling. Also, identify people you have hurt as a result of your gambling such as family and friends.
 Knowing the risks of gambling may help encourage people who gamble to consider the consequences before deciding to gamble.


Excessive gambling can lead to depression, anxiety, aggression, increased suicide risk, relationship issues and stress-related illnesses.Gambling also increases stress levels (via the stress hormone cortisol) and your heart rate, which can lead to health risks.Pathological and addictive gambling can result in decreased decision-making skills and reduce your ability to evaluate the consequences of your actions., Don't be secretive about your finances or your gambling. Be honest with yourself and others about money spent gambling.


Pay bills immediately, when you have funds set aside to pay them.
Add up losses and keep a running tally. When you've added up losses from a gambling session, list the things that you might have purchased with that money, or other debts you could have paid down.
Admit it to yourself and others when you have gambled.

