 Sometimes, you might be unhappy with the way things are in your life. Maybe you are not in a good relationship with your loved ones, or perhaps you don't have many friends. You can escape the negativity in your life by finding something positive in your life, or forging new friendships. This section will give you a few tips on how to escape some negative aspects in your life, and how to change them.


If you find something in your life to be happy about, then you will not find the need to escape anymore.
 If you are not able escape your life, then you can try to make it more positive. At the end of each day, to take note of at least one, good thing that happened.You may even start to view life more positively and not feel the need to escape from it anymore. Thinking more positively may also help reduce stress and anxiety.If you cannot recall a positive moment, then try to make one. Here are some ideas:


Go for a walk and try to find something pretty. It can be as simple as a flower.
Read a book or blog that inspires you.
Treat yourself to some ice cream, or your favorite food.
Watch a comedy.
 Doing kind acts, such as volunteering, can also help you feel more positive about yourself and your life.Studies show that volunteering may help decrease depression and make life feel more meaningful., If you want to escape life because of a failing relationship, try to fix that relationship first. After this, you may find that you do not have to escape life any more. Talk to the other person about how he or she feels about the relationship and what can be done to change it for the better. Be sure to write down the changes, and to focus on both yourself and the other person. If the other person has to do all the changing, he or she may not be willing to work with you.Remember that you can only control your own actions and feelings, not the other person's. You may suggest and request changes, but this does not mean that he or she will actually do them.
Keep in mind that some relationships cannot be saved, and that it may be better to end them.
 Sometimes, people can make life difficult and make us want to escape it. Instead of moving away, however, it may be easier to break contact with those people. If you find yourself in a toxic relationship, try to fix it first; if that is not possible, then try to end it. This may involve breaking up or filing for a divorce.


If you are not a legal adult and you live in a toxic home, try and see if you can live with some other relatives instead. Ask if you can live with an aunt, uncle, older sibling, or grandparent.
Consider seeking help from a therapist. He or she can help you cope with the breakup or offer you advice on what to do.
Try to be honest with the person. If they persist, let them know that you will not change your mind.
 If you cannot physically escape your life, you can spending time with friends. If you do not have any friends, you can try making new ones. Surrounding yourself with people who make you happy may help take your mind off of the negative things in life. If your home life is a problem, some friends might even allow you to spend a night or two at their place. Here are some ideas on how you can make new friends, if you do not have any:


Try joining some groups or clubs at your school or community center.
Friendships do not have to be physical. You can also find many friends over the internet. Try joining some forums or chat rooms that focus on your interests.
Don’t be afraid to put yourself out there. If there is someone you’d like to get to know better, or think you could form a friendship with, ask if you can hang out or chat over the phone or online.
Try to remain positive and supportive towards others.
Consider joining a dating website. If you are single and lonely, you may find that having someone to share your thoughts and feelings with may help.

