 This may differ from the wattage of the light bulb in the fixture.


If you are not sure of the fixture maximum wattage, use 100 watts per fixture as an estimate.;
, If using a dimmer switch to control your lights, for example, most of these switches can handle up to 600 watts. If you have a total of 7 light fixtures that each consume 100 watts, then the dimmer switch could be overloaded.


To prevent overloading a circuit, you may need to upgrade the control switch to a higher wattage. Ask a licensed, professional electrician to install the new switch for you. You can also consider dividing the additional lights among additional circuits.
 Do this by shutting off the circuit breaker(s) that sends power to the fixture(s).
 If possible, lock the service panel (breaker box) to prevent someone else from turning the circuit back on while you work.
 Use the manufacturer's template to do this. Drill a 1/4-inch (0.63 cm) hole into the ceiling at the center of each new opening.



If an attic is above the ceiling, simply look for obstructions in the attic.
If a second story or other finished area is above the ceiling, poke a coat hanger through the drilled holes for any possible obstructions.
, Extend wiring from the junction box to the first new recessed light. Let about 18 inches (45 cm) of electrical wiring hang from the ceiling.
 The extra wire will provide slack when connecting the new lights.


Run the wire from the attic if this is above the ceiling of recessed lights.
Drill through joists with a long, flexible drill bit if a finished floor is above the ceiling. Fish the electrical wiring through the framing.
 Match up black (hot) wires to each other, white (neutral) wires to each other, and ground (bare or green insulated) wires to each other.
 Continue connecting matching wires to daisy chain the lights until finished.
,, It should be connected to a junction box or electrical box along the lighting system path.
 Black (hot) and white (neutral) wires are generally involved in connecting the track lights.


Make note of any connections in wiring that appears more complex or involves other colored wires besides black and white.
Sketch how a light fixture is wired. Designate the wires by color in the sketch.
Alternatively, label wires with masking tape and a pencil to know how to reconnect them later.
 Add a plastic wire connector to join the connection between the two wires.
,


In some track lighting systems, you may need to screw the black and white wires to terminals on the track connector. Screw the black wire to a terminal that has a brass-colored screw. Screw the white wire to a terminal with a silver screw.
If you will have multiple wires going into screw terminal connections, attach pigtail leads to the terminals. The pigtails are short wires that connect to terminals on switches or receptacles. Twist wire connectors onto the electrical wires to attach them to the pigtails.
Connect any ground wires, which are bare or green insulated wires, in new track lighting fixtures to any existing ground wires. Connect the new fixture grounding wires to grounding screws in metal electrical boxes if such boxes support the fixtures.

