 As you develop your skills, you'll likely learn tricks for the park, the pipe, or even extreme park tricks that make use of extra large jumps.But each of these areas can benefit from specialized boards, so it may be best for you to choose a single area in the beginning and branch out.


As extreme park tricks can be both intimidating and dangerous for a novice, you may want to begin with park or pipe tricks.;
, The main qualities most freestyle boards share are soft to medium flex, a true twin (perfectly symmetrical) shape, a shorter than standard length, a wider width, and a centered stance.However, depending on what tricks you'll be pursuing, there is some variance.


Freestylers who enjoy tricks in a half pipe will probably want to consider a board with medium flex.
Boarders in the park (especially those who prefer jib tricks) might benefit from medium-soft to soft flex in their board., Doing a little bit of reading beforehand can accelerate your learning, and may give you important tips on weight distribution, approach, and execution of various tricks. Basic tricks include jumps, grabs, and spins.A more complete list of tricks, including diagrams and judging specifications, can be found in the United States of America Snowboard and Freeski Association's freestyle manual, available here.
 Imagining yourself performing the move, considering how your weight might shift and your muscles work to execute the move you have chosen, will help prepare the muscles in your body for the real thing.Utilizing this ability can not only help your boarding improve quickly, but it will help calm inner doubts you might have when approaching new tricks.
 Having the right stance when performing a jump/jib will give you better control when you leave the ground. Your trajectory through the air is determined mostly by your launch. If you go into a jump or jib unbalanced, it will be difficult for you to regain your balance.Make sure that your body is relaxed, with your knees slightly bent and your back straight.
Keep your knees, hips, and shoulders aligned in the same direction as your board.
Equally distribute your weight between both of your feet.
Keep your hips central, your head up, and your view on your intended path.
Point your leading hand slightly in the direction you are traveling to maintain your upper and lower body alignment.
 Take note of the speed at which other riders hit the feature you want to approach and try to attack it at a similar speed. You should plan an approach to the feature that doesn't require you to make significant speed changes.


While learning the body physics behind a jump or jib, you should try to keep your body movements to a minimum to avoid throwing off your balance.
It's important you carry enough speed to clear the flat section of the feature before landing on a transition. This will help to minimize your impact.
 To pop your board, you should bend your knees slightly more than you normally would and push back with both legs evenly as you ride up to the lip of the feature. If you are performing a jump, once you are airborne, keep your eyes focused on where you will land, bringing your knees in to make your body more compact so that you have greater control.When you pull your knees in for a jump, try grabbing your board. This can help reduce movement in your upper body that might throw you off balance.
 Your ideal landing will be even, with both feet on a flat base. You should make a small turn onto your edge to help you regain control and curb your momentum. Your impact can be absorbed by flexing down with your knees and ankles at the moment of impact.You should avoid sliding a turn down down your landing or slowing down too much as you land. This can create ice or rough snow for other riders. Maintaining enough speed will also help prepare you for the next feature or the rest of your run.
 Your ability to do tricks will rely a great deal on your flexibility, so bulking up unnecessarily in the off season with strength training might hinder your ability. Improving your endurance will help you hit the slopes for a longer period of time, resulting in more practice which, in turn, will lead you to better freestyling.To prevent injury and improve performance, it is recommended you train the following areas in the off-season:
Flexibility
Core Strength
Leg Strength
Balance
Shoulder Strength, The bending, twisting, impact, and tension you experience while on your board, especially in your legs and core, can leave you sore or give you muscular tightness. It can also result in injury if you're not properly warmed up.Help prevent these by stretching out before you spend a day on the slopes.


Do some deep lunges

Touch your toes

Do some jump squats, Yoga, being a system of poses and postures aiming at giving you both awareness and control over your body, is an ideal exercise for snowboarders of all types.Some poses you might want to try:



Horse Riding Stance: spread your legs so that your hips drop into a squatting position, point your feet outwards, keep your spine erect and your pelvis slightly tilted while trying to maintain a right angle between your thigh and lower leg.

Hero Pose: bend your knees and recline your body to lay flat on the ground, keeping your feet to close to but on either side of your body and placing your arms above your head until your shoulders and upper back rest on the floor., This will help with stamina and keep you in boarding form while waiting for snow season. Something as simple as jogging or cycling can make your return to the slopes seamless and easy.

