 Before you dig in, check the outside of your kiwi. Note that most of the skin’s surface is a fuzzy brown, with a raised bumpy pit at the top, which is where it grew from its vine. This is the only inedible part of the kiwi, so either trim it off or eat it around it., To test kiwi, gently press it in your hands. If the flesh yields under the skin, it’s ready to eat. If it still feels hard, let it sit at room temperature until it softens. Expect underripe kiwi to taste too tart to really be enjoyed., Take the easiest approach and take sink your teeth right into it, as you would with an apple or peach. Enjoy the contrast in textures between the tougher skin and the soft flesh within. Reap the kiwi’s full nutritional value, since the skin contains a large part of its fiber, mineral, and vitamin content, as well as antioxidants and flavonoids. However:As with all produce, be aware that the outside may have traces of pesticides used in farming. Wash it under cold water while gently scrubbing the skin with your fingertips to remove trace chemicals.Organic kiwi reduces the risk of ingesting pesticides, but should still be washed in order to remove any dirt or other chemicals that it may have come into contact with by chance.
 If you don’t like fruit skins, simply chop the kiwi in half. Treat each half as a readymade bowl and spoon yourself out some bite-size chunks. Alternatively:Slice off both ends, where the kiwi was attached to its vine, and hold the kiwi in one hand.With your other hand, insert the tip of your spoon between the flesh and skin along your cut.
Press the spoon deeper into the flesh and twist the kiwi around in your hand.
Remove the flesh and cut it into slices.
 Peel the skin off as you would with a potato. Once you’re done, eat the flesh as it is or slice it up into bite-size bits. However, keep in mind that:You should still wash the skin before peeling. Even though you won’t be eating it, your vegetable peeler may transfer dirt and chemicals from the skin to the flesh as you go along.

