 By now you've probably been looking at colleges and have a few potential ones in mind. Find out what each school's required SAT score for entry is. This will give you a goal score.There are several ways to get this information.


Schools often publish this information on official websites, usually under the "Admissions" section. If you can't find what you need on the school websites, try doing an internet search of the school's name and "SAT score requirement." This way you can avoid searching around the school websites.
Call or email the school's admissions office and ask for their SAT score requirements. There are advisers there whose job it is to answer any questions prospective students may have, so you shouldn't be shy about asking them for information.
Some schools don't have a minimum score for entry. If this is the case, use these methods to find the average SAT scores for their incoming freshman class. This will give you an idea of what you should aim for.
If there is a lot of variation in the scores each school requires, make the highest one your goal. That way, you'll cover all your bases.;
, There are a number of quality SAT review books available at most book stores and local libraries.Some top test books include:College Board Official SAT Study Guide. Also known as the Blue Book, this prep book is published by the company that makes the SAT. It contains 10 full-length tests. It is known to be particularly useful for math sections, because it contains detailed descriptions of every problem. It also comes with a DVD that has further advice and tips.
Kaplan SAT Premier. This has eight full tests with explanations to answers. It also comes with a companion DVD, offering videos with further explanation.
Gruber's Complete SAT Guide. This book focuses on test taking techniques that will improve your scores and help you find the right answers quickly. In addition, it has five full tests.
Baron's SAT. Baron's publishes quality books for almost all standardized tests. The SAT book explains all answers, but is known for having a high-quality reading section. The 2015 edition had five full tests, plus another two on the companion CD.
It is best to use a combination of these books and others. That way, you'll maximize your chances of seeing the most questions possible.
Make sure these books were published in or after 2005. The SAT was reformatted in 2005 and older books, while still helpful, won't prepare you for this new version as well as a current book.
 While it may seem strange to do this before any prep, doing this will give you a good idea of what your strengths and weaknesses are. It will also give you the baseline score you need to improve.Make sure you're in a quiet area where you won't be disturbed at all. and you have several hours to devote to this. Time yourself and stick to the time requirements.
The full SAT is 3 hours and 45 minutes.
There is a 70 minute math section. This breaks down into two 25 minute parts and one 20 minute part.
There is a 70 minute critical reading section. This breaks down into two 25 minute parts and one 20 minute part.
There is a 60 minute writing section. This breaks down to two 25 minute parts and one 10 minute part.
There is a 25 minute experimental section. This is ungraded, but you should still complete it so you can build up your endurance.
You are allowed three 5 minute breaks, one after each section. During this time you're allowed to stretch, go to the bathroom, and have a drink and snack. Only eat or drink during breaks to accurately recreate the testing experience.
Stick carefully to these time limits. One of your problems could be that you have trouble finishing in the allotted time, so you'll need to know if this is something you have to improve on.
 This is more than a matter of finding out what your score is. You need to go through the test and find out exactly where you made mistakes. As you move on and work to improve your grade, you'll need to know where your trouble spots are and where you need to focus your efforts., Many students decide to self-prep, which is essentially just utilizing study guides to prepare for the SAT. However, many people fall short of their goals, and in some cases a quality prep course would have significantly improved a students chances of scoring higher on their SAT. A student must assess whether or not they need that extra push to study effectively. Prep courses do a great job at holding students accountable and keeping them engaged.


If you are the student that has a history of not following through with studying or has trouble staying focused, then a prep course might be your best bet. If you do decide to use a prep course, it's extremely important to consider many factors when assessing what prep course might be the best for you.
One of the most important factors to pay attention to is whether or not you're getting quality content with your prep course purchase. There are many companies trying to get in the prep course game, but they all don't have the same level of content quality. Make sure to do your research on the company before you make a prep course purchase, and seriously consider trying to get access to a free trial before making your prep course purchase.
 There are many words that repeat themselves from year to year. If you read enough practice tests, chances are good that when you take the test you've seen a majority of the words before.You don't need to purchase these practice books- you can just flip through these sections at the bookstore or library.
College Board, the company that designs the SAT, offers free sample test questions and sections on its website., Keep a notebook and write down words you don't know as you come across them. Take a dictionary and define them afterwards. Also include whether the word is a noun, verb, etc.Set up your book in columns. Draw a line down the middle of the page to divide the columns. Put the words on the left, and the definitions on the right. This way, you can either put a piece of paper or your hand over the definitions while you study.
Make sure your notebook is small enough to conveniently carry around with you. That way, any down time you have can be used for study.
You could also try a few websites dedicated to improving vocabulary. That way you can access them on your smartphone anywhere., Set time aside to work on your vocabulary. Go through your notebook, cover the definitions, and define as many words as you can without looking.


For words you don't know, say the definitions aloud a few times to help you remember them for next time.
Use the words in a sentence. This will not only help you understand their meanings, but prepare you to use them in your essay and in the reading comprehension sections.
Use the words in everyday life. When you get comfortable with a word's definition, put it to use. When these words become normal parts of your vocabulary, they'll be much easier to figure out on the SAT.
 Many companies that publish review books also make vocabulary flashcards. They can usually fit easily in your pocket or bag, so they may be more convenient to carry around than your notebook.
 With apps, you'll always have a study resource at your fingertips. For example, SAT and ACT Vocabulary Builder by AccelaStudy uses a dynamic approach to flashcards by specifically focusing on words you've had trouble with., Sentence completion questions have one or two blank spaces. You have to pick the word or words that best complete the sentence. Improving your vocabulary will help here, but it's unlikely you'll know all the words. That's why it's important to know some strategies to help you break down sentences and pick the right answer.
 You don't need to know the definitions of the words most of the time, you just need the context the sentence provides., A clause is a part of a sentence that contains a noun and a verb, and conveys a complete idea. The sentence completion questions almost always present you with compound sentences, meaning they contain two or more clauses. The clauses are usually linked by a conjunction, which are words like "but," "and," "so," and "because."For example: "I went to the store, but it was closed." This sentence contains two clauses, linked by the conjunction "but."

, The type of conjunction tells you how the clauses are related.One-way switch. These conjunctions tell you that the sentence flows in one direction. That means the clauses both support the main idea of the sentence. Some one-way switches are: and, because, since, so, and therefore.
Here's a one-way switch: "I got in my car and drove to work." The "and" tells us that the two clauses support each other.
Two-way switch. This type of conjunction tells us that there will be a break in the sentence's flow. That means the second clause will negate something in the first. Some of these are: but, although, despite, however, and while.
Here's a two-way switch: "I got in my car but it wouldn't start." The "but" tells us that the second clause will be inconsistent with the first. Presumably, this person got in their car to go somewhere, but they now can't go anywhere because the car won't start.
Sentences without a switch are all one-way, unless they're about change over time. Sentences that describe change over time are two-way.
 Now that you know how to break down a sentence, you can start working out how to solve a sentence completion question. Using the rules about one-and two-way switches, figure out the flow of the sentence.


"Johnny didn't even know how to ride a bike, but he _____ the race anyway." The "but" tells us that we have a two-way switch here. Already, without even seeing any choices, you know that the right choice will contrast with Johnny not knowing how to ride a bike.
 That way, you can pick the choice most like the word you had in mind.
 When you've broken the sentence down, figured out its flow, and picked a word to complete it, then look at the choices. All the previous steps will make it much easier to spot the correct choice.


If you're completely stuck on vocabulary, start eliminating choices. Even if you have to guess, every choice you eliminate makes your chances better.
 These are usually the typical length and difficulty of SAT reading sections. Read an article and understand its point.Ask yourself what the main idea of the article is.
After deciding on the main idea, make the article's scope more specific. If you read about volcanoes in Hawaii, saying that the article was about Earth science is too broad. In a short sentence, say the article's topic and scope.
If you're unsure that you understood an article properly, ask a teacher or tutor to read it. Then tell them the short summary sentence you came up with. They can tell you if you've properly understood the article or if you made a mistake somewhere.
Make notes next to the article to help yourself comprehend it better.
 You don't get to pick the topics for the reading comprehension sections, so chances are good you'll find at least one of the sections very boring. Unfortunately, we tend to skim and not pay attention to topics we have no interest in, which could lead you to get questions wrong. Get yourself used to paying attention to boring topics by purposely reading things you don't find interesting., There are a few types of questions the SAT usually asks. Understanding these can help you figure out the answer.Main Idea. These ask about the point of the article as a whole.
Inference. This will ask you about something that isn't directly stated in the article, but rather implied.
Detail. These will ask you about a specific section of the article.
Vocabulary. These will ask you to define a word based on how it is used in the passage.
Function. These ask you about the purpose of a specific part of the passage.
 We all think differently, and there really isn't one golden rule on how to tackle reading comprehension sections. All strategies have positives and negatives. Try these on your practice tests and see which one works best for you.Read through passages fully, then move onto the questions.
Read the questions first, then read the passages.
Skim the passage, then read the questions and refer back to the passage when you have to.
If one strategy isn't working for you, try another.
 Because the SAT has strict time constraints, you shouldn't read every word of every passage. Use the following techniques to get all the necessary information in the shortest amount of time.Read the introduction paragraph. This should layout the main idea and topic of the passage.
Only read the first and last sentences of paragraphs after this. Effectively constructed paragraphs will give an introduction that summarizes the paragraph, and a conclusion that wraps it up.
Circle or underline important words or terms. Key terms will vary from passage to passage and will be based on the passage's main idea. For example, if you're reading a passage about climate change, terms like "rising sea levels," "greenhouse gas," and "pollution" will likely be important.
 Longer passages usually have several paragraphs. Each paragraph has a particular topic in relation to the main idea of the reading. Take only a few seconds to come up with a very fast, one-sentence summary of each paragraph. That way, if questions ask about a particular section of the passage, you know exactly where to go., Since you've read the passage, you'll probably have an idea of what the right answer is. Find the answer that best matches your prediction. This will prevent you from wasting time by referring back to the passage looking for answers., Many students have trouble sticking to the time constraints in reading comprehension sections. If it takes you more than a minute to answer a question, skip it, or you risk running out of time. If you can eliminate even one choice, then it is best to take a guess., Just like with vocabulary words, there are a limited number of math questions the SAT can ask, so over the years there will be similar or identical questions.


SAT Math breaks down into four areas: Numbers and Operations, Algebra, Geometry, and Data Analysis, Statistics, and Probability.There are 44 multiple choice questions and 10 fill-ins.
Multiple choice questions give you a few opportunities to solve them. If you know how, you can solve them mathematically and pick the right answer. If you're stuck and don't know how to solve a problem, you can try substitution. This means you plug answers into the equation from the question and see what you get. Remember that SAT answers always go from lowest to highest, so this can give you an idea of which answer to start with. With multiple choice questions, you can also always guess.
Fill-ins. These have no answer choices, so this eliminates the possibility of substitution or guessing easily. You'll have to actually solve them. The best thing you can do here is study and practice your mathematical concepts., You may find that you have issues with one particular type of problem. If all the questions you get wrong are geometry, you know what you need to focus on.
 It's true that the SAT booklet includes all relevant formulas.However, you still need to know when and how to use them. Just like with your vocabulary words, make note of formulas you need to know and write down what situations you would use them for.
 Although you aren't graded for showing your work, this will prevent you from making careless mistakes. If you work everything out in your head, you could lose track of your work and make a preventable mistake., These can be tricky, and many students get them wrong because they are confused by the wording.


Before doing any work, ask yourself: "What is this question asking me?"That way, you can make sure you understand what exactly you're supposed to solve in this question.Write out all important parts of the question. Word problems often confuse us with unimportant sections. For instance, if a question starts with, "John's mom put three apples in his lunchbox for school today," write "3 apples." That way, by the end you should have a simple math problem without all the confusing wording.
 This is helpful in many ways. For example, if you're in a rush and a problem asks you to calculate a certain angle, you may not have time to do a lengthy equation. However, three of the choices are acute angles and the fourth is obtuse. You see that the angle is clearly greater than a right angle. Since the figure is drawn to scale, you can correctly choose the obtuse angle., Don't rely on your imagination to visualize shapes- draw them. Like showing your work, this will help you catch mistakes before you make a careless error.,


iTooch SAT Math is an app currently for iPhones and iPads, and is under construction for Windows and Androids. It has a large database of questions and includes math games to help you practice in a more entertaining way.SAT Math Testbank. This app is compatible with Apple products. It isn't flashy and includes a large question database., The writing section asks you to take a side on a broad issue, then defend it with examples. So while grammar and spelling are important as well, what graders are looking for is how well you can support an argument., The top bun is the introduction, the middle is the body and supporting examples, the bottom bun is the conclusion.Introduction. Here you should state what your position on the debate is. It helps to rephrase the original question in some way. Then, tell the reader what your position is and why.
Body. Here is where your examples will go. Use one paragraph per example. This is enough room to elaborate on the example and why it proves your point, but not so long that you'll take too long and won't finish.
Conclusion. Remind the reader what your position was. Explain why the examples you used demonstrate this point.
 It is much better to have two well-thought out and coherent points than five jumbled and poorly considered points. It is helpful to pre-plan a few examples that are applicable in many different situations.Historical examples. In your history classes, you've probably encountered a number of people and events that would be great supporting evidence in an essay. For example, if the essay prompt is "Can we learn from failure?" you could say that Abraham Lincoln was a great leader because he was always willing to learn from his past mistakes.
Literary examples. Authors almost always include moral or social lessons in their work. You've probably read plenty of these in English class. Novels like 1984 and To Kill a Mockingbird are standards in most high schools, and contain great examples you can use in a number of different essays.
Current events examples. The news is full of examples you can use in almost any argument. Good topics include censorship, military actions, political developments, and social justice.
 Essays don't have to be long to be good. It will be obvious to the grader if you're just adding words and sections to make your essay longer. It's much better to have a shorter essay with strong examples than a long essay full of fluff., Although the point is to defend your position, it shows that you are a powerful writer if you can at least acknowledge the other point of view. This doesn't have to be long- even a sentence will show that you've considered other side of the issue.For example, if the question is asking whether it is right for the government to monitor its citizens, you could say, "While many would argue that monitoring citizens is essential for national security, it is a violation of our constitutional rights."

, Although the main point is to defend your argument, it shows a level of maturity in your writing if you can go beyond words like "good" and "bad."Make absolutely sure, however, that you're using complicated words correctly. It could be a mark against you if you keep misusing words.
 It will hurt your chances of a good score if your essay is full of grammar and spelling mistakes. Also be sure to write legibly- the grader can't give you a good score if he can't read your essay.
 If writing is your weak spot, the best way to improve your score is to do write out the essay questions from SAT books and websites. Do these as if you were actually taking the test. Do not look at the question before you start. Stick to the 25 minute time limit and see if you can write an entire essay with an introduction, conclusion, and examples. Then on test day, you'll be in good shape to write an essay with little trouble., There are typically five choices for SAT answers. That means you have a 1 in 5 chance of guessing correctly. However, for every answer you eliminate, it's more likely you'll guess correctly. If you don't know an answer but are absolutely sure 4 choices are wrong, you've just found the correct answer., It's very important to understand exactly what questions are asking you. If you only breeze through or skip the instructions, you'll almost certainly make mistakes.
 If you get stuck on a question and can't eliminate any choices, skip it. You'll waste time trying to figure it out when you could be answering questions you know. When you finish that section, you can come back to questions you skipped if there's time left. However, remember with every choice you eliminate your chances of guessing right improve. If you can eliminate even one answer, it is better to guess.If you skip questions, be certain you fill in the correct bubbles on your scantron as you move on. If you don't pay attention, you could end up filling in the wrong bubbles for all the questions after the one you skipped, meaning the whole section will be wrong.
 The SAT is an exhausting test, so reading in general will help you. This is effective not just for reading sections, but for the whole test. It will help you keep your concentration for long periods of time.,


Bring a watch. While proctors are supposed to keep track for you, you should be sure you know exactly how much time you have left.Figure out how much time you have per question. In a 20 minute section with 25 questions, you have 48 seconds per question. Keep this in mind to see if you're falling behind and have to pick up the pace.
If you start running out of time, just answer easy questions. That way you'll complete the section as much as possible. You'll also probably have time to go back and work on harder ones with this method.
Be prepared. After practicing all this time, you know the deal. You know the test's layout and what's required in each section. You've done timed practice tests. This will all help make it easier for you to finish in enough time., How long you'll spend prepping really depends on your goals. It also depends on how much free time you have for study. As a general rule, less than two weeks is not enough time for adequate prep. But you don't want to take too long either- if you start a year in advance, you'll probably forget a lot.Overall, 1 to 3 months is a good goal. This allows you enough time to let all the information sink in without risking forgetting anything., With flashcards and apps, you can study pretty much anywhere. If you're on the bus on the way to school, try doing a few math problems or flipping through some vocabulary flashcards. Little things like this can make huge differences.
 If you have any questions or are having trouble in a particular area, ask your teacher in that subject for help. Teachers will be happy to give you extra help.
 Working through test books by yourself may not be enough, and you might require some explanation to help you.


Many schools offer after school classes for SAT prep. Find out if your school has one of these, or if you could get one started.
Check the internet and see if there are prep classes in your area. Remember that these are sometimes expensive.

