 If you really want to start strong, use some boosters. You can use one Color Bomb, one Striped and Wrapped, and one Jellyfish as boosters on your initial board layout. Just make sure you make them count.


You can equip boosters on the screen where you see the “Start” button. So before you press “Start,” check out the boosters available for you to use. They can be found on the area above the “Start” button.;
, Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you see good moves to quickly get a Striped Candy or two? Do you see a Color Bomb in the making somewhere? Do you see some good combos that will unfreeze the Striped Candies from the jelly?


If you believe the board is good, you can proceed to Part 2.
 If you don’t like your board, go ahead and exit. You won’t lose any life as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet.
 Start by matching candies beside the meringue blocks to weaken and remove them. You will need four hits on these blocks to remove them.


Go for possible combos involving four or five candies in a row if you can.
 Aim your hits near the same area as much as possible. Once you’ve penetrated the meringue blocks, candies can get inside the middle part with the jelly squares.
 With some candies inside the middle part, it will be easier to remove more of the meringue blocks. You will also be able to start removing some jelly squares in the process.
 With more meringue blocks freed up, the spaces can now be occupied by more candies. With more spaces on the board, you will be able to make more combos with the candies and maybe generate some special candies too., At the top of the jelly squares are three vertically Striped Candies frozen in marmalade. Get these freed up as soon as you can. These will go a long way in removing the jelly squares in the middle.
 Look for moves that will give you Striped candies. Get vertically Striped Candies in the middle with the jelly squares or horizontally Striped Candies.


Create Striped Candies by matching four candies in a row.
 This can be harder to make, but not impossible. Look for opportunities to do so. Using the Wrapped candies as bombs can really make the jelly squares go away faster.


Create Wrapped Candies by matching at least 3 vertical candies with 3 horizontal candies.
 If you can, put a Striped Candy and a Wrapped Candy together. The best place to have this combo is in the middle part with all the jelly squares. If you’re lucky, you can get a lot of jelly squares this way.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. It’s always useful to have this special candy. It’s extra special if you can combine it with a Striped candy to do more damage.
 If you’ve equipped the level with the Jellyfish booster, use this when you can. Jellyfish target jelly squares randomly, so it won’t hurt to have them available.


This booster can also be combined with a Striped Candy, a Wrapped Candy, or a Candy Bomb to do more damage.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. Keep your focus on the jelly squares.