 If you're chatting with your boyfriend, tell him your mom was calling you or make up any other good excuse. If you are doing homework, next time remember to do your homework before you eat dinner. Your parents may have been telling you this all the time, but if you really want to have extra time in the morning, you should do this.;
, Only do this if you take a bus. If you walk to school have it set one hour and twenty minutes before you have to go. If your parents take you, have it set 30-50 minutes before, since you don't have to wait for your classmates to get on the bus, or walk so far to school. For example, if your bus comes at 7:27, you can set your alarm at 6:27, 6:30, or 6:35. If your bus comes at 8:47, then set your alarm at 7:47, 7:50, or 7:55. Do not go back to sleep after your alarm rings. Remember that you want to save time in the morning, not be rushed by your mother so you can get dressed.


If you shower, wake up one hour and twenty minutes before you have to go to school, or catch the bus. This will save you time and you can do your makeup and eat breakfast.
 This will save you five to ten precious minutes you could use to do your makeup. Another thing you want to have ready the night before is your school supplies. If you wake up a little late and you are rushing you may forget your math book, homework, or science notebook.
 Your body needs to relax, and after worrying about what outfit to wear the next day for school, and if you had your homework done, you need to relax.


If you are having trouble sleeping, try this. Lay straight, which means your whole body needs to be facing the ceiling. Take ten deep breaths without rushing. After you've done that, stay in that position, breathe like you normally would, and think about how your day went, or how you should do your makeup the next morning. Soon you'll be sleeping like you've never slept before.
 Get up and head straight to the shower. Use your favorite shampoo and conditioner and get all that oily stuff out of your hair. You would hate going to school with that one feeling that your hair is oily.
 I know, the water is warm and refreshing, but it will become way too late if you stay there for an hour just enjoying the warm water.
 Comb it thoroughly so your hair won't frizz up. Style it however you'd like, just make sure it's age and school appropriate.
 Washing your face helps get all of the dirtiness out of your pores so you won't suffer form breakouts at a young age. Using moisturizer will help your face get hydrated and ready for the school day.
 This is one of things you can't miss ever. You won't want to go to school having bad breath.
 Do your makeup. If you are having trouble deciding how you should do your makeup visit Do Natural Makeup (Middle School Girls) so you can get an idea of how to do a natural makeup look.
 You can't go to school starving because it will distract you and you might fail some classes, most likely the ones you have before lunch.
 You have extra time! Use this extra time to finish any past assignments that you need to make up, or if you are somewhat tired, you can take a brief 10-20 minute nap. Oh, and before you miss the bus, set your alarm 5-10 minutes before your bus comes, so all that work would be worth it.

