 This is something that starts in the short term and may take a little while, but it is an important step to start with because it will help focus what you do from this point forward. The role of a booking agent can be carried out in a number of industries from music, to modeling, literary, acting, and more and the steps for each one might be a little different.


Some agents will have talent that spans multiple industries, but at the start, it is best to focus on one and get the hang of what is required of you as different industries have different booking practices.
If you get into music, you'll be scheduling gigs for bands, and most likely looking for a record label to sign them.
If you start working with a writer, you'll be helping them find a publisher for their book, and maybe scheduling local readings or signings to get their name out there.
Working with an actor would mean finding them auditions and eventually helping them work out contracts.;
, Whichever industry you pick to start booking for, you need to learn as much as you can about it and follow what is new and what the trends are. This can be done by researching the history of the industry, by talking to anyone you know who may have some experience, and especially by absorbing as much as you can.


Listen to the newest music. Read authors’ debut books. Keep tabs on the latest celebrities.
Search out blogs and websites that keep the pulse of emerging artists, writers and actors. Follow these sites devoutly to stay aware of trends that develop in the industries.
It would even be great practice to start writing your own blog that chronicles what you are learning and thinking about regarding these industries. It is a great practice to share what you love with other people.
 The best way to start making connections is to go where the people you need to connect with are. Find out what bars and venues have local bands and go to the show, try to meet the bands and owners. If you want to meet local writers, find out if there are workshops or readings you can attend. Go to the local theater and scout actors who may be potential talent. Visit an art gallery and ask about local artists. The main idea is to find out who is in your area and what venues have to offer.


Starting local is more likely to yield results than trying to land an already famous talent.
If you do meet someone, discuss with them the possibility of working with them. If they don’t have anyone handling their booking, offer to work with them on a temporary basis to see if you can help each other out.
After you see a great concert, you could tell the musicians, "Hey guys, I loved your set. I was wondering if you have anyone booking shows for you?" This would work best with smaller, lesser-known, up-and-coming bands - if you have friends who are trying to make it big, you could ask them if they'd like to have you on as a booking agent. If you go to a writers workshop and you hear someone who has a cool book they are working on, say to them, "Your book sounds cool. Are you already looking for publishers? Would you want some help?" You'll have to adapt it to the setting, but just asking people if they are interested in help is the key.
Beyond just going to venues and looking for talent, make a specific effort to talk to the owners or managers and find out their methods for booking people. You may be able to offer them services in the future.
 If your community hosts events that book any kind of local talent, get involved with the planning and organizing process as an easy way to get experience.


Volunteer events are an excellent way to find new and upcoming talent and to promote yourself as someone who understands the industry. In addition, volunteering will allow you to learn many behind-the-scenes duties that could help you get the most for your talent.
If your town has any kind of street festival, they would most likely welcome your help is organizing the entertainment. Maybe there is a fashion show for charity that you could scout models for. Your local library might enjoy having a reading from a local author that you could volunteer to organize. The high schools near you might be interested in you promoting a battle of the bands that students could participate in.
If a very clear opportunity to volunteer does not present itself, take control and think of something on your own. You could organize a concert, fashion show, or reading on your own. You just need to find some place to hold it.

