 Any low maintenance plant can be used to make a terrarium. Choose plants that will grow well together. Classic plants for a terrarium include (but are not limited to) ferns, mosses, succulents, and cacti.









Pick a plant that will stay small. You could make a terrarium big enough to house a bushy lavender, but it's easier to stick with mini plants. Choose plants that won't outgrow the terrarium container.
Plants that prefer shade are best. Plants inside a terrarium have to be tolerant of low levels of light - if you keep a sun lover in the dark, the plant will be stressed and will die.
Plants tolerant of high humidity. Humidity levels in terrariums rise quickly, so choose plants, like those from rain forests or woodlands, that grow well in such an environment.
If you're a beginner, pick something cheap and easy to grow. Choose a plant that's inexpensive and easy to grow.;
, You will need a glass container that is deep enough for your plants' roots. The container you use can be an old fish bowl or one specially made for growing plants.










Cloches - these have high levels of humidity, and the cloche will need to be raised occasionally to give plants inside a breath of fresh air.

Lantern cloches - though these have high levels of humidity as well, lantern cloches are easier to ventilate.

Bell jars or apothecary jars are a pretty option for a taller terrarium.

Wardian cases - available both closed and not airtight.

Aquariums - aquariums work well as terrariums, and can be left open or fitted with a piece of glass.

Vases, tureens, or compotes - terrariums can still work their magic with an open top, though you will have to water the plants inside any container that isn't airtight.
In this example, a glass bowl similar to a goldfish bowl was used (pictured).
 Terrariums are ultra low maintenance, but in order to remain so they must be placed in an ideal location.










Light: All plants need light, and plants in terrariums are no exception. However, since glass magnifies, choosing direct light is foolhardy. Instead, choose a location where your plant will receive plenty of indirect light. Or you can choose fluorescent lights, but always follow safety rules when purchase gardening-specific lights.

Temperature: Terrariums should be kept inside, in a warm room (mudrooms, cold porches, and other such rooms aren't good options unless you're ready to risk the terrarium freezing). Keeping a terrarium next to a heater or AC unit is also unwise; Avoid extreme temperatures or sudden changes in temperature.

The right surface: Avoid placing a terrarium on easily damaged furniture. Also, avoid places where young or energetic children, or pets, can access it.
 To make a terrarium, you will need:










Potting soil. Choose light soil with lots of drainage, and preferably sphagnum/peat moss included. To check drainage, lightly wet soil and hold it in your fist: when you open your hand, heavy soil will clump, whereas light soil will fall apart.

Pebbles or gravel. Both provide drainage when placed at the bottom of the terrarium, and a neat appearance when placed at the top of a terrarium. Choose stones 1/4 of an inch or smaller for drainage, but choose whatever you'd like for topdressing.

Activated charcoal. Unless the container the plant will be in has a drainage hole, use activated charcoal pieces, which you can purchase from aquarium supply stores or garden centers. This keeps soil fresh.

Sheet moss. Sheet moss is useful when lining the bottom of the terrarium. It provides a "sponge" for absorbing excess water.

Gloves. Whenever handling sheet moss, you should be wear gloves and a long-sleeved shirt to prevent fungal infection. Gloves are also helpful when handling charcoal.

Decoration Pick any decoration you'd like to add to your terrarium, as long as it won't be damaged by exposure to water. Examples include miniature garden gnomes, shells, rocks, small statues or aquarium decorations.
Avoid adding "critters" to your terrarium. These can damage plants and spread diseases.


