 One of the best ways to get over a bad day is exercise. In fact, studies show that regular exercise can increase your energy level and help you deal with stress.Focusing on an activity that will take your mind off of your bad day will also help you get over any negative feelings you may be having. Work out your body and give your mind a rest.Do at least 30 minutes of cardio, or short 10 minute bursts of exercise.
If you can’t make it to the gym, do simple activities like taking the stairs instead of the elevator or going for a walk on your lunch break.
 Exercises that are continuous and rhythmic, like walking, swimming, dancing, and yoga, are good for relaxing your brain and body. These exercises also involve flow like movement, so you are forced to focus on another activity rather than your bad day. Restorative yoga helps your body relax and restore itself. But you don’t have to go to a yoga class to practice yoga. Instead, you can do yoga in your chair at your desk.Lotus position is the traditional seat for meditation and it can be modified so you can practice this pose at your desk. Sit comfortably in your chair, with your neck and spine straight and erect.
Cross your legs so you are sitting cross legged in the chair. Place your hands on your thighs, palms up, with your thumbs and first fingers touching. Breath deeply through your nose for 10-15 breaths.
Not only will this calm your mind, this pose will also release any stress in your spine from sitting at your desk all day.
You can also try a simple relaxing pose to calm your mind. Cross your arms and place them on your desk or a flat surface. Rest your head on your crossed arms and take deep breaths. Close your eyes and hold this position for 10-15 breaths.
 According to a recent study, when we are having a bad day or are in a bad mood, our desire to eat means we are just as happy with healthy food as we are with comfort food.Though you may head straight for a chocolate bar or a big iced coffee on a bad day, remember that you can also go for healthier options and improve your mood.


If you are going to go for chocolate as your comfort food, opt for dark chocolate. Dark chocolate has high levels of phenylalanine. This enzyme has been shown to be good for treating depression and anxiety as it enhances the production of serotonin and dopamine in your brain., These nutrients have been shown to enhance the serotonin levels in your brain, a “feel good” neurotransmitter., We digest food like popcorn slowly, so it provides a fuel source that is nutrient-rich and won’t cause the sugar crash associated with other carbs like cookies and cakes., Vitamin B6 works to up the serotonin levels in your brain which will lead to energy and hopefully lessen your bad mood or day.