 All vowels are voiced. Vowels are defined by the height of the tongue in the mouth (high, mid, low) and its position with regard to the lips (front is towards the lips, back is away). The tension in muscles when the sound is made (tense or lax) and rounding of the lips (rounded or spread) are also significant when distinguishing one vowel from another.In the Received Pronunciation accent of English, there are 12 pure vowels and 8 diphthongs (also called gliding vowels).Vowels are spoken with an unobstructed vocal tract. When making a vowel sound, your tongue should not touch your lips, teeth, or roof of the mouth.;
, Front vowels are generally described as “bright” because their tone is often brighter than those farther back in the mouth. The IPA lists over 12 potential front and near-front vowels. The four most common American English front vowels follow:: “bit” , “ship” , “grip” : “sheep” , “treat” , and “reap” : “bed” , “head” , “instead” : “cat” , “bat” , “sand” , The IPA distinguishes three central position vowels in General American English. Each central vowel requires the tongue to be approximately halfway between a front or back vowel. Use the following symbols for central vowels:: “curve” , “bird” , “stir” : “syllable” , “moment” , “felony” : “cut” , “glove” , “gun” , When making a back vowel, the tongue is positioned as far back in the mouth as possible without significantly impacting airflow. Opposite of front vowels, these are frequently called “dark vowels” because of their darker sounding tone. American English has the following four back vowels:: “you” , “chew” , “tool” : “put” , “could” , “full” : “saw” , “dawn” , “wall” : “bra” , “calm” , “dark” , Diphthongs combine two different vowel sounds in the same syllable. Separate vowels frequently get absorbed into a single diphthongized sound when people speak quickly. American English uses the following diphthongs:: “wait” , “pray” , “say” : “like” , “sight” , “pie” : “coin” , “oil” , “voice” : “mouth” , “found” , “count” : “show” , “boat” , “coat” , Also known as a stop or an oral occlusive, a plosive is a consonant that blocks and cuts off airflow when making its sound. This blockage is sometimes done by the tongue, though this may also happen in a part of the throat called the glottis.Plosive sounds, and many other classes as well, like fricatives, are usually divided into pairs of voiced (v+) and unvoiced (v-) sounds. The only difference between the two is that voiced sounds, like , cause the throat to vibrate, whereas unvoiced sounds, like , do not., These sounds are bilabial, which means they’re made with the lips. The sound is unvoiced, and is voiced.Examples of include the words “pet” , “pea” , and “lip” . Examples of include “boat” , “bet” , and “trouble” ., These sounds occur along the sloping region of the roof of your mouth behind your teeth.is unvoiced and is voiced. The sound occurs in words like “tree” , “ten” , and “lot” . Words that use the sound include “den” , “dog” , and “dint” ., The soft tissue at the back of the throat, called the soft palate or the velar region, is where these sounds happen. The voiced sound in this pair is , while is voiced.Words that use sounds include “kit” , “coin” , and “cuckoo” . Words that exemplify include “go” , “give” , and “toggle” ., Nasal sounds are those made where the soft tissue (vellum) at the back of the throat lowers. This allows air to move through the nose as sound is made, nasalizing the tone of the sound. All nasals described in this section are voiced, though some could potentially be unvoiced.Some languages have nasalized vowels or consonants. These are usually marked by a special symbol called a diacritic. Nasalized sounds are marked with a tilde (~) above the sound symbol, as in .Some languages may not have a large pool of nasal sounds. For example, the sound used to represent "-ing," , is relatively uncommon when compared to other nasal sounds, like or .
 The nasal occurs at the lips, so it is bilabial. The soft tissue at the back of the throat lowers and air passes through the nasal cavity when this sound is made.Some examples of the sound include “mouse” , “me” , and “minimal” ., The sound is similar to the sound, but unlike which is bilabial, requires the tongue to be positioned on the sloping ridge behind the teeth.Sounds using include “now” , “neat” , and “tint” .
 The sound, also called eng or engma, occurs in the soft tissue in the back of the throat (vellum).This sound is relatively rare among language families. Examples of include “thing” , “hung” , and “bringing” ., Fricatives make up the largest class of sounds. Fricatives restrict airflow when making a sound without completely blocking it. They are generally divided into two main types: sibilants and non-sibilants. Lateral fricatives, though related to normal fricatives, are distinguished from them and usually called by the term "affricate."In some situations, the terms “spirant” and “strident” may be used as a synonym for the word “fricative.”

, These sounds occur in the front of the mouth. Air is interrupted by the lips and teeth, which is why these are referred to as labiodental. The voiced member of this pair is . Some examples of you might find useful include “free” , “briefly” , and "affluent" . Words like “vine” , “revere” and “relieve” typify the sound., These sounds are made with the teeth, so they’re referred to as dental. , frequently called theta, is unvoiced. , referred to as eth, is voiced, though in normal English writing, both sounds are usually represented by the letters “th.” Some examples follow:


: “think” , “thing” , “math” : “this” , “father” , “then” , This pair of sounds is one of the most common in human languages. is unvoiced and is voiced. Both sounds are made with the tongue pressed to the sloping ridge on the roof of your moth behind your teeth.can be found in words like “tense” , “lace” , and “steel” . Look for in words like “zoo” , “zigzag” , and “zone” ., These two sounds occur at the rear of the ridge on the roof of your mouth behind your teeth. is unvoiced and is voiced.can be found in such words as “sheet” , “sheep” , and “establish” . Voiced examples of can be found in words like “azure” , “television” , and “revision” ., These sounds, much like and , also occur at the sloping ridge on the roof of the mouth with being the unvoiced of the two.Look to words like “chill” , “leech” , and “inch” for examples of . , on the other hand, can be found in “jet” , “judges” , and “enjoy” .It is common for sounds in this class to be called “affricates.” The key feature of affricate sounds is a brief stop followed by the release of that stop., There are many other kinds of fricatives, some of which might only exist in a few specific languages. The sound , as in “hat” , is considered a pseudo fricative, though it is listed with common fricatives. Some other fricative symbols you might see include:, a voiceless bilabial fricative.
 a voiced bilabial fricative.
 a voiceless velar fricative.
 a voiced velar fricative.
 a voiceless uvular fricative.
 a voiceless pharyngeal fricative., Approximants transition between articulators like the lips, tongue, and teeth. This creates air turbulence when making the sound. Two common sound classes, retroflex and lateral , only exist in English as approximants. In some situations, you may hear and described as “liquids” and and sounds described as “glides.”Instances where the or sound are made by a tap of the tongue on the roof of the mouth are sometimes called taps or flaps, like in the words “pity” and “water.”Some languages utilize trills where an articulator, like the tongue, vibrates when producing sound. Trills are considered distinct from taps and flaps.
 Sometimes retroflex is written as and other times as . The English retroflex approximate is made when the tip of the tongue curls backward toward the sloping region on the roof of the mouth. Some words that use this sound include “read” , “arrival” , and “deer” .
 Any sound that is made when air passes on the side of tongue is a lateral. There is only one lateral in English which is also an approximant: .Some words that employ this lateral include “leaf” , “relax” , and “curl” .
 These sounds can also be called semivowels or glides. Both and are voiced. requires lip rounding and a raising of the soft tissue at the back of the throat. When making the sound, the tongue approaches the hard, smooth portion of the roof of your mouth.: “will” , “towel” , “owl” : “yes” , “toy” , and “envoy” 