 Your teacher likely arrives to work every day very early, perhaps even before the sun is shining. Every day, they have to work with dozens and sometimes even hundreds of different students, many of whom have bad attitudes. Greeting your teacher with a smile and a warm remark every morning is a great way to sow seeds of positivity in your relationship and to improve their day.


Smile and say “Good morning” or “Good afternoon” to your teacher.;
, Another way to establish rapport with your teacher is by being consistently punctual to class, never arriving after the bell rings, and always being in your seat once class is about to begin. This will allow your teacher to see you as a dependable and reliable person who is respectful of their time.


Arriving late can often indicate a lack of respect for the class and for your teacher’s time, as your late arrival can disrupt learning.
If there is any work on the board that you are supposed to begin, like bell work or a starter, go ahead and complete that. Your teacher will appreciate if you are on prepared for class to begin.
 Though you may see many of your classmates show disrespect to your teacher, work very hard to not become one of these people. Your teacher has been hired to guide your education and to help you gain important knowledge that will be useful to you in life. Respect this and do not argue with them, but do ask questions if you are confused about something.


If you feel that your teacher is wrong about something, present it to them after class and not in the presence of others.
For instance, if you received a C on your report card, but you have only received A’s and B’s on your homework and tests, you might want to talk to your teacher. Say something like “I’ve really enjoyed your class so far this year, but I noticed that my report card grade doesn’t correspond with the grades I’ve earned in your class and I wanted to see if you could check into this for me?”

, Your teacher likely has a set of rules that you must abide by in class, in addition to the school rules that exist for the larger campus. Be sure to make a note of these rules and to keep them without question. If your teacher feels that you keep yourself out of trouble, they will view you more positively and your relationship will strengthen.


For instance, many teachers have rules about not chewing gum or eating in class. Use your time between classes or during lunch to do those things if your teachers do not allow them.
 Perhaps you and your teacher have gotten into a spat in the past and now they do not have a great opinion of you. Before you develop a good relationship with them, you will need to apologize for whatever you have done to offend them. Apologies can go a very long way in repairing a relationship and your teacher will respect you for taking responsibility for your actions.


You can apologize by waiting until class is over and the other students have left. You can say something like “I wanted to let you know that I am sorry for what I said to you. It was very rude and offensive and you didn’t deserve that at all. I hope you can forgive me.”

, One of teachers’ biggest pet peeves is students who talk during class when they are trying to teach. It is disruptive and rude and is a bad habit that should be avoided at all costs. Anything you need to say to a friend can be said after class or during a break. Should you have a question about the lecture or classwork, raise your hand and ask your teacher instead of asking a friend.
 Your teacher has likely spent quite a bit of time preparing for this lesson, and it is important in assuring that you do well on your final exams. Pay attention to the lesson and take notes on important points that your teacher makes. Treat the information like it is of interest to you and your teacher will respect you for it.


Get a proper amount of sleep the night before, at least eight hours, to ensure that you are alert and ready to learn.
 More often than not, teachers appreciate students far more for being reliable and dependable workers than they do for sucking up. Your teacher does not need you to flood them with compliments, but they do need you to turn in your assignments when they are due..


Make sure your assignments are neat and presentable. If your handwriting is bad, consider typing some assignments.
Take your time on your homework, avoiding simple mistakes.
 Your teacher’s main desire is that you learn and are productive in their class, but you cannot be productive if you don’t understand the material or are confused about something. Should a question arise while they are teaching, raise your hand and ask it. Your teacher will appreciate your honesty and willingness to seek their guidance.


Go to tutoring if necessary. Your teacher likely provides tutoring hours after school. Take advantage of this if you are having significant difficulties.
 Another way to gain the respect of your teacher is to study the material. If you know the information well, when your teacher asks questions of the class, you will be able to answer them. Studying is also a way to improve your grade in the class and will impress your teacher when they are grading your tests and homework.


Don’t answer every question the teacher asks; you want to give others the opportunity to engage as well.
 Take some time to learn some additional information about the subject matter that your teacher is teaching. Your teacher likely has a strict lesson plan that they have to adhere to, but their interest in the subject likely extends beyond that. Take some time to research information that is not in your textbook and talk to your teacher about it after class or incorporate that information in a paper that you are assigned.


For instance, if you are taking a history course on the Roman Empire and you learned about Julius Caesar but are interested in learning more, do so on your own time.
 If your grade in the class is not the best, or even if you have a great grade but are looking for some extra points to boost your GPA, ask your teacher about extra credit options. This will indicate to your teacher that you are serious about your studies and about the information they are teaching you. This is a win-win as well because your grade will improve as a result.


You might say something like “I feel that I’m doing pretty well in your class, but I think my grade could be a little better. Are there any options for extra credit?”

, Another way to build rapport with your teacher is to help other students in your class. If your teacher has assigned group work, and your group is confused about the information, explain it to them if you understand. Your teacher will appreciate that their own lessons have empowered you to teach others in return.


Don’t cheat. If someone asks you to help them study for a test, that is okay, but if they ask for your help on test day by copying your answers, you should refuse.
 Beyond your academics and your dedication to the class, you should strive to make your teacher respect you as a person and admire your character. One way to do this is to always be honest, even if honesty will not benefit you or if their are consequences. Though lying can sometimes be appealing, it can also blow up in your face should your teacher find out the truth. Honestly helps to establish trust and respect in a relationship.


Perhaps you have seen a student being bullied and your teacher asks you what you saw, but the bully is your friend. You should still be honest in this difficult situation, though it may get your friend in trouble.
 Model respect for you teacher at all times. Unless they have asked you to, never refer to your teacher by their first name, but always place a “Mr.” or “Ms.” in front to express the proper deference to them. Remember that they are your elders, even if they are not much older than you and they are in a position of authority that deserves recognition.


If others are disrespectful to the teacher, stick up for them. Maybe your friends bash your teacher when they are out of class. You can try saying something like “I recognize that they can sometimes be frustrating, but I also think that the job is frustrating. You all should try to be more empathetic. They’re doing the best they can to teach us.”

, Show kindness to your teacher whenever possible. If they look upset or you notice that they have been crying, ask them if they are okay. Remember that your teacher is a person first and a teacher second and respect that they have feelings, emotions, and issues just like you.


Maintain boundaries, however. Do not buy your teachers things that are expensive and don’t try to hug them.
 If you demonstrate how to be a good student and a good person to your classmates, your teacher will develop further trust and respect for you. Work every day to model good behavior to your peers in hopes that they will follow suit. You never know if your own positive demeanor could change the vibe of your entire classroom. Do you best to shine your own light to your peers.


Stick up for people when they are being bullied.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol.
Don’t curse.
Try to smile a lot and keep a positive attitude.
 Your teacher has one of the most important jobs in the world and yet likely receives very little credit for it. Often teachers are paid very little even though they put in a significant amount of time and work. Take some time to thank your teacher for their hard work and to acknowledge how much you appreciate them.


You might say something like “I wanted to let you know that I think you are a wonderful teacher and I am so grateful for all that you have taught me this year. I have learned so much and that would not have been possible without you so for that, I thank you.”
You could write it in a card at the end of the year and give it to your teacher in appreciation if you don’t want to tell them verbally.

