 Acute vomiting happens suddenly and forcefully. The dog vomits and vomits until there is nothing left in its stomach to vomit, except for yellow bile.If your dog has an upset stomach, this acute vomiting should pass quickly.


If you know your dog has eaten a food or substance that does not agree with it immediately stop your dog from gaining access to that item.
Non-specific gastroenteritis, otherwise known as an upset stomach, means no cause for the stomach upset can be found and the illness passes rather quickly. The other common causes of acute vomiting generally need medical or surgical intervention to diagnose and treat.;
, Many things can cause episodes of acute vomiting. Common causes, other than non-specific gastroenteritis, include:Liver disease
Kidney disease
Pancreatitis
A foreign body in the intestines (rocks, bones, toy)
Ingestion of toxic substances
Inflammation of the intestinal tract

, Chronic vomiting is vomiting that happens off and on with some regularity. While it is normal for a dog to vomit occasionally, due to an upset stomach, this behavior on a consistent basis can signal that there is a larger health problem.
 Some cases that are thought to be vomiting are actually cases of regurgitation.Vomiting is the ejection of food from the stomach. Generally there are some “warning” signs before vomiting, such as licking the lips, salivation or acting uncomfortable. With regurgitation, food is ejected from the esophagus generally without force and without warning. It is important to recognize the differences between the two, as they have different causes. For example, regurgitation is caused by disorders with the esophagus such as:Esophagus weakness due to diseases such as myasthenia gravis and Addison’s disease
Megaesophagus (non-reversible enlargement of the esophagus)
Foreign body stuck in the esophagus
Inflammation especially that caused by frequent vomiting
Stricture or narrowing of the esophagus (this generally happens after injury to the esophagus)

, Because of the many sources and causes of vomiting, it can be hard to figure out the most appropriate treatment. The first step to curing the problem is coming up with an accurate diagnosis of the problem.


Most of the time to get an accurate diagnosis you need to bring your dog to the veterinarian. An examination will be performed and, depending on the results, further testing may need to be done. Blood and urine tests can determine if your dog suffers from a disease, such as kidney or liver failure, pancreatitis, or if an infection may be causing the vomiting. X-rays can help determine if your dog has eaten a foreign body or if there is a mass (tumor) in the gastrointestinal tract.
 It is okay to watch your dog closely at home if your dog is still happy and begging for food after it vomits. If it has other symptoms, such as lethargy or spasm, you should take it to the vet immediately.


Keep your dog happy but it is also a good idea to protect your home from additional messes. Place the dog in a room with hard floors, in other words no carpet, so that any future vomiting can be easily cleaned up. Keep it company, however, and try to soothe it with lots of love and affection.
 The treatment for dogs with upset stomachs is to withhold all food for 12 hours (despite the begging) and give them small amounts of water every 2-3 hours during this time. If they are able to keep the water down after 12 hours of food withholding, you can offer them two teaspoons (for a small dog), two tablespoons (for a medium sized dog), or ¼ cup (for a large dog) of a bland diet.


A bland diet consists of carbohydrates and proteins that a dog can easily digest. The most common bland diet to give a dog is a mixture of cooked white rice and boiled chicken, without bones or skin.This meal gives your dog's digestive system a break because it is very easy to digest.
If the dog can keep the first small amounts down, offer the diet in these same amounts every 3 - 4 hours for the first day. Then mix it with the dog's regular food half and half the next day. By day three, the dog should be back to its regular food and feeding amount.
 Even after your dog has stopped vomiting, you should still keep a close eye on them for a few days. Call a veterinarian if the following occurs:


If the dog is continuously vomiting.
If the dog has other signs of illness: diarrhea, extreme lethargy, pale gums, frequent urination, yellow appearance to the eyeballs or skin.
If after a 24 hour food withhold the dog is still vomiting.
If you have any other concerns or suspect it’s more than a simple case of vomiting.
 At any time if the dog starts to vomit again or is unable to keep water down it should be brought to a veterinarian’s office. It should also be brought to the veterinarian's office if any of the following signs occur:


Increase in frequency or amount of urination
Yellow appearance to eye whites, skin or mouth
Pale gums along with extreme lethargy
Vomiting blood
Diarrhea that is very watery or has blood in it

, Treatment depends upon the cause of the vomiting. Some treatments include:


Withholding of food for up to 24 hours, then a gradual reintroduction of food or a bland diet for up to 7 days. The dog can have small drinks of water as long as it is able to keep this down. Otherwise withhold water as well.Medicine to treat intestinal parasites, inflammation, or infection.
Surgery to remove foreign bodies.
 Ongoing management will be needed in cases of chronic diseases. Food and medication changes are used to manage liver disease, inflammation of the intestinal tract, kidney disease, Addison’s disease, and myasthenia gravis. Food changes may also need to be made in dog’s with sensitive stomachs.In dogs with megaesophagus special feeding arrangements need to be made along with food and medication. These dogs need to be fed in a vertical position, not merely from an elevated bowl, and they need to stay in that position for 20-30 minutes after eating to ensure all the food stays in the stomach. A special chair, called a Bailey chair, can be made or purchased to keep them in this eating position.A soft to wet food diet is also recommended along with medications to increase the movement of the esophagus and to reduce acid from the stomach. With proper feeding position, food and medication dogs with megaesophagus can lead a long and healthy life.

