 This soup is great for using up leftover cooked vegetables from the meal too. Place the leftover vegetables into a blender, add some water or stock and blend until smooth. Fry some celery, garlic and onion pieces until cooked. Pour the pureed vegetables into a saucepan, adding more stock if needed. Throw in the fried vegetables and add chopped pieces of ham. Warm up gently until hot. Add a tin of beans and heat through, then serve.



Split pea and ham soup is another good soup to use up leftover ham.;
, Some examples include:



Make rice and ham with sweet and sour sauce.
Make ham fritters. Find a favorite fritter recipe and add ham pieces to it. Fritter recipes that combine the ingredients with beans or lentils are a good choice.

Make ham and leek rolls.
Add pieces of ham to a frittata or sprinkle over a pizza.
Make quesadillas with ham as part of the filling.
Toss ham into any casserole, savory bake or stew you're making, for added flavor.

Make scalloped potatoes with ham.
 Make some savory muffins or scones and add some chopped ham to the mixture. Make bread and include chopped pieces of ham before baking. Or, make a ham quiche or vegetable and ham pie.


Make ham and cheese pasties. Cut up ham into small pieces. Fry a few mushrooms and garlic cloves. Make a bechamel/white sauce and add the pieces of ham, fried mushrooms and garlic, some grated cheese. Add a dash of mustard and mix everything to combine. Remove from the heat. Make round pieces of puff pastry and fill with the mixture. Seal with egg wash and brush egg wash over the top. Bake in the oven at 200ºC or until golden brown.
 Pasta and ham make a great combination, especially with cheesy or creamy sauces. Ham can be chopped finely, chopped into strips or chopped randomly, depending on the style of cooking.


Add pieces of ham to filled pasta or add to a favorite risotto dish.
Add thin slices of ham as one layer in a very cheesy lasagna.
Add chopped ham to macaroni and cheese.
Fry some chopped garlic and onion with chopped bell peppers (green or red). Add chopped ham and mix into a cheesy pasta sauce. Serve with long pasta, such as linguine or spaghetti.
Chopped ham makes an ideal addition to cold pasta or bean salads.

