 You will need to be logged in as an administrator in order to install font files. If you don't have admin access, see the next section for a workaround.You can use a command prompt trick to reset the password for the administrator account if you don't remember it. You'll need your Windows 7 installation DVD in order to do this. Click here for instructions.;
, There are a variety of sites that host font files that you can download and use. Make sure that you trust the site that you're downloading from. Popular font sites include dafont.com, fontspace.com, and fontsquirrel.com.


Fonts may download as a ZIP or RAR file, or may download just as the font file itself (TTF or OTF). If you download a ZIP file, double-click it to open it and find the font file(s). Drag the files to your desktop or click the "Extract all" button. If you download a RAR file, you'll need a program that can open RAR files like WinRAR or 7-Zip.
Avoid any font that downloads as an EXE file or as an installer.
 This will allow you to see how the font looks on your screen. The font file may not show the extension, but it should have an icon of a piece of paper with a small "A" on it.


You'll need to have removed the font file from the ZIP or RAR file before you can open it in Font Preview.
 The button is located at the top of the Font Preview window.


You can also right-click on the font file or multiple font files at once and select "Install".
Another installation method is to open the Control Panel from the Start menu, click the "View by" menu and select "Small icons", open the "Fonts" option, and then drag the file(s) into the list.
 Depending on your computer and account settings, you may be prompted by User Account Control to confirm that you want to add the fonts, and you may get a security warning that your file was downloaded for them internet. You may also be prompted for your administrator password.
 Fonts should install immediately after you confirm that you want to install it. You can then select the fonts in programs that support changing fonts, such as Office or Photoshop.


Older fonts may not install correctly. Make sure the font you want to install is Windows 7 compatible.
 If you no longer want a font that you've installed, you can remove it using the Fonts utility in the Control Panel.


Click the Start menu and open the Control Panel.
Use the "View by" menu to select "Small icons" or "Large icons".
Open the "Fonts" option.
Find the font you want to delete in the list. You can use the search bar at the top of the window as well.
Right-click on the font you want to remove and select "Delete". You will be asked to confirm that you want to remove the font. Any documents that you've created with that font will be reverted to a system font.

