 Use a search engine like Google to find/confirm the following information.


The official language(s) and currency of the nation you will be in.
Special services your airport offers. (For example, for a price of €6.00 - €8.00, you can gain access to a shower in Frankfurt International Airport regardless of what class you fly.)
Regulations that apply to your circumstances. For a pet to enter the European Union, for example, it must be accompanied by appropriate paperwork.;
, Although airports like Frankfurt International translate most every sign into English, it won't hurt to know a few essential phrases of whatever language is primarily spoken in your airport just in case you have to ask a local for assistance.
 Before you board your first flight, be sure to visit the airport's exchange and get the $15 USD equivalent of the currency you found above. If your layover is more than six hours, you'll definitely need at least one meal. Of course, you could always use a credit card, but cash allows you to leave without a trace.
 If your aircraft is equipped with an in-flight entertainment system, try and locate something akin to a 'Destination Information' clip. If you can't find one in the entertainment system, try searching in the in-flight magazine.
 When deplaning, do not flock to the first restroom you see, if you can help it. Chances are that your fellow passengers will flock to that specific restroom as well, making it extremely crowded. For less of a crowd, try the second or third one you come across.
 Once you've located it, stay near your gate. If your connecting flight isn't on a display board yet, ask a service representative from your airline. In some airports, they'll be waiting for you as you deplane - this is likely to happen if your layover is more than six hours.
 If planning to take a snooze, arrange sleeping shifts with your travel companions, if you have any. Otherwise, keep your bags, etc. under your chair so that a thief would have to move your legs to get to your belongings. Always double-check that you have all of your valuables after going through a crowd.

