 Clean your grill of all ash and buildup beforehand. Make sure the grate is free of residue. Light the grill according to its user instructions and allow it to heat up. When the grill is hot, you’re ready to apply oil to the grate.








Oiling the grate of your grill will prevent food from sticking to it, allowing you to flip and turn food more easily.
Depending on your grill, it may take some time for the grill to heat up. Allow the grill to heat for a minimum of 10 to 15 minutes for the best results.
 Use a cooking oil suitable for high heats. Some oils you might use include canola oil, olive oil, and peanut oil. Apply a moderate amount of oil to a wad of paper towel. There should be enough oil to coat the grate, but not so much that the oil drips from the paper towel.








Using too much oil can cause the paper towel to catch fire. For this reason, only lightly apply oil to your paper towel.Oil can transfer easily to your skin and make a mess. Wear gloves to prevent this while wetting your paper towel with oil.
Prepare your paper towel on a spare dish to prevent oil from getting on cooking or dining surfaces.
 Put an oven mitt on your dominant hand. With your mitted hand, pick up the tongs. Use the tongs to carefully wipe the grate with the paper towel. Cover all surfaces of the grate lightly with oil. Throw the paper towel out after using it.








When the grill is lit, there is a chance the paper towel may catch fire. If this happens, don’t panic. Remove the paper towel from the grill and dunk it in a bucket of water.
 In the same fashion described for oiling a hot grill, apply your oil to a cold grill grate with paper towel. Because the grill is cold, you can do so with your bare hands, though you may want to use gloves to prevent oil from getting on your skin.
 Light your grill according to its user instructions. As the grill heats, it will produce light smoke. This is normal. When the smoke stops, excess oil has been burned away and your grate is ready to grill food.







