 Follow the steps provided in the article linked in this step.;
, Buy the quality of cows that meet your standards, as far as having a good breeding herd is concerned.


Your herd bull should be selected to improve your herd, as he will be providing half of the genetic potential of your calf crop. Knowing conformation at this point will really help in determining how good a herd bull is needed. Fertility and live calves are key to profitability. One live calf is worth more than 100 dead ones. A bull that sires calves that are larger than your cow can safely give live birth to is economic suicide.
 There are two types to choose from, and both can be integrated into the other, if you so choose.


If your herd is too small to have a herd bull or you do not want to have to deal with bulls, use artificial insemination to breed your herd.
If you have a herd of 10 or more cows and you do not want to go the extra mile of having to AI them, a good herd bull is the way to go. The rule of thumb is 1 bull per 25 cows. High fertility bulls with high libido can service 50 cows with no drop in conception rates. Bulls reach peak fertility by 20 months of age, after 20 months of age it can only drop, barring illness or injury, with proper nutrition most bulls fertility will not start to decline until after 6-7 years of age.
 Know when your cows go into estrus, when they're ready to breed, and go from there.

If you are using a herd bull, you will not need to worry about when your cows go into heat, only when they have been bred for record keeping.
Follow the steps outlined in the article "How to Artificially Inseminate Cows and Heifers" to know how and when to AI your bovine females.
 If you have one too many bulls for your herd, there may be more fighting than mating.


Running bullunder 4 years of age with older bullmay prevent cows from being serviced by the bull with the highest fertility. Other times you may end up with a bull that has a broken penis, a leg/foot injury, or that just doesn't seem to be getting the job done.
Monitor the cows as well. If you see tails being held out or crooked tails when they're walking, that means they've been bred within the 24 to 48 hours you first noticed that physical sign.
 Unless you choose to do year-round breeding and calving where the bulls are in with the cows all the time, pulling the bulls out after 2 to 3 months both ensures that all your cows get 3-4 chances of being covered and is also not long enough for your less fertile females to get away from being culled.

