 In most cases, it is best to let your family know that you are cutting ties with them. This does not need to be a long conversation, and you do not need to go into great detail. You may want to do this with a therapist or mediator present.For example, you might begin the conversation by saying, “I have something important I need to let you know. I have decided that, for my own mental health, it is best that I distance myself from this family for the time being. I have been doing my own work on some of the problems in our family, and right now, I see this as the best option for my life.”

, No matter how dysfunctional your family may be, try to the issue from their point of view. It is painful to feel powerless and lose a connection to any person, let alone a family member.


Try saying, "I understand how painful this is for you. I am sorry that I am hurting you. But I feel that for right now, this is what I need to do."

, Most likely, a decision to end family ties will not be received well. You are setting new boundaries with your family, and they will likely be angry or upset.They may demand more answers about why you are leaving than you are willing to give. Try saying, “I am not comfortable talking about that right now, but I will write a letter with that information when I am ready.”
They may insist that they will change and the situation will improve. You can say, “I am glad to hear you want to change. I would like to see you take some steps to make that happen, and then we can revisit this in six months.”
They may also be angry and defiant. They might say, “Fine. We don’t want you in this family, either.” You can respond, “I am sorry we feel the need for this distance,” and end the conversation.
 If you are too uncomfortable talking to your family directly, you can send a letter. This can also be a good option if you feel intimidated or at a loss for words around them.Writing a letter can help you clarify your own feelings.
Letter writing also allows you the time to search for just the right words to describe your feelings.
A friend or counselor can look over the letter before you send it and offer feedback.

