 Before anything else, ensure that everyone is safe and in the same place or at least somewhere you know they're safe. In bad times, togetherness is more important than ever for providing mutual support for all family members.;
, It's important to deal with health impacts such as protecting against waterborne diseases, stress, and fatigue.


Take care of emotional health. Discuss what is happening, talk together and share your anxieties. Let others talk to you to help release tension. Allow space for releasing emotions: crying is a natural response to a disaster and it’s also a great way to release pent-up emotions. Watch for signs of stress. You've just been through a disaster and the recovery period can be long, hard, and chaotic.
Ensure that everyone is getting enough sleep. Fatigue can bring on other health problems as well as reducing energy levels. Rest often.
Eat well. You are more likely to suffer from stress and health problems when you are weak and nutritionally impoverished.
 Prevent the flood waters from causing further damage to your family's health by keeping good hygiene as much as possible.


Wash your hands with soap and water, thoroughly and often.
Confirm that the water is clean and safe. Don’t drink it or wash dishes until you’re sure. Typically, flood waters mix with septic tanks and city sewer systems, so it is best to wait for civil authorities to declare the water safe to drink.
Be safe around poisons. Many of the products you'll use to clean, disinfect, and repair your home are poisons. Keep them out of the reach of children and wear appropriate covering to protect yourself.
Take care not to hurt yourself. Injuries, especially back injuries, are a common side effect of cleaning up after a flood. Be conscious that infections are everywhere.
Report health hazards. Tell the Health Department about animal carcasses, rats, dangerous chemicals, and similar hazards on your property.
Infants, pregnant women, and people with health problems should avoid the flooded area until cleanup is complete. When you work in an area that has been flooded, you'll be exposed to dangerous chemicals and germs that you are not used to and can make you very sick.
 Watch your children closely. You can expect to see them display fear or symptoms of stress.


Make an effort to re-establish normal family routines as quickly as possible, including schooling.
Listen to what children say. Encourage them to talk or otherwise express their feelings.
Explain the disaster factually. Knowing the facts can help children deal better with the disaster.
Reassure children. Show them through words and actions that life will return to normal.
Be understanding. Remember, they are also going through a rough time too. Be aware too that some children have heightened sensitivities to the emotions of adults around them and will react accordingly.
 Getting active as soon as possible can help restore a sense of coping and well-being. Make a list and do jobs one at a time. Establish a schedule to clean up and rebuild. See the later sections of this article for more details.


As part of your plans, be sure to include flood-proofing. People who are prepared ahead of time are better able to deal with disasters. Getting ready for the next flood can give you a sense of control over the future.
 Special outreach programs and crisis counseling are often set up following a disaster because so many people need help to cope with their situation. You might be able to get shelter, food, supplies, debriefing, etc., through such services.
 Above all, try to be patient with your family, your neighbors, the local, state, and federal authorities, and volunteer agency personnel.

