 Individual 3in (8cm) pots are best. If planting in a shared bed, space seedlings 10 to 14 inches apart from one another. Lightly cover each seed with about ¼ inch of soil, and place the bed out of direct sunlight, in an area where is will not be exposed to cold.Keep the seeds around 70°F (21°C). Your seeds will germinate in 10 to 14 days.;
, Ideally, plant them 6 to 8 weeks before you can move them outside. They will still be small enough to easily transplant at this age, but will be harder to replant if much older., Plant your amaranth in a mostly sunny location. In seasonal climates, late May or early June is the best time to transplant seedlings. Replant seedlings about 20 inches (51cm) apart, in soil that will drain well, and in a location that receives plenty of sunlight.If you did not plant seeds indoors early in the season, you can sow seeds directly outdoors once you’re sure there will not be another frost.
 While indoor planting is recommended in areas that get frost, you can directly sow amaranth seeds outdoors in places where frost is not a concern. Once soil temperature maintains at least 70°F (21°C), thinly sow seeds in rows. Sow about a dozen seeds per foot, which will allow one gram of seed to sow a 50 ft row.
If planting multiple rows, space them 12 to 16 inches apart. It will take about a pound of seed to sow an acre.
If it rains before the seedlings emerge, break up any layer of crust that develops on the surface of the soil. Otherwise, the crust may prevent seeds from sprouting.
Seeds will germinate in 10 to 15 days.
 The soil in which you grow your amaranth should not contain too much clay. Additionally, test your soil’s pH. Amaranth is less sensitive to soil variability than many other plants, but will grow best in soil with a pH between 6 and 7. Extremely rich soil will actually reduce a plant’s amount of flowers.If you're hoping for flowers, don't fertilize or otherwise enrich the soil. Ultimately, amaranth will grow in most soil types that are suitable for gardening.

