 The primary way to prevent kennel cough is to keep your dog vaccinated. The core vaccine also includes vaccination against common viruses that contribute to kennel cough development.There is also a vaccine effective against Bordetella bronchiseptica, which can also cause kennel cough. Your veterinarian will let you know which vaccinations are more important for your dog to receive.;
, Just doing the vaccination one time is not effective forever. You need to get your dog a booster of its vaccination on a regular basis. In general, the first booster is given after one year, and then subsequent boosters are given every three years.New strains of kennel cough occur regularly. Getting your dog's vaccination updated can increase the likelihood that your dog will be protected.
Because of the many causes of kennel cough, vaccination will not guarantee 100% that your dog will not get the disease. However, it will reduce the chances considerably., Dogs and puppies that are exposed to a lot of other dogs are at increased risk for this disease. This contact can occur at dog parks, groomers, puppy classes, obedience classes, and boarding at kennels.


Keeping puppies isolated from other dogs, except litter mates and the mother, until they can get vaccinated is a good idea. Puppies don't usually get vaccinated against the causes of kennel cough until they are around four months old.However, some of the intranasal drops can be given to puppies as young as three weeks of age., When dogs drink out of a common bowl, droplets from an infected dog’s nasal and mouth secretion can contaminate the water and bowl with Bordatella. When an uninfected and unvaccinated dog laps the water, it can contract the bacteria and come down with kennel cough.To avoid this completely don’t share water or food bowls and wash them frequently in hot, soapy water. The same applies to toys that dogs may share while they are playing.
 The most notable sign of a dog with kennel cough is a persistent cough. The dog will cough continuously with a distinctive “goose honk” sound. Many time this is the only sign in the dog, with it appearing healthy otherwise. However, this cough lingers on for weeks and some dogs will also show other signs such as:Gagging or coughing up a white foamy phlegm
Fever
Discharge from the nose
Watery eyes
Decreased appetite

, Occasionally, kennel cough can make a dog susceptible to developing pneumonia. This will make a dog experience more severe symptoms, including lethargy, difficulty breathing and, even in a few cases, death., It's important to limit the risk of spreading the disease, even if you are not sure if your dog actually has it. This is the responsible thing to do.Keep your dog away from dog parks or facilities that care for dogs, such as doggie day cares and boarding facilities, until your vet has cleared your dog's health.
Pick up your dog's feces. You should probably do this whether your dog is infected or not but infected feces cause a health hazard. An uninfected dog having contact with infected feces is one way that the infection can spread., Kennel cough generally will run its course in 1 to 3 weeks with no treatment needed. However, some owners are annoyed by the constant coughing, so drugs to suppress the cough and reduce windpipe inflammation can be given through a prescription from a veterinarian.In more severe cases, antibiotics which are effective against Bordetella can be given.
A dog which is actively coughing should not do any heavy exercise such as running, as this will aggravate the cough.
Food and water intake should be monitored and encouraged to make sure the dog keeps eating and drinking.
Collars used during leash walking may press against the dog’s windpipe causing severe irritation. Using a harness instead will help prevent this from happening.

