 You can find eyelid primers at a beauty supply store or your local pharmacy. You can either pick a primer that matches your skin tone or one that matches the eye shadow you’ll be using. A little goes a long way when it comes to priming! This is an extremely important step, because primers help your eyeliner go on smoothly and give it the staying power to last all day or night.Nothing ruins an impeccable makeup look quite like smearing.









Squeeze a tiny amount of primer onto the back of your hand.
Dip your finger into the product and then dab it onto your eyelid.
Blend it in completely, focusing particularly on the creases.;
, Both types of eyeliner allow you to create thin, precise lines, which is necessary for the winged effect.It is much harder to create precise lines with an eyeliner pencil. If you are using a gel, use a thin pointed or angled eyeliner brush to apply. Get a feel for your chosen product before you begin lining your eye, as both liquid and gel eyeliners can be slightly more difficult to apply than pencil. Create a couple lines on the back of your hand so that you can see how the product goes on.
 You should apply it in short strokes, right across your lash line. Begin in the middle of your eye, slowly extending the line to the inner and outer corners. Once you’ve applied the product across your entire lash line, examine your lid in a mirror to determine if it's even. Apply more eyeliner, thickening out the line, as necessary.








A general rule of thumb is to make the line thinner as you get toward the inner corner of your eye, and thicker as you move outwards.
 You can do this by following the curve of your bottom waterline. In other words, imagine a line running underneath your eye to the outer corner, and then continuing out past your eye. That imaginary line extending past your outer corner is where you should apply your eyeliner. Very carefully use your brush to draw a thin line following the angle of the bottom waterline. Extend your top eyeliner to meet the line, joining them together in a sharp point.









As you draw the line out away from your eye, slowly decrease pressure so that the end of the wing is narrow and sharp. It should be almost a flicking motion. If you use steady pressure to draw this line, you'll create a thick line with a blunt end. The sharp, precise point is the thing that makes this winged look so iconic.

