 Many smartphone manufacturers warn you not to use alcohol, since overuse will eventually wear out the oleophobic coating that protects your screen from fingerprints and scratches.That said, diluted alcohol rarely causes issues if you use it once or twice, and there are no good alternatives for heavy-duty cleaning. Most commercial screen-cleaning products are essentially the same as this homemade mixture.


You can substitute white vinegar for the alcohol (and still dilute it in water), but this can also damage the screen coating., Minimize the chance of damage by leaving your phone powered down until it is completely dry.
 A clean microfiber cloth is ideal, but lint-free, 100% cotton will work as well. Lightly dampen a corner of the cloth, then apply across the screen with gentle wipes in the same direction. If the screen is still dirty, rub the dirty areas in small circles. Do not press down hard on the screen.
 Once your screen is clean, consider attaching a screen protector over your phone. If you can't do this immediately after cleaning, pick up dust from your screen first with a clean sticky note, weak tape, or other mild adhesive.


If you can't use your touchscreen while wearing gloves, some screen protectors will block the touch technology as well. Ask a store employee for a screen protector that works with your model of phone (or with capacitive screens).
 If a small drop of water forms a ball on your screen, the protective coating is still intact. If it smears across your screen, the coating is damaged (or you never had one to begin with). You can buy an oleophobic coating kit to re-apply this coating to your phone screen, following the kit instructions. This won't last as long as the factory-applied version, but one kit might be enough for several applications.Typically, you need to apply this product with a tissue. Spread it across the screen quickly, since it evaporates within a few seconds. Once the whole screen is coated, you may need to let it dry for several hours, then buff out excess streaky material using a microfiber cloth.
 Short for "Ultraviolet type C," these devices kill bacteria on your phone surface by bathing them in ultraviolet light. This will not remove grime from your screen, but it may be the only way to sanitize it without risk of damaging your phone. Sanitizers designed for phones have only reached the market in the past few years, so expect them to get cheaper over time.

