 Remove all the cinnamon rolls from two cans and cut them into bite-sized pieces. Whisk together a bread pudding base of egg yolks, half-and-half, cinnamon, sugar and vanilla. Place the cinnamon roll bites in a greased baking dish and pour the bread pudding mixture over it. Bake the bread pudding for about one hour at 350 degrees F (175 C).You can also divide the bread pudding among smaller ramekins instead of one large baking dish. You may need to reduce the cooking time slightly. Check the ramekins around 20 minutes into baking.
 Cinnamon rolls cook up really quickly as waffles which makes them a great breakfast or rich dessert. Simply spray a waffle iron with baking spray and heat it up. Place one canned cinnamon roll on the iron and close it. Let the cinnamon roll waffle cook for 3 to 4 minutes. It should flatten and cook completely.Drizzle the cinnamon roll waffles with the icing or you could use maple syrup.
 Spray a Bundt pan with baking spray and open 2 cans of cinnamon rolls. Cut the cinnamon rolls into bite sized pieces and roll them in a cinnamon-sugar mixture. Place them into the pan and bake them at 350 degrees F (175 C) for about 20 minutes. Flip it out of the pan and drizzle the monkey bread with the icing packet.You can also make extra gooey glaze by mixing butter, brown sugar, and cinnamon. Spread the gooey glaze over the cinnamon roll bites in the pan before baking.
 To make long cinnamon roll sticks, unroll five cinnamon rolls into long strips. If you're going to add a filling (like shredded coconut, mini-chocolate chips, or chopped nuts), press 1 tablespoon of the filling onto each unrolled dough strip. Fold the strip of dough in half and twist it around a few times to make a spiral. Bake the cinnamon twists at 350 degrees F (175 C) for 18 to 20 minutes.While you can drizzle the twists with icing, you could also serve them with a side of icing for dipping.
 Divide one can of cinnamon rolls into five rolls. Place one of the rolls in the center of a baking pan and unroll the remaining four rolls so they're long strips of dough. Loosely wrap each of the strips around the center piece of dough so you make one large cinnamon roll. Bake the giant roll at 350 degrees F (175 C) for 20 to 25 minutes.You can drizzle the giant cinnamon roll with the icing while it's still warm from the oven.

