 This pose helps to open up your shoulders and elbows, which in turn can help to free your wrist from tension. The advantage of this pose is that you do not put your body weight on your wrists, but you still stretch your wrists out. To do this pose:


Lay a yoga mat or soft surface out of the floor. Place both your knees and elbows on the mat. Make sure that your elbows are under your shoulder, and that your knees are lined up with your hips.
Extend your arms out in front of you, flat on the floor, with your palms facing the floor. You can lace your fingers together if you like.
Extend your knees until they are straight. Your head should hang down in between your shoulders, behind your elbows. Your legs, back, and stomach should be straight.
Stay in this position for five breaths, then relax. Repeat this process five times.;
, This pose is the same as the last one described, but adds the element of movement to the pose. It helps you to get a deeper stretch that will strengthen your muscles, making your better equipped to handle stress exerted on your wrists. To do this pose:


Get into the pose described in the previous step.
Move your body forward until your face is above your hands; make sure that your back and abdominal muscles straight. Come back into dolphin pose.
Repeat this backwards and forwards motions ten time, then relax. For a more challenging version of this pose, try to touch your chin to the floor when you extend your head past your hands.
 This pose can help to reduce stress placed on the median nerve because it offers a deep stretch for your wrist. To do this pose:


Bring your hands to your chest and place your palms together, like you are praying. Keep your elbows out.
Press your palms together like each hand is trying to push the other one back. Hold this pressed position for one to two minutes, and then release. Repeat this three times.
 This pose is suitable to do if you can do a full wrist flexion (you can fully bend your wrist) in the previous pose easily. This will deepen the stretch described in the previous step. To do the secret prayer pose:


Bring your arms so that they are bent behind your back. Your elbows should be out and your palms should be facing each other. Press them together.
Bend your body forward until it reaches the floor. Hold this position for one minute, then release.
 This pose can be done either in a standing or seated position. This pose is particularly helpful if your carpal tunnel pain originated because of neck or shoulder troubles, though it can also be used as an excellent way to stretch your wrists. To do this pose:


Extend your arms in front of you so that they are at shoulder level. Move them back to your sides so that you open your chest, then return your arms to the front.
Place your right arm under your left arm, wrap both elbows, and then both wrists so that your palms are facing each other. If this causes you pain, wrap your elbows so that your left elbow is cupped in your right elbow, and place your hands on your shoulders.
Once your arms are wrapped, move your elbows down and away from your face; point your fingers straight and hold this position for thirty seconds.
If you are standing, bring your right leg up and place it over your left leg so that your toe reaches the floor, or is wrapped behind your shin. You can also try to bend your body forward while in this wrapped position to make the pose more challenging.
Repeat this post three times.
 This pose works to open up the shoulders and release tension throughout your arms. It may help people with carpal tunnel syndrome that started with problems in the wrists, or problems in the shoulders. To do this pose:


Sit down on the floor and clasp your hands behind your neck by raising your arm up, then bending the right elbow, allowing your hand to fall behind your shoulder. Bend your left behind your back so that your left hand fingers reach your right hand fingers behind your back.
Clasp your fingers together if you can, breathe, and hold this pose for a minute.
If you can’t clasp your fingers together, use a strap or towel to complete the stretch.
 This is considered a backbend and are particularly important for people who spend their time sitting in front of a computer. It is also an excellent position for people with carpal tunnel syndrome, as it allows your to stretch your arms without putting pressure on your wrists. To do this pose:


Lie down on your back. Keep the soles of your feet planted on the floor and your knees bent (as if you are about to do a sit-up or crunch). Extend your arms by your side, with your palms facing down.
Push your hips up. Hold your hips up on your own, or place a yoga block under your lower back right at the sacrum point. Interlace your hands beneath your sacrum, or keep them at your side.
Hold this position for one to two minutes, then slowly lower your hips back down to the ground.
 This is another type of backbend, which means that it can help to stretch you out after sitting at your desk all day. To do this pose:


Lie on your stomach. Extend your arms along your body with the palms facing up. Bend both knees and grab them with your hands.
With an inhale, push your torso up and raise your body so that your upper torso and legs are lifted off the ground. Press the tops of your feet into your hands to hold this position.
Gently lower yourself back to the ground while exhaling. Let your forehead rest on the floor, and then repeat this process five times.

