 They should be firm, bright and small or medium. Many people prefer organic carrots that are grown without pesticides or chemicals.


Buy fresh carrots at a farmer's market near you, or think about growing your own. If neither option is possible, get them at a produce shop or in your grocery store. Do not use frozen carrots. Fresh, raw carrots will taste and cook better.
Look for dark orange carrots for the best health benefits. Darker carrots are higher in vitamin A.;
, With a sharp knife, cut off the top of the carrots with the green sprouts and the very bottom point of the carrots. Be sure to remove any roots and leaves.
 Place them in a strainer under cold running water.


Scrub the carrots if you are not going to peel them. Otherwise, use a peeler to scrape off the outer layer of the carrot.
 You can cut them into slices or cubes, or simple chunks of bite sized pieces.


Use baby carrots or carrots that are already chopped or sliced if you want to save yourself time. These may cost a little more, and you will need to use them by the expiration date on their package.
 You can also spread olive oil on the bottom of the pan if you prefer it to the spray.
 Make sure the pan or sheet can accommodate all the carrots. Crowding the carrots will cause the vegetables to steam and may take longer to cook.



Use additional spices, herbs or other ingredients with your carrots. These will depend on your own personal tastes and any recipes you may want to follow. You can add sage, garlic, rosemary, basil, oregano, parsley and even other vegetables.
 Place the baking pan with the carrots into the oven.


Cook for 30 to 40 minutes, until the carrots begin to brown. The length of time will really depend on your own taste. Some people like to have their roasted carrots with a bit of a crunch, which would require a shorter cooking time. Others prefer them darkly roasted and soft from extra heat.






Flip or stir the carrots halfway through your cooking time. Use a spatula or a large spoon to mix them in the pan.
 They will finish cooking outside of the oven.
 They go well with meats such as chicken, pork or beef. You could also toss them with pasta or rice, or add them as a side to any dish.
 Eat them within 3 to 5 days for best taste and freshness.

