 When you first learn the kettlebell swing, the movement you'll learn first typically is the Russian kettlebell swing. The American kettlebell swing may require more work to master.With the Russian swing, you stop the kettlebell at your chest. However, the American kettlebell swing extends the swing until your arms are overhead, engaging a full range of motion in your arms and shoulders. The momentum this swing generates makes it more difficult than the Russian swing.
Once you've mastered the Russian swing, you may want to progress to the American swing. Don't do so until you feel you can accomplish it safely.
 When you get to the point that you're able to do a two-handed swing (of either the Russian or the American variety) for 60 seconds without difficulty, you're ready to progress to a one-handed swing.With the one-handed kettlebell swing, you are increasing the load on your shoulder and your core. You want to use the same form and technique that you used for the two-handed swing, but the arm you're not using will be at your side.
As you do the one-handed swing, allow the arm you're not using to swing back as the kettlebell swings forward, and to swing forward as the kettlebell swings backward between your legs. This will help control the rotation so you maintain good form.
Do one-handed kettlebell swings using a single kettlebell. Swing with one hand for 60 seconds, then switch and do the other side. Once you can do a one-handed kettlebell swing comfortably on each side for 60 seconds, you can progress to alternating kettlebell swings, still using one kettlebell but alternating the arm that's doing the swinging.
 If you've mastered one-handed and alternating kettlebell swings, and you're ready to advance to something more challenging, try adding some movement to your lower body by side-stepping or walking forward with each swing.Taking a short step either forward or sideways while doing the kettlebell swing requires immense focus. Make sure you have strong technique and perfect form before you attempt this, or you risk injury.
You also want to make sure you have plenty of room before you attempt stepping or walking kettlebell swings. These exercises aren't necessarily best in a crowded gym, where you might run into someone. You may want to try them outside on a flat, grassy surface.
 Double kettlebell swings are one of the more difficult variations, and not just because you have double the weight. Handling two separate kettlebells requires immense focus and control.Make sure your technique is solid and that you can keep your arms straight so the two kettlebells don't bang into each other at any point.
If you've progressed to double kettlebell swings, you may want to start with each kettlebell at a significantly lower weight than what you were using for one-handed swings. Keep the overall weight that you're swinging in mind.

