 If you use the same greens as the base of your salad, you can get bored quickly. The taste may also stop satisfying you. Instead of using iceberg or Romaine lettuce all the time, try different types of greens for the base of your salad.Try Bibb lettuce, green lettuce, or red lettuce, if you want to eat lettuce.
Get rid of the lettuce completely and try another green, like arugula, dandelion leaves, kale, spinach, or collards. Try this kale salad recipe.
Try cabbage-based salads instead of lettuce.
Go for a mix. Put cabbage, lettuce, kale, arugula, spring mix, mesclun mix, or any other green together in the same salad.;
, Greens as the base of the salad isn’t the only way you can eat a salad. You can try making the base of your salad out of beets, cucumber, or green beans. You can mix any vegetables together you want for your meal.Try a salad made mostly of tomatoes, Brussels sprouts, carrots, or asparagus.
Consider this Thai tomato and green bean salad or this chickpea and feta salad.
 Including healthy carbs can help your salad be more filling and satisfying. Healthy carbs can also provide additional nutrients to the already healthy salad. Try making your base out of grains or sweet potatoes.You can use quinoa, chickpeas, brown rice, farro, or barley. Try this quinoa and vegetable salad, this chickpea and red bean salad, or this quinoa chicken salad.
 You can make your salads more interesting by taking your favorite foods, like hamburgers and tacos, and turning them into salads. You get the same base taste through a salad without the extra carbs and calories.For example, you can make a deconstructed hamburger salad. Cook the hamburger meat together in one pan instead of splitting it up into patties. You can also sauté mushrooms or onions to add to it. Make a base salad with any greens of your choice. Top the salad with the hamburger meat, cheese, mushrooms, avocado, onions, and condiments, just like a hamburger.
A taco salad can be fixed similarly. Make your taco meat out of hamburger, ground turkey, chicken breast, fish, shrimp, or any other meat you like on tacos. Make a bed of greens of your choice. Top the greens with taco meat, cheese, avocado, corn, black beans, black olives, tomatoes, salsa, cilantro, sour cream, or any other taco topping you enjoy.

