 Your child likely can’t help or stop having an intense reaction to something that is upsetting. However, you may be able to distract them by having them count when they feel like they want to cry. Counting could prevent the outburst, and if it doesn’t, it could make the reaction less severe and shorter in length.

Say to your child, “When you get upset, count to ten.” If possible, count with the child. Counting may get their mind off of what was upsetting them. You can also turn counting into something fun. By making silly faces at each other, you’ll likely alter the child’s mood and change the moment from upsetting to funny., When you’re not there to help, your child will need to learn to calm down on their own. One way is by repeating calming phrases. This can also help later in life and teaches them they are able to cope on their own.

Tell your child to say things like, “I’m OK,” “This won’t last long,” or “I can handle this” when they start to feel overwhelmed or upset. They may also find that praying or singing a song to themselves when they start to feel like they are going to lose it helps to calm them down., Children may not realize what the problem is so they simply choose the one form of communication that has always worked for them: crying. Stopping your child when they are in the midst of their meltdown and asking them what upset them so much may make them feel better, as they are getting it off of their chest. However, some kids just need time to let it out and then they will feel better after. You may find that eventually the child turns to dialogue as their form of problem solving, instead of throwing a temper tantrum.

Ask your child why they are upset. They may need some prompting from you, such as “Are you mad because your friends won’t play with you?” When they respond, ask what they can do to make themselves feel better.
At first, you may need to offer ideas. Eventually, your child will likely be able to come up with solutions on their own, without any help from you., Highly sensitive children may act differently than others their age, crying or becoming afraid in seemingly normal situations. This can put your highly sensitive child at risk for teasing or bullying at school. It can be practical to prepare your child for this by role-playing.Go through some situations that may occur and teach your child how to respond. For instance, if another child calls your son a "cry baby," explain how he can tell the teacher or simply ignore the comment.
Give your child tips on avoiding bullies like going to classes in a group of other students and walking with their chin up and shoulders back to portray confidence.Be sure to discuss your child's needs with your child's teacher and school counselor to ensure that your child gets the support they need.
 Getting your child the appropriate services can greatly increase their chances of functioning well at school and at home. Talk to your pediatrician to decide what type of therapist may be best for your child. This will depend on some of the specific issues they are experiencing such as anxiety. Choose a therapist who has specialized training in this area.

In addition to therapy, it may also be helpful to have your child receive mentoring from a highly sensitive adult or participate in support groups with others who are like them.