 However, if you already have a swing set at home, you can swing on it without going too far from your house. Swing with your good leg while leaving your hurt leg sticking straight out so that it doesn't hit the ground hard. If you find that you have trouble, ask a family member or a friend to push you if he/she doesn't mind.;
, Take turns choosing fun games to play and spend quality time with your loved ones. Not only will you be able to participate in an activity that doesn't require the usage of your legs, but you'll also be able to connect and laugh with other people.
 Your writing can contain a serious tone that speaks of a death or it can bat fun at ridiculous situations. It's your story so have fun with it. If you find that you actually like it a lot, consider stretching it into a good novel and possibly getting it published.


If you have trouble coming up with good story lines, ask your family members and/or friends for some ideas. You could also search on the Internet for something that inspires you.
 It's a good time to recharge your energy level, but remember that you might have trouble falling asleep on that night, depending on how your body works. For fresh air and a calm scene, sleep outside in a lawn chair or a comfortable seat, but it isn't recommended if you don't want the neighbors to see you drooling or talking in your sleep.
 Get your mind off things and have a great time with your conversations. If you'd rather see them in person, invite them over if they're available to come to your house, but make sure your parents and their parents are fine with it. Otherwise, you might get in trouble, unless if it's normal for your friends to show up at your house without any plans in mind.
 It's not that hard since it's your leg that is hurt, not your hands.
 Now would be a good time to start on that big book your parents bought you for Christmas or catch up on your favorite celebrity's latest events.
 If you know your pet is rough and very playful, it's recommended that you avoid playing with it until your leg is completely healed or you might worsen your condition.


Remember that as much as your pet may love you, that doesn't mean accidents won't happen. It might not intentionally hurt you, but that doesn't make a difference in the results.
 Watch YouTube videos, edit wikiHow articles, scroll through blogs, etc. Computers can help pass the time very rapidly, especially if you choose the right websites to go to.
 Also, share the television remote with your siblings and your parents when they ask to change the channel because no one likes it when people hog the remote.

