 Tai Chi can help you with focusing your Chi. It is a light exercise that uses several movements and breathing to help you focus on your Chi. It is believed to help reduce stress and help with many medical conditions., There are many videos for practicing Tai Chi on the web. Simply search for “Tai Chi videos” on your favorite search engine. However, if you have never practiced any Tai Chi before, it is perhaps a good idea to visit a Tai Chi instructor to help get you started. You can also call local gyms and yoga studios to see which ones offer Tai Chi classes., If you aren’t sure whether you would like Tai Chi, or if you feel intimidated to go to a class, you can try out a few of the basic movements first.


Begin with your feet at shoulder width. This helps you keep your weight centered. Keep in mind that when practicing Tai Chi, it is extremely important to keep you weight balanced on both of your feet, which when planted on the ground, should stay shoulder width apart.Keep your knees slightly bent. Don’t lock them! Try to position yourself as if you were about to sit down into a chair, which will require your muscles in your legs to engage.
Keep your spine straight, but also relaxed. Imagine that each vertebra is floating above the one below it.Touch your tongue to the roof of the mouth gently.This is believed to connect the channels which help chi flow. Thus connecting your entire body.
Make a mental connection. This involves mentally thinking about connecting the wrists and ankles, elbows and knees, shoulders with hips.Become aware of your breath. Breathe in a relaxed, normal manner. Follow the inhalation and exhalation, as well as expanding and contraction of your lungs.If you can, belly breathe.
 Being present in the moment (rather than constantly thinking about the past or worrying about the future) plays a huge role in Eastern Philosophy.This means that when you are practicing Tai Chi (and in your daily life in general) you should also practice being mindful, or fully present, in the moment. In the case of Tai Chi, you should practice noticing physical and emotional sensations you feel while you are actively practicing.


Naturally, your mind may wander. In these instance, you should simply try to notice extraneous thoughts that come into your mind, and then go back to noticing the feelings and sensations you are currently experience. Don’t judge the thought, and try not to follow it., The idea behind Tai Chi (and focusing and developing your Chi in general, is that you are on a journey. Thus, if you really want to use Tai Chi as a method of focusing your Chi, you should practice consistently. You may find benefit if you practice every day for a month, but you will find even more benefit if you practice a few times a week for many years.

