 There are countless websites that allow you to play free games to help learn math, vocabulary, and more. Many of these are geared towards young children, though some will explain medical practice techniques or advanced business principles too.


For young people, check out the PBS kids website, and explore Funbrain for a plethora of games aimed at K-8th grade students.
More specific skill-training or cause-oriented games exist too. For instance, ElectroCity can teach anyone about energy use, sustainability, and the environment, while Fat World explores addressed “food politics” and helps players learn about the importance of nutrition and dietary behavior. Finally, HumanSim provides interactive simulations of advanced healthcare practices.
In short, whatever you’re looking to learn, there’s almost certainly a free game available online to help you learn it!;
, MIT has developed a series of games to assist grade-school through high-school level learning on STEM topics. It includes lessons on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics that fit into modern education curriculum. Specific games can be played on computers or phones, within the classroom or on student’s own time.To play most games, you’ll need to choose a username (which may be public) and a password, and have access to an email account to confirm your registration. If you’re under 18, get your parent’s approval before registering.
 Part of the Education Arcade, this is an extremely immersive role-playing game, with similarities to some of the most popular massive multiplayer online games in the world. The first time you visit the Radix website, register as either a teacher or player and follow the prompts.The Radix Endeavor is designed to benefit middle and high school students in particular, and exposes players to concepts such as geometry and genetics. Progressing through the game requires players to figure out how to breed different cattle so the offspring have certain traits, or to measure and position different lengths of fence.
The game starts slow, as you have to explore an environment and learn about new tasks you must accomplish to progress. Once you build your character and begin accomplishing tasks, learning opportunities abound.
Teachers can assign specific tasks to individuals or teams, and can track player's progress.
 Download the Duolingo app on your phone and create a profile to begin learning one of twenty seven languages, including Spanish, English, and Klingon. Duolingo has courses designed for classroom use as well.Duolingo is completely free for personal use, as well as for teachers. Teachers have the ability to use the program to assign students work and track their progress.
After registering, choose the language you wish to learn and the amount of time you want to spend learning each day. The app will remind you to complete lessons each day.
Duolingo will track your level of fluency, which can be exported into LinkedIn for use on your resume. Be aware that Duolingo’s “fluency” rating - nor even the content of its lessons - should be considered 100% accurate. Still, it’s a great way to start learning a new language.

