 There are many companies that offer payday loans. These loans are sometimes also called cash advance loans, check advance loans, post-dated check loans, or deferred deposit loans. If you need a small amount of cash quickly, and have run out of other options, this may be a good way to get the money you need. However, do understand that these loans charge very high interest rates and fees.Look for payday loan companies that are associated with a larger financial institution that offers different types of financial services.
Read reviews online about different payday loan companies to ensure that they are not a scam.
Look for loan companies that are up-front and straightforward about their loan requirements. If you feel like something is off, then go somewhere else.
You can apply for a payday loan online, but you are also more likely to get scammed. If possible, apply for your loan in person at a payday loan center.
 Before applying for the loan, make sure that you carefully read the terms and conditions of the loans offered by this company. This means you will want to carefully read any fine print. This information is usually available on the companies website or along with the application form. If you cannot find the terms and conditions, then ask an employee at your local center to provide you with them.


Getting a payday loan should be your last resort. This type of lending usually results in very high interest rates and the loan may incur a lot of fees.
Be sure to ask for clarification of anything you do not understand completely.
In some cases, by signing your application, you may be agreeing to the terms and conditions of the loan so be certain that this is the path you want to take.
 Once you have chosen the company where you want to apply for a loan, you can find out exactly what documents they require by visiting their website, calling their hotline, or visiting a local payday loan center. Make sure that you will be able to meet all the requirements for a loan before applying in order to avoid wasting your time.In most cases, you will need to provide proof of steady income (e.g. pay stubs), evidence that you have a bank account, your and your employer’s contact information, photo identification that shows that you are over the age of 18, as well as a blank check that you will use to pay back the loan.
 You may be able to do this online, but it is probably best to go into your local branch in order to fill out the application form and provide any required documentation. Going into the center will allow you to ask questions at any point during the process without having to call a phone number and explain your situation to a representative.In most cases, there will be an application form to fill out where you will provide basic information about yourself such as your full name, contact details, employer, etc.
The loan company may look into your credit history, but they typically do not do a full credit check as these companies typically exist to prey on people who have no credit or bad credit.
 If you have taken out the loan, it will usually be for a short period of time, typically around 14 days. After which time, the company will cash the check you left with them, or they will expect you to come in with the cash you owe them (this depends on the repayment terms you agreed to). Beware that these companies may try to encourage you to renew your loan, which will give you more time to pay them back. However, the down side of this is that they will charge you a fee for doing so. If at all possible, pay the loan back according to the initial terms in order to get caught in a debt trap.For example, if you took out a loan of $300, which incurred an initial fee of $50, then you would owe them $350 after 14 days. However, if you renew the loan in order to get an extra 14 days to pay back the loan, then you may incur another fee (which can vary greatly, but lets say the fee is $100). Now you owe them the initial $350 plus an additional $100 meaning you are paying $450 for a $300 loan.
Remember that these people are not looking out for your best interest. Though you may think these people are really friendly and helpful, the goal of the business is to make money.

