 This dish takes place in one pan, meaning you need everything ready ahead of time to prevent burning and ensure proper cooking times. Dice the onion and mince both the garlic and ginger, setting aside for now.



Optional, but recommended: If you like heat, chop up and add 2-3 green chilis here as well, setting aside with the other three.;
, The exact ratios depend on your preferences, so mix everything together in a small bowl ahead of time and take a big whiff, adding more as needed. Start with a 1/2 teaspoon of each to start, smelling and adapting as you like:


Just use turmeric and a bit of cumin (dried seeds are best) for a simple, classic flavor.
If you aren't using fresh fenugreek, a touch of dried leaves will go nicely here.
If you don't have fresh ginger, 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger can be substituted here.
 This is the first step of "blanching," which quickly cooks the spinach without losing its color or flavor. Bring the water to a rolling boil, then drop your fresh spinach in for a brief time before draining it all out.Most saags are heavy on spinach, using mustard and fenugreek to complement the main attraction. You can make an all spinach saag, though this is technically known as "palak paneer.", This will halt the cooking process immediately. When done, drain any excess water and squeeze the spinach dry between some paper towels. Set aside.
 Heat until the oil is hot. Ghee (clarified butter) is the preferred choice for Indian chefs, but regular butter or canola oil will do fine without ruing the flavor.
 The spices will develop best when "toasted" for several seconds, though you need to take care not to burn them if they start to smoke. After ten seconds, add the onion, garlic, ginger, and chili (if used) and stir well to coat. Add a dash of salt with the vegetables to help them cook.


If you're worried about the spice burning, add them with 2 tablespoons of water., Many Northern Indian chefs (where this dish originated) only roughly chop the greens, leaving them in big chunks to enjoy. However, some western cooks prefer a smoother curry of sorts, using a blender or food processor to grind the greens up into a thick sauce of sorts. The choice is all yours.


Make sure you remember to stir the vegetables while they cook -- don't let them burn!

, The onions will start to go clear in the centers. This is your cue to add the greens, stirring well and adding another dash of salt.
 This famous spice blend is slightly sweet, helping it balance against the chilis and garlic for a fantastically well-rounded dish. Add it now and stir in well to mix.
 Again, personal preference is key here. If you want a chunky, greens-heavy dish, skip the liquid. If you want a smoother, richer dish, add 1/3 cup of heavy cream, whole milk, or plain yogurt. Sour cream, in a pinch, will work as well., The greens, already blanched, don't need to cook anymore. Once you add them with the cheese, stir everything to bring it to the same heat and then serve hot with rice.