 If you don't want to use software or an app, do it yourself. Shut off your Internet access for a while. Switch off the Wi-Fi port on your computer, so your Internet access will be cut off until you turn it back on. If you plug in directly, unplug your computer so you won't have access to the Internet. Plug it back in when you need it for something important.
 If you need to study and you don't need the Internet, don't use your computer or mobile device at all. It's so easy to flip over to Facebook or check your e-mail and end up wasting 15 minutes, or even longer, when you didn't even intend to.


To reduce the possibility that you'll be able to make a procrastination mistake, put your phone in a drawer, or turn it off.
Keep your computer in your bag, or switched off. If you need the Internet, switch it on only for what you need to do, then switch it back off.
Better yet, make a note of what you need to look up and look it up later.
 For some people, working in public is an excellent way of avoiding procrastination. In some places, public Wi-Fi is hard to come by. This means you might be able to find a spot and work without the ability to even use the Internet. Likewise, sometimes the Wi-Fi is too slow to do much but work. Find a place you can't YouTube.


For some people, it's important to look busy in public. The thought of being caught shopping online or watching a goofy video can be embarrassing. If that sounds like you, try posting up in a public place like a coffee shop or library to work. Keep yourself honest.
 If you find the lure of the Internet too tempting, you might find it worthwhile to cancel your service entirely. Go to the library to work online when you need to. Find other ways to entertain yourself in your free time.


Wi-Fi access is widely available nowadays. It's easier than ever to avoid the Internet at your own house. Pop out for a quick cup of coffee if you want to check your e-mail and mess around online.
Instead of streaming video, get DVDs and other media at the library. It's free and widely available. Take advantage of it.
 Another big step that won't be appropriate for everyone is canceling Facebook, Twitter, and other social media accounts that prove too time-consuming and all-encompassing. If you think social media is keeping you from doing your work, give yourself a break. See if you can do without it.


By design, most social media is pretty easy to re-start. Give it a week and see how you like it, and whether or not staying off Facebook makes you more productive. You can always go back if need be.

