 Sponge clean the doll with mild dish washing detergent and, if necessary, wash the washable accessories in warm, soapy water. Let dry before using.

If her clothing is dirty, wash by hand and let dry before using.
Brush the doll's hair before using the doll; this will avoid getting hair mixed up with the food ingredients. It can help to pull it back while working the doll into the cake, then remove the elastic after.;
, Grease and line the cone cake pan with parchment paper., Make the mixture light and fluffy.
Crack each egg and add one at a time. Beat well.
Sift the flours together. Fold into the mixture and mix through.
Fold in the lemon juice.
 Place in the preheated oven and bake for 40 minutes, or until a skewer pierced into the cake comes out clean.

For a package cake, follow the package instructions.
 Let cool completely before building the Barbie cake.,

Wrap the lower half of the Barbie doll in food grade plastic wrap. Cover everything that will be inserted inside the cake and pay particular attention to ensuring that her clothing is well covered from the waist down, to prevent staining from the food.
Tape the waist end of the plastic wrap in place.
 Place the baked, cooled cake onto a cake board, large base of the cake sitting on the board. Then, using a sharp kitchen knife of a good length and narrow width, carve out a doll-size hole that is deep enough to take Barbie's legs up to her waist area.

It can be helpful to measure Barbie's length before making the hole. You can then slip a ruler inside to gauge the the hole is deep enough before adding the doll into it. The less Barbie has to be stuck in and out of the cake, the better, as this will protect her from staining.
 She should sit in the hole up to the taped waist, with the remainder of her body sitting well above the cake.

Push her arms up into the air to allow you to work on the icing without obstruction.
If you haven't already done so, tie her hair back temporarily with a quality hair elastic, to keep it out of the way while you ice the cake.
Add any Barbie accessories after the icing has been added; the less things in the way, the better.
 You'll need soft icing in two shades, pink and white. For the purposes of this tutorial, it's assumed that pink is the ultimate Barbie color but you don't have to choose pink if you don't want to––vary as needed. To make the icing:

Beat together the butter and water until creamy.
Add the icing sugar/confectioners sugar gradually.
Mix to combine well.
Divide the mixture in a ratio of one third and two thirds. Add a few drops of red food coloring or pink food paste to the two thirds icing, to make pink icing. Leave the one third icing white.
If the icing seems to stiff at any point, add a drop or two more water.
 Cover the entire cone cake with soft pink icing. Let set before adding the piping., This creates the fancy ballgown for Barbie.

Pipe a row of white stars around the base of the cake.
Pipe a row of pink stars above the first white row.
Repeat the rows in alternate colors until you reach Barbie's waist.
Finish with a white row. Add a row of pink candies or dragées/cachous to form the waistline division between Barbie and her ballgown skirt.
 These can be made or purchased ready-made., Take the elastic out of her hair and gently let her hair down. Position her arms elegantly., The Barbie cake is now ready for your little Barbie fan's party.