 Referrals are one of the most effective hiring practices for employers. Company referrals account for a large percentage of hires in today's job market. This is because managers often feel more confident hiring someone who has a connection to a current employee. Having a valuable referral can be one of your greatest advantages when applying for jobs., In order to capitalize on the advantage of having a referral, you need to make sure that you are utilizing your current connections. Make sure that you are familiar with the people in both your professional and social networks. Obvious candidates for referrals are people that you have met through work, such as former bosses or co-workers. Stay current on where they work and what their role is.There are also other ways to find someone to serve as a referral for you. For example, utilize your contacts from alumni organizations, social networks, and professional organizations. Of course, it is also important to make sure that your Linked-In profile is current so that potential employees can find you that way.
 Once you have identified someone who might potentially serve as your referral, make sure to approach them confidently and respectfully. Be as specific as possible in stating what you need. Tell your contact which position you are applying for, the hiring manager to whom you will be sending your letter, and that you would like to list your contact's name as a referral in your cover letter. You can make this request in person, over the phone, or via e-mail.


Whichever contact method you choose, make sure it is both personal and professional. For example, if you choose to make the request via e-mail, you might say something like, "Dear Jane, It was wonderful meeting you at the Annual Meeting of the People Who Have a Job Similar to Mine. I enjoyed our conversation! I'm currently looking for a new position, and I notice that your company has an opening for Manager of Important Things. I'm very interested in this job, and think I would be an excellent fit. Would you be willing to serve as a referral? I would like to use your name in my cover letter, if you are agreeable."

, Once you have made the initial request, you will begin working on your cover letter. As you are working on the draft, follow up with the person serving as your referral. This will remind the contact that they have agreed to help you, and will ensure that he knows you were serious about your intention to apply for the position. Again, you can make this confirmation with either a quick phone call or an e-mail.


For example, if you choose to confirm with a phone call, you could say, "Hello, Joe. I just wanted to let you know that I am in the process of finishing up my cover letter for the position at your company. I wanted to confirm that you're fine with me using your name as a referral. I really appreciate your help."

, If the person who will be reading your cover letter won't recognize the name of your referral, your use of that referral will greatly decrease in value. Make sure that when you ask for a referral that you tell your reference who the hiring manager is and make sure that they know one another. It is also important to make sure the two are on good terms., Although these connections are valuable, they will not help you if you abuse the relationship or try to take advantage of a potential connection. Do not ask someone to be a referral if you are not truly qualified for the job. Referral programs work because there people typically only refer someone whom they truly believe would succeed in the position. Don't try to take advantage of someone by applying for a job if you are not really qualified. Also, if you don't actually know someone, don't ask for a referral. Instead, work on building your relationship until they can confidently recommend you., The first paragraph of your cover letter is extremely important because it sets the tone for the rest of your letter. By beginning with mentioning your referral, you are immediately setting yourself apart from other candidates. You are also making an impact on the hiring manager by making a connection--now the two of you have something in common (you know the same person) which will help the manager remember you as the hiring process goes along.
 Instead of just mentioning the person's name, make sure that you explain your relationship. Clearly state how long you have known them, how you know them, and that they recommend you apply for this job. This will emphasize to the hiring manager that this is a valuable reference.


For example, you could write, "Mary Smith, your sales manager, recommended that I apply for this job. Mary and I have known each other through the executive board of the Association for Sales Managers, and over the past five years, we have worked together on many projects for that organization."

, Your resume should be a fairly comprehensive account of your skills. Your cover letter is the place to elaborate on how your skills specifically relate to the job you want. Choose 2-3 of the most appropriate skills and elaborate on them in the body paragraphs of your cover letter.For example, you could write, "I excel at interpersonal communication. In my current role, I am responsible for managing a team of seven other employees and providing them with verbal feedback."

, The hiring manager wants to know that you are aware of what they expect from their new hire. Pay careful attention to the wording in the job advertisement. Companies will generally be somewhat specific in listing their requirements.


One effective way to convey your understanding is by writing, "Your advertisement notes that you are looking to improve your employee training program. I have significant experience in this area, and in fact, have developed several onboarding methods that would benefit your organization.", Close with an emphatic statement about why you are right for the job. This is also a good time to explain why you are so interested in the position. Doing so will help demonstrate that you have done your research and are serious about being hired. Be clear about why both the position and the company appeal to you.An example of a strong statement is, "I am excited about this opportunity because I am seeking a new professional challenge, and heading up your training program is something I can confidently handle. Additionally, your company has a reputation for a positive corporate culture that I think would be an ideal fit for my outgoing personality."

, Your cover letter is your first impression, so you want to make sure it presents your skills and personality in the best possible way. First, edit for spelling and grammar errors. Make sure to conform to all standard language rules. Get rid of any spelling errors or sloppy sentences. Next, edit your cover letter for content. This is the time to make sure that you have clearly and concisely covered all of the points that you wanted to emphasize. Make sure you sound knowledgeable and confident when discussing your skills. , Carefully reread the job ad. Sometimes employers will specify additional materials that they would like you to send. For example, if you are applying for a graphic design job, the potential employer might request a portfolio of your work so that they can visually see examples of your work. Or, if you are seeking a job that requires a lot of writing, the prospective employer might ask for a writing sample. Make sure you include everything that is required.
 After you are ready to send in your application materials, follow up with the person serving as your referral. This serves two purposes. First, it reminds them that the hiring manager may call them to ask about you, and your reference will be ready. Second, it is a good opportunity to thank them for serving as a referral. You can touch base over the phone, in person, or via e-mail.If you choose to follow up with an e-mail, you could write, "Dear Bob, Thank you again for agreeing to let me use you as a referral. I just wanted to let you know that I am sending my letter to Stan at your company. I'm attaching a copy, for your information."

, Hopefully, you've had some time to clear your head and walk away from your cover letter for a short while. Now, come back and make your final revisions. You might try reading it out loud, printing it off and making changes with a pen, or having a friend read it for you. Make sure to avoid passive voice and any vague sentences.


Edit any sentences such as, "The big project was completed by me." Instead, try "I successfully completed revising the training manual ahead of deadline."

