 Most of those articles have tons of ideas of how to be perfect, but some girls can't do those ideas, so they sometimes feel even worse. That's what makes us different. If we were all perfect, we wouldn't have a very diverse world. Just a bunch of perfect people. So feel GOOD about your flaws, because they make you different, which is a beautiful thing.;
, They can REALLY put you down. If they call you names or manipulate you, you should: Tell an adult (be careful about this, you could be called a tattle-tale), Shrug it off, Laugh it off, Change the subject (don't do this- "You're SO weird, and your hair is greasy and you have a bunch of bald spots, so- HEY! You know that new kid in Mrs. Ram's class?" It will be obvious you tried to change the subject.), or just plain ignore them. But NEVER EVER EVER EVER snap back at them! It only makes it worse. Just look at them for a few seconds like you didn't hear them, and look away.
 If booty shorts make you feel uncomfortable, why wear them? If you feel good in capris and a cute flowy top, then wear that. If you feel good in skinny jeans, then wear them! Have you ever picked out an adorable outfit at your house, and wear it to school. Did you feel that it was sort of ugly or to weird afterwards? Well what can you do? Your at school, so feel good about your clothes. If it really bugs you, imagine that nobody has your clothes. Your clothes are super duper rare and are adorable. Then imagine that everyone else's clothes are easy to find and are in many stores.
 Hygiene is your best friend, you must take care of him. He stays with you your WHOLE life. If you don't take care of him, well he'll make a mess. Brush your teeth, wear clean clothes, Wash your hair daily or every two days. Wear Deodorant. It's smart to keep it in your locker, or in your backpack. If you DO forget deodorant, try to find some lotion to put under your arms, or just wear a jacket. Keep your face extra clean, and kill those pimples!

, If you're not nice, it'll come back and haunt you. non-nice people are just lost. They don't know it's extremely rude and they also don't know it could hurt peoples feelings.

