, Recommended are 1.7.10 and 1.6.4.


You must have already run Minecraft once with the target version (loading world is not necessary). If you haven't already, do it now.
,, Click Play.
,

,,,,


In Windows XP, Vista or 7, Click Start > All Programs > Accessories > Run and type "%AppData%" without quotes. There should be a folder named ".minecraft" (with full stop at the start). Open it. Find and open the folder called "mods". This should be empty. Move your mod file into it.
In Windows 8, Search for "Run" and do the same as above
In Windows 8.1 and 10, right-click the Start button, click Run and do the same as above.
, The loading process will take considerably longer: This is normal.
 Your mod should be listed in the list: If it isn't check that you've done everything correctly. If you have then check the Minecraft Forum thread/website for any special installation instructions or problems. Try using a different version of the mod.
,, Check if there is any bug or conflict (only when 2 or more mods). If there is a bug then report it. If there is a conflict, move to the next section of this guide.
, This means one is trying to use data that is also used by the other.



If MC crashes, then find the report by accessing your /mods/ folder again. This time, go to the folder called "crash-reports" and find the .txt file. If it contains something like "Mod is trying to use XXX but it is used by Another Mod" then you have a conflict.
If MC does not crash, but during gameplay, you find a strange out-of place block (like Iron Bars in the middle of the underground with nothing around), then probably you have a conflict.
 To solve, either you can use a tool like "MCPatcher," in which case you can refer to the instructions given or you can fiddle around with configs manually:


Access your /mods/ folder again. This time, go into the folder "configs" and find the files for your conflicting mods.
There will normally be a section with block/item names and some numbers; if there isn't ask for help.
Find two numbers which are exactly the same. If there aren't any then you don't have a conflict.
Change one of the numbers so that it does not conflict with anything and save.
It is solved! Yippee!

