 Anything that you can do to break your body into sections rather than emphasizing the length with one long garment will help you seem shorter. You can do this by wearing different colors, patterns, and layers of clothing.


For example, you could wear a pink top with pair of jeans and white shoes. You could even add a cardigan or a belt to add another layer. Adding a belt with an interesting buckle or some shoes with some eye catching details may also help to make you seem shorter.Or, you could layer two tops of different colors and lengths. The different colors and layers will help to break up your body and make you seem shorter.;
, Wearing pants with cuffs on the bottom or rolling up your pants can make you seem shorter.Try buying pants that have cuffs sewn on the bottom, or just roll the bottoms of your pants up to your ankles or just above your ankles.


To roll up your pants, take the bottom of the pant leg and fold it over so that the inside of the pant leg is showing. Do this once or twice, depending on how short you want to make your pants look.
 Clothing with vertical stripes and colors that are different can make you appear taller. Instead of vertical stripes and monochromatic colors, wear horizontal stripes and a variety of patterns and colors. Horizontal stripes emphasize your width rather than your height, which can help you look shorter.


Horizontal stripes are common in nautically themed patterns.
Wearing a brightly colored or patterned shirt means that the attention is on your upper body rather than on your legs.Wearing a skirt or pants that are a completely different color from your top breaks up the appearance of your height.
You may also consider textured patterns (herringbone, birdseye) and waistcoats/vests., Using a wide belt is good when you are wearing a long dress and want to encourage people to forget how tall you are. A belt divides your look in half, giving you the illusion of an hourglass figure.The wider the better. Use them to cinch down dresses and long tops.
 Any clothing that breaks up the appearance of your legs is going to make you look shorter. This can be achieved by wearing capri pants, skirts that hit above the knee, and boot cut jeans. All of these can remove emphasis from your leg length.


For men, this can translate to long shorts.
 Long tops like sweaters, jackets, and shirts break up the appearance of your height, as long as they are a completely different color than your bottoms. The effect is that your legs look shorter.


Waist-length jackets can also be used to make a distinction between your legs and upper half, especially if you have a long torso.Men can also try wearing longer shirts over pants, such as leaving a shirt untucked. Make sure that the shirt is a different color than your pants.
 While carrying a small bag may emphasize your height, carrying a large bag may make you appear shorter.If you carry a purse, then you can opt for an oversized bag to hold your personal items.


Try carrying a big slouchy purse, a messenger bag, or another large type of bag.
If you have a laptop, you can try carrying it in a laptop bag with other personal belongings instead of a purse.

