 There is actually no scientific evidence to prove the age-old claim that petroleum jelly boosts lash growth, but countless people claim to have had success with it.


Many people believe the lash-growth effect is due to petroleum jelly’s moisturizing powers, which can help condition the hairs, making them stronger and thus less likely to break before reaching their full length potential.
 Petroleum jelly (also known as petrolatum) is generally considered safe, however, concerns have recently been raised about the risks of contamination from cancer-causing chemicals that are found in the oil from which the petrolatum is sourced.Some people avoid petrolatum not out of health concerns, but out of ethical ones, as it is sourced from oil, which is a non-renewable resource.Allergic reactions to petroleum jelly are rare but possible, so use with caution. In addition, as petroleum jelly is greasy, there is also the risk that applying it to your lashes could cause the pores on your eyelids and lash lines to become clogged, causing irritation or styes.
 Vaseline is the popular brand, but you can get no-name versions as well. If you don’t want to use petroleum jelly, you can buy non-petroleum versions at health food stores like Whole Foods. Synthetic versions also exist.









You can also make your own non-petroleum jelly by combining 1/8 a cup (roughly 1 ounce) of grated beeswax and 1/2 a cup of olive oil in a small saucepan, melting them together over low heat or in the top of a double boiler, and pouring the mixture into a jar to cool., You should be able to find both of these things at drugstores, beauty supply shops, and dollar stores.


If you’d prefer a wand but don’t want to buy one, you can even go to a store that sells makeup and request one of the disposable wands used for testing out products and applying makeup during in-store makeovers.
If you get a disposable wand, be sure to clean it after each use with a gentle cleanser (baby shampoo will work) and lukewarm warm water.
 Use a gentle, unscented cleanser to wash your eyelids and lashes, being sure not to rub them or apply too much pressure. This will ensure that they are free of debris such as residual makeup.
 Dip a cotton swab in the jelly and then run it along your lash line like an eye liner, avoiding your eyes. Next, put a bit of jelly on your fingers and gently run your thumb and index finger over your lashes.








You can also just apply the jelly to your lashes as you would apply mascara, with a clean mascara wand.
 Applying petroleum jelly before bed will allow the jelly to sink into your lashes undisturbed. You can also wear it in place of mascara. It won’t be as dramatic as mascara, but it will enhance the appearance of your eyelashes.








Some people suggest wearing petroleum jelly underneath your mascara to keep your lashes moisturized and keep your mascara on longer, while others claim that the jelly will cause your mascara to smudge., If you’re only applying it before bed, try to repeat the process at least 3 times a week.
 Use a gentle cleanser to wash the petroleum jelly completely off your lashes and lids., You need to give your eyelids and lashes a break, otherwise you’ll risk getting clogged pores, which could make lashes fall out or at least stop them from growing.


If you’re wearing it in place of mascara, don’t wear it at night.
If you wear it at night, don’t wear it all day as well.
 The popular claim is that petroleum jelly can make your lashes appear longer and fuller. You should be able to notice a difference within a few weeks of using it, as long as you use it regularly.Although many people claim that petroleum jelly works to give them fuller, longer lashes, no scientific research has been done to prove that such claims are true.

