 The way the seats are arranged with respect to one another will depend on your intended use of the space. In order to promote conversation, seats should face inward and toward each other. If you plan to watch television together, seats will tend to face in one direction., The distance between different seats can promote different types of interaction. Closely-spaced chairs are ideal for intimate conversation, while wider spacing is more suited to entertaining groups of friends who may need space to move about.
 The positioning of tables, credenzas, shelves, and other storage elements is more flexible than that of the chairs and sofas. Place them in convenient locations based on their intended uses.For instance, if you have a side table that you use to hold drinks, be sure that it is located within reach of a chair that you sit in often.
 If you have a small space, limit the pieces of furniture in the room; you want to prevent your room from feeling overcrowded. Make sure that your arrangement encourages conversation without overwhelming the room’s space., Open or square living rooms allow for more flexibility with furnishings. Pull furniture to the center of the room and arrange it around a small coffee table, for instance. If you have a long, narrow room instead, place furniture against the walls to make the space look larger.
 This arrangement begins with the sofa, as this is typically the largest piece of furniture. Place it at a 90-degree angle from the fireplace. This one-sided seating arrangement makes it easier to entertain large groups and opens up the other half of your room.
 This design starts with a sofa across from the fireplace, and incorporates two loveseats, each at a 90-degree angle from the fireplace, completing a “U” shape. Armchairs can replace the loveseats if you would prefer or if space is limited.
 You want to allow for a comfortable level of heat on a chilly night, so keep at least two or three feet of space between seating and the fire. Keeping some space between the fireplace and your furniture will emphasize the fireplace as the focal point., This will help to reinforce the fireplace’s role as the focal point of your room. After positioning your favorite seating element, the remaining chairs can be arranged based on your preferences.
 Most living rooms with fireplaces will also contain a television and other entertainment center components. Your goal is to keep the television from becoming its own visual focal point, which could detract from the beauty of the fireplace and make the room feel less focused.A convenient way to place the TV is by hanging it on the wall directly over the fireplace. This resolves two competing focal points by merging them into one.
 Your guests will assume that the room’s main attraction is wherever a large mirror is hung, if one exists in the room. Place one directly above or beside your fireplace to highlight its role as the room’s focal point., You do not want lighting to detract from the fireplace’s ambience. When arranging lamps, make sure that you accommodate the fireplace's light into your lighting scheme.A bright lamp placed right by the fireplace can deaden the lively and welcoming appearance of the flames, for example. Instead, position lamps away from the fireplace, and allow for a relatively low-light setting in which the fireplace can feature prominently.
 Try not to overdo the décor, as your fireplace will be the center of attention. Take advantage of this by placing your favorite photographs on the mantle. If you have a particular painting you would like to feature, hang it above the fireplace.
 Plants or flowers on either side of the fireplace can add a soothing feel to the room. Your guests will be able to breathe easier and will feel more relaxed around these reminders of nature, even if the plants are fake.
 Soft blankets and fabrics, especially handmade décor with crochet or knitted designs can enhance coziness in your room. Select comfortable fabrics with simple patterns for a relaxing and peaceful atmosphere., The colors you use will influence the tone and mood of people while they are gathered around the fireplace. Blue encourages relaxation and calmness, while purple is associated with luxury and can encourage creativity, so both would make good options. Crimson, however, has been proven to increase feelings of stress and anxiety.