 Yeast infections can sometimes be difficult to distinguish from other types of infections, so see your doctor right away if you are not sure about your diagnosis. Common symptoms of yeast infections include inflammation, a burning sensation, vaginal pain, and an odor-free vaginal discharge that is either watery or thick and white.If you have other types of vaginal discharge, you may have another type of infection.
Women who are pregnant, are taking antibiotics, have diabetes, or have suppressed immune systems are more likely to get yeast infections.
If you are pregnant and suspect that you have an infection, see a physician to have the infection evaluated. The infection may harm the unborn child if it turns out not to be a yeast infection, A wide variety of creams and vaginal suppositories to treat yeast infections can be found at nearly any drug store. These remedies are sufficient to treat the majority of yeast infections.Some of the products offer different lengths of treatment. If you have recurrent yeast infections, choose a product that can be used for seven days.
If you are feeling very uncomfortable, look for a yeast infection remedy that also contains an itch-relieving ingredient.
Butoconazole, clotrimazole, miconazole, and terconazole are some of the more common active ingredients found in these medications, and they have all been shown to be effective in treating yeast infections., If the typical drug store treatment options aren’t effective for you, or if you’re looking for something more natural, you do have options.Use a boric acid suppository. Boric acid is very effective at killing off the bacteria that cause yeast infections. You can buy boric acid suppositories at health food stores. Never attempt to treat your yeast infection with boric acid powder, as this can worsen the irritation. Keep in mind that this is a poison, so do not allow anyone to perform oral sex on you while you are using it.
Try tea tree oil. You may be able to cure your yeast infection by using a tampon that has been soaked in tea tree oil. Use this method with caution and remove the tampon if it feels uncomfortable in any way. Although the oil is believed to be an antifungal agent, more testing is needed to prove its effectiveness against yeast infections.
Treat your infection with probiotics. There is some evidence that you might be able to fight off a yeast infection by increasing the number of healthy bacteria in your body. In order to do this, you can insert Lactobacillus pills, which can be purchased at natural health food stores, directly in your vagina.You may even be able to clear your infection by eating probiotic-rich yogurt or applying it to your vaginal area.Keep in mind that these kinds of treatments are not as likely to be effective as the more conventional options and they can be expensive.
 Most yeast infections can be treated at home, but in some cases you may need to see your doctor. In general, it’s a good idea to see a doctor if you have never had a yeast infection before, as you may be more likely to misdiagnose yourself. You should also see a doctor if your yeast infection does not get better after treatment.If your yeast infection does not respond to over-the-counter treatments, your doctor may prescribe oral medications.
A yeast infection is often accompanied by a thick white vaginal discharge. If you have a grayish, yellowish, or greenish discharge, see your doctor, as you likely do not have a yeast infection.If you want to confirm that you have a yeast infection, but don’t want to see a doctor, you may want to consider purchasing an at-home screening test, such as the Vagisil Screening Test, to confirm your diagnosis. It is still very important to see your doctor if your symptoms do not improve with at-home treatment., It may not be possible to prevent all future recurrences of yeast infections, but there are lots of things you can do to reduce your chances of getting another one.Don’t take antibiotics unless you need them. Antibiotics can disrupt the balance of bacteria in your vagina, causing a yeast infection. It’s still very important to take these medications when you genuinely need them.
Wear cotton underwear
Avoid excessively tight pants, pantyhose, and underwear
Keep your vaginal area as cool and dry as possible by removing wet clothing right away and avoiding hot tubs and hot baths
If you are taking a birth control pill that contains estrogen and have had recurring yeast infections, consider switching to a progestin-only variety or an alternative form of birth control, as the increased levels of estrogen may be causing your yeast infections.