 Before and after each workout, wash your hands with soap and water. Use a gentle soap. Then moisturize your palm, hand and wrist areas with a quality moisturizing product that works for your skin type.


Moisturize your hands every night before going to bed.;
, Grips will provide a layer of material between the bar and your hand.Be aware that grips can rub against the skin and be a cause of a rip.
 However, don't over-use this method or you risk rubbing it raw. A little pumice rubbing on areas showing excess callusing on occasion will be helpful, to build up medium-softness (too soft and your skin is liable to rip, too callused and it's liable to rip too––aim to get your skin half toughened)., Rips happen as a result of using the uneven bars, high bar, rings, parallel bars or even pommel horse. The friction between the bars and your hands produces a build up of skin. Eventually, this buildup will "rip" off. It's pieces of skin, sometimes small, sometimes large. It's painful, but a gymnast at every level will have to get used to it!

, Snip it away using manicure or nail scissors.


If you are unsure where to cut, seek help from someone experienced in treating rips.
, This will cleanse and allows the rip to breathe, while lotion or Vaseline can prevent this natural action from occurring.Be aware that products are liable to sting when first applied.


If applying lotion, use a fragrance-free, neutral lotion to stop the fresh skin underneath from cracking. By choosing a lotion without added ingredients, you have less likelihood of aggravating the skin and letting it heal faster.
When getting a rip, one very easy thing to do is to rub some black classic chap-stick on the rip. This will keep the rip from going dry and cracking.
 Finish by applying a Band-Aid or other adhesive plaster.
 If the rip feels as if it is producing a lot of heat and is throbbing or causing pain, try cooling it down by placing the rip into cool water. Or, wrap ice cubes in a face washer and hold this against the rip.


Only do this if you're resting. Having cold hands or wrists before returning to a workout or competition can cause more harm.
 A common solution to prevent or protect a wrist area rip is to use gym tape or pre-wrap wrapped around your wrists, finished off with tennis sweatbands; first aid pads can be stuck directly on a rip before adding the tape and sweatbands, then place any grips on top., Avoid using the bars and don't put strain on the rip!

, Dry off.
, This is done as follows:


Get an old, clean sock that you don't care about anymore or a plastic bag with loose rubber bands.
Apply lotion or petroleum jelly on your hands. Alternatively, it might be preferable to rub an antibiotic ointment on the rip, to prevent infection.Put the sock or bag over your hand and leave it on overnight. In the morning, the rip usually has a thin layer of skin over it and is ready to be taped.
, Do not wait for it to take a long time to heal; continued lack of healing is a sign that it needs medical intervention.

