 Practice being mindful by focusing on the here and now. Notice the sensations you feel in your body and the thoughts that pass through your mind. Don’t judge yourself or worry about the future – just observe. Mindfulness can help you separate yourself from your feelings, which makes it easier to respond to them constructively.
 Making regular progress at something can lift your mood. Set small, manageable goals and work towards them on a regular basis. Don’t give yourself big, overwhelming goals, or you may feel like you’ll never reach them and get discouraged.Some good goals to set might include applying for two new jobs or completing one task for work or school every day.
If you want to set a big goal for yourself, break it down into smaller sub-goals so you can see your progress more easily.
 Spend time around other people, especially those who care about you. Reach out to your family and friends or meet new people by volunteering in your community. Talk about how you’re feeling instead of bottling it up.Don’t isolate yourself, even if you want to be alone. Isolation makes feelings of sadness and hopelessness stronger.
 Exercise is a powerful mood booster. Aim to get thirty minutes of moderate activity every day. Cardiovascular exercise is best – try going for a walk, run, or bike ride in the fresh air.Consistent workouts are better than intense but infrequent workouts, so don’t push yourself too hard.
 Stay away from highly processed foods, which can contribute to a low mood. Instead, focus on keeping your blood sugar stable and getting plenty of nutrients. Make vegetables and fruits, lean protein, and whole grains the foundation of your diet.Deficiencies in B vitamins and omega-3 fatty acids may be linked to mood problems. If you’re not getting enough of these nutrients in your diet, consider taking a supplement.
 Mood-altering substances may help you escape your feelings temporarily, but they will only make you feel worse in the long run. When you’re dealing with feelings of hopelessness, it’s best to avoid alcohol and drugs completely.If you’re struggling with addiction, help is available. Your national health website is a good place to start looking for recovery resources. In the U.S., you can visit drugabuse.gov to find treatment options.