 The best thing to do is just start with 1st, 2nd and maybe third position for plies. Make sure to do both sides so the students get used to the idea of turning around and doing the opposite side. After plies, it is best to stick with tendus from first for awhile and eventually progress to doing them from third. If the class still needs to be easier, skip tendu to the back and do it just to the front and side. Practice releves in the same positions as plies. If wanted add in passes without releve and add in releve when the students are ready. For passes be sure to teach couppe as an important part of getting to passe. After plies, tendus, releves and passes the students should be ready to come off the barre. Be sure to add in some balances at the barre in any of these combinations positions.
 Tendus in center should be basic. A few ways to keep it basic is not add arms or to stay facing en face the whole time. Balances can be tried in center once the students have shown progress with them at the barre. Jumps in center can include sautés and echappes and maybe even changements. Center is not the main focus of class yet for beginners so it will likely take more time after a few classes., To prepare for splits later on, students can straighten one leg from the butterfly position and reach for it with the OPPOSITE arm. Be sure to do both legs. A good starting amount of time to hold stretches can be anywhere between 20-30 seconds. When students are ready, have them kneel on one knee and straighten another and stretch over. Do not have them split yet. Make sure, when they do try splits (after multiple classes), they have hands on both sides of the front leg., Chasses and sauté arabesques are great places to start. sauté arabesque arms should be added in later. Make sure both legs are done for chasses and try having them hold their arms in a steady position, such as second, all the way across the floor. Grand jetes are an enjoyable way to end class, even if the technique is not perfect yet., If an older beginner class, the students should not mind the classical music but a variety of speeds will still be appreciated. For younger students throwing in the occasional goofy song can help keep focus. Especially young students may need the whole class to be music they can enjoy, Disney music is a great option for this age group.