 One of the most common symptoms of prostate disease in dogs is straining to pass feces or drops of blood at the tip of the dog's sheath.You may also notice that when your dog does go to the bathroom, there is blood in their urine. This is another possible symptom of prostate disease.
These symptoms occur when your dog’s prostate becomes so enlarged that it squashes the rectum which lies directly above the prostate, or else the enlarged prostate weeps blood into the urethra (the tube through which the dog urinates). Your dog may struggle to defecate because his enlarged prostate is putting too much pressure on his rectum.;
, Prostate disease comes in different forms. The commonest has a slow onset and is typified by straining to pass feces, however, if the prostate becomes infected the dog may develop a fever. The commonest form of prostate disease shows few symptoms initially, and then the dog appears constipated or takes a long time to pass feces. If your has an infection in the prostate gland, which is much less common, he may be feverish, seem stiff on the back legs, and not want to eat much or he may not eat at all for several days. This could be a sign he is in pain and needs to be examined for prostate issues by your vet.You should also check your dog’s temperature for any signs of fever, as a high temperature is often a sign of a disease or an infection, of which one source of infection could be the prostate. You may use an animal thermometer to take his temperature and confirm it is higher than normal.
Know that many dogs have BPH without the owner being aware, and it's only when the prostate is so enlarged it presses on the rectum, that symptoms develops. These dogs are usually well in themselves, but prone to straining.
 For the more unusual forms of prostate disease, you should also observe your dog’s walking pattern and notice if his limbs appear stiff when he walks around. He may limp to one side, walk slower than usual, or have several stiff limbs.Watch your dog walk around your home or yard. If you notice his limbs are stiff and he is not moving as fluidly as he usually does, he may have a prostate issue.
 Prostate disease commonly has a slow onset and the dog may be perfectly normal and only start to show signs once the prostate reaches a critical size. However, a dog with prostate infection may also start to appear lethargic and very low energy. He may even appear depressed or sad, with no energy to go for walks or play with you. You may notice your dog does not seem as excited, happy, or outgoing as he usually is.Some dogs with advanced prostate cancer will experience pain in their abdomen area. You may notice that your dog is sensitive to any touching or stroking of his abdominal area due to pain.

