 Fat and oil-based stains can be very messy, but they're deceptively easy to put to rest if you know how. First off, you'll want to get as much of the excess material gone as possible before moving in to clean the stain. This can be done by scraping a knife along the surface of the carpet; this will pick up some of the material, especially if the mess is very concentrated.


It is recommended you get a blunt-edged knife (like a butter knife) for this, as sharp knives may risk cutting into the carpet itself.
 Baking soda is very well-known for its ability to provoke chemical reactions. Placing some baking soda on the affected area will loosen the fat or oiled-based stain's grip on your carpet, making it far easier to deal with. Cornstarch is a functional alternative to baking soda in this case.
 Adding some controlled heat will make the unwanted fats or oils to be much less resistant to removal. Put your clothes iron on the low or medium setting. After it heats up, apply for a minute or so and then remove it.


Remember to put the towel in between the clothes iron surface and the carpet. Direct application may cause damage to your floor.
 Take a dish towel and dab it with a powdered detergent or baking soda. Gently rub it upon the fat stain. You should notice the grease becoming thinner within a few seconds of doing this.
 Blotting will give the liquid part of the fats or oils to seep up, leaving dry debris that is more appropriately dispatched with a vacuum.
 Vacuuming the stain will help to suck up any excess debris, now that the chemicals you've treated the stain with have been given ample time to unstick the fats. The solid matter in the stain should prove very easy to suck up. Don't spend more than a few seconds vacuuming over it; if the debris hasn't been sucked up by then, it may need more unsticking before it's truly ready.
 If it's not completed to your satisfaction the first time, it's a good idea to give it another shot. It's quite possible that some of it wasn't gotten the first time around.

