 You should never initiate a confrontational interaction without first preparing yourself. This should entail assessing whether or not the issue is worth confronting someone about, planning what you'd like to say, and calming yourself so that you are not angry or overly emotional.


Avoid unnecessary altercations. If someone has said or done something that mildly annoyed you but did not deeply offend you, violate school/workplace codes of conduct, or present any kind of threat, you may want to consider letting it slide and addressing the behavior if it comes up again in the future.Evaluate whether your initiating the confrontation could damage workplace relations or ruin a friendship. This may require some abstract thinking on your part to imagine the potential outcomes and future implications of such a confrontation.
Construct one or two calm, non-emotional sentences in your head that you could use to convey your problem, if you decide to confront the other person. Use factual evidence to support your position, and don't let anger, resentment, or frustration color what you say or how you say it. Practice what you might say in your head before you actually sit down with the other person so you know how to best express your concern., Your top priority should be to ensure everyone's safety, but there are other secondary considerations to make as well. For example, you should never confront someone about inappropriate or problematic behavior in front of other coworkers. You should also generally avoid airing your grievances in a public place, as this can raise everyone's tension, and may cause the problem to escalate.Think of a quiet, private place where you can have a calm discussion with the other person.
Ask that person politely, "May I speak with you in private for a moment?" Then lead him to the quiet place you've chosen, away from other people and distractions.
If you're talking to the other person in your office, consider keeping the door slightly ajar so that others can easily enter the room if need be.
 Don't accuse the other person of anything. Instead, use "I" statements to express your concern. However, it's important that you address the issue head-on, instead of beating around the bush. You want the person to know that there's something upsetting you, but you also want to have a productive conversation on how to resolve the issue.Resist the urge to blame the other person, as this will certainly make matters worse.
Try saying something like, "When you behave the way you're behaving, I feel _________ because ________."
It may be helpful if you offer some position of understanding. For example, say something like, "I understand you've been having a hard time because of ________. But I feel very concerned and upset when you behave the way you've been behaving."
Be honest with the other person. You'll never solve the problem if you're not being completely honest with one another.Let the other individual respond, and take his thoughts and feelings into consideration.
 Are you confronting the other person to make him feel bad, or are you trying to reach a real, practical solution? Any confrontation should be about respecting one another and trying to understand where the other person is coming from. If your motivation is based in anger or resentment, or if you don't have a clear outcome you'd like to work towards, you may need to reframe the issue before you attempt to talk to the other person.


Try to identify both your own needs and motivation, as well as the other person's needs and wants. Work on defining the issue and structuring the conversation in a way that will help all parties involved reach a mutually-desired outcome., As you move through the confrontation towards conflict resolution, make sure that you establish boundaries and consequences going forward. For example, if you're dealing with an employee, let him know that if he continues to cause problems at work he may face further disciplinary action. If you're talking to a friend, let him know that you value his friendship but you will not tolerate being treated poorly. That way you can (hopefully) avoid future conflict and confrontation.