 Walsh currently hosts the CNN show, “The Hunt with John Walsh.” If you have a tip, contact Walsh and his staff directly through his show’s tip line. Residents in the United States may call: 1-866-THE-HUNT or 1-866-843-4868.


The tip line phone number should only be used to report tips on fugitives featured on The Hunt with John Walsh. Do not use it for fan mail or any other purpose.
When calling the tip line, state the name of the fugitive or missing person the tip pertains to. Provide as much additional information as possible.
You can leave an anonymous tip, if desired. The information you provide will then be passed along to the proper authorities.
Note that John Walsh will not be the one actually answering the tip line., U.S. fugitives have fled and will continue to flee to Mexico. Residents of Mexico may also call in tips. If you have a lead for Walsh, call the number: 0188000990546., Instead of calling in a tip, you may submit your information about fugitives or missing persons through an online form. You may only leave tips that pertain to fugitives or missing persons showcased on “The Hunt with John Walsh.” You may find the form through his show’s site.


Type “The Hunt with John Walsh” in your web browser’s search bar.
Click on the result that contains “CNN” in the title and web address.
Locate and click on the graphic that is titled “Got a Tip?” You will automatically be redirected to a form.
Locate the section titled: “Fugitive/missing person.” Select the fugitive or missing person your tip pertains to from a drop-down menu.
Locate the section labeled: “Any information you know about this person.” Type any pertinent information into the text box.
Find the section titled: “Your name (optional).” If you would like to leave your name, type it into the text box; if you wish to leave an anonymous tip, skip this step.
Find the section titled: “Your email (optional).” If you would like to leave your email address, type it into the text box; if you wish to leave an anonymous tip, skip this step.
Scroll all the way to the bottom of the page and locate the “Submit” button. Click on the “Submit” button to send in your form.

