 Let your child learn about the things happening around him. You can do this by spending time with your child as you read him books. If your child already knows how to read, you can let him read some parts of the book with you.


This will strengthen your child’s interest and appreciation while learning. As a whole, reading can answer your child’s curiosity and make him interested in exploring lots of things.
Make yourself interested in reading, too, so you can also stir your child’s interest in this activity. Your child is more likely to imitate you.
Encourage family members to read frequently and make all kinds of reading materials available in your home, for example, magazines, an encyclopedia, or newspapers.
Make a small library in your house. Fill in the bookshelf with the books your child wants to read.;
, For a younger child, you can start by showing him pictures with words describing it. Let him get familiar with different objects as he discovers them in his environment.


For an older child, you can encourage him to visit his school library and let him read there with his friends. You can also suggest that he borrow some books from the library and read them at home.
Encourage your child to learn with different learning styles by incorporating fun activities. Try providing your child with age-appropriate activity books which can enhance his creative expression and problem solving skills, for example, coloring books, connect the dots, crossword puzzles, maze, math problems, etc.
 Listening to your child’s opinion will make him feel valued and respected. Set aside time where you can listen to your child attentively. It 's helpful to always display interest and enthusiasm as your child talks. This will increase your child’s self-worth.


He will feel important and worthy of your time, attention, and love. Children who are valued in their decisions, feelings, opinions, and choices, are more likely to feel better about themselves and be motivated positively.Allow your child to make his own choices. For example, let him choose the clothes that he likes to wear or let him order the food that he wants to eat.
When your child talks and expresses what he feels, make sure that you practice all the nonverbal gestures like maintaining eye contact, using facial expressions, and effective words to convey that you understand him.
 Teaching your child new things will give him the ability to try new things resourcefully. Whenever you find information, spend time discussing it with your child. Teaching your child will motivate him to set high goals for himself, and these high goals will be accompanied by hard work in order to achieve them.


You can teach your child about things like taking care of pets, garden recycling, and home improvement. Just make sure that you talk to your child in a way that he can understand, using age-appropriate terms.
You and your child’s everyday events must be an opportunity for him to learn. It is important to let your child discover how the real world works.
 Ask about the things that he studied and the things that he learned at school, and find out how he is doing. Letting your child talk about the things he learned will help him remember his lessons.


This will enable you to find out if your child is making progress in school or if there are areas where he needs improvement and motivation. Usually, your child will give you a “yes” or “no” response with every question that you ask, so try to use open-ended questions using “what,” “where,” “when,” “why,” and “how,” to make your child speak more and express what they want to say. You can also create opportunities for your child to ask you questions. Here are some of the examples of open-ended questions:
“What happened in your school?”
”Who did you play with?”
“Where did you play with your friends?”
“What was the hardest thing that you experienced in school?”
“What is the best thing that happened to you today?”
“What are the things that you did in school?”

, Whether it is big or small, make sure that you let your child know that you appreciate his hard work. Positive reinforcement will enhance his positive behavior. This will encourage your child to be motivated in learning. When he feels appreciated, he has a tendency to exert more effort next time. You may use compliments such as:


“You did a great job!”
“I saw how you worked hard for your test and I appreciate you getting high scores.”
“Good work!”
“That was the best thing I ever saw.”

, Have a respectful and positive relationship with your kid. Always try to stay on your kid’s team and not against them. This way you can successfully play an influential role in their lives.


Punishing and threatening will fetch no results and will also damage your relationship. Your frustration and fear are normal and understandable.
Remember, your child is not behaving like this just to make your life miserable or because they are good-for-nothings. If you get negative and complain all the time about his behavior then your child might become rebellious and stubborn.
 This distinction makes it less likely that the child will confuse his accomplishments with his self-worth. Saying 'that was a great idea' may always be better than saying 'you are intelligent’.


You need to make your child feel worthy. Be it accomplishments or failures, you should not judge your child on the basis of that. Ups and downs are a part of life and sooner or later your child will understand.
By criticizing your child when it comes to failures and appreciating his work when it comes to accomplishment will confuse him of his accomplishments and self worth.

