 Use common sense. Do not operate saw when tired, and do not allow children to operate it.;
, Do not use chainsaw for purpose not intended. Do not use for cutting non-wood items.
 Use only electrical voltage noted on model plate of chainsaw. Use only extension cords marked for outdoor use.
 Do not operate the pole saw or chainsaw while under the influence of alcohol, medication, or drugs, in rain or wet or damp areas, or where highly flammable liquids or gases are present. Don't operate the saw while in a hurry, while on a tree or on a ladder, or while on aerial booms, buckets or platforms

, If the pole or saw is damaged, adjusted wrong, or not fully and securely assembled, don't use it. If trigger does not turn pole saw on and off, don't use it. The chain must stop moving when you release the trigger. If it doesn't, have the switch replaced by an authorized service center.
 Wear snug fitting clothes when operating pole saw or chainsaw. Wear heavy-duty gloves (rubber gloves when operating outdoors), steel toe safety footwear with non-skid soles, eye protection such as safety glasses, goggles, or face screen, a safety hard hat, ear muffs or earplugs, a hair covering to contain long hair, and a face or dust mask (if working in dusty areas).


Do not wear loose fitting clothing or jewelry. They can get caught in moving chain.
 Make sure you have a clear work area, a planned retreat path for falling limbs, and secure footing to operate from. Inspect tree before trimming. Make allowance for branches to fall freely to the ground.


Do not use your pole saw to fall saplings. Use the chainsaw without pole attachment.
 To reduce the risk of electrical shock, this saw has a polarized plug (one blade is wider than the other). This plug will fit in a polarized plug only one way. If the plug doe not fit full in the outlet of your extension cord, reverse the plug. If it still does not fit, a polarized extension cord is necessary. Do not change the plug in any way.   

, Use common sense while operating the unit. Keep all body parts away from chain when saw is running.
 Be aware of extension cord while operating chain saw. Be careful not to trip over cord. Keep cord away from chain and operator at all times. Do not use near power lines. Keep at least 10 feet (3.0 m) away from electrical lines.
 Keep children, animals, and bystanders away from pole saw and extension cord. Only the pole saw user should be in work area.
 Do not use pole saw to cut down trees. Use the chainsaw without the pole attachment and only if you're trained or have expert help. Do not cut brush or small saplings with pole saw. Use chain saw only, with extreme care. Slender matter may catch in the chain and be whipped toward you. This could also pull you off balance.
 Keep one hand on the pole and the other on the handle.
 Before starting pole saw, make sure chain is not touching anything.
 Avoid body contact with grounded objects such as pipes, fences, and metal posts.
 Do not force the chain. It will do the job better and safest at the rate at which it was intended.
 Be alert for wood springing back. When wood tension is released, limb could spring back and strike operator causing serious injury or death.
 Unplug it, return the telescoping pole to the shortest position, and hold the unit at its balance point (close to the saw end). Hold it with the guide bar and chain to the rear.

