 One of the most difficult parts of hearing loss can be learning to adjust your lifestyle. When someone is talking, try to stand directly in front of them so that mouth movements can clue you in on what they're saying.If you're in a crowded place, sit closely so that mouth-to-eye contact is easy and unnoticed by the larger group. When possible, try to avoid noisy places.
Use a phone or television amplifying device to help make your day-to-day life easier.
 The medical technology to help with hearing loss has greatly improved in recent years. On the most basic level, a hearing aid will take sounds from around you and amplify them into your ear. There are a number of different hearing aids depending on the extent of your problems and personal problems.One type of hearing aid is an ear canal hearing aids. These go down into your ear canal. They are not very noticeable, so they may be a good choice for discretion. These don't need much power to work, so you don't have to change the batteries often. The ear canal hearing aid can cause wax build-up in the ear canal.
Another type of hearing aid is an in the ear hearing aid. These fit the lower or upper part of your ear. They are used most frequently for people with minor hearing problems. This type of hearing aid has a large battery, so they have a longer life than some of the other types. They may also cause a build-up of wax in the ear.
The third type of hearing aid is the behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aid. These have a hook that goes over your ear and sits just behind your ear. This piece connects to a part that is put into your ear canal. This type of hearing aid is large and noticeable; however, it has more power to pick up hard-to-hear sounds.
The last type of hearing aid is an open fit hearing aid. This is a type of BTE model, but with no piece inside the ear canal. This lets sounds at a low-frequency enter the ear naturally, while the hearing aid amplifies higher frequencies that may be hard to hear. This type of hearing aid is more intricate with more parts, so it can be more difficult to use.
If hearing aids are not proving effective, speak to your physician regarding other options such as a cochlear implant. This type of device works differently than a hearing aid. It is inserted surgically and functions to directly stimulate the nerves present in the inner ear that send signals to the brain for hearing., You may notice how your hearing loss is negatively affecting your interactions with friends and, family; it may also be affecting your work. However, losing your hearing doesn't need to spell doom. Many times a loss of hearing can help people develop rich inner lives rather than constantly being drawn into what is happening around them.Educate those around you on your shifting needs. It can be frustrating if your family or friends are not altering their interactions with you, but they can't know what you don't tell them. Be an advocate for yourself and tell them what makes life easier for you. This will eliminate a lot of tension that may come up and force open communications.

