 People with chronic asthma may wheeze occasionally and require the use of their asthma medication to control symptoms. An attack is different in that it results in more severe symptoms which last longer and require immediate attention. Early symptoms that an attack may be imminent include: Itchy neck
Feeling irritable or short-tempered
Feeling nervous or edgy
Fatigue
Dark circles under the eyes;
, An asthma attack can deteriorate into a life-threatening situation that requires immediate medical attention. Know how to identify an asthma attack so that you can begin treatment as soon as possible. Although signs and symptoms of an asthma attack vary depending on the person, the most common symptoms include:Wheezing or whistling while breathing. Most often the wheezing is heard when a person is breathing out (exhaling) but can sometimes also be heard when they are breathing in (inhaling).Coughing. Some sufferers may cough in an attempt to clear the airway and get more oxygen into their lungs. This may be especially aggravated at night.Shortness of breath. People suffering from asthma attacks will complain of being short of breath. They may be breathing in short shallow breaths that appear to be faster than normal.Chest tightness. Attacks are often accompanied by a feeling that chest feels tight or that there is pain on the left or right side.Low peak expiratory flow (PEF) readings. If the person uses a peak flow meter, a small device that measures the maximum speed of expiration in order to monitor a person's ability to exhale air, and the measurements range from 50% to 79% of your personal best, this is indicative of an asthma flare-up.
 Children will often have the same symptoms as adults with asthma, such as wheezing or whistling when breathing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness or pain.


Fast breathing is common in an asthma attack in children.
Children may show 'retractions' where you can see their neck pulling, belly breathing, or their ribs when they breathe.
In some children a chronic cough can be the only symptom of an asthma attack.In other cases, symptoms of asthma in children are limited to coughing that is made worse with viral infections or when they are sleeping., Assess what is happening to determine if emergency medical attention is needed and what treatment should be done at the scene. Individuals who are having mild symptoms may be able to use their medication which should work immediately. Those individuals in greater distress should be seen by emergency medical personnel. In the case of a severe asthma attack, call or have someone nearby call emergency medical services before proceeding to treat the attack. Know how to distinguish which situation you have on your hands:People with asthma who need their medication but may not require immediate medical attention will:

be wheezing slightly but not appear in distress
may be coughing to clear their airway and get more air
have some shortness of breath but able to talk and walk
do not appear to be anxious or in distress
will be able to tell you they have asthma and where their medication is located


People who are in significant distress and will require immediate medical attention:

may appear pale or even have a bluish color to their lips or fingers
have the same symptoms as above but intensified and more severe
strain their chest muscles to breathe
experience severe shortness of breath, which results in short panting breaths
wheeze audibly with inspiration or expiration
have increased anxiety about the situation
possibly be confused or less responsive than normal
have trouble walking or talking because of shortness of breath
demonstrate persistent symptoms



