 As a parent, you lead by example. Therefore, it is essential that the examples you set for your child are positive.


Be sure to take care of yourself. Put your physical health first by eating proper meals, sleep as needed, etc. your child will take note of your healthy habits and pick them up as well, keeping themselves healthy. You should also avoid taking drugs, drinking alcohol, or resorting to other hazardous ‘outlets’ to feel better.
You shouldn’t forget the importance of good mental health, either. Whether you realize it or not, your child takes emotional cues from you. If you present yourself as anxious, scared, angry, or sad, your child will mimic your emotions, feeling that there is a good reason to be feeling that way. Therefore, remaining calm and optimistic will give your child reason to do so as well.
This is not to say that you should keep all negative feelings bottled up; you should definitely speak to others about how you feel (this will teach your child that being connected, socializing, and having healthy relationships with others is beneficial and that it is okay to trust others); just don’t dwell on these negative feeling to much because your child might do the same.;
, While child refugees are migrating/seeking asylum (looking for a country to legally accept them to live in their country), their daily routines are disturbed. Some lose siblings, parents, as well as other relatives and friends. Their homes are destroyed, or they may now be living with a physical disability. Establishing daily routines once again can offer a child comfort.


Try to make this new routine as close to your child's old daily routine as possible while making sure there is time for you and your child to speak, connect, and communicate feelings. Daily routines can include getting them back into school, and finding a place to live as soon as possible. Set a bed time, shower/bath time, etc. Knowing what to expect throughout the day gives children a sense of familiarity and they will find comfort in stable daily routines again.
 According to the Refugee Health Technical Assistance Center, child refugees are actually at higher risk of developing mental illnesses in comparison to adult refugees. An estimated 10-40% of adult refugees suffer from PTSD and 5-15% suffer from major depression - - while about 50-90% of child refugees suffer from PTSD and 6-40% suffer from major depression.


These mental illnesses may develop for many reasons. Perhaps your child lives in constant worry/fear that another catastrophe may occur, witnessed the death of a loved one, lost their home, barely escaped death, etc. signs and symptoms of PTSD and other mental illnesses include: intrusive memories, negative changes in thinking and mood, irritability, trouble concentrating and sleeping, etc.If you suspect that your child has developed PTSD or another mental illness, please seek the help of a medical professional.
 Your child cannot keep everything bottled up inside. Children need some sort of outlet or opportunity to talk about what happened, what they went through, and how they feel about it. Try to ask your child if they would like to speak about what happened and communicate your own feelings with them. Have thoughtful conversations with them and be sure to remain empathetic.


It is extremely important that you pay attention to your child's concerns and emotions. Let them know that the way they feel is completely normal, and that you feel the same way they do about many things. Through these conversations, your child will be able to speak about what they went through with more ease in the future, and the most important part- your child will feel that they are heard and important.
 One of the most effective ways of helping your child cope with the struggles of being a child refugee is the opportunity to go to school. Your child may even have to learn a new language, which is actually proven to lower the chances of developing PTSD. In school, your child can make new friends and learn to build normal and healthy friendships. They can continue their education- which is obviously very important- and feel as if they are living a normal childhood once again.
 As previously mentioned, while learning a new language can be very beneficial to children, under certain circumstances, it can cause even more stress for them. If you yourself do not learn the first language of the new region you live in, your child can become your primary translator.


In addition to the burden they carry with them every day (whether that be memories of war, natural disasters, death, mental illness, physical disabilities, etc.) and school work, they have to help you pay your bills, do paperwork, read, write, navigate new technology, speak to others for you, etc. You will also gain the ability to help them with homework. Learning this new language will take a huge load off of your child and allow him/her to live more of a normal childhood.
 Strong relationships are inarguably important to a person's wellbeing. For child refugees, these relationships are especially important, as they need as much emotional support as possible. Their friends can offer advice about how to cope with their struggles and take their mind off those struggles through play or conversation. Make some friends yourself and teach by example that it is fine to confide in others and look to good friends for support and positivity. In the end, this will boost their overall mental health and happiness.
 As a parent, you should promote good ways to cope and solve problems. Through conversation and example, you should push your child to develop ideas of how to cope with any stress or negative feelings.


Options can include reading books, writing, watching a favourite show or movie, playing a game, listening to music, going for a walk, exercise, etc. Ask your child what makes them feel better when they are sad and tell them to do that whenever they feel stressed, anxious, etc. Your child will continue to carry this advice with him/her for the rest of his/her life, improving overall happiness and satisfaction with life itself.
 Your child is most likely afraid/worried that something like this will happen again. One of the most important things you can do for your child is reassure them that everything is going to be alright. As previously said, if your do not have a reason to worry, neither do they. Remind your child that you made it this far together and that each passing day will become progressively better. Speak to your child about past wars, natural disasters, etc. Discuss how the community returned to its normal self, and the people surpassed every obstacle, recovered, and are now living normal and happy lives again.
 Of course, you could never forget whatever horrendous event changed your life forever- and you shouldn't try to. Try to look at what happened in a positive, and new light.


Encourage your child to remember how it changed your lived for the better. Maybe it brought you closer together, perhaps it made you both stronger as people, or maybe your new home brought new and better opportunities. This mentality is something that your child will carry with them forever, allowing them to appreciate even the worst of days and look at each moment in a positive way.

