 In most countries, you need a valid license as well as current insurance in order to drive legally. Further, many countries do not recognize other country’s licenses. However, most do recognize an International Driving Permit.The best source of information regarding licensing in the country you plan to visit is the embassy of that country.;
, The minimum driving age in many countries is 18. This applies whether or not you are licensed in your home country. One the other end of the age spectrum, some countries also have an maximum age limit. These limits are generally 70 or 75, and exist in countries including Ireland and Romania.In Africa, for instance, most countries require drivers to be 18. However, Zambia and Zimbabwe allow drivers as young as 16. In South Africa you have to 17, and in Niger, you have to be 23.
Drivers can be as young as 14 in the U.S. and Canada, though most North American countries - and around the world, for that matter - have a minimum driving age between 16 and 18.
 It is highly recommended that you get an IDP if you plan to be driving abroad. Essentially, if translates your driver’s license in ten major languages. As such, it not only serves as a license, but as a valid form of identification in the vast majority of the world’s countries.In order to get an IDP, you will likely need to have a current driver’s license in your home country.
Be sure to get your IDP only from an approved organization. In the U.S., these organizations are AAA and AATA.
The easiest way to get an IDP in the U.S. is fill out the online application, print it out, and bring it to an insurance office that sells AAA. You will also need 2 passport photos, which you can likely purchase at the office. There is also a $20 permit fee.
 Most insurance policies will not cover you while driving abroad. While you may be covered in a country neighboring your own, never assumed this is the case. The best way to make sure you’re protected from both financial and legal penalties is by contacting your insurance company directly.If necessary, they will provide information about how to extend your coverage. This will often include a fee or temporary increase in insurance premiums. If you’re renting a car, you will likely want to purchase insurance through them. See the corresponding section in this article.
 If you are insured in a European country, get a Green Card. These are free with your coverage, and provide you with proof of insurance that is valid in most European countries. You can likely print your green card from your insurance issuer’s website, with the option to upgrade for additional coverage while driving abroad., Many countries will allow you to get a license in your new country of residence more easily if you already have a current driver’s license in the country you’re leaving. Some will simply allow you to “transfer” your license to drive, though you will probably need to pay some fees for your new license.


Many countries require you to get a new license within a certain period of time. Visit a government website to check on the time frame in the country you’re moving to.
 In addition to licensing and insurance, you may need additional paperwork to travel in certain areas or use specific roads. Prevent legal complications by checking for any additional permits or other paperwork you may need.For example, some countries require emergency gear such as cones and reflective vests in all vehicles.Divided highways sometimes have different regulations than other roads. For instance, in some countries, many highways require you to pay a toll, while others may require a specific permit.
 If you're traveling or moving abroad and intend to drive, this will likely increase the amount of preparation you'll need to do. For instance, it may take a while to acquire or update your license and insurance to meet specific requirements in your destination country. To ensure that you're fully prepared, look into this information at least a month or two before arriving.

