 This is the foundation for every editor’s skills. Regardless of the language that you are working in, whether you are a native speaker or you’ve learned it later on in life, you need to have a mastery over it. You need to feel confident in your ability to recognize and conform to the language’s rules for punctuation, grammar, and style, and idioms.Brush up on your syntax, grammar, and punctuation skills by reading format and style guides. Practice using MLA, Chicago, Turabian, and APA style guides to get a broad understanding of different writing formats.
 While a formal education, like a bachelor’s or master’s degree, is not required to be a good editor, it can help you strengthen your skills. Many editors have degrees in English, journalism, or communications that help them develop their editing and writing style. A classroom setting can be a great environment to learn and master the skills you need to improve your editing.


You can also continue your education by attending a writer’s group, listening to lectures online, or by reading.
 Read pieces from as many different authors as you can. Each type of writing has different standards and expectations that the piece must conform to. So while authors have different voices, they will usually write a in a style that corresponds to the type of work they’re creating. An author writing their first fiction novel will need to write and structure their story in a very different way than if they were writing a press release. Becoming familiar with these different styles of writing will help you identify the tone of the text and to edit with its audience in mind.While writing styles are often stylistic choices, they also reflect an author's background. For example, someone who is not a native English speaker will write an English poem very differently than a native speaker. It can also reflect an author's education, particularly when they are writing more formal pieces, like for an academic journal.
For example, news articles and press releases are written in an "inverted triangle" format, with the most important information at the beginning and progressively less important detail following. Advertising copy needs to effectively state the benefits of the product or service to the prospective buyer., While you may already edit a certain kind of writing, like blog posts or academic research, it’s a good idea to market yourself as an expert in a particular sub-field. Your specialization might be in news articles or press releases. When you’re specialized, you can tailor your research and practice your editing skills with documents that are within your field.It helps to specialize in a field that you’re passionate about. People that are passionate about world news might be more drawn to editing journalism pieces instead of creative fiction novels.
This type of editor would often work at the developmental and substantive phase of writing. An expert would be able to press the author to make sure that the content is coherent, logical, and factual.

