 If your parent is likely to downplay their alcoholism to a medical professional, consider going with them to their medical appointments. Raise any concerns you have with their medical professional. If your parent minimizes their alcoholism or tries to talk around it, speak up and make sure your parent has adequate information about how alcohol may affect their health.Ask the medical doctor, “Are there any guidelines you would suggest for alcohol consumption? How might these medications interact with alcohol?”

, Quitting alcohol cold turkey can cause severe or even deadly withdrawal symptoms.Talk to your parent’s doctor or other medical professionals about creating a healthy and effective way to reduce or eliminate your parent’s alcohol consumption.

Your parent’s doctor may prescribe a medication to help your parent reduce their alcohol consumption, or they may refer your parent to an addiction specialist or mental health specialist.
A psychologist or other mental health specialist may be able to help address any underlying psychological issues that might be contributing to your parent’s drinking.
 If your parent is in assisted living or you are planning to look into assisted living, check their alcohol policies. Some may serve alcohol, others may ban it, some consider alcohol only under a physician’s guidance, still others only allow it in certain areas. Think about what may be the best option for your parent. Carefully consider the options before making a choice.If you’re about to admit a parent to assisted living, let staff and physicians know ahead of time of your parent’s alcoholism.
 While you may think you are helping your parent, it’s likely they will go buy more. This can lead to anger, resentment, bitterness, fights, or large disagreements, especially if your parent is under the influence when you do it. Your parent will only stop drinking when they are ready to get help and not before, despite your best efforts.Also keep in mind that abruptly cutting off your parent’s access to alcohol can lead to dangerous or deadly withdrawal symptoms.
 If you know your parent is likely to drink, find an alternative way for them to go home. Offer a ride, find a taxi, or plan to meet at their place. If you know your parent is resistant to get help, keep them safe in the meantime. If you know your parent is likely to drink, make arrangements ahead of time.If hosting a family get-together, host it at your house and do not serve alcohol.
 Offer to help your parent get the support and assistance they need to stop drinking. If they keep refusing to get help, arrange for an intervention.Consult an addiction specialist before arranging the intervention. They can offer you advice on the best way to proceed.
Once you’ve gotten some professional advice, get together with a few of your parent’s close friends and relatives to discuss a plan of action.
Plan out what everyone will say in advance. During the intervention, all the participants should be prepared to talk about how your parent’s alcoholism has affected them, and what the consequences will be if they do not seek help.

