 Use plastic hair clamps or clips to separate your hair. Try to clip back all the hair that is not already part of the knot so it doesn't end up in the mess. The knot should be free from the clips with everything else pulled out of the way.









If you have a ton of tangles, it will be much easier for you to work in sections.Try dividing your hair into about six sections and work on them one at a time.
If you're working through all your hair, make sure you separate the finished sections from those that are still knotted. You may want to braid the finished section so it doesn't tangle again., Apply the product and allow it to sit for several minutes so it can soak into your hair. Follow the instructions on the bottle of product, but know it's okay to be generous. The more slip and lubrication, the easier it will be to undo the knot.









If you're using oil or gel, rub a little into the knot with your fingertips.
 Begin close to the bottom of your hair and gently slide your fingers through the lock. If you encounter a knot, don't tug, just skip over it and continue combing down to the end of your hair.Slowly move up the length of your hair, gently pulling the strands apart. You'll be surprised how far you can get de-tangling using this method.








Feeling the knot with your hands can give you a better idea of what you're working against, like the size and how tightly the strands are knotted.Finger-combing will also help distribute your detangling product through your hair., You always want to start at the bottom of the knot. Pulling above the knot will only make it tighter.Gently pull the wide-toothed comb from the bottom of the knot to the end of your hair. If you can't get it through without hitting a snag, move even closer to the end of your hair.








Be very, very gentle when combing through the knot. If you tug and break your hair, those damaged and broken strands will only create future tangles.If you can't get the comb through the knot, try applying more product.
Remember to take breaks if you get tired or frustrated. This process may take quite a while.
 When you are able to comb easily through your hair, move up the strand a little and gently pull the comb downwards, applying product as needed.









Make sure you are holding your hair firmly with your free hand, near the root. This will make the tugging less painful and can help prevent breakage.If you can't move the comb smoothly through your hair without hitting snags or tearing your hair, move upwards in smaller increments., Even when you've successfully removed the knot from your hair, you may find a few tiny knots that are extremely tight. Try loosening these knots by pulling a few strands just above the knot and see if they slide through. If they won't budge, stop and try a different strand of hair.








If you have removed some hair from the tiny knot but it still won't undo, use a pair of hair scissors to snip them off just above the top of the knot. Never rip the knot out with a comb.