 Experienced players won’t throw a rock for their first move, so you should lead with scissors. This way you can beat their paper or tie if they also lead with scissors., If your opponent won a round, they’re likely to use that same move again in the next round. Knowing this, you should change your move that you lost with to one that can beat the move that your opponent had just played.

For example, if your opponent just beat you with a rock, you should switch your next move to paper to beat the rock that your opponent will likely use again., Opponents often have tells in the way they position their hands that will let you know what move they might be thinking about.


For example, a tucked thumb in the crook of the index finger suggests that your opponent will throw rock.A loose hand is usually going to result in paper.
A hand that has the first two fingers loose is likely going to be scissors., Tell your opponent that you’re going to use a rock move. Telling your opponent your next move will have them thinking that you won’t actually throw that move. Then when you do actually throw that move, you’ll have a greater chance of beating them since they weren’t expecting it.

For example, tell your opponent you’re going to throw a rock. Since your opponent thinks you won’t actually lead with a rock, they’ll assume you’re going to play paper or scissors. Your opponent will then likely play scissors or rock to beat your paper or scissors. Then when you play rock, you either beat their scissors or draw a stalemate to their rock. In either case, you don’t lose!, If your opponent is repeatedly losing they’re more likely to throw rock, since this is symbolically a very aggressive option that players rely on when losing.

On the other hand, paper is seen as the most passive move so you won’t expect this from an opponent who’s losing., When you’re at a loss of what to do, throw paper. Because scissors is the statistically least often thrown move, and because rock is the most often thrown move, paper is the best way to go.Paper will beat rock, which is the most commonly thrown move. Scissors can beat paper, but because it’s the least often thrown move the chances of losing are much less likely.

