 This doesn't have to be a serious conversation, but you should take time to talk to your boyfriend each day. You can schedule a regular thing, like nightly walks, or just have some time away from the TV each night.


To some degree this should come naturally. If you are having trouble conversing, try going on a quiet date, like dinner or coffee, where your only option is to talk.
Simply asking your boyfriend "How was your day?" is a great way to open conversation. This is an open ended question that allows him to pick and choose the most interesting bits of his day to share with you.
You can plan your talking time around your schedules. If early evenings are always bad, try to talk in the mornings or afternoons.
 Conflict is an inevitable part of any relationship. In order to address conflict correctly, you need to identify how you both handle conflict and figure out ways to deal with disagreements that are mutually beneficial.


People have different styles of conflict resolution. Some people avoid or deny conflict, others become hostile and blame the other person, and some people look at conflict as a competition and try to manipulate the situation to win. Try to be conscious of how you handle conflict. Identifying your method is the first step to adjusting it.You need to view conflict as a shared issue. In a relationship, there is rarely only one party who is in the right. Do not try to get your way every time or minimize and deny what your boyfriend is feeling. Conversely, always giving in to satisfy another person's needs is also damaging. You'll end up harboring feelings of resentment.Your attitude helps in conflict resolution. Go in with the right frame of mind, which means you're approaching the conflict as an issue between two equals. Be respectful when expressing your own feelings and receptive to what your boyfriend is feeling. You both need to make compromises to assure the other party feels secure.Resolving conflict is a process. Start by identifying the issue, discussing several possible solutions, and then mutually deciding which solution, or combination of solutions, is the most viable. Implement the solution and follow up with discussion in a week or two. Evaluate how the solution is working and how you're both feeling about the issue., Sex is a big part of any intimate relationship. Many relationships end due to sexual incompatibility. As you start moving into physical intimacy, be prepared to openly talk about sex.


Many couples feels hesitant to discuss sex, especially if there are issues in regards to their sex life. Feelings of shame and discomfort can halt conversation, but communication is important to a healthy relationship and sex life. Establishing dialogue is important.Find the right time to talk. During sex, people often discuss what feels good in the moment. If you want to have a more detailed conversation about needs and wants, wait until you're not neutral grounds.Talk about any changes in your body, such as hormonal changes or certain medications curbing sexual desire. If your boyfriend does not know what's going on with you, he may interpret changes as a lack of interest. Discuss how to get around such issues together as a couple.Be honest. As you begin becoming intimate with another person, be honest about your wants and needs. Sexual problems become more difficult the longer they go on, so anything that's unsatisfying or makes you uncomfortable should be discussed right away., Every romantic relationship comes with a series of expectations, but there are no universal truths in regards to romance. To maintain healthy communication throughout a relationship, be upfront about your expectations.


Expectations change when we move past the preliminary dating phase. Expectations in terms of time spent together, daily contact, and sex adjust with time. Respecting and accepting change is healthy and normal, and talking about your needs as they arise, is important to maintaining a relationship.Your boyfriend cannot know what you want and need unless you tell him. If you feel uncomfortable without daily communication, even just something small like a text message, tell him this. Your boyfriend might also have different expectations, wants, and needs than you. When you talk to him, try to empathize and respect where he is coming from if disagreements or mismatched expectations arise.Space is another factor in a relationship that needs to be discussed. Your and your boyfriend both need time apart with friends and time to engage in your own personal hobbies. Discuss what you expect in terms of time alone and private time with friends.