 Your city or county office should have an application you can complete. Some applications are available online. Each application is different, but they will generally ask for common information. In Maricopa County, Arizona, for example, you must provide the following when applying for a license for the first time:your name and address as the owner
name, breed, color, and age of your dog
date of rabies vaccination
manufacturer and serial or lot number of the vaccination used
date when re-vaccination is required
hospital or clinic where your dog was vaccinated
veterinarian’s license or ID number and signature that they gave the vaccination
proof of sterilization (if applicable)

, Submit your application to the appropriate address and pay your fee. The amount of the fee will vary depending on where you license your dog. Call ahead of time and ask about acceptable methods of payment.


In some places, such as Los Angeles, seniors qualify for a reduced fee.You should ask the office if discounts are available.
 Processing times will vary. For example, in New York City, you will need to wait two to four weeks to receive your license and tags.You may have to wait longer, depending on where you live.
 Typically, the city will charge you a small fee to replace the tags if you lose them. Contact the appropriate office and ask how to request a replacement. Often, you can request a replacement online or by sending a written request to the office., In some places, you can buy a lifetime license. If that option isn’t available, or if you didn’t choose it, then you need to renew your license. Check back with the same office for the process.


Also check the date for renewals. Some counties or cities will limit when you can renew a dog license. In Montgomery County, Ohio, you must renew the license between December 1 and January 31.Sometimes, you have to renew early because your dog’s rabies vaccine will have expired before the license. In that situation, you must get a rabies vaccination update and send proof to the city.