 Some dermatologists recommend laser and/or intense pulsed light therapy to reduce or erase sunspots. These treatments usually take several treatments before significant effects are achieved, and they work by destroying the cells in your skin that produce melanin.Laser and light therapy are both considered safe, sound treatment options. They successfully eradicate melatonin-producing cells without damaging the surface of your skin.
Laser therapy may slightly discolor your skin, but it will not cause any significant damage.
Any time you use laser or light therapy, your doctor will advise you on how to best protect your skin from exposure to the sun.
 Another option for removing sunspots is cryotherapy. This procedure involves having a qualified dermatologist freeze the spots with liquid nitrogen so that the excess pigment in your skin is destroyed. The treatment may cause some slight scarring/discoloration, but as the skin heals it will appear slightly lighter., Dermabrasion involves a dermatologist carefully smoothing down the outer layers of your skin, called planing, with a rotating electric brush. Once the outer layer of skin is gone, a new layer will grow over the affected area with a lighter pigment. Be aware, though, that dermabrasion can leave your skin red and may cause the affected area to temporarily form a scab.Only use approved dermabrasion products if using this option at home. Attempting to smooth down your skin with a device that was not intended for dermabrasion could cause permanent skin damage.
 Chemical peels involve the controlled use of a mild acid. A dermatologist will apply the acid to your sunspots to burn off the outer layer of skin, and as new skin forms it will grow with a lighter pigment. Be aware, though, that this treatment option typically requires several treatments, and may cause irritation and some discoloration at the site of the treatment.If you're considering having a chemical peel, you should only allow a qualified dermatologist to conduct the procedure. Do not attempt to burn off skin blemishes at home, as this may cause serious injury and skin damage.

