 While it's possible to quit smoking for good without having to throw away all of your smoking-related objects, it can be immensely difficult when you are constantly reminded of the pleasures of smoking. At the very least, throw away every cigarette you own; it's much harder to relapse when you can't just reach for a cigarette nearby.;
, The power of accountability is very strong when it comes to breaking addictions. Find someone who is trustworthy and wants to see you succeed in breaking your smoking habits. Ask them to hold you accountable by calling you once a day, discussing your struggles with addiction, and keeping your morale high.


At certain times during your recovery period, you will feel strong symptoms of withdrawal and you will feel an overwhelming urge to smoke a cigarette. During these times, call your accountability partner and talk it out with them. The support of a friend is important and can be the difference between relapsing and not.
 Typically, this means that you should stay away from situations where other people will be smoking. Seeing other people enjoy smoking may evoke a desire to join them, and it can be difficult to decline if someone offers you a cigarette.
 For many smokers, stress is the primary trigger for smoking relapse. When you are stressed, you must consciously keep yourself from relieving that stress with a cigarette. Instead, replace the behavioral response with a new one, such as going for a run or eating a handful of cashews.
 Take conscious note of how differently you perceive the world now that you are recovering from smoking addiction. Can you smell better? Can you taste a broader range of tastes? Do you feel healthier and more energetic? Keep track of how much money you haven't spent on cigarettes since quitting and treat yourself to a reward occasionally.
 For example, alcohol is known to reduce inhibition and willpower. Substances that alter the mind can be highly counterproductive when it comes to addiction recovery and smoking relapse prevention, so they should be avoided until you have fully recovered.

