 If you have the budget, time, and inclination to overhaul your home entirely, feel free to go wild. If not, however, prioritize rooms that see the most use. Don’t waste time and money on, say, your bedroom, which hardly anyone but you will see. Instead, focus on areas like your:Living room
Family room
Dining room
Kitchen
Bathroom(s);
, If you’re a purist, bring the outside in with seasonal colors that emphasize cold. If, on the other hand, you want to make your home a comfy hideaway from the elements, go the opposite route with warm colors. There’s no right or wrong, so follow your instincts and please your own taste.


Cold color schemes include white paired with either blue, burgundy, emerald, gray, plum, or silver.Warm colors also include white, as well as browns, reds, and yellows.To find colors that match your paint, furniture, and other decor, use online color palettes like , If you celebrate Christmas, you’re probably already starting the winter off by decorating for that. But whether or not you celebrate that holiday, search the aisles or online for decorations that don’t tie directly into the holiday. Use these to decorate your home throughout the winter season, even after you’ve packed all the Santa stuff away.Items to look for include figurines, framed pictures, snow globes, wreaths, and garland.
Neutral designs include snowmen, sleighs, winter villages, and bare or snow-covered evergreens.
 Again, if you want to go hog-wild about it, feel free to make your home a winter wonderland with any number of appropriately themed decorations. But if time, budget, and space is limited, use them wisely. Consider:


Choosing one fanciful item to stand out as a seasonal centerpiece in a given area, like a model winter village to top a mantelpiece, bureau, or window seat.Replacing everyday items with seasonally decorated ones, like dish- or hand towels, salt and pepper shakers, and placemats.
Investing in seasonal pillow cases, blankets, comforters, and/or even sofa- and armchair covers to quickly punch up areas like bedrooms, living rooms, and dens., Between school and holidays, both fall and winter can be busy times of year, so plan ahead to minimize work. As you decorate for each season and/or holiday, use items that will still be appropriate as you roll over to the next so you can minimize work. For instance:Red, yellow, orange, and brown scream autumn when bunched together, but each is a warm color that can help make your winter home more inviting. Say you decorated your living room with throw pillows in all four colors for fall. Simply take away the yellow and orange ones and leave the red and brown pillows.
Hanging wreaths with bare branches is a popular way to decorate for both fall and winter. Simply swap the autumn leaves with more winter-appropriate flair like holly leaves, oranges, or leaves painted in cool colors like blue or silver.
Evergreen garland and pine cones are Christmas favorites, but on their own they work just as well for the whole winter.

