 There is some evidence that moist heat more effectively and quickly penetrates into deep tissues to help relieve pain. Fashion a moist heating pad for yourself if you need immediate relief because it’s most often used for shorter periods of time.Mix moist and dry heat throughout the day if you want.;
, The easiest way to relieve pain with moist heat is by using a pre-moistened towel or cloth. Apply the cloth to the area causing you pain.


Use a towel or washcloth depending on how large the area causing you pain is.
Run the cloth under what as hot as you can get it. You could also boil water and pour it over the cloth in a sink or bathtub to prevent burning yourself.
Wrap the cloth in another cloth and place the cloth directly on the area causing you pain. If it is too hot, either remove it, allow it to cool a bit, or wrap it in another cloth.Heat a moistened towel in the microwave for 45 seconds to a minute if you don’t want to use boiling water. Be careful when you remove it from the microwave.
Apply the pad for no more than 20 minutes at a time., Many companies now offer frozen vegetables that you can steam directly in the bag. Use your microwave to cook a bag of these vegetables and apply it to your sore muscles.


Choose a vegetable that can easily spread over any area where you have pain. Small vegetables or chopped vegetables such as peas, corn, mini carrots, or onions are good options.
Allow the vegetables to cool for a couple of minutes once they’re done steaming in the microwave. This will also let the steam settle and make the pad more moist.
Place a towel or cloth under the vegetables to avoid burning yourself.
Keep the bag of vegetables on your skin for up to 20 minutes., If you have a reusable water bottle or another container that won’t leak, fill it with warm to hot water.Apply it to the area causing you pain for up to 20 minutes.Avoid using boiling water, which may scald or burn your skin.
Place a cloth or towel between your bottle and skin to minimize the risk of burning yourself.
 Fill a warm bath to help you relax and relieve pain. Warm water can soothe muscles and get blood and oxygen flowing to help pain and promote healing.Direct any jets in your bath on the areas causing you pain.
If you don’t have a bath, take a shower and direct the warm water stream on areas causing you pain.
The water should be between 36 and 40 degrees Celsius to minimize the risk of scalding. Use a thermometer or check the temperature by slowly sticking your hand or foot in the waterAdd some Epsom salts to your bath, which can help relieve muscle pain.If you don’t have a bath, consider using the shower or a steam room.Stay in the bath or shower for up to 20 minutes.