 Natural can help you to ease the pain of a toothache and lower your discomfort, but if you are experience persistent toothaches you need to tackle the root of the problem. This will most likely require visiting your dentist. There is a lack of conclusive evidence to support the genuine effectiveness of herbal remedies in dentistry.If you opt for a herbal remedy, discontinue once you feel it is ineffective. Do not continue to apply the remedy to the aching tooth thinking that increasing the dose could make it better. Increasing the dose might even make your worse toothache.
Immediately rinse your mouth with water if you feel a burning or stinging sensation following the use of herbal medicine. Do not use mouth wash because its alcohol content can further irritate the delicate tissues inside your mouth.
Remember that toothache from an infection won't go away until the infection is gone., If you experience toothache that persists for more than one or two days you should make an appointment to see your dentist as soon as possible. Natural remedies may help you to relieve the pain in the short-term, but they will not cure your underlying condition. An untreated toothache could lead to a dental abscess.Painkillers such as paracetamol and ibuprofen are likely to be more effective than the natural remedies at easing the pain of your toothache.
Be sure never to place a painkiller directly against your gum as it may damage your gum tissue., If you are experiencing toothache you need to understand why to take steps to prevent aches recurring after treatment. Toothache occurs when the central section of the tooth, known as the pulp, becomes inflamed. The nerve endings in this central section are highly sensitive to pain, which can make toothache incredibly uncomfortable. The inflammation is general caused either by cavities, infection, or trauma.The key to avoiding toothache is maintaining excellent dental hygiene. Keep your teeth and gums clean and healthy by limiting your intake of sugary food and drink, brushing your teeth twice a day, with floss or mouthwash as an extra measure.The next time you feel toothache, it is most likely that you have a cavity or infection. Keep in mind that although you may be able to block the sensation of pain using natural remedies, you will not be able to get rid of the cavity itself.

