 You will fight this boss inside the Eastern Palace. The idea is to stun him by shooting arrows across the center of the room when he appears after being in painting form. After you stun him, now is your chance to attack him with your sword or just continuously shoot him with arrows.


It is best just to defeat Yuga with the use of your sword because it causes more damage. This way, you will end the battle faster!;
, You will fight Moldorm in the Tower of Hera. The secret of defeating this boss is simple – attack its tail. That is the weakness you should exploit. Keep attacking the tail and son enough Moldorm will be defeated.


Be warned that each time Moldorm is hurt – it becomes faster and faster. Don’t lose your focus and just keep an eye on its tail.
 In order to beat this boss, you will need to use your Tornado Rod. Simply use it stun Margomill and then spam it with sword attack directly on its eye. Keep on doing this. Even if the boss becomes bigger, targeting on the next growth to break them off. Margomill will return to its original size then. Repeat the process until you defeat the boss.


Before facing Margomill, you will have to defeat first the House of Gales mini boss. Just like Margomill, just use your Tornado Rod to stun the creature and then attack with your sword to eventually defeat it.
 Yuga’s battle style will be a bit similar to the first time you encountered Yuga. Inside Hyrule Castle this time, he will still merge with the wall but with a twist - you will now be dealing with the three of them! It is up to you to figure out who’s the real Yuga. Simple enough, the real Yuga is the one who does not turn into a guard. After you find the real Yuga, follow his painting and attack him with your sword. Repeat the chase until he is defeated.
 Stalbind is the Thieve’s Hideout boss. Defeating Stalbind requires patience and proper timing. He is always on guard so your task is to create an opening so you can attack him with your sword. First, you must merge with his shield and attack his back upon detaching from the shield. He will occasionally breathe poison gases so you better dodge those. When you have the chance, merge with his shield again to attack him once more. After a while he will then toss his shield and charge you with his sword. Again, dodge the attack and counterattack. He could also remove his head to haunt with his foul breath but then again, dodging should do the trick. With alternate dodging and attacking, you should win the battle eventually.


There’s a mini boss in Thieve’s Hideout that can be easily beaten with proper positioning. During the battle just stand near the door and attack the creatures with your sword. This position will prevent you from being damaged.
 This battle will take place in the Dark Palace. Since it is dark, you need to light the torches in the room for you to see your foe. Gemesaur King will have an armor on so you need to destroy it first before you can do serious damage using your sword. Throwing bombs at it will weaken and eventually destroy its armor. That is your queue to attack with your sword! After a few hits, it will go berserk and blow out the torches. Just the same, re-light the torches and continue attacking it until it is defeated.


Gemesaur King’s weak spot is its head. Hit it with your sword if you have the chance.
 You will fight Grinexx in Turtle Rock. Use your Ice Rod when Grinexx goes near the centers of the room. This will do some damage. It will sometimes become angry so make sure to dodge its attacks. Then it will join you on the floor and attack once more. Again, dodge his attacks and do your own sword attack targeting its head. Repeat the process and this boss will fall eventually.
 Knucklemaster is virtually a giant armor hand that you need to defeat in Skull Woods. It has a giant eye on its palm which will be your main target when you attack. It has a devastating punch so be alert to merge with the wall when it attacks. It will be stunned after missing the hit. This is your chance to attack it with your sword. After a few more damages, it will turn purple and attempt to squash you! Again, simply merge with the wall or run around the room to dodge its attack resulting into a stun. Keep on attacking Knucklemaster while it’s stunned and it will be defeated soon enough.
 Zaganaga is the boss in Desert Palace. In order to beat Zaganaga, your main goal is to raise the sand in order to reach its position. It will create little flying creatures that will delay your sand raising but these creatures are mere annoyances since they can easily be beaten. Zaganaga will also spew sand around the room but don’t let this interfere with your main goal. When you finally reach Zaganaga, attack it with your sword and you will eventually win the battle.
 This battle will take place in Ice Ruins. That being said, the environment of this match will be a bit tricky. Since you’re surrounded with ice, it’s obvious that your Fire Rod will definitely come in handy in this battle. You will be able to attack Dharkstare after melting some ice around you. Watch out for the triangles that this boss creates and stay away from orbs when they glow white! Focus on melting ice and attacking and soon you will beat Dharkstare.


There’s also a mini boss in Ice Ruins. Well, mini bosses technically. They are a group of penguins! The technique in beating them is by going after the small ones first.
 Arrghus is the Swamp Palace boss. This battle is easier than it looks like. Your main goal is to pull Arrghus’ eyes out and attack the eyes with your sword to kill them. Just keep on doing this until all its eyes are gone. Now it will be easier for you to dodge its laser attacks and counterattack with your sword. Repeat this pattern until the boss is defeated.


You can merge with the wall during laser attacks to dodge it more effectively.
The mini boss in Swamp Palace is quite easy to defeat. All you need to do is dodge its electric projectiles and throw skulls at it. When it splits into two – just attack each of them with your sword and the should do the trick.
 This battle takes place inside Lorule Castle. This battle is pretty exhausting since there are no obvious shortcuts in winning. Yuga has now merged with Ganon. You really must rely on timing your dodges and counterattacks. You just have to keep on doing this pattern until Yuga does new attacks such as throwing its weapon towards you and occasionally vanishing at times. Again, just dodge the attacks and take advantage of the openings to deal your own damage. This will defeat Yuga eventually.
 You need to face Yuga again for the second time! This battle starts with a tennis match. After you hit Yuga – Princess Zelda will give you the Bow of Light. With this weapon equipped, you can now damage Yuga while merged to the wall. This will force him to detach from the painting and you can now attack him in his physical form with your Master Sword. At this point, Yuga will spawn a bunch of enemies and obstacles just to protect himself from you. Simply dodge these and shoot Yuga with the Bow of Light each time you have the chance. Take advantage the opportunity to damage him with your Master Sword when he is out of the painting. Keep on doing this routine until you defeat Yuga.

