 Most curly-haired people know that volume at the roots is important, since curls are heavy and tend to flatten at the top of the head. To avoid this, start by flipping your head upside down. Your hair will dry in an upside-down position, and once you're finished your roots will have much better volume.


If keeping your head upside down gets uncomfortable, you can lean your head to one side or another instead. The important thing is not to sit upright, since gravity will cause your roots to flatten as your hair dries.
Another option some people like to use is lifting the roots with hair clips. Use claw clips to lift the roots from your head, and dry your hair with the clips in place. That way you won't have to hold your head upside down to get volume.
 Remember to use a low or medium heat setting. Hold the dryer so that the bowl-shaped diffuser is pointing to the ceiling.
 Take a small handful of hair, keeping the curls intact, and coil it in the bowl of the diffuser. Just drop the hair into the diffuser; don't push it down or bunch it up. Handle your hair gently at all times.
 You should feel the prongs separating the hair at your scalp in order to access your roots. Hold the diffuser there for several seconds to allow your roots to get dry. You can move it in a circular motion to lift the roots make sure all the hair in the section gets dry. When the roots feel dry, lower the diffuser and let your hair drop out of the bowl.








Don't hold the diffuser in place for too long. You just want your hair to get about eighty percent dry. If you dry it too much it will frizz up.
Try not to over-dry the tips. If you can leave the tips of your hair hanging off the side of the diffuser, they'll quickly air-dry and you won't risk getting over dried ends.
 Take another handful from next to the first section and repeat the process. Coil your hair in the diffuser, then bring it up to your head to dry your roots. When your hair is eighty percent dry, lower the diffuser and let your hair loose.
 Section by section, dry your roots and curls with the diffuser. Since you'll need to have your head upside down, you might want to take a few breaks.








