 In the short term, offer the rabbit that same food. Too many changes at once are likely to upset the rabbit and food is one thing you can keep constant (at least for a few days).


As the rabbit gets more confident, if its diet is not ideal, start to change its food.
 Rabbits are herbivorous and their ideal food is growing grass. Grass provides the correct balance of nutrients and fiber, which grinds down their teeth and gets their gut to work. However, it's not possible to provide good quality growing grass all year round, especially for an indoor rabbit, so a compromise always has to be reached.


The best food for your rabbit is growing grass but you will most likely need to supplement the grass with other foods. Fresh green hay is the best alternative to grass. If feeding pellets, only offer small amounts, the rest of the diet should be hay.
 Just because they are herbivores, doesn't mean that rabbits should be eating any plant-based diet.


Try to avoid muesli type feeds. These are far from ideal, and avoid using if at all possible. A muesli food has identifiable ingredients such as squashed peas, corn, wheat, nuts, and biscuit. The problem is the rabbit will eat the tasty bits and leave the nutritious parts. This leads to weak bones and overgrown teeth, and the rabbits also tend to become overweight.
It is an old wives tale that rabbit's under 6 months of age should not get fresh greens and vegetables. The trick is to give in moderation as a daily treat. Small pieces of fruit may be given on occasion, but should be strictly limited due to their high sugar content. All new foods should be introduced slowly over time.
If any digestive upset is noticed, offer the rabbit unlimited water, unlimited hay and some old fashioned (long cooking) oats. Remove all other types of food and restrict the rabbit to this diet for three days. If the digestion has returned to normal, you may reintroduce other foods again slowly, one at a time.
Also, any food can potentially cause problems if eaten to excess. Carrots contain a lot of oxalate, and if given everyday can predispose the rabbit to bladder stones.
A safe way to feed vegetables is to never give the same thing two days in a row - thus you may give cucumber / Monday, red pepper / Tuesday, carrot / Wednesday, broccoli / Thursday and so on., Find out how much food your rabbit needs based on its weight and breed. You must feed them every day, but do not feed too much based on their weight.


If you have a big or standard size rabbit, and you are feeding them grass, you have to feed them a lot, making sure they get enough calories every day, which means they are eating almost constantly. If you are feeding your rabbit pellets (which is not recommended), they will get enough calories much faster, in as little as 20 minutes.
Try to be consistent with the times of day you feed them.
 Mix up water with Apple Cider Vinegar (the cloudy type is best) for your rabbit. Add two capfuls of vinegar to one gallon and use that to fill your rabbit's water container. The Apple Cider Vinegar provides many health benefits for the rabbit such as shiny coat, boosts the immune system and helps to maintain healthy intestinal bacteria.


Rabbit sipper bottles are a good idea because the water is held in a reservoir attached to the hutch, and does not get contaminated by bedding, food, or pellets that may get kicked into a bowl of water. Likewise bowls of water are prone to being tipped over, which could be disastrous on a hot day if the rabbit is left with nothing to drink.






If your rabbit prefers drinking from a bowl, get a heavy one that they cannot tip.
If your rabbit lives outside in the winter, you should get a heated water bottle, so their water supply does not freeze.

