 If the knot is a result of an injury, cold should be applied first. Wrap the cold pack in a towel or cloth and apply it to the knot for 15–20 minutes at least three times a day. Do this for the first two or three days after the injury.You can make a cold pack with 3 cups water and 1 cup of rubbing alcohol. Mix and pour into a resealable bag. Make sure to squeeze all the air out before you freeze it.
You can also use a bag of frozen vegetables. Choose ones that are small and uniform in size, such as peas or corn. Note that once you've used these veggies as a cold pack, you won't want to eat them (it's not a good idea to allow frozen food to defrost and then re-freeze it).
 For frequent or chronic pain, heat works better than ice.Use a heating pad, a hot bath or a shower to do this.


Apply heat for no more than 15–20 minutes at a time, up to three times a day.
If moist heat is preferred, you can warm a damp towel for thirty seconds in the microwave. Do not heat the towel too much, or you could burn yourself. Be careful of steam in particular, as steam can cause severe burns.
 Poor posture, especially while sitting for long periods of time, can cause back pain and knots.Try to be conscious of slouching — that's putting constant pressure on the same muscles.


If you work at a desk, take time to get up and walk around (and stretch) every hour or so.
Keep your head from slumping forward when you stand or sit. Slumping can put strain on your shoulders and back and contribute to knots.If you lift weights, monitor your form. Putting weights down too quickly causes the muscles to forcibly contract, jarring them.
 When it comes to exercises that can strengthen your back, yoga is certainly up there. It can relieve back soreness in addition to strengthening your muscles and increasing your flexibility. Here are a few positions to try:The downward-facing dog will help your lower back. It targets your back extensors — those muscles that help you stand and lift objects. Start on all fours. Make sure your knees are directly below your hips and your hands are just slightly in front of your shoulders. As you exhale, press your knees up toward the ceiling, stretching out your legs. Stretch your heels toward the floor. Straighten your legs, but do not lock your knees. Your body will form a sort of arch.The child's pose will elongate your back muscles. Begin on all fours. Sit back until your buttocks touch your heels. Stretch your arms forward and lower your head to the ground.The pigeon pose stretches your hip rotators and flexors. Sometimes we forget that our whole body is connected — poor hip alignment can totally ruin an otherwise healthy back. Lie on your back with your knees bent. Cross your left ankle onto your right thigh. Place your hands around the back of your right thigh and pull your right knee toward your chest. Keep your upper body relaxed as you hold this position. Repeat on the other side.The triangle pose will strengthen your back and legs and stretch the sides of your torso and hip muscles. Stand on a yoga mat with your feet about 4 feet apart. Turn your right foot outward so it is parallel with the long edge of the mat. Align your heels so they form a straight line. Bring your arms out to your sides so that your body forms a “t” shape. Fold down and bend to the right, stretching your right arm down to your right foot. Hold the pose as long as is comfortable. Repeat on the other side., Getting regular, moderate aerobic exercise will help keep knots at bay. Try an exercise, such as swimming, elliptical machines, or even jumping jacks, that engages your arms as well as your legs.Aim for about 30 minutes of moderate aerobic activity a day.
 Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is the best to start with, as it tends to cause fewer side effects than other pain relievers. If this does not work, try an NSAID (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug). Common NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil), naproxen (Aleve), or aspirin.Never exceed the recommended dosage on the packaging. NSAIDs and acetaminophen can both cause serious side effects when used improperly.
If your back pain continues for more than a week when you use OTC pain relievers, see your doctor. It is not safe to use most OTC pain relievers long-term. Your doctor may need to prescribe a stronger medication.
 If your back pain lasts more than a few weeks, or if back pain has been a staple of everyday life since you can remember, talk to your doctor. You may require stronger treatment or medication.


Physical therapy will most likely be recommended first. Physical therapists can recommend exercises and techniques to relieve pain and promote better back health. Some are also trained in techniques such as dry needling, which can relieve back pain by stimulating trigger points.Your doctor may prescribe muscle relaxants if your back pain continues or does not improve. These can be addictive, so use them only as prescribed by your doctor.Injections are used as last resorts and only when pain is radiating through different parts of your body. Your doctor may inject cortisone into your epidural space (around your spinal cord). The relief from this injection usually only lasts a few months.
If your back pain is not due to knots but in fact connected to a more serious condition, your doctor may consider surgery.
 Sometimes, back pain is the sign of another medical condition that requires emergency care. Call 911 or get to your emergency room if you experience any of the following:Back pain accompanied by other symptoms, such as chest discomfort, shortness of breath, or sweating. These may be signs of a heart attack.Back pain after a trauma, such as a car crash, fall, or athletic injury
Back pain accompanied by difficulties with your bowels or bladder
Back pain accompanied by fever and/or night sweats

