 Agro is Wander’s loyal horse. After you defeat the first colossus (and each subsequent colossus), she will be waiting for you in the central shrine, ready to take you to the next one.;
, From the central shrine, head through the exit on your right-hand side. When you do, Dormin will give you a brief explanation about the small shrines.
 Take out your sword and, facing south, hold it up until the light reflecting on it centralizes at a clear point.
 Traveling south, you will pass the Shrine of Worship and see a broken brown arc near the white bridge. Pass through the dirt road beyond it.
 While on the dirt road, point your sword under the white bridge; the light will centralize in that area. Continue heading south.
 When you reach the end of the dirt road and head down the path, a cut scene will appear, showing you the massive cave below your path. When the cut scene ends, continue on the path.
 When you reach the bottom of the path, travel eastward. You will see the cave featured in the cut scene.
 Go toward the cave. As you approach, Agro will refuse to proceed any further, and a cut scene will play. Get ready to battle!

, Once the battle starts, go toward the water. Stay on your horse! Quadratus is slow and will not be able to catch you.
 Aim the bow at its front legs and wait for it to come closer. When it does, it will try to crush you with its front legs, and you will see some blue parts under its hooves. Shoot the blue part with your bow, and Quadratus will collapse.


You can also make Quadratus fall by running behind it and shooting the blue parts of its feet when it tries to turn around to face you.
 Dismount from Agro, proceed to the fallen colossus, and climb up the furry part of its front legs. Keep climbing until you are able to stand on its back armor.


Don’t forget to rest periodically when climbing. This will allow you to recover some of your stamina.
 Jump through the protruding parts of the armor to its head.


Be sure to grab on to something to steady yourself, so you don’t fall down when Quadratus starts shaking.
 You will need a fully-charged sword to defeat Quadratus.
 Stab the magical weak point 3 times. The point will then disappear.


At this point, Quadratus’s life will be drained approximately halfway.
 Once the magical weak point disappears, climb to the left shoulder and head toward Quadratus’s back. When you reach its tail, you will see another magical weak point.


If you fall off Quadratus (this happens sometimes due to fatigue), shoot one of his hooves, and you’ll be able to climb back up again.
 Hold on to Quadratus’s fur and stab the weak point 3 times. Its Life bar will be depleted, and it will fall.

