 Place a pencil in a horizontal position above the person’s head with the tip facing the wall. Lower the pencil until it reaches the top of their head, maintaining the level position. Slowly move the pencil tip toward the wall until it makes a mark. Get out a flexible tape measure. Place the tape against the wall and measure up from the floor to your mark.You can use any marking device, however, a pencil is best as you can erase the marks when you are finished. Just make sure to make a dark enough mark so that it is visible when you pull away.
Make sure that you keep the tape straight as you go up from the wall. It should also lay lightly against the wall. You can use a straight ruler instead if you so choose, making a wall mark every 12 inches and then adding it all up.
If you are measuring yourself you can do this method too, just make sure to keep the pencil level. It also helps if you are using a wall opposite a mirror so you can track your movements.
 This is a piece of medical equipment composed of a measuring board affixed to the wall with a drop-down (adjustable) rod at the top. Have the person stand against the board and then adjust the rod so that it rests on the top of the person’s head. With a manual stadiometer, you will need to write down the height where the rod meets the board. With a digital stadiometer, the height will be displayed immediately after you adjust the rod.It is not necessary to push the measuring rod down upon the person’s head. It is enough to lightly touch the head with the rod.
 To get an accurate number you will need to have the person lay down on a firm area. You can use an examination table in a doctor’s office for a small child. Or, a firm bed if you are measuring an immobile adult. Ask the person to look toward the ceiling. Lightly press their knees together and down until they contact the flat surface. Use a measuring tape to measure from the base of their feet to the top of their head.Be aware that this method is less accurate when used with taller persons. So, try to use a stand-up wall method whenever possible.This is often a good option for children who are moving around a great deal, but who are too big for the infant measuring device and too wiggly to stand up against the stadiometer.
You can also make a pen or marker mark at the base of their feet and at the top of their head and measure between the marks. This works well if you don’t mind marking up a bedsheet or if you are measuring on a paper surface (like at a pediatrician’s office).
 This is the preferred way to measure infants. You will lay the infant down in a measuring area. You then pull the headboard and footboard toward the baby until they meet its head and feet, respectively. You measure from board-to-board to determine height.Some of the more advanced measuring devices found in pediatricians’ offices will actually show a digital display of the final measurement or distance between the boards.
 If possible, it is always easier to have one person doing the measuring while another person writes down the resulting numbers. However, if you are doing everything on your own, just make sure to write down the numbers as soon as you have them to preserve accuracy.Record all of your measurements to the nearest 1/8th of an inch (0.1cm).It is a good idea to take all measurements twice, if possible. Compare the two results to see if they are close enough to one another to indicate accuracy. If they are more than 1/8 of an inch apart, then you may want to measure one more time.