 If your partner is present and an active part of your life and the baby’s life, they should be willing to listen to how you are feeling. Lean on your partner for support and love. Tell them about how you are feeling about your body. Having your partner around to listen and comfort you is a good reminder that you are not in this experience alone.For example, you may say to your partner, “I am feeling self-conscious about my body and would appreciate it if you would act as a support” or “I am feeling not great about my body post-pregnancy and it would really help if you could respect my feelings.”
If there are other ways that your partner can comfort you, then let them know. For example, you might let them know that compliments and physical affection are helpful to you.
 You can also lean on the support and guidance of other mothers who likely experienced or are experiencing many of the same feelings you are post-pregnancy. Talk to mothers in your new mothers class about your feelings about your body. Or lean on the mothers in your circle of friends. Be honest and open about where you’re at. More often than not, many other mothers can relate to your emotions and feelings post-birth.


For example, you may say to another mother, “Did you find you had negative feelings about your body after giving birth?” or “I’m struggling with body image post-pregnancy, have you experienced this too?”

, Do not be afraid to also lean on your social network for support, including close friends and family. Talk to your friends and family about how you are feeling, especially to friends or family who can relate to what you are going through. Perhaps you speak to a family member who has children and experienced body image issues after giving birth.You can also confide in friends who may not have children, but who can still relate to having body image issues. Sometimes, simply chatting to a close friend about where you’re at can make you feel better and feel more positive about your body.
 If you are having symptoms of depression, then it is important to seek help as soon as possible. Symptoms of postpartum depression may include:Feeling sad
Frequent crying
Having a hard time bonding with your baby
Withdrawing from your family and friends
Difficulty sleeping
Losing your appetite or eating more than normal
Feeling tired or fatigued
Lacking interest in things you used to enjoy
Feeling worthless, ashamed, or inadequate
Having severe anxiety or panic attacks
Having trouble thinking clearly or concentrating
Thinking about hurting yourself or your baby
Thinking about suicide or death

