 Go strip by strip. You can use a sewing machine or do it by hand, if you trust your stitches - and if you have the patience.


Once you have all your strips sewn, then sew the strips together. It'll be easiest to get each strip together first instead of patching it together haphazardly.
Make sure the sides of the fabric are all facing the right side! Printed sides need to be together. If you're using a sewing machine, make sure your foot is set at 1/4".
 Set it at the temperature appropriate for your fabric. Flatten the seams to be sure the quilt will have a straight look when completed.
 It needs to be 8 inches (20.32 cm) wider and longer than the finished quilt top. A fabric store will cut it for you, but you may need to buy two long pieces and sew them together.


Lay out the backing in an area where you can spread out your work. Place it face down on the floor. The pretty side should be facing away from you.
Put the backing down on the floor or a large, wide table. Place the better side of the fabric face down. Spread the backing out evenly.
Tape the top and bottom to the floor using masking tape, smoothing out wrinkles as you go, before taping each side down. It's important to get this as smooth and wrinkle-free as possible, without pulling the fabric so tight that natural line of it is distorted.

Once you are happy with that, take some Quilter's 505 and spray it liberally over the fabric.
 The batting will tend to hold creases from where it was folded, but as long as you have smoothed them out, don't worry that the crease lines are still visible (as above). Batting does not need to be ironed.


Spray another layer of 505 on the batting.
 It all needs to be flat with no wrinkles. You'll notice that the quilt top is smaller than the bottom two layers - this is intentional as otherwise it is very hard to align the layers perfectly. Smooth out any wrinkles, until your quilt top sits perfectly flat.


Pin the sections together at a distance of 6 inches (15.24 cm) apart. You can use as many or as few pins as you'd like. Start pinning from the center and work your way outward, pinning in concentric circles. This means that any extra fabric is pushed to the outer of the quilt, rather than being allowed to bunch up toward the centre.

Once everything is pinned, unpeel the masking tape, freeing the quilt from the floor.
 How you quilt the layers together is very much down to personal preference and accomplished quilters often use a free-motion stitch that undulates across the quilt in loops and swirls. However, by far the most simple method is to 'stitch-in-the-ditch'. This simply means to machine across the quilt so that your stitches fall into the 'ditch' created where two fabrics have joined at a seam.


Tack the pieces together at the pins or apply around patterns in the quilt with contrasting thread to match the fabric. You will also need to tack a couple of stitches in the middle of each square keep the backing and top from slipping.
Once the quilt is fully quilted, you can then square up the quilt, cutting off the unwanted bits of backing and batting that show around the edges.

