 No standards have been developed for children, but to treat a type of high blood lipid disorder, 300 mg of dehydrated garlic powder three times a day was safely taken by children.


2 – 7 gm of aged garlic extracts should be taken daily in divided doses. An example of this is the product Kyolic. Aged garlic contains some allicin (the “active” component of garlic), but not as much as other products. This is why you need to take much more of it.
Dried garlic powder, such as Kwai and Garlicin, has not been well-standardized and does not contain a great deal of allicin, though some may be produced after digestion. Most of the clinical studies have been done using Kwai with dosages ranging from 600 – 1,200 mg daily in divided doses.
Allicin powdered extract, such as Allisure, Allimax, Alliforce and Alli-C, are powdered extracts that contain significant amounts of allicin in a standardized form. Because of this standardization and the higher amounts of allicin in these products, you don’t have to take much to get the benefits. Take 6 – 10 mg daily.
6 – 900 mg of garlic tablets or capsules should be taken daily in divided doses. These are generally the best choice for most people, as they provide a standardized or known amount of the active ingredient (allicin).
 2 – 4 ml of tincture (extracts in alcohol) should be taken daily. Tinctures will only contain a small amount of allicin but can be a good alternative for those that don't like garlic in their food.


Do not use tinctures if you are in recovery from alcoholism. Tinctures use 95% alcohol to extract herbs.
Garlic oil does not contain allicin because of the processing necessary to produce the oil
Some products may indicate on the label an “Allicin potential”or “Allicin yield.” This is an attempt to standardize, but studies have indicated that this value is not exact or stable.
 Raw garlic can be added to a number of homemade remedies to reduce the severity of throat infections and coughs. For example, make a throat gargle by pouring 1 cup (237 mL) of boiled water over two chopped garlic cloves. Allow to steep for three hours, then strain and gargle.For a cough, peel and crush two garlic bulbs and leave exposed for 15 minutes (this allows allicin to form). Crush in a mortar and pestle after the quarter hour has passed and stir into a small pot of runny honey. Allow to infuse overnight. One teaspoon of this mixture can be taken for coughs, colds, and sore throats when needed.Be sure to label the honey for clarity of contents and purpose.
 Garlic can interact with a number of prescription medications including blood pressure medicines (these include nifedipine (Adalat, Procardia), verapamil (Calan, Isoptin, Verelan), diltiazem (Cardizem), isradipine (DynaCirc), felodipine (Plendil), amlodipine (Norvasc), and others); oral contraceptives; anticoagulants (blood thinners) like warfarin (coumadin); various other medications. Talk to your physician about the medications you take and if garlic could interfere with these. Since garlic can increase bleeding, it should be discontinued one to two weeks before surgery.

