 This will make it easier to remove the icicles. You can work on top of a table, counter, or baking sheetDo not use wax paper. It will melt and fuse with the hot glue.;
, Unroll a few inches/centimeters of fishing line, but don't cut it. Tape down both ends of the fishing line onto the parchment paper. Keep it pulled taut and don't let it curl.Don't cut the fishing line yet, or it will turn into a tangled mess.
 Start drawing the icicles just above the fishing line so that the glue catches it. Leave a little bit of space between each icicle. This will allow the garland to be more flexible. You can make the icicles any length you want. You could even make them different lengths.


Use more pressure at the start of each icicle, and less pressure at the tips. This will make them taper, just like real icicles.
You can use regular hot glue or glitter hot glue. Shades of blue, iridescent, or silver would work best.
 This will give them some extra sparkle. Blue, iridescent, or silver glitter would work best.If you already used glittery hot glue, then you can skip this step.
 Wait for the glue to set first. Once it hardens and turns opaque, peel the tape away. Gently pull the fishing line off of the parchment paper. The icicles will come off along with the fishing line.


If you used glitter, carefully scoop the glitter back into its jar.
 Unroll another few inches/centimeters of fishing line. Tape down both ends of it. Use your hot glue gun to draw more icicles. Wait for the glue to set, then pull the fishing line off. Keep doing this until the garland is the length you want.
 Consider making it a few inches/centimeters longer than you want it. This way, it will droop nicely when you go to hang it up.


If you are putting the garland on a tree, measure a garland that you already have. Use that measurement as a guide.
 Go back over your icicles. Make sure that they are stuck to the fishing line. If any seem loose, add a drop of hot glue to the back to secure them. Hot glue also tends to leave behind little threads. Be sure to pull these off, or your work will look messy.