 All Maltese dogs entered in shows must be registered as purebreds. In most cases, you should have been given your dog’s registration papers directly from the breeder when you acquired the dog. Most U.S. competition shows require AKC registration, so be sure to verify that.In some competitions, other types of registrations are partially acceptable. For example, CKS and APRI registered dogs are often allowed to participate in most events at shows, only excluding the Conformation event.
If you don’t have any papers for your purebred Maltese dog (and you can’t get any from the breeder), you can contact the AKC to see what they can do to help you. In some cases, accreditation can be given with photo evidence and written statements by witnesses who claim that the dog is a purebred.
 Check to see whether the dog complies with size breed standards according to the AKC. The AKC requires a Maltese to be under seven pounds (3.2 kg), but four to six pounds (1.8 - 2.7 kg) is preferable.You could also check with another relevant body, such as the Kennel Club. In some cases, the show entity will have its own rules regarding breed-specific weight requirements.
 Many dog competition shows require a certain amount of training to prove that your dog is ready for entry in a real competition show. This training involves obedience tests and command tests.To get your Maltese to a point where it is ready to succeed in a dog show, you’ll need to focus on obedience training. This means practicing commands, establishing your position as the dominant leader, rewarding your dog when it behaves correctly, leash training, and teaching your dog some simple commands. Once your dog masters some easy commands (like “sit,” “stay,” and “come”), you can move to more complicated tasks like fetching, following you without a leash, and rolling over.
Some shows also require entry into a preliminary competition at an unofficial dog show called “Matches.” These events are still hosted by kennel clubs and help dogs become more socialized and accustomed to the show atmosphere.
 A successful Maltese show dog must have a willingness to perform, which often translates into a demanding, pushy attitude. Winning show dogs often want to be the center of attention with their owners.A dog who loves to perform, even under pressure, will be able to succeed in the stressful show environment when other dogs may break due to the stress of the situation.

