 You can get long leggings that come all the way down to your ankle. You can also get medium-length ones that come down to your calf, or shorter ones (capris) that come down just past your knee.;
, Most leggings will come in either a matte or satin texture. A matte texture is more casual, and suitable for everyday wear. A satin or shiny texture is great for parties and special nights out.
 This will determine whether or not you can wear these as a pair of pants, or if you should layer other clothes over them. Tuck your hand inside the leg and pull the fabric taught. If you can see your skin, you will need to layer the leggings with other clothes. If you can't see your skin, then the leggings are safe to be worn as pants.
 Tight pants may be in fashion, but too-tight pants will never look good or feel comfortable. When buying leggings, try to do a few squats; you should be able to move around easily.


If you are feeling self-conscious about certain parts of your body, such as a loose tummy or love-handles, consider getting a pair that offers support in those areas. They might be labeled as "control top" or "supportive."

, The wrong underwear may show through even solid-colored leggings. The two things you need to focus on are seam lines and color. Choose a pair of underwear that's either black or that matches your natural skin tone. Also, try to buy a pair of underwear without a seam line. They are often called seamless or something similar.


You can also wear a black- or nude-colored thong.
 Some leggings will come with a fancier cuff. You might be able to find some with scalloped lace along the cuff, or even some sparkly beads. These sorts of leggings are a great way to add that extra detail to any outfit.
 Longer leggings look better with certain outfits than shorter ones. Here are some tips and ideas to get you started:


Wear long leggings with a sweater dress, a shirt-dress, or a shorter dress. You can also try wearing them with a pair of high-waist shorts.
Pair medium-length and shorter leggings with a long shirt or sweater. You can also wear them with a belt, a shirt and cardigan. If you want to be more girly, pair them with dress or skirt.
Try wearing long leggings with boots. These include chunky boots and heeled boots.
Try pairing some ballet flats or moccasins with medium-length and shorter leggings.
 You can go neutral by pairing your leggings with similar colors, such as black, grey, and white. You can also make your outfit look more cheerful by wearing brightly-colored tops. Fortunately, black goes with just about anything.


If you want to go Goth, pair your black leggings with black shoes and a black top.
 Leggings come in both matte and shiny textures. Shiny leggings look more dressy, so you might want to pair them with a dressy top and some heels. They will help make your legs look longer. You can also pair them with some fancy flats. Matte leggings look more casual, and are best paired with a loose-fitting shirt.
 A top with a pattern, such as florals, will make you outfit more interesting. A solid-colored top will make your outfit look more subdued.
 Ideally, the hem of your top should come down to your mid-thigh. Avoid anything too form-fitting, however; a loose-fitting top will add contrast to a pair of tight-fitting leggings, and will make your outfit look more interesting.
 Make sure that the blouse extends past your hips and covers your bottom, especially if your leggings are sheer. Finish off the look with a delicate necklace or bracelet.


The belt will help cinch in your waist, and make your outfit look less baggy.
 You can do this by pairing them with some heeled shoes and a fitted blazer. Try accessorizing with some gold or silver jewelry.
 Pair long leggings with some black canvas sneakers and a white t-shirt. Wear a red, plaid flannel shirt over this. Finish the look by leaving your hair down and wearing a cap or beanie.
 Leggings tend to look very plain, almost like a second skin. You can spice up your outfit by draping a shawl over your shoulders or wrapping a scarf loosely around your neck. This will add some interesting shapes and textures to your outfit.
 Try some necklaces or chunky bangles. Don't be afraid to layer your necklaces and bracelets. You can wear thin and thick bracelets, or long and short necklaces for a more interesting, layered look.

