 Even if you are overweight, your body is still an amazing thing. Your heart never stops beating. Your brain is a super-computer. Your eyes allow you to see the wonders of life and your environment. You have so much to be grateful for if you are able to see, hear, smell, move, and think for yourself. Practice a few body-loving exercises to learn to accept your body as it is.As you rise from your bed each morning, wonder at the strength and perseverance of your body. Your legs carry you around. Your arms tie your shoes and hold objects. Your nose can catch the scent of fresh-brewed coffee. Isn't your body a miracle?
Stand in front of the mirror and think positively about what you see before you. Before you step into the shower or change clothes, stand naked or in your underwear and admire your miraculous body. Recite this: “I fully accept and love myself right now just the way I am. I’m grateful for my wonderful body and for the gift of life.”

, If, during the course of these exercises, negative thoughts enter your mind, don't entertain them. Instead, reflect upon how awesome your body is.


Reframing means changing your negative perspective into a positive one. It takes practice but once you are able to identify which thoughts are unhelpful or negative (Hint: Those that make you feel bad.), you can tear this self-talk apart and reframe it.
For example, you might say: "I look terrible in this outfit. Everyone will laugh at me." While reframing, ask yourself has there ever been a time when everyone laughed at you. If the answer is no, you can reframe this statement to say "Everyone has a different idea of style. I like this outfit and that is what's most important." This reframing is not only more positive but also more realistic.
 Sometimes, we feel bad about ourselves because we are holding on to ingrained beliefs about what we should or should not be. An example of an ingrained belief is, "In order to be attractive, I have to be thin." Know that it's OK to release beliefs that no longer serve you.Ask yourself how you would respond if you found out a dear friend was attacking her/his body. You would probably tell them how beautiful they are. You would point out all their strengths and tell them they have so much going for themselves.
Tell yourself these things when you notice yourself falling prey to negative beliefs or attitudes about your body. Say things like "I am smart. I have gorgeous skin. I rocked that dress last night."

, If you are persistently encountering problems with your self-esteem or your negative body image causes you to practice extreme dieting or refusing to eat, you should see a therapist who has experience with body image and eating disorders. A mental health therapist in this area may help you to apply cognitive and behavioral techniques that help you modify the negative thoughts you have about your body and develop healthier habits.Another option for you to work on your self-confidence is to attend a body image group. Your therapist may be able to refer you to a local group or the professional may have a group that he or she meets with regularly. Such a group can help you to connect with others who are going through similar body image struggles, and allow you to find courage to overcome these issues with support.

