 Use warm water and a facial cleanser to clean your face with a clean washcloth. Rinse with warm water and then dry your face with a clean towel.;
, This will give your skin a base, so that any blemishes, dark under-eye circles, or beauty marks will be hidden.Draw a triangle with the base under your eye and the point toward your cheek. Then, blend it into your skin with a brush., Wait until your foundation dries completely before applying powder. Use loose powder, as this will appear the most natural on your face. Powder will prevent eyeshadow from smudging. If any makeup is misapplied, simply brush it away with a makeup brush.Loose powders come in two forms: translucent and colored. Colored works to correct tone, brighten your face, and reduce redness. Translucent powders are your best bet for the 60’s look because they don't change the color of the foundation., Draw a thin line with your black eyeliner on your upper lash line, and gradually thicken it as you grow closer to the outside of your eye.Use a black eyeliner pencil to maintain control. Liquid eyeliner can also work, but it is much more difficult to draw with, and not as easily removed.
If you make a mistake, use a dampened cotton swab to dab at and remove the makeup.
 Draw a thin, diagonal line, forming a wing on the side of your eye. The diagonal should be about 45 degrees up from your eyelid, and the line should be drawn in the direction of your eyebrow, but should end before the eyebrow. Be sure that the wing is extended in proportion with your eye size and shape.Keep your eyelid flat while drawing the wing. Tilt your head back and keep your eye slightly open as you apply the liner, if you find that it helps.
Keep your hand steady. Rest your elbow on a flat surface while you draw to reduce the chance of errors.
 Use your eyeliner pencil to smooth out and fill in the corner where the wing extends toward your eyebrow. The thinnest part of the eyeliner should be nearest to the corner of your eyelid. It should appear to thicken as it extends past your eye.
 This should extend along the waterline of your eye, and will help make your eyes seem brighter and more exaggerated., To add more drama to your eyes, paint on your lower lashes. This will allow the lashes to appear magnified, and attention-grabbing., Use liquid eyeliner to make sure that each line is thicker at the top near your eye and tapers to a thin point. Draw a few extending bottom lashes with the liquid liner., If you would rather, you can use fake lashes instead of simply the liquid eyeliner. Apply the fake eyelashes to your top lid, and then add a bit of mascara so that the lashes blend in.

