 If you are coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose, cover your nose and mouth with a tissue. This can prevent germs from spreading to your hands or to other people.Use the crook of your elbow to cover your nose and mouth if you don’t have a tissue. Avoid using your hand to cover them because this may come in contact with your eyes or other surfaces that could infect you or other people.Dispose of the tissue into a proper wastebasket as soon as you can. Wash your clothing as soon as possible, too., If you are taking care of someone who is sick or in a space with an ill individual, keep your distance as much as possible. Hugging a sick person or even just washing his or her dishes can transmit germs to your hands.Wash or sanitize your hands thoroughly if you come in contact with a sick individual or any surfaces they may have touched.
 You might think that sharing things such as clean utensils and clothing with a sick person won’t transmit germs to your hands. But you can just as easily infect yourself by using common items. Don’t share items with others who are or may be sick.Wash any laundry in a washing machine. Use warm or hot water and detergent. Consider adding bleach to the load. Make sure to wash your hands after you’ve placed the laundry in the machine.Use your own utensils when eating. The ill individual should use separate utensils. Wash eating utensils in a dishwasher or by hand with soap and hot water. You can also use disposable utensils to prevent the spread of germs., You can also get germs on your hands by touching shared surfaces. Disinfecting these surfaces often can keep your hands from getting germs.Clean surfaces with anti-septic or anti-bacterial cleansers. You can also mix 1 teaspoon of bleach to 2 quarts or liters of water to disinfect surfaces.
Wear gloves as you disinfect surfaces and throw them away when you’re done.
 It’s easy to get germs on your hands in crowded, common public spaces. Avoid touching unknown surfaces as much as you can and then wash or sanitize your hands as soon as possible.Some common surfaces to only touch if you must include:


Handles in public transportation
Doorknobs
Telephones
Elevator buttons

, It’s also important for your kids to keep their hands germ-free. This is especially true if they go to daycare or school. Making sure your children know when to wash their hands may prevent illness or infections.Make your “lessons” a fun time for your children. Ask, “Who knows if we need to wash our hands after playing?” Give your kids treats for getting the answer right. It doesn’t need to be anything big, but a small candy or a gold star can go a long way in reinforcing what you’re teaching.
Explain why it’s important for your kids to wash their hands. You can say, “Not washing your hands after you use the potty can spread icky germs that make you sick. If you get sick, you won’t be able to go to the playground with your sister. The icky germs might even make everyone in the house sick.”
Keep in mind that children often forget to wash their hands, even if you’ve told them often. Repeat the message or ask any time your kids use the bathroom, play outside, come home from school or daycare, or if they are sick.

