 There are many clarifying shampoos available for purchase that help to cleanse your locks of any buildup or residue that might prevent the extensions from sticking to your hair.


Do not use conditioner or other hair products after clarifying your hair, as you will be adding in the things you just removed with your clarifying shampoo.
If you are afraid of your clarifying shampoo stripping too much, look for ones that advertise sensitive skin and are made from organic materials instead of more chemicals.
 If you hair is at all damp, the glue from the extensions will not be able to stick.
 A divider will section out small pieces of your hair to fuse the extensions to, as well as protect your scalp from getting burned. To do this, you will need a piece of cardstock about three inches in diameter.


Cut the cardstock into a circle, around three inches wide. It doesn’t have to be perfectly shaped, but using the curved figure will work best.
Cut a slit on one side of the circle to the center, like drawing the radius. At the center of the circle, make an enlarged hole one to two millimeters wide.
Now, you will be able to slide small pieces of hair to the center of the cardstock circle, where the fusion extension can be safely attached at the root without burning your head.
 Part your hair around two inches from the nape of your neck, pinning everything above that mark to the top of your head.
 Pick up small sections and pull them through the divider. A crochet hook can be very useful for this. This will be the first piece you fuse, and should be around the same size of the hair extension strand. If you need to, clip the divider into your hair with a bobby pin or hair clip.
 Line up the end of the extension with the roots of your hair so that it begins as near to your scalp as is possible.
 Hold the end of the extension and your hair by the roots in the flat iron for a few seconds. Remove the flat iron for a few seconds and repeat. Be careful not to burn your own hair in the process.
 Using your fingertips on the still-warm hair, make a rolling motion to blend the extension with your natural hair. This will help to set the glue or melted keratin.
 Take another section from the same row of hair and replace your cardstock divider on a new strand of hair. Just remember to be careful of the newly fused section.
 Layer extensions evenly over your head so that they appear the most natural. Continue this process until you have used all of your extensions.
 Use a brush that has no nibs or bulging ends on the tips of the bristles so that you do not pull out your newly fused extensions. There should be no problem following your basic style routine post-extensions as long as you are careful not to damage the base of the fusion.Don't brush or comb your hair near the scalp.
Too much tension can result in the extensions sliding or falling out.
 Brush your hair regularly, making sure that you avoid brushing too close to the scalp. When washing your extensions, use sulfate-free products, and do not condition the scalp. Leave-in conditioners can help you keep out tangles.Use a very gentle touch. Do not rub, scrub, or tug at your hair.
You will need to have the extensions redone every six to eight weeks, as they will start to slide out around this time.
