 Swimming is a great low-impact activity. It is not only good for increasing your cardiovascular endurance, it also can make you stronger. You don’t need water or a bathing suit to enjoy swimming. You can swim through the air with the help of your chair.Sit on the edge of your chair. Tilt yourself forward at the waist with your arms hanging at your sides. Raise your arms so that they meet above your head. Then run them back down your body to the starting position. This movement should resemble swimming the breast stroke. Repeat this motion for 30 reps.
Tilt yourself backward slightly so that your feet and legs are lifted in the air and stretched out in front of you. Engage your core muscles and make little kicks with your legs. Do this for 30 – 50 reps.;
, Running is a popular exercise that blasts calories and gets your heart pumping. But not everyone likes or is able to go running. Your chair provides an easy way to “run” without even putting on shoes. This can build your cardiovascular fitness and strength.Sit with your legs extended and toes pointed. Bend your arms at your sides. Lean back slightly so that your shoulder blades lightly touch the back of the chair. Then engage your core and lift your legs slightly in front of you.
Bend your left knee toward your chest and turn your right shoulder towards your knee. Switch quickly to the other side and repeat for 30 alternating reps.
 One of the most effective cardio exercises is jumping jacks. You can get similar benefits by performing jumping jacks in your chair.Sit up straight with your knees bent and together. Your toes should lightly touch the floor. Extend your arms overhead at the same time you open your legs. Repeat as quickly as you can for 30 reps.
 A great way to use your chair as a prop is seat taps. They’re an effective cardio exercises that also targets your legs, abs, and arms.Stand facing the front of your chair. Lift your right arm up while simultaneously tapping the chair with your left toe. Switch sides as quickly as you can for 45 to 60 seconds.
 Pushups build core, chest, back and arm muscles. A chair presents a way to modify pushups while gaining the same benefits.Set the seat either facing or away from a wall or other sturdy structure. This will keep your chair from sliding during your pushups.
Place your palms on the seat or back of your chair. Walk your legs back into a plank position. Engaging your abs, bend at the elbows and lower yourself down. Then push up through your palms to return to the starting position. Do 10 – 15 reps.
 When you’re building strength, it’s also good to target smaller muscles. A great way to work the smaller muscles of your arms and back are press ups. Although it’s only a small movement with little range of motion, it’s still a potent way to work out your body with the chair.Sit on the edge of your chair with your knees bent and together. Push down on the chair with your hands. This should make you feel slightly taller. Repeat for 30 reps.
Boost the activity with press ups by squeezing your knees and glutes together while pushing down on your hands. This targets your leg and butt muscles.
 Your chair can also build your leg muscles. Raising your heels and toes off of the ground will target your calves, helping you get gorgeous gams.


Sit tall and rise up onto your toes. Then release your heels back to the floor. Repeat this for 30 reps.
Reverse the motion by lifting your toes off the floor. Repeat the heel raises for 30 reps.
Add resistance by placing a large book on your knees while raising your toes and heels., The muscles of your upper leg are the largest and strongest in your body. They help your leg straighten and stabilize you as you walk.Do leg extensions from the comfort of a chair to build your leg muscles.Sit at the edge of your chair. Lift up and straighten one thigh and then return your foot to the floor. Repeat on the same leg for 15 reps and switch to the other leg.
Challenge yourself by extending both legs at the same time. This will also target your abs.
 Raising your leg while using the chair to stabilize you can help build your thigh and back muscles.Stand a couple of feet behind your chair. Put your hands on the back of chair for stability. Lean forward, hinging forward from the hips. Shift your weight to your right leg and engage your abs and glutes as you raise your left foot off of the floor. Squeeze the muscles in the back of your leg, kicking your heel back, like a donkey would kick. Do 10 – 15 reps and then switch to the other leg.
 Crunches work on your core and back muscles. Doing crunches while sitting in a chair can give you similar benefits to doing crunches on the floor or a stability ball.Sit up straight with your knees bent and together. Place your hands behind your head and engage your abs. Hinge slightly back so that your shoulder blades just graze the back of the chair. Bring your body forward and cross your right elbow to the outside of your left knee. Return to starting position and repeat for 20 alternating reps.

