 A pec-deck machine, sometimes called a butterfly machine, can be found at most commercial gyms and is a great way to target your chest muscles. After selecting your desired starting weight, grip the handles one at a time. Pull one handle forward first, then reach while turning your torso to grip the other handle. Then, face forward with both arms extended to the sides and begin pressing.


Start with a light weight and press the handles toward the middle. Keep your back straight and feet planted on the ground. Perform 3 sets of 15 reps and increase the number of reps and the weight as you find comfortable., A press machine can be found at most commercial gyms and will help with biceps, triceps and pecs. Start with a low weight and press the handles out until your arms are fully extended. Keep your back straight and feet planted on the ground. Perform 3 sets of 15 reps and increase the number of reps and the weight as you find comfortable.With the machine, it’s easier to slow your repetitions than with free weights. Slower reps will allow you to take on more weight., Find a cable machine and start with a low weight. You can perform cable flies standing, seated upright, or seated on an incline bench. Grip one of the cable handles in each hand by grabbing one at a time. Plant your feet shoulder distance apart and flex forward at the hips, keeping your back straight and abs contracted. You should be looking at the floor a meter or two in front of you. Then extend your arms wide out to the sides, keeping a slight bend in the elbow, and keep your palms facing forward. Reach your arms out to your sides and grip the cable handles. Then, slowly pull both cables in towards your chest at the same time and cross your arms over each other so they make an X. Perform 3 sets of 15 reps and increase the number of reps and the weight as you find comfortable.Remember that the cable height is set high when doing a standing cable cross over. You will need to reach for the cables one at a time and then carefully return them to their starting spots one at a time when you are done.
If you are using a bench, then the cables are set low, near the floor. You will need to reach down to get them.
 Dips strengthen your triceps, which will make pushups easier. Since pushups are great for building pecs, adding dips to your routine can be beneficial. Find a machine with dip bars. Keep your shoulders pulled down and back. Grab the ends of the bar handles and lift your legs off the ground. Start with your elbows bent, but keep them at angles greater than 90 degrees, and then extend your arms fully to lift your entire body up. Perform 3 sets of 15 reps and increase the number as you find comfortable.Try to keep your feet elevated and still throughout the dip. The higher you can lift your feet, the better.
Lean forward slightly as you do dips to maximize focus on your pecs. However, keep in mind that the main muscles you will be working are your triceps.
Do not lower yourself down enough to bend your elbows at 90 degree angles. This increases your risk of injury.

