 Not only will you need to know the bed size (twin, full, queen or king), but you will need to know the actual height, length, and width dimensions as many mattress pads only come in small, medium, or large. You'll need to know your actual sizing to purchase the one that's appropriate, otherwise the pad might not fit your bed or the extra bulk from your sheets may not fit correctly once the pad is installed.;
, There are benefits and limitations to each option, and you'll need to know which one will suit your lifestyle the best before purchasing.


There are disposable pads, which get thrown away after being soiled.
Reusable cloth mattress pads can be washed in your laundry machine and used over and over again.
Vinyl mattress pads covers encase the entire mattress in a zippered pouch. The vinyl option usually makes a bit more noise but provides easy cleaning. All you need to do is wipe it down rather than washing it.
 If you have an adult bed wetter, he or she may produce more urine than a toddler, so consider investing in a thicker pad to help guarantee protection. Generally the thicker the pad, the more expensive the product. If price is a concern, buy the product that most closely matches your actual need rather than the thickest and most expensive.
 While more expensive, high density foam is the best choice in the long run because it lasts much longer than other materials, but if durability isn't a concern you might be able to get by with a lesser product.
 In most cases, mattress pads that are significantly less than other options are made of cheap materials. This results in having to replace the pads frequently due to tears or damage. In a short time, you may end up paying twice as much as you would have if you'd chosen a better quality item.
 The best waterproof mattress pads will have 3 layers, including a bottom layer designed for absorbency, a middle waterproof layer, and a top layer that is usually made out of soft cloth and provides cushioning. Top-end varieties have even more layering for superior comfort, but as long as your choice contains the basic 3, you can be assured of a good product.
 Many online retailers offer discounts you can't get in a store, and you might be able to save a significant amount of money. Research your top options as well, in case the stores have better deals on those options. Don't forget to calculate in shipping charges before purchasing to make sure you're still getting a better deal than purchasing through a local store.

