 You may not be able to escape it all—the holiday season is a cash cow, and every media outlet, new and old, will be pushing one message. As Tom Lehrer put it 50 years ago, "Angels we have heard on high, tell us to go out...and buy." To get back to the most primal reason for this season's festivities, start by modifying what you normally watch or listen to.


If you have cable TV, avoid the broadcast stations—the signal-to-noise ratio (noise being the Christmas marketing push) is very high. Instead, use your normal TV time to catch up on old movies you love, or the National Geographic channel or science channels for more celestial-type programming, or the History channel to learn how people celebrated the season before the rise of Christianity and later, Wall Street.
Turn off the radio. You'll be pitched every 10 minutes, or subject to Christmas music, or be harangued by talkers for participating in a "war on Christmas."
Shun the internet newsgroups, especially regarding topics that touch on any reason for celebrating the season. Somebody will always be there to rain on the parade, and usually with the most abusive attitude.
None of that will help you capture the spirit of the season as you see it.
 Whatever your solstice views are—be they pagan or secular—there are people out there who think as you do. A search in Google will give you a plethora of choices. If you live in a place where you're isolated, either by geography or by local culture, you can find like-minded people in Internet groups. Here are some things to look for:



Saturnalia. The Romans celebrated the return of the light by mandating feasting, gambling, ribaldry, and general merriment. The reason? This would vanquish Old Man Saturn, who was often depicted as Father Time, or even Death(not unlike how we ring in the new year now!). Saturnalia is celebrated from December 17th through December 24th.
If all that drinking, partying, and debauching is a bit much, December 25th—conveniently enough—is Juvenalia, a celebration of children. In old Roman times, children were entertained, given gifts, and feted.

Mithra. Not to be confused with either Mothra or Mithrandir, Mithra was the Persian sun god. Like virtually all celebrations of the season, it celebrates the return of the light, and the promise of renewal. According to legend, Mithra appeared from a rock, armed with knife and torch. Shepherds saw this, and greeted him with gifts.

Yule. Yule was the solstice festival of the Norse and Teutonic people of northern Europe. As part of the celebrations, a large green log was burned in the hearth. The festivities would last as long as the Yule log burned. The traditions of decorating the house with greenery—wreaths, trees, and boughs—originated with Yule. Like many other traditions, this was folded into the Christian celebrations of Christmas., As the winter solstice approaches, the days get much shorter. The further north you are, the shorter they get. Nature discards the old during this time, to make way for the spring.


You can rage against the dying of the light, or recognize that this is a simple celestial phenomenon that will give way to long days of renewal.
Set aside a half an hour every evening to meditate on that which you have lost during the year, and that which you wish to shed in the new year. Meditate also on what you wish the lengthening days to bring to your life.
If you're too busy to do a half an hour's meditation, do a full hour.
On the day of the solstice, spend the day in silence and reflection. Say a final goodbye to the losses, hurts, and regrets of the last year by writing them down on individual strips of paper, then burning them in the Yule fire.
 It might be for yourself, it might be for your family and friends. Incorporate any of the old celebrations, and understand that it's intimately tied to the concepts of darkness and light, death and birth, decay and renewal.


Have a feast! In most agrarian cultures, mid winter was a time of home and family and enjoying the bounty of the previous year. Create a feast for the season, with the kinds of food that would still be around from the autumn harvests. Cured meats, wildfowl, root vegetables, wine, hot drinks, fresh bread—all of it is fair game for your celebration harvest.
Give your celebration a name. It can be as simple as something like "Feast," or as complex as "The Carpren's Annual Celebration of Rebirth and Renewal."
Create invitation cards that are like Christmas cards, only with your own theme.
 Put up a Yule tree, studiously avoiding an abundance of reds and greens. Stick with single-color lights.


White is nice, as it's reminiscent of sparkling snow.
Top your tree with a white orb representing the moon, instead of a star representing the star in the East that called the three wise men to Bethlehem.
If you have a fireplace, keep a fire going.
Give simple gifts. If you have to go to a mall, or if saving 25% is actually a significant amount of money, then don't buy it. Opt for small things from local artisans—be it a small wooden toy or an artisanal cheese.
 If you make the season (whatever you call it) a time of joy, and renewal, growth, and love, you'll find yourself having more spirit of the season than most people around you.
