 Card is sturdier than paper and will make your calendar more durable.
 Do this on twelve separate sheets of card - one for each month.Make sure that all of the rows and columns are equally spaced and that none of the lines are crooked.
Use a pencil first time round, then you can go over the pencil lines with a permanent marker once you're sure that the lines are straight and evenly spaced.
 At the top of each sheet of card, write the name of one of the twelve months of the year - January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, and December. Do them in large writing with colored pens, pencils, or markers.


Make sure you spell the months correctly and give them all a capital letter.
 At the top of each vertical column, fill in the names of the days of the week, Monday through Sunday.
 Fill in the dates of every month, writing the number into the top right-hand corner of each individual box. Use last years calendar to find out what day to start on - for example, if the last day of December was on a Wednesday, then the first day of January will be on a Thursday.


Make sure you write in the correct number of days for each month, as different months have a different number of days.
To remember how many days there are in each month, use this helpful rhyme: Thirty days has September, April, June and November. All the rest have thirty-one, excepting February alone, and that has twenty-eight days clear, and twenty-nine in each leap year., Decorate each page of your calendar any way you like. Use colored pens, pencils, markers, and/or crayons. Stickers, sequins and glitter glue are also good. Use your imagination!

, Mark out all the most important dates of the year on your calendar - days like your birthday, Christmas, the first day of school, etc. A cool way to do this is to cut out pictures relating to every special day and glue them onto the correct date.


For example, if it's your sister's birthday on May 6th, cut out a photograph of her face and stick it to that date.Use a picture of a Christmas tree to mark December 25th, a cartoon of a witch or ghost for Halloween, and a picture of a fluffy bunny to represent Easter.
 Punch two holes at the top of each piece of card, making sure the holes are perfectly lined up. Take a long piece of string, twine or wool and tie each end through one set of holes to make a hanger for your calendar.


Hang the calendar on a hook or a nail in your bedroom, kitchen, classroom, or wherever you like!
Don't forget to mark an "X" on each day as it passes!

