 Fevers are your body’s way of fighting infections, so it is common for people to experience fever while combating a cold. Having a fever of up to 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (or 39 degrees Celsius) is nothing to worry about, but anything over this level requires immediate evaluation by a doctor. If you are experiencing discomfort from the fever or have a fever of over 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit, there are several ways to reduce it.


Certain over-the-counter pain killers can be taken to reduce a fever. Take acetaminophen (Tylenol, paracetamol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or aspirin in its recommended dosage.Aspirin should not be giving to children or teenagers because it can cause Reye's syndrome, a potentially fatal condition.Only give Tylenol (acetaminophen) to children. Consult with your doctor before giving any medication to a child under the age of 2.
Seek professional medical help if your fever stays consistently above 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit, does not respond to medication, or lasts for longer than 3 days.Consult your doctor immediately if your infant has a fever over 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit.;
, Cold water will restrict your blood vesselsand send more blood to your internal organs,potentially increasing your core body temperature instead of reducing it.
 Nasal congestion is caused when your sinus tissues are inflamed with excess fluid.It may be accompanied by nasal discharge, also known as a runny nose, or post-nasal drip, which can irritate your throat. Nasal congestion may lead to a sinus infection if left untreated.


Decongestants typically come in pill form (Sudafed, Sudafed PE, which require an ID to purchase and are kept behind the counter) or as nasal sprays (Afrin). Pseudoephedrine (the active ingredient in Sudafed) may cause your blood pressure to rise, and should not be taken by people with high blood pressure. It may also cause drowsiness or cause difficulty sleeping. Do not use nasal sprays for more than 3 days in a row.Do not take an antihistamine for congestion unless your congestion is caused by allergies. Many people mistake seasonal allergies for a cold. If your congestion is accompanied by itchy eyes and frequent sneezing, it is possible you have seasonal allergies and should take an antihistamine.If you are having problems determining if you have a cold or allergies seek medical attention of a Primary Care Physician or Allergist.
 Clean the neti pot with soap and water before use. Fill with a lukewarm saline solution made from distilled or sterile water; never use tap water in a neti pot. If you do not have access to distilled water, sterilize your tap water by bringing it to a boil for 1 minute and allow to cool before use., Bring 4-6 cups of water to a boil and pour into a bowl with a combination of eucalyptus, peppermint leaf, rosemary, thyme, lavender, and salt. Cover the bowl and let steep for 5-10 minutes. Place a towel over your head to trap the steam and hold your head 5-10 inches over the bowl with your eyes closed. Breathe in the steam for no more than 10 minutes., Hot peppers may also help to reduce fever by increasing your blood circulations., The salt helps to draw excess moisture out of inflamed tissues in your throat and helps to break up mucus from post-nasal drip.Dissolve a half a teaspoon of salt in a glass of warm water and then gargle the saltwater in the back of your mouth for 30-60 seconds, or up to 3 minutes. Spit out the saltwater and any mucus it has loosened up. Repeat as often as necessary.


A sore throat can also be soothed by sucking on lozenges, hard candies, or ice chips. Do not give lozenges or hard candies to children under the age of 4, as they are a choking hazard.You may also use a sore throat spray, which will numb your throat and keep it from hurting. Follow dosing instructions on the product packaging and do not use more frequently than the recommended amount.
 Try herbal teas made with ginger, basil, chamomile, sage, fennel, licorice root, or peppermint.Black, green, and white teas are also helpful because they contain a lot of antioxidants, which are believed to help strengthen your immunity to illness.Adding lemon to your tea also helps to boost your immunity because lemons are packed with vitamin C and other antioxidants.Honey is very soothing on your throat and has antimicrobial and antibacterial properties.Be careful giving tea with lemon and honey to children, the honey can cause Botulism.
 Over-the-counter pain relievers can help to relieve pain caused by coughing, sore throat, headache, or general body aches. Acetaminophen (Tylenol, paracetamol), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), or aspirin can each be used in its recommended dosage. Follow the directions on the packaging for correct dosing information. If you are taking any of these products as a fever reducer, do not take more to treat pain symptoms unless directed to do so by your doctor.
 Your body needs water to function properly, and it is recommended you drink at least 8 glasses a day and at least 8 oz. every 2 hours while you are sick.Drinking lots of fluids will allow your body to replace fluids lost from sweating and producing mucus. It also helps loosen that mucus so you can cough it out of your system.Avoid diuretics including alcohol, caffeine, salty foods, and sugary drinks like soda. All of these can cause dehydration and can slow your body’s natural healing process., Sleep is the body’s most effective way of self-healing. You should get at least 7-9 hours of sleep each night, and even more when you are sick.Take time off of work or school if possible to allow your body to rest and recover. Exhausting yourself by working too much while you have a cold will most likely prolong your illness. Taking time off will also prevent you from spreading your cold virus to others.
Keep your mind distracted while you are resting by reading a book, watching movies or television shows, playing video games, or doing anything that is not physically demanding. Indulging in things you like to do can also help distract you from how bad you feel.
 Tobacco smoke can irritate your nasal passages, throat, and lungs, exacerbating your cold symptoms. Tobacco users are also more likely to catch a cold and to have a cold develop into a more serious illness, like pneumonia., Colds are caused by viruses, which do not respond to antibiotics. Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections., Washing your hands is one of the best ways to keep germs from spreading.To wash your hands properly, wet your hands, apply soap, then work the soap into a lather by rubbing your hands together. Be sure to spread the soap across your palms, the backs of your hands, between your fingers, and under your fingernails. Continue scrubbing your hands for at least 20 seconds, then rinse off and dry thoroughly.If you do not have access to running water and soap, use a hand sanitizer. Apply the amount directed by the product label and rub the product all over your hands and fingers until dry., When you cough or sneeze, you are releasing thousands of virus particles into the air that can then infect other people. Limit the spread of those viruses by containing your cough or sneeze.
 Don’t hug, kiss, or shake hands when you or the other person has a cold. This can increase the chances of transmission from one person to another. Also don’t share drinking straws or eating utensils, such as forks and spoons with someone who is sick., Cold viruses can live on surfaces for up to 24 hours, so cleaning them frequently helps limit the transmission from person to person.