 Relaxation techniques are important to the reduction of any anxiety or fear. Learning how to help yourself relax and calm down, will help in various stages of dealing with your anthropophobia. Successful use of these techniques to reduce your fear takes careful planning and regular practice. Try the following relaxation techniques.


Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR) is a practice where you consciously tense certain muscle groups then release the tension, noticing how it feels for the muscles to relax.Try tensing and relaxing muscle groups going from top to bottom or bottom to top of your body.
Meditation is a practice where you sit comfortably and quietly, turning your attention to your mind.Through mediation you attempt to increase your focus and clear your mind. You can try by focusing on just your breathing for a certain amount of time while trying to clear your mind of thoughts and anxieties.
Autogenics is a practice where you learn to self-produce a feeling of warmth and heaviness throughout your body resulting in feelings of relaxation. Autogenics requires a meditative like practice of synchronized breathing and repeating phrases to yourself over the course of approximately 3 months., Facing your anthropophobia and working through it (on your own or with a professional) involves being very specific about your fear and anxiety.Just as journaling about your experience will help with treatment, so will an anxiety hierarchy. Begin to identify a list of specific situations and the anxiety or fear you experience with each situation.Your list or hierarchy should include the following.


Create 10 to 15 situations where you might experience fear or anxiety, such as spending time one on one with someone, being at a family gathering, being at an airport. Most people discard some situations or pair some together, but you should end up with at least 10 situations.
Rank each based on how much anxiety you experience where 1 is the lowest anxiety and 10 is the highest anxiety imaginable. The levels should look like the following; Low Anxiety (1,2), Low-Moderate Anxiety (3, 4), Moderate Anxiety (5, 6), Moderate-High Anxiety (7, 8) High Anxiety (9, 10).
Make sure, when you are finished, that there are at least two situations in each anxiety level category.
 While doing this alone is not recommended, you may find it difficult to access the professional help you need. If you cannot get the help of a doctor, psychologist, or counselor, you can try practicing desensitization on your own. Make sure you do not practice this technique for more than 30 minutes at a time, or for more than two items on your hierarchy at a time. Repeat each of the following for every item on your anxiety hierarchy.Begin by using a relaxation technique for a few minutes.


Pick the lowest item in your hierarchy and imagine yourself in that situation for a tolerable amount of time.
Stop imagining the situation and rate your anxiety level.
Use a relaxation technique for at least 30 seconds.
Imagine the same situation again for a tolerable level of time. Stop again and rate your anxiety level, and practice relaxation. Continue this pattern until you are experiencing low or no anxiety.
Move on to the next item on your hierarchy and repeat the process.
End each session with several minutes of relaxation.
 With anthropophobia, you may experience fear or anxiety leading up to spending time with others.This is commonly referred to as anticipatory anxiety. Symptoms of anticipatory anxiety can include trouble sleeping, stomach problems, or headaches. It can also include urges to cancel your plans or the desire to not show up.


Take deep breaths. Place one hand on your stomach and one hand on your chest. Breath in deeply by trying to push out the hand on your stomach. Breathing deeply from your stomach starts your body's calming response.
Do whatever relaxes you, such as listening to music or taking a long bath or shower.
Be kind to yourself. It may be easy to get down on yourself for canceling plans or being unable to do something due to your fear. Working through it takes time. Try repeating comforting phrases to yourself such as “I'm working on this. It will get better.” or “This is only temporary. I will beat this.”

