 You should brush your teeth at least twice a day, including last thing before going to sleep. For optimal oral health, brush a half hour to an hour after each meal to let saliva remineralize your teeth surfaces. Use circular and vertical motions, covering front and back sides of your teeth for a minimum of two minutes.Make sure to get to the back, hard to reach teeth. These are especially at risk for plaque buildup since they’re primarily used for chewing food and are hard for you to reach with a toothbrush. After brushing, also use floss or an interdental toothbrush to clean the areas in between your teeth.
Don’t consume any food or beverages other than water after you brush before bed.
Make sure to brush using toothpaste that contains fluoride.
Always use a soft-bristled brush to reduce the risk of tooth erosion.;
, If it’s an affordable option, you might want to invest in an electronic brush. They can be effective at removing plaque and reaching into the spaces between your teeth. Plaque growing between teeth is the major cause of gingivitis and other gum diseases.Keep in mind that having an electronic toothbrush is not always the best option. You will still need to use a manual toothbrush to stimulate your gums. If you use good technique with a manual toothbrush, then an electronic toothbrush may not even be necessary.
While high-end electronic toothbrushes can be expensive, you can find more affordable options at your local drugstore.
Whether your brush is mechanical or manual, replace it or the headpiece every three months.
 Many people are pretty good about brushing their teeth, but aren’t so great about getting in between teeth where toothbrushes can’t reach. You should floss your teeth daily, preferably before brushing. Flossing before brushing helps to loosen particles of food and plaque that you can then brush away. Flossing before brushing also allows your teeth to absorb more protective fluoride from your toothpaste.Wrap the ends of a strand of floss 18 to 24 inches long around your middle fingers.
Guide the floss with your thumbs and index fingers, gently sliding it in between each tooth.
Don't snap or yank the strand down to your gums in a rough or aggressive way. Rather, be delicate as you follow the contours of each tooth down to the gum line.
If you rarely or never floss, then keep in mind that your gums may bleed when you floss them for the first time. However, this bleeding will decrease after flossing regularly for a few days or weeks.
 After flossing and brushing, gargle with an anti-microbial or anti-septic mouthwash to rinse any remaining particles and disinfect your mouth.An anti-microbial mouthwash is slightly less harsh, killing bacteria that cause plaque buildup and stopping bad breath. Anti-septic mouthwashes contain more alcohol and kill more microscopic organisms, but can leave your mouth feeling drier because of its higher alcohol content.Dry mouth can actually make bad breath worse, and the higher alcohol content can cause irritation of the mucosa, which can cause a burning sensation.
If you're sensitive or prone to experience dry mouth or irritation, go with a mouthwash that has a lower alcohol content, or none at all.
 Interdental brushes and picks are available at drug- or convenience stores, and are designed to reach in between teeth to loosen up plaque. A water irrigator uses a stream of water to rinse away particles that can get stuck in between teeth or hard to clean areas.Both are helpful in preventing gingivitis, especially if you have sensitivity, braces, or other dental hardware that make flossing difficult. However, they can't replace a cleaning at your dentist’s office where they can remove calculus (a hard deposit of mineralized plaque) from your teeth.

