



Symptoms: Cattle with acute acidosis may go into shock and die suddenly due to a result of overwhelming increase in acidity in the rumen.

Those that do not die quickly are listless and often lethargic, and wander aimlessly around the pen, or just simply don't get up from lying down. They also often appear weak and anorexic and dehydrated.
Related health problems may occur from an animal having acute acidosis. Rumen lining may be damaged from the sudden drop in acidity leaving the lining of the stomach to be damaged, causing rumenitis, or an infection of the rumen wall. Inflammation also occurs in the abomasum and intestinal walls, often destroy the villi that are responsible for nutrient absorption from the digesta.

Poor feed efficiency, slow growth, poor weight gain or a drop in milk production is often a result of this inflammatory damage.


Occasionally acidosis is responsible for a suppressed immune system which may prevent an animal's ability to ward off infection from airborne or communicable viruses or bacteria.
Founder (also called Laminitis) and bloat are also a result of this metabolic disorder.

Founder often leaves cattle permanently lame. This is a serious case for young bulls that are being feed-tested prior to sale, more so than in dairy cows or feedlot steers/heifers.
Bloat is a serious disorder that disables a bovine to release any gases that have built up in the rumen. The rumen can engorge so much that it crushes the lungs and eventually asphyxiates cattle if not treated immediately.


Liver abscesses are also common in cattle that had acidosis. Reduced feed intake, feed efficiency, weight gain and carcass yield is often a result of abscesses in the liver.

Liver abscesses often cannot be seen until the animal is slaughtered. Abscessed livers are condemned at slaughter, because they are not deemed safe for humans to eat.


Polioencephalomalacia (not related to the paralyzing human version of polio) is also a concern for cattle that have had acidosis.

;
,


Thiamine is often a highly recommended injection to give to cattle with acute acidosis, as it is very important in treating and stopping a sudden acidosis attack. Acidosis very often halts the production of thiamine through digestion, and an injection of Thiamine will reverse this process.

Baking soda will also work as a treatment for cattle with acidosis.
