 Audition for either principal or background roles, regardless of your status. If hired, begin your application process with the union. However, be aware that rules stipulate that:Nonunion performers can only be hired if they show skills or qualities that are uniquely vital to a specific role.
If they do, they can only win that role if no available union member possesses the same characteristics.
Once hired, nonunion performers are obligated to join SAG-AFTRA if the production lasts longer than 30 days.
 If you are unable to find work as a nonunion performer in a production covered by SAG-AFTRA (or if you simply wish to be protected by a union in the meantime), seek membership with another organization. Maintain your membership with them for at least twelve months before applying to SAG-AFTRA. Additionally, make sure that you work at least one paying job in a principal role during that time in order to qualify as eligible. Other unions recognized by SAG-AFTRA include:ACTRA (The Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists)
AEA (Actors' Equity Association)
AGMA (American Guild of Musical Artists)
AGVA (American Guild of Variety Artists)

, Gain your credentials through American productions and unions, rather than those abroad. If you have prior acting experience in other countries, consider it null and void. Although exceptions are sometimes made, expect SAG-AFTRA to regard such qualifications as invalid.If you do obtain acting work in the United States, but are not a U.S. citizen or resident alien, make sure you have the proper visa entitling you to work here.
Be aware that such visas are granted solely by project and immediately expire at the end of that production.
 SAG-AFTRA welcomes minors as members, but expect conditions of membership to vary according to your home state’s laws. Utilize the union’s resources to research rules that may affect you. Do any one or more of the following:Visit https://www.sagaftra.org/content/young-performers to learn general issues facing young actors as well as state-specifc statutes.
Call (323) 549-6030 to speak with their Child Actor Hotline.
Attend one of their monthly orientation meetings for young actors.

