 Jimi used studio tools to great effect. He was constantly innovating because, as he put it, the "sounds in his head" could not be reproduced until he or his friends came up with a new technique. Many now standard electric guitar effects can be traced back to Jimi: e.g. wah-wah (foot pedal allowing rapid extreme alterations in tone). The famous slide guitar with heavy echo/reverb solo from 'All Along the Watchtower' was created by Jimi using a Zippo cigarette lighter on its side.


He also experimented and tried new techniques with different models of guitars as well. Firstly, he was left handed but he took a right handed guitar and turned it upside down after re-stringing the guitar from the low to high e-string. Right handed guitarist can do this by getting a voodoo Stratocaster or re-stringing like Hendrix. Also, play around with the setting on your amp. Look around for other effects he used on his guitar. Finally, Hendrix usually thumbs his bass note whilst using hiss other fingers for the rhythm, slides his thumb along the string and heavily uses his whammy bar.
 He started out learning his licks from the players that he admired, then strived to reach into his soul and apply these lessons to create a sound that was Jimi.


Jimi Hendrix never used to play that cleanly, he would just kinda "Get it done" quite a lazy, but very very talented and unique player. Also, he used a lot of finger picking/ physical picking combination. As in he would pick some strings with his pick, while finger picking some other strings to get more noise at once that he liked.
Technically: To learn his licks, there are a number of playback devices available that allow you to slow down any particular musical passage, making it easier to find the individual notes that were played. Please note that Hendrix oftentimes would "slurry" a number of notes together, making it difficult to identify individual notes, but not impossible.
Aesthetically: Once you've found the notes and chords, play along with some of his tunes, to get the feel of them.....then play the tunes on your own. In my opinion, if you can play a smooth, soulful rendition of "Little Wing", you are well on your way.
 Who knows you might learn to play the exact songs as Hendrix with the same notes but in a different technique that better suits your individual circumstances. Aerosmith and Van Halen tune their guitars down 1/2 step. This makes the strings looser and changes the sound. Also, a cappo bar changes the tuning by raising all the strings the same step but doesn't make the strings tighter.


Mark Knopfler (formerly of Dire Straits) likes to cap up on the 2nd fret, it raises the bass line and changes the vocals.
Dolly Parton has massive fingernails but still plays guitar -- her guitar is tuned to a G chord so all she has to do is play bar-chords up and down the neck to make a song.

