 Always be home when you're supposed to be. Take care of your chores without being asked. Make sure your homework is done and your grades are good. Your parents are much more likely to give you freedom if they can trust you to respect their rules.;
, Freedom is about being mature and responsible enough to take care of yourself. Prove that you are mature by accepting your current conditions. You can vocalize your feelings, but avoid fighting with your parents.
 It will be much harder for your parents to trust you if you're drinking, partying a lot, and hanging out with the 'wrong crowd.' If your parents don't like the way your friends look or dress, bring your friends home so your parents can see how awesome and nice they are.
 Let them know what's going on in your life, what your interests are, and what you find important. Ask them for advice. They'll be more inclined to see things your way if they understand your perspective as a person.
 If you want more freedom, you'll need to broach the subject in a mature and calm manner. You'll need to touch on several key points, so your parents can see how serious you are and how much you've considered their point of view. Make notes for yourself, so you don't forget to touch on every point (they're all important!)


Identify which freedoms you'd like i.e. a later curfew, permission to borrow the car, more computer time, permission to go to a concert, etc
Give them a few examples of things you've done recently that prove that you are trustworthy and dependable. Perhaps you get decent grades consistently, do your chores without complaints, or you are always home on time.
You might like to make a deal, for instance you could propose that you'll maintain a certain GPA if you're given an hour later curfew. Your parents may be more comfortable giving you extra freedom if they know you'll be working hard to keep it. If you don't have any ideas, ask them what you can do to gain the freedom you'd like.
 If your parents are not immediately on board, accept this decision. Becoming angry or upset will only prove to them that you are not yet mature enough to handle additional freedom. Continue your good behavior. Now that they know how you feel, they may take more notice and give you your freedom on their own.
 Eventually they'll see how hard you're working and reward your efforts.

