 It is pretty easy to tell when a child’s hygiene is not being kept up. His hair may be tangled, unkempt, or greasy. He may have dirt on patches of his skin, or under his fingernails. Similarly, he may have skin-infections or rashes that seem to go unchecked. If you notice any of these signs, that child may have a neglectful parent., If the child seems like she always has some sort of illness, yet never seems to be taken to the doctor or given any medication, there is a chance that she is being neglected.
 A neglectful caregiver may forget to feed the child they are caring for. If this is the case, the child may seem malnourished--skinnier than normal or no visible growth of any kind. You may also notice if a child never seems to have a lunch or snack at school.
 Do they seem to be hygienic? Do they seem caring or invested in the child’s welfare. Looking at the caregivers can often give you an insight into what is going on. If they caregivers are unhygienic, it makes sense that they would also pay little attention to their child’s hygiene.
 Every parent hopes to give their child good education. So they make it a point to understand how they are faring in school as in academic performance, how they are getting along with peers, what kind of friends they have, if their child has fallen into bad company and bad ways, and taking time to meet the teacher and take her observations about their child. But if there is no picture of parent or caregiver in the education then there is something to be worried about.If a parent has been asked to come in to speak to the teacher several times and fails to show up, there is a chance that this parent does not care about their child’s education and is in fact neglecting their child.
 If you notice a child coming late to school every day, or missing school often, approach the child and ask him why this is the case. If he says that he has to take care of making breakfast and doing his homework by himself, or he has to run errands on school days, there is a very good chance that this child is being neglected.
 Pay attention to the child’s response when you ask her about her home life. If she does not want to talk about it or seems to think that parents and a home are not important, this might be a sign that she is being neglected.
 Often, when a child is neglected, he will develop an inability to grasp or show emotions. He may also have a hard time empathizing with others. Because of this inability to associate with others, he may have very few, if any, friends.

