 Will it be dark, deep, sad, grim, edgy, or something else? Once you have clearly defined the overall feel of it (which should be based on mood and tone), it helps to get into that way of thinking, somewhat like method acting, just not as dramatic. The easiest way to do this is through exploring music types that correlate with your overall feel. For example, if you are writing a very dark and suspenseful story, a good dark song to listen to is "Mad World," performed by Gary Jules.;
, How do you want things to unfold in your suspenseful story? How can you make the causes and effects you want in your suspenseful story efficiently?

, You must fully understand how each character will develop and partake in your story, and how that relates to every other character and the story before understanding the climax itself. Make a list of your characters along with all of their intentions, how they will act, react, and end up at the end of your story (or at least to the climax). Study this intently as you will find it is very easy to create plot holes and collapse on your own work.
 Organize a numbered list of all of your scenes, with 1-2 sentences describing what happened in that scene and how everyone reacted and felt. Study this as well, and again make sure that everything makes perfect sense, unless you plan on having a mystery or hidden twist that explains it all (wherever that may be in the story is up to you).
 Use all the notes you've written so far. Will it be grim, sad, horrifying, etc.? Now you should understand the atmosphere of the climax and the tension among the characters.
 If you're writing in third person omniscient, it should be fairly easy to depict the thoughts and intentions of each character towards the reader. Simply creating the events that cause tension among characters or tension itself and providing characters' thoughts on the situations is enough to leave the reader aware of the suspense.

   

If you are writing in first person point of view, you may have to rely on more action-based reactions. For example, say the main character tries to kill another character. How does everyone comprehend the situation? You won't be able to display the thoughts of each character directly, which means you have a few options. You can have them react through dialogue or actions. Dialogue could range from talking to themselves, a friend, the main character himself, etc., while actions could be trying to call the police or attacking the main character. A third option is waiting to reveal one's thoughts until a later time, which may be more rewarding for the reader and create even more tension and suspense.
 An easy way of creating tension is to have varying emotional reactions. This will cause conflict that makes it more enticing and thrilling. Don't have everyone feel the same way as this can dampen a lot of nail-biting moments from the reader and end up causing less drama. To create emotion itself, describe it. Use many adjectives/adverbs that detail what people are feeling or how they act, such as "gloomily, hopelessly, mournful, enraged, offended."

, Having many connections in the storyline and interactions among the characters makes the story exciting, as the reader will continue to read so that they can find out how each character will react. Interactions that generally end with unexpected results tend to add more tension as well.


When writing suspense, you must know how to word sentences correctly in dialogue to create the result you were looking for. In easier terms, make conversation with your end goal of that scene in mind, manipulating things until what you wanted to occur occurred, and makes sense that it did.
 The whole idea behind suspense is to leave people lost for satisfaction, only to find it at the end or the climax. For every moment that something worthy or even just plainly positive happens, there should be an equal negative consequence that the readers are aware of. This can give readers more reason to keep reading whilst forging tension.


Some examples of awe-filled moments can be the death of a character (one of the most common ways to create tension/unsatisfaction in suspense stories), the return of a character, a sudden change in judgement in a character, a change in pace of the conflict, or events that make happy endings more and more unlikely.
 Earlier, you made a list about your characters and their feelings and intentions. You can edit this to have some people unaware of certain events. This is done very commonly in superhero shows, where someone very close to the superhero doesn't actually know that the person is in fact, a superhero. This can be extremely awarding for when the character actually does find out the information, but builds a lot of suspense as they may get closer to learning the information throughout the story.
 As you review your work, make sure everything you've written flows towards creating suspense. Don't make someone sad, and then have them go to somewhere lively and fun. It is very important to make sense. If someone is sad but must go somewhere lively or fun, make him sad, but composed, or simply able to do things despite the sadness. If one person feels one way about a certain thing, he/she should feel the same about other similar situations. Everything about each character should be understandable and in turn, relatable to your reader.
 When reading over scenes and lines of dialogue you created, you should also feel suspense. If you don't find yourself on the edge of your seat as you read, you may need to rework the piece.
 To get a better understanding, you can ask a friend or close person to read it over and give their thoughts. Take their advice and see if it helps. Have them read suspenseful parts to ensure that they feel the way they should. Don't be too surprised if they can't stop reading.

