 Becoming successful on Instagram is a give and take process: if you like others' photos, then these users are more likely to notice you and like yours. Think about what you do when you get a notification that someone has liked one of your photos — odds are that at least some of the time you'll head to that user's page and check out their photos. Making an effort to like others' photos increases the chances they'll do this to you in return.


You can start by going to your followers' pages and liking your favorite photos among the most recent posts. However, you may not want to stop there — liking content from new users outside your list of followers is a great way to expand your Instagram visibility (plus, it can help you get new followers.)

, On Instagram, following someone else means getting more followers for yourself! The more people you follow (and interact with) on Instagram, the more people will have the chance to see and like your pictures. In addition, for profiles with restrictive privacy settings, you'll need to become a follower before you can start viewing photos, giving out likes, and making your presence known to the profile's other followers.


You don't just have to follow people you already know — following random users whose content you like can help you expand your reach (and keep your personal feed fresh and interesting at the same time.) Try browsing through the top photos in the "Explore" tab (which you can get to by pressing the button at the bottom of the screen that looks a little like a compass) and start following people who take photos you are interested in.
 If you're just starting out on Instagram, one of the quickest ways to boost your follower count (and start getting likes) is to find people on Instagram you already know from your other social media sites (like, for instance, Facebook.) To do this, head to your profile tab (tap the button in the bottom right of the screen that looks like the outline of a person) and head to your settings menu by tapping the button in the top right. Here, tap the "Find Friends" option to see your options for locating Instagram users from other social media sites you have associated with your mobile device.


Note that, if you're on a smart phone, you should also have the option to search for Instagram users in your phone's contact list.
 Maintaining a strong social media presence requires a time commitment. The more time you spend on Instagram liking photos and interacting with other users, the more likes you will receive yourself. As a general rule, spending about an hour total active on Instagram each day (spread evenly throughout the day) should help you start building your Instagram presence and earning more likes.


Recent data shows that the average Instagram user spends about 13-14 minutes on Instagram per day.Remember that, for the best chance of putting yourself ahead of the pack in terms of Instagram likes, it will help to have a greater level of engagement than this.
 It's not pretty, but sometimes outright asking for likes is a good short-term strategy for boosting the amount of Instagram love you get. Unfortunately, this sort of approach can be somewhat effective — research shown that Instagram content with hashtags like "#follow" and "#likeforlike" receive slightly more attention than content that doesn't.You can achieve the same effect without using hashtags by using the photo's caption or comments section to ask for likes.


Note, however, that it can be a bad idea to rely heavily on this strategy in the long run. Begging for likes is often seen as obnoxious or needy by Instagram users, so using this sort of poor Instagram etiquette can actually damage your reputation once you get a significant number of followers.

