 Ginger is a root that can help reduce symptoms of anxiety as well as nausea. Ginger extract is available in dietary capsules or as oil, which can be purchased at many nutrition retailers. Ginger can be strong, so the daily recommended ingestion for ginger is, at most, 4 g. This includes any ginger you get from food or drinks as well as any dietary supplements or oils you use.


Pregnant women should not have more than 1 g of ginger daily. Don't ingest ginger if you have a bleeding disorder or are taking blood-thinning medications, including aspirin.You can also add ginger root to recipes, such as stir fries, marinades, or other recipes to get more of it in your diet. Follow the same guidelines for ingestion as with supplements.
 Chamomile can help relieve anxiety, stress, and insomnia. It may be especially effective for people with mild to moderate general anxiety disorder. To make chamomile tea, pour 1 cup of boiling water over 2 to 3 teaspoon of dried flowers, and steep for 10 to 15 minutes. Drink at least two to three times daily, especially before bedtime.


Don’t give chamomile to a child without consulting a doctor or pediatrician first.
Avoid using chamomile if you are taking sedatives, blood-thinning medications, birth control pills, statins, or medicine for blood pressure or diabetes., Lemon balm is an herb often used to reduce stress and anxiety, promote sleep, and improve appetite. It is also often combined with other calming, soothing herbs, such as valerian and chamomile to help increase relaxation. Lemon balm contains phytochemicals such as tannins, which contribute to lemon balm’s antifungal and antiviral effects, and eugenol, which stops muscle spasms and kills bacteria that hurts you. Essential oils made from lemon balm leaves contain a substance called terpene, which helps relaxation and fight viruses.


Lemon balm is available as a dietary capsule supplement with a recommendation of 300 to 500 mg, up to three times daily.
Pregnant or breastfeeding women should consult with a doctor before using lemon balm., St. John’s wort is an herb used to treat mild to moderate anxiety and depression. It is available as a liquid extract, capsules, tablets, and commercial tea. Ask your doctor which will be right for you. Supplements are standardized to 0.3% hypericin concentration, one of the active compounds in the herb, and should be taken three times daily in 300 mg doses. It may take three to four weeks to show significant improvements. Don’t stop taking St. John’s wort all at once, because that may cause side effects. Gradually lower the dose over a period of time.


If you get headaches from the herb, stop using it.
Individuals with attention deficit disorder (ADD) and bipolar disorder should not use St. John’s wort.
If you are taking medications such as antidepressants, sedatives, birth control pills, or allergy drugs, don't use St. John's wort.
Pregnant and breastfeeding women should not use St. John’s wort., Lavender is a powerful, pleasantly scented herb known for its calming properties and widely used in aromatherapy to induce relaxation. Studies show that the scent of lavender produces calming and soothing effects that can help reduce insomnia, anxiety, and depression. It is available as an essential oil, bath gels, extracts, infusions, lotions, soaps, teas, tinctures, and as whole dried flowers.


Add two to four drops of lavender essential oil to 2 to 3 cups of boiling water to make a steam inhalation to reduce headaches, insomnia, anxiety, and depression. See your doctor before using inhalations if you have a respiratory condition or experience any irritation in your eyes or lungs.
To make a tea, steep ½ a teaspoon of dried lavender flowers to 1 cup of boiling water. Strain and drink up to two times per day or as directed by your doctor. Do not add lavender oil to teas or foods, as lavender essential oil is toxic if taken orally.
Do not give lavender to boys who have not yet reached puberty, as it can cause hormonal changes to occur. If you have any concerns, speak to your doctor before using lavender products for your child., Research suggests that valerian can help ease anxiety, insomnia, and nervous restlessness. Valerian is also available as a tincture, fluid extract, dry powdered extract, or tea at pharmacies and nutrition food stores. Try making valerian tea one to two hours before bedtime by steeping 1 tsp of dried root in 1 cup of boiling water. It may help you sleep better and reduce anxiety. It may take a few weeks to fully gain the benefits of valerian.


Don’t use valerian for longer than one month without your doctor's approval.
As valerian root has a sharp odor, it may be mixed with other calming herbs such as passionflower, lemon balm, or hops to mask the scent.
Do not take valerian during the day, before driving, operating heavy machinery, or other things that require you to be alert. Do not give valerian to a child without consulting your doctor or pediatrician.
Avoid using valerian prior to surgery or if you are taking medications such as sedatives, antihistamines, or statins., Passionflower is an herbal sedative that can give you a sense of calm and help you sleep better. It's often used to treat insomnia related to anxiety. Passionflower can also help control nausea and the feeling of having anxious stomach flutters. Passionflower is also used to treat anxiety disorder, a more serious form of anxiety.


If you are pregnant, do not take passionflower. It may be unsafe for women who are carrying a child, since it contains chemicals that may cause the uterus to contract., L-theanine is an amino acid commonly found in green tea and certain supplements. L-Theanine has been shown to reduce mental and physical stress and may produce feelings of relaxation without drowsiness.


Ask your doctor before using theanine or giving it to a child, especially if you are taking other medications, herbs or supplements for anxiety., Kava kava was previously believed to be a good treatment for anxiety, but new research shows that kava kava may cause serious liver damage, even with short-term use.


Avoid kava kava especially if you have liver problems or take medications that affect your liver.If you choose to take kava kava, choose extracts done with water and not alcohol. This may reduce the potential of liver damage.

