 When shopping for lace-up pants, you will typically have a choice between low-rise, mid-rise and high-rise waists. Make your choice based on the style that looks the best with your body shape and what you feel most comfortable in.For example, high-waisted pants tend to flatter most body shapes. Choose mid-rise if you want to play down the size of your lower half. Low-rise pants work best on athletic frames.The majority of lace-up pants will be black and have the slim fit of skinny jeans. Choose a stretchy material for the most comfortable fit.;
, Black leather lace-ups are the most daring option. They can be styled in a variety of ways, so you can play up or tone down their raciness according to your personal tastes. Most of the leather versions lace-up either along the side seam or down the front of the legs, so be aware that your skin will peek through the lace holes all the way up to your thighs.Wear a longer top if you want to minimize the amount of skin you show around the thigh-area.
Wear a crop or waist-length top for a more daring look.
 These pants are more accessible, easier to style and more comfortable than the leather lace-ups. They usually lace up along the side seam of the pant legs, from the ankle all the way up to the waistband. Because of this, the jeans are still somewhat revealing. However, you do have some control over how much skin you show.For example, if you want to show a little less skin, wear a pair of eye-catching tights under the pants. You can also tighten the laces at the hips, which will narrow the peek-a-boo gap around the thigh area.
For a more revealing look, wear them with a thin black thong or no underwear at all.
 Lace-up leggings are typically styled as post-gym streetwear with an edge. They are usually made of a stretchy black rayon/nylon/spandex blend, making them quite comfortable. The leggings usually lace up the sides and feature an elasticized waistband.You can tighten the laces as you see fit, according to your personal tastes and how much skin you want to show.
 These pants lace up in the front, and the laces hold the pants closed instead of the traditional zipper and button closures. They are casual and easy to wear while still being on-trend. Choose a black pair with a high waist for a laidback look. For the most comfort, look for stretchy denim or velvet versions.These typically come in a wider range of colors than the other lace-ups, but stick to black or dark wash for the most flattering and fashionable results.
 Because they are quite revealing, lace-up pants shouldn’t be worn just anywhere. Never where them to school or work, for example. Save your lace-up pants for appropriate occasions like attending a party, hanging out with friends or going out on the town.


Leather lace-ups are probably the most inappropriate pair for wearing in public during the day.
Tightening the laces and/or wearing colorful tights underneath the pants are two ways you can tone down their revealing nature.

