 Act fragile, be yourself, and be carefree. Remember this step. Know how to liven up boring moments. Always treat others the way you want to be treated. If something is upsetting you, always handle it in the calmest way possible. Be kind to everyone, even if they are mean to you. Don't yell, and don't ever make it seem like you can break. Always be kind, and it might even drive the mean people insane.;
, You need to organize your schedule, and not multitask very much. Don't ever try to rush anything, don't be a perfectionist, and don't fall apart. You need to act like you don't have a weak spot, even though you do. Being Mordecai is of course, being laid back. You can't worry all the time. If something bad happens, step back, look at the situation, and find the best solution.
 If you have a gaming system such as a PS3, Xbox, or Wii, use it more often and try to be a gamer. Also, if there's an opportunity where you can sing karaoke for fun, go to town. Part of being like Mordecai is drinking a lot of coffee and soda. Even though it's bad for your health, try to drink either of those two whenever given the opportunity. Never get addicted and drink these all the time, but if you are at a restaurant or the like, you should order coffee or soda.
 Don't try to rush anything, and don't yell for people who told you to hold on. Try to always have something on you to keep you busy such as a 3DS, PSP, or iPhone. Try not to get frustrated by puzzles or assignments, and if you are, just take a 20 minute break. Write down in a journal whatever makes you impatient, and try to work on it. Use coping strategies such as deep breathing, counting to 10, or simply just watching a cartoon. Act like you have all the time in the world, even if you don't.
 Keep every promise you make. Do all your homework and study, because part of being responsible is having good grades. If you fail a promise or assignment, take the blame, and do NOT make excuses. Don't try to be perfect, and admit to your mistakes without blaming others. Don't take your anger out on people either. Keep any complaints to yourself, and if you need to get them out, write them in the journal from the last step.
 Mordecai is intelligent, and you can also be intelligent in many different ways. Try to learn new words and spend some time with a dictionary. Try to maybe teach yourself a new language, or take a class for it. Keep up with the news, and go online to read about recent events in your city.
 Don't judge people, unless they ask you to or that's what you're supposed to do in said situation. Mordecai is a character who goes with the flow, and doesn't over think anything. Be selfless, and put other peoples needs before your own. Try to be more outgoing. Don't be afraid to strike up conversations with friendly people whether its at the ice cream parlor, the movies, or the park. View the glass as half full. We are all going to be faced with negative scenarios in our lives, but no matter what the scenario is, try to find out something positive about it. In conversations, always listen, don't interrupt, and don't talk about yourself too much. If you're at a public event, turn off your phone and socialize.
 Wear what you want, and not what other people want. But whatever you do, make sure your clothes are modest, comfortable, and clean. Take care of your clothes, even if you have no interest in them. Make sure you always dress decent, and never forget to take care of yourself. You never know what day you will run into the girl/guy of your dreams. Of course, most girls/guys would rather date someone who cares about their appearance.
 Don't try to be JUST Mordecai. Add in whatever your personality is to the mix whether it's funny, shy, or a sports lover. You are allowed to skip any of these steps, because after all this is only meant to be inspiration. But whatever you do, DON'T skip this one. Don't be afraid to let loose and be crazy sometimes. Mordecai is fun too.
 Shower every day. Wash your face every morning. Brush your teeth twice a day. Wear some deodorant. Wash your clothes too.
 You don't have to comb it for hours on end, just give some time to comb it every day. Try to keep it neat, and make it look like you care about your hair. In other words, don't make it look like you just got out of bed.
 Mordecai sometimes demonstrates his leadership skills, and you should too. Spend some of your time helping others, whether it be organizing a fundraiser, helping a friend write a song, or even something as simple as helping a younger sibling with their science homework. Mordecai knows how to be in charge, and it is definitely a good skill to have. If you have a computer, you should try playing the Sims, where you control a bunch of peoples lives at once. If you have a 3DS, you should try playing Animal Crossing: New Leaf, where you have to be the mayor of a town.
 Use a system such as a PS3, Xbox, or Wii. Try games like action games, (Minecraft, Call of Duty, Legend of Zelda) adventure games, (Resident Evil, Banjo-Kazooie, Super Mario Bros) or RPGs (Final Fantasy, Skylanders, Paper Mario) Whatever you do, do NOT stick to one genre. Experiment with the tons of different genres out there, no matter what the game is.
 Everybody knows that Mordecai is smarter than Rigby. If you're in middle or high school, keep in mind that there are some amazing colleges out there, but they only take people with the best grades. Set good goals for each subject, do all your homework, study, and work your way towards honor roll. Once you get onto honor roll, you could either strive to stay on honor roll, or work your way up to high honors. Keep in mind every subject counts whether it's science, art, history, math, or really any subject even as seemingly unimportant as phys ed.
 Mordecai is improving at guitar, and maybe you can learn as well. Whether you have an acoustic guitar or an electric guitar, teach yourself how to play it well. Buy yourself a guitar pick in your favorite color. Learn a variety of songs, because you never know when you'll have to strum for your life. If you really want to take it to the next level, look for some guitar lessons. Make sure to get a quality instructor, and make your budget as cheap or expensive as you desire. Even if you get lessons, make sure to practice at home every day too. Set aside at least 20 minutes a day, to go over some of your songs. Believe it or not, if you stay away from the guitar for too long, you will forget all of the pieces you've learned.
 Mordecai doesn't seem to have a preferred amount of sugar or cream, so use whatever amount you please. Just don't drink it after 7pm.

