 To check your child’s cup for mold, take it apart. This includes removing all pieces. Some of the pieces, especially the spouts, may be difficult to pull apart, but make sure you separate all parts.Many of the sippy cup spouts will easily pull apart. Others may have special tabs or levers on the side of the spout that will pop them apart.
Other sippy cup spouts may need to be forced apart. For example, the Sistema Wave and Gripper Bottle Cap needs something like a butter knife to help pull the two parts of the spout apart.;
, Another way to check for mold is to break apart the anti-leak pieces of the cups. Many parents have found mold growing inside these pieces. Although you can detach the pieces and clean the outside, the inside is hard to get to in some sippy cups.You may need to take a hammer or other tool to the piece to get it to pop open or break apart. It depends on your type of sippy cup. For example, the Tommee Tippee sippy cups have an anti-leak spout which most parents had to break open to check for mold.The sippy cup will be unable to be used after breaking these parts of the cup.
 Some companies, like Tommee Tippee, are offering clear replacements for sippy cup valves. This allows for parents to be able to see any mold build up in the hard to clean anti-leakage spout.If your child has this type of sippy cup, you can contact the company and request a replacement valve.
When you buy a sippy cup, you can look for a sippy cup with clear parts. This will allow you to be able to see any mold that starts growing.
 According to the manufacturers of the sippy cup, mold can occur if the wrong kind of liquids are put in the cup. However, using correct liquids in the cup shouldn’t lead to mold.Recommended liquids include cold, thinner drinks, like water, milk, and juice without pulp.Liquids that shouldn’t be used in the sippy cups include formula milk that is thick, carbonated beverages, juice with a lot of pulp, and liquids that are hot.
 Manufacturers of sippy cups claim that liquids should not be left in the sippy cups for long periods of time. If liquids are left in the cup, even if they are cleaned later, mold may form.Think about how often you have cleaned your child’s sippy cup. Do you clean it right after she uses it? Do you leave liquids inside it for a long time?
If you think you have left liquid in the cup for long periods of time, consider tossing the cup and buying a new one. They are hard to clean after liquids have been left in them for a long time., Mold may occur in cups that have not been properly washed. It is recommended to thoroughly clean sippy cups after each use to prevent mold from building up. It is also recommended to take all sippy cup’s parts apart before each cleaning. Most cups can be washed in the dishwasher. You can also soak them in hot water. Consider washing them by hand with a brush to get inside hard to reach places.When you wash your cup, make sure you take it apart fully.
Follow the manufacturer’s recommended cleaning instructions. If your sippy cup does not come with one, go to the company’s website for videos on how to clean the cups.
 Proper washing and use may help you prevent mold in a sippy cup. However, if you are concerned about mold in your child's cup, you can buy new sippy cups every month or two. You can also switch to different types of cups that are less likely to mold.


You can buy disposable sippy cups. These cups have fewer parts, so they are easier to clean. Plus, they are cheap, around $3 for a pack of six.
If your child is old enough, switch your child to a straw. Straws may be better for your child since sippy cups have been linked to lisps and speech impediments., One major symptom of mold exposure is nasal problems. This includes a stuffy or runny nose. You child may also have a nosebleed due to this sinus irritation.Some people won’t be affected by mold. However, other people have allergies to molds and will develop symptoms due to exposure.
If you think your child may have mold in her sippy cup, switch it with a new one and monitor her for sickness.
 The most common problem associated with mold exposure is upper respiratory tract problems. Mold may cause difficulty breathing or asthma, or worse asthma if your child already has it.Another symptom could be tightness in the chest.
Your child may develop a cough or start wheezing.
 Mold exposure may cause a few other allergies or irritations in the face and head. Mold exposure can cause a sore throat and a headache.Mold may cause topical irritation, like a skin or an eye irritation.
 While you don’t want your child drinking out of a moldy cup, you shouldn’t panic if you find mold in your child’s sippy cup. If your child is allergic to mold, she may develop some mild, unpleasant symptoms. Limited exposure, however, shouldn’t cause any major illnesses.If your child develops symptoms connected to a moldy sippy cup, replace the cup and monitor your child’s symptoms. They should go away shortly after removing the source of the mold.
 If your child has symptoms related to mold, or you are worried about her wellbeing after discovering mold, you can take her to the doctor. You may consider waiting a few days after changing her cup before taking her to the doctor so you don’t waste a visit.


A check up by the doctor can ensure that your child is fine and that she did not get any secondary bacterial infections from the sippy cup.

