 You can show your boyfriend that you love him by doing small things for him randomly. You can bring him a cup of coffee or his favorite beverage in the mornings, buy his favorite snacks, or do something nice for him when he’s having a bad day.Think of ways you can show that you pay attention to him or care. Cook his favorite meal for him when he’s feeling down, wear his favorite outfit of yours, or surprise him with a Saturday trip to his favorite place.
 One of the best ways to show your boyfriend you love him is to be affectionate. Kissing and hugging are two ways couples nonverbally show their feelings for each other. You can also hold hands, cuddle, or touch each other as you talk.Of course, it's perfectly normal for things to cool down after you've been together for a few years. Don’t stop hugging or kissing him before you go home after a date. Continue to cuddle on the couch as you watch TV. However, if you suddenly stop being affectionate, he might think you're losing interest in him.
 You should be affectionate and buy your boyfriend cute things on special occasions. However, you should avoid acting extremely lovey-dovey or buying him things for no reason. Showing him that he's the only one doesn't mean smothering him.


Additionally, going overboard with affection may make him think that you are making up for something you feel guilty about.
 If your guy is like most modern guys, he appreciates a smart and confident partner. When you let your confidence shine, you remind him of why he fell in love with you in the first place. You also show that you have the self-esteem that many unfaithful partners lack.Express your confidence by speaking up for yourself (calmly) when he’s hurt you. Being a doormat is not part of true love and loyalty., Unforeseen circumstances are one thing. If you had to break tonight's date because you developed a migraine after lunch, that’s understandable. On the other hand, if you repeatedly break dates because “something came up,” you'll only show him that he can't count on you., It’s okay to feel a tinge of jealousy if he looks at a potential rival. However, if he’s not flirting with others, ignoring you, or receiving suspicious texts, you shouldn’t have anything to worry about. Cheaters often accuse their partners of being unfaithful when they have no evidence. Don’t give him a reason to think you might be messing around., Never forget his importance in your life. Let him know you’re happy to be with him. Compliment him, do nice things for him, and tell him you love him. These small gestures can make him feel loved.Avoid talking too much about cute celebrities or your ex. Even if he knows you’ll never meet or run into them again, talking too much about potential rivals could make him feel neglected.
 Send him an occasional text or email professing your love. Leave sweet love notes for him from time to time. This will reassure him that you’re thinking of him and no one else while you’re apart., Looking extra special when you go out can remind your boyfriend just how much you love him. It doesn’t matter how long you have been together. Putting effort into how you look occasionally helps remind him about one of the reasons why he fell for you and that you love him enough to put work into your appearance for him.For example, put on clothes you know he thinks are sexy, groom yourself, put on his favorite scent, and do something with your hair.
It’s easy to get comfortable when you’ve been together, but dressing up can spice things up for both of you.

