 There are different applications that you can use to design your book. Some, such as iPhoto and Adobe InDesign, will help you format and design the layout, but they will not print the book for you. Other services, like Snapfish and Shutterfly, will offer basic templates for you to upload images, and they will print and ship you the final product. Think about your needs, skills, and timetable to choose an application that will work best for you.


If you want a service that will give you premade templates and print the book for you, Shutterfly, Snapfish, and Bookify offer basic layouts.
Photo editing programs such as Adobe InDesign, Lightroom, and iPhoto can be used to make more advanced, personalized pages. You can then upload these files to a self-publishing service such as Blurb to have them printed., The size of the book will determine the price of the book as well as how many pictures you can put inside of it. Common sizes include eight by eight inches, eight by ten inches, ten by eight inches, and twelve by twelve inches.


An eight by eight book will have no more than six to eight pictures per two pages, while a twelve by twelve book can have up to ten or twelve.Most photo books will start at about twenty pages per book, regardless of size, although you may be able to pay for extra pages.
Photo book services tend to start at around fifteen to twenty dollars for a basic eight by eight book, whereas a twelve by twelve book can start at around sixty dollars. Extra pages, special bindings, and shipping can add to the price.
 If you are using a photo service, such as Shutterfly or Bookify, to create your layout, you will have the option of choosing from many templates. These free templates will show you how the pictures will be organized on the page, and they may even have room for text or graphic illustrations. Each page can have a different layout, and you should look over all of your options carefully.


Consider how you are breaking up your book into sections. How many pictures do you have for each section? Roughly how many pictures do you need per page?
Choose a variety of layouts that include different photo numbers and sizes so that your book has a different layout on each page., Most photo book services will allow you upload photographs from your computer, and some may even let you choose photographs from social media websites, such as Facebook or Instagram. Vary the type of photographs that you use. You may want to use a mix of horizontal and vertical images to create variety in your photo book., Most photo book services will allow you to add text boxes to a layout. You can add the stories, memories, quotes, poems, and letters from your family in these photo books. Type them up first in a word document first so that you can proofread it and save the stories. Copy and paste them into the text boxes on your layout.


You may want to keep these memories and stories brief to allow for more room for images.
 If you used an all-in-one service like Shutterfly or Snapfish, you can order the book as soon as you are done formatting it. Order as many copies as you need to hand out to family or friends. You can also just print one copy and set it out at the funeral.


If you used your own photo editing program, simply find a self-publishing program that will let you upload and publish your book. Blurb offers options for this.
Some services may take a few days to produce your book, even if you select rush shipping. Research your service ahead of time to make sure that you can get your book when you need it.