 If you try to hide a child's autism or discuss it in whispers, they'll learn that it's something shameful or bad. You can mention the word "autism" in their presence even before they are old enough to understand. Many parents worry a child's self esteem will be harmed by being told their diagnosis. However, children will notice that they're different, and withholding the truth doesn't help them.Some children will begin asking questions earlier on than others. In general, when your child stars to ask questions, this may be a good opportunity to begin the explanation.
Usually, once an autistic child is surrounded by peers at school, they will realize that they act differently and are treated differently.They need to know why, or they might think something is wrong with them.;
, It's difficult to explain something if you don't even understand it. Do some research, so that you know the general facts and can answer simple questions. There are many great books written on autism that can help you explain the diagnosis to your child.Ask the Autistic community for reading recommendations. Search for books and essays written by autistic people as a primary source. Consider books written by non-autistic family members as a secondary source.
Some literature speaks very negatively about autism, treating autistic people as burdens upon their families. Watch your sources and use your judgment when selecting reading material.
 Your child will probably come back with more questions, and you'll have multiple opportunities to teach them. Don't feel that you need to fit all the information into one conversation. It's normal to have the conversation over a course of time.Always keep the conversation open. Remind your child that you're here if they have questions. Say something like, "If you ever want to know more, just ask. You may be confused sometimes by why you're different from other people, and I'm always here to explain."
In many cases, a child learns the most about autism through asking as questions arise. You may not always know the answer. You can always say "I don't know" and look it up or ask someone else later.
 Look for inclusive children's books and movies, especially those written by autistic people. This can be an easy and fun way to introduce the idea of diversity and acceptance. You do not want the child to see autistic differences as negative. Instead, focus how they are unique, special, and valued.Make sure the child knows that it's not bad to be disabled. Say something like "Autism is why some things are hard for you, like loud kitchens or tying your shoes, and also why you're good at some things, like spelling and facts about cats. You're different, and that's okay."
Remind your autistic child that they are not alone. Let them know that there are plenty of autistic children (and autistic adults) in the world. If your child is mainstreamed, make sure they have an opportunity to meet other autistic people.
Make it clear that childhood messages of "be yourself" also apply to autistic people, and your child shouldn't need to hide who they are. Make it clear that you're proud of your child, autism and all.
 Your attitude can help shape your child's opinions of autism. Use the same tone of voice that you'd use to explain why cars have wheels, or why you go to the grocery store every weekend. This sends the message that autism is okay, and nothing to worry much about., It's important to start with the simplest parts. Focus on what is most relevant to your child. This will depend upon the person, and if it is someone the child knows, how close they are to the child.

Explain why a sibling may behave differently. For example, say something like, "Because your sister is autistic, sometimes she needs quiet time and gets upset when people touch her without her permission."
Explain that autism is a brain type, not a choice or an illness. You could say "Lucy was born non-autistic, and you were born autistic. That means you'll be different from each other, and that's okay. Some things are very hard for you, and some things are easier."

, Metaphor can help a child developed a better understanding of autism. Think of metaphors you could use to explain to a child how their or their loved one's brain works differently.A toaster/hairdryer analogy is common in the Autistic community. For example, "Let's say your brother's brain works like a toaster. A toaster is an important tool that achieves many vital tasks. Your brain works like a hairdryer, which is also a useful tool. However, it's very hard to make toast with a hairdryer, just as you couldn't dry hair with a toaster. Both of you have special contributions to the world. They're just very different.", Pinpoint a few strengths that the autistic person has, and explain them briefly. This lets the child know that autism isn't all bad, and that they don't need to feel sorry for the autistic person.

"Autism is also why you are so good at math, and why you have such a big imagination."
"Alex is good with computers, and knows a lot of things about cats, because of autism. It has great parts and hard parts."

, There's nothing "bad" or "wrong" with an autistic person, and they can be themselves just like other people do. Encourage a non-autistic child to be open-minded and accepting towards autistic people. Remind an autistic child that it's okay to struggle, and that autism doesn't make them bad.

Encourage your child to ask questions and be patient when they don't understand.
 You can let other children know how to help their loved one with autism. Briefly say what they can do to interact well and help the autistic person feel more comfortable. Offer insight into an autistic person's world to help explain.

You can say things like, "If your friend is covering his ears, it means he needs some quiet time. You can help by giving him space and letting an adult know that he could use help."
Also, explain any behaviors that could potentially confuse a child. For instance, "Renisha flaps her hands when she is excited because she is autistic. It's normal for autism, and it just means she's having fun."

, The internet is filled with negative and misleading sources such as Autism Speaks. This may lead an autistic child to feel ashamed of themselves, or for a non-autistic child to think that autistic people are a burden.

An autistic child who comes across negative attitudes about autism may start to feel low self esteem or even self hatred. You can combat this by praising the child's strengths, and teaching them that everyone is lovable and important, including autistics.

