 Depending on the type of thermostat that you choose, you may get to select an installation preference. However, if you choose personal installation, you’ll want to follow the directions very carefully as some thermostats require direct wiring into high voltage connections.Other Honeywell thermostats have certain technological requirements, another aspect that a HVAC expert can manage. Find a local HVAC expert by entering “HVAC technician” and your location into a search engine.;
, A paper manual will come with your thermostat. But, you can also order a paper copy or download a digital copy from the Honeywell website, available in the Resources Section at https://yourhome.honeywell.com/en/support. Some of the new thermostats have a downloadable app available for guidance, too.Before you call for professional assistance, make sure to check your instruction manual. You may find answers in the troubleshooting section, in particular.
 Some Honeywell thermostats require that you download and use an app for day-to-day operations. Your instruction manual will tell you if this is the case. Lyric thermostats, for example, suggest that you use Apple’s HomeKit for installation and control of the unit. There is also a generic Lyric app available.You may want to consider what devices you own prior to choosing a thermostat. The Lyric app, for example, does not work on Blackberry phones.
 The majority of Honeywell thermostats come preprogrammed with factory specifications. You’ll want to look these over to see which ones you’d like to change and which settings are fine as is. For example, the day/time, fan setting, system, setting, various schedules, and temp controls may already be activated and awaiting modification by you., Look over the control pad of your thermostat and pay close attention to the buttons that are visible right away, as well as any buttons that are hidden under a cover or plastic flap. You will likely see at least one button for temperature adjustments, a hold button, an override button, and various function buttons., As you press any buttons, the changes will be registered and displayed via the digital screen, if your thermostat has one. Your display will also show any programmed schedule changes as they happen. You will want to get in the habit of checking your display for any warnings as well, such as a battery replacement alert.