 A Section 8 notice can be used to evict a tenant at any time an occupancy agreement is in effect, but you must be able to prove to the court how the agreement has been violated.Depending on the details of the situation, you may want to:Collect any receipts for payments made
Keep copies of requests for payments not made
Take photographs and record descriptions of any damages to the property
Get records of any statements regarding complaints against the tenant
Keep copies of all communication between the landlord and the tenant;
, There are seventeen possible grounds for considering eviction using a Section 8 notice.The first eight of these grounds are mandatory, meaning that if you can prove the violation, the court must grant the possession order. If your tenant has violated the tenancy agreement on multiple grounds, you should include all of them.


Ground 1 states that the property is needed as the landlord’s or the landlord’s spouse's or civil partner’s principal home. This ground also requires that you gave the tenant written notice before the tenancy began that repossession for this purpose might be required.
Ground 2 states that a property is subject to a mortgage that came into effect before the current tenant began occupying the property, and the mortgagees are repossessing the property.
Ground 3 is used in cases in which a dwelling was available as a holiday home within twelve months before the beginning of the tenancy, and the tenancy term is no longer than eight months, and the tenant was given written notice before the tenancy began that repossession for this purpose might be required.
Ground 4 is used in cases in which a property belongs to an educational institution, and the tenancy term is no longer than twelve months, and the tenant was given written notice before the tenancy began that repossession for this purpose might be required.
Ground 5 is used in cases in which the dwelling is needed by a minister for the purposes of his or her office, and the tenant was given written notice before the tenancy began that repossession for this purpose might be required.
Ground 6 is used in cases in which the dwelling is needed for a social landlord or charitable trust, and major reconstruction or demolition work is needed (making it impractical or impossible for the tenant to continue occupying the property), and the landlord in possession of the property acquired it before the tenancy began.
Ground 7 is used when a tenant assumes occupancy after the death of the previous tenant, but the tenant does not have the right to do so. The notice must be given within twelve months of the previous tenant’s death, or within twelve months of the landlord becoming aware of that tenant’s death.
Ground 8 is nonpayment of rent. It is actionable if rent is paid: 1) fortnightly and at least eight weeks’ rent is owed; or 2) monthly and at least two month’s rent is owed; or 3) quarterly and one quarter’s or more rent is at least three months overdue; or 4) yearly and at least three month’s rent is at least three months overdue.
 Grounds 9-17 of Section 8 are discretionary, meaning that the court will consider whether or not to grant the possession order. Remember that if your tenant has violated the tenancy agreement on multiple grounds, you should include all of them, as this can make your case more convincing.


Ground 9 states that the tenant will be provided with a suitable alternative property, and that the landlord will be responsible for reasonable moving costs.
Ground 10 states that rent is owed to the landlord at the time the possession proceedings begin, and was owed when the notice was served.
Ground 11 states that your tenant has repeatedly failed to pay rent on time, whether or not any is due at the time the notice is served.
Ground 12 states that the tenant has violated any other term(s) of the tenancy agreement. Such terms might include prohibitions on how the property can be used.
Ground 13 is used in cases where the tenant (or someone occupying the space with the tenant’s implicit or explicit permission) has damaged the property.
Ground 14 considers eviction in cases where the tenant is engaged in activities that are a nuisance to neighbors, or has been convicted of using the property for illegal and/or immoral purposes.
Ground 15 is used in cases where the tenant (or someone occupying the space with the tenant’s implicit or explicit permission) has damaged furniture that is part of the property.
Ground 16 is used in cases in which the tenant was an employee of the landlord, but not no longer works for the landlord.
Ground 17 is used in cases where it is discovered that the tenant gave false information to the landlord in order to gain occupancy.
 The amount of time a tenant has to vacate the premises after receiving a Section 8 notice varies based on the specific violation(s) of the lease agreement, but ranges between two weeks and two months.For Grounds 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 16, you must give at least two months’ notice.
For Grounds 3, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 17, you must give at least two weeks’ notice.
A Section 8 notice does not itself order eviction, but simply lets your tenant know that you intend to apply for a possession order at the end of the required notice period.Your tenant may decide to vacate the property during the notice period stated by the lease. If the tenant does not, you can then apply for a possession order.
 Section 8 laws are complex, and a successful Section 8 notice requires you to be precise. If you need or want legal advice on starting the eviction, discuss the case with a solicitor. He or she can help you complete the Section 8 notice and determine the grounds that apply in your case.
 You must complete this form exactly as instructed; otherwise, the court may reject the document and request.


The form is available online from Court websites at http://www.eaststaffsbc.gov.uk/sites/default/files/docs/housing/landlords/Section8NoticeTemplate.pdf. It can also be purchased from law stationers or booksellers.You will need to provide the name(s) of the tenant(s), the address of the property, the grounds of the eviction, a statement explaining the violation(s) committed, and the date on which the notice will expire.
The stated grounds for eviction must be given by number according to Section 8, and the text of the grounds as printed in Section 8 must be reproduced on the Section 8 notice form.
Make sure to sign the Section 8 notice form, and provide your contact details.
If you want to evict a tenant and the fixed term of a shorthold agreement has come to an end, or if your tenant is occupying the property under a shorthold agreement with no fixed term after six months have passed, you should order the eviction with a Section 21 notice rather than a Section 8 notice. There is no specific form for a Section 21 notice, but it must be given in writing., Typically, it is best to give notice to the tenant by first class post and also by personal delivery. It is helpful to record the delivery or have a witness to the delivery who can testify that the tenant received the notice personally., In some cases, your tenant may be able to take action to rectify the violation. For instance, if you give your tenant a Section 8 notice based on Ground 10, and your tenant pays the rent owed within the required notice period (at least two weeks), then the Section 8 notice will no longer apply and your tenant will not be evicted. If your tenant is facing eviction on multiple grounds, it may be more difficult to correct the violations.
 If your tenant has not vacated the premises by the required date, you can apply for a court order to force the eviction.A standard possession order can be filed if your tenant does not leave by the required date and you are also claiming unpaid rent, or an accelerated possession order can be filed if you are not claiming unpaid rent.Possession claims can be filed online via HM Courts and Tribunals Service’s Possession Claims Online website, or a paper copy can be submitted to County Court.Currently, court possession order fees are £250 if submitted online and £280 for a paper copy.If your tenant still will not leave after receiving a court possession order, you can file a warrant for possession, and bailiffs will remove the tenant from your property.
It is a criminal offense under the Protection from Eviction Act 1997 for you or any landlord to try to physically evict a tenant. This includes changing the locks on the property so that the tenant cannot enter it.

