 Gluten is found in foods made with grains, like breads, pastas and snacks containing wheat, rye,barley and malt. The gluten in oats is still under investigation as to whether is has the same effect on the body. Any kind of flour can contain gluten.


Some foods you can eat are those made of corn, buckwheat, nuts and legumes, rice, potato, and millet.
 The obvious offenders are breads and pastas, but beer, various condiments, boxed foods and bakery items may contain gluten as well.
 With the new requirements of listing allergy information on labels, all products containing wheat or gluten should be advertised as such. Look for the nutrition box on the packaging; the ingredients list and allergy information are usually in the same vicinity. Read all the fine print.


This is important because some processed foods like bouillon cubes, french fries, and even soy sauce may contain gluten.
 If you don't see any, ask your server if there are any dishes that aren't made with gluten. If your server doesn't know, the chef or manager on duty should be able to find the information for you. Your knowledge of gluten products will come in handy here.
, If you do not do so you run the risk of developing severe and potentially life-threatening complications such as other autoimmune disorders, intestinal cancer, anemia, liver disease, hypoglycemia, and bone diseases.
 You may be able to participate in a clinical trial as well. A daily multivitamin can help give you the nutrients you need. In rare cases your doctor may prescribe corticosteroids like prednisone.
 You can find one online or ask your doctor if he knows of any local groups.


The Celiac Disease Foundation, Celiac Sprue Association, and the Gluten Intolerance Group are some examples of the many support groups you can join.
 Keeping a food journal will help you pinpoint triggers. This will help you eliminate problem foods.


The typical symptoms of Celiac disease in children include constipation, abdominal pain, bloating, nausea and vomiting, indigestion and decreased appetite leading to weight loss, lactose intolerance, intermittent diarrhea, and stools that are smelly, bloody, and "fatty".
Adults are less likely to experience symptoms that are digestive in nature. Instead the disease may present in the form of unexplained iron-deficiency anemia, seizures, osteoporosis, missed menstrual periods, infertility, tingling and numbness of the extremities, and a skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis.
