 Purchase or consume as having a "cost" to the environment. That item was made with resources, had some cost to the environment in production, was shipped to you, marketed and after you use it it will have to be disposed of.;
, For example, buy recyclable pens that could be filled with ink rather than pens that get thrown away after being used. If you have papers, bottles or whatever, don't throw them away. Instead, send them to the recycling company in your district.
 One great idea is to buy clothes second-hand (lots of clothes are thrown/given away that are barely a year old and have hardly been worn) and to customize old clothes instead of buying new ones.
 If you don't know all about how something is made, look it up!

, If you leave phone or i-pod chargers plugged into the main power source then it uses electricity even if it's not connected in your phone/i-pod.
 Don't push them to be more green and annoy them; they wouldn't mind a few suggestions every now and again. Some grownups are interested in living large. They might drive a huge S.U.V, live in a mansion, or simply waste things. Try to explain to your younger siblings what is happening in the world to them, as simply as possible. Allow them to make up their own mind but you might find they will be more open to it than your parents.
 on in the background. Even if you're watching it but you're not very interested in the program - consider if there is something that you'll find more enjoyable and also doesn't use so much energy. Playing outdoors for example. Remind yourself of childhood hobbies, Lego and board games can still be enjoyable in your teens.
 Suggest a green theme. Energy efficient light bulbs for your lamps, recycled notebooks/stationary, sponsor a green charity in your name, solar powered chargers. There are lots of things you can buy that will be useful and enjoyable. Plus there will be an added warm feeling on your birthday.
 You may have heard on the news about a website which is Google - but in black, (Blackle)The theory being on some older computers (monitors that aren't flat screen) it takes less energy to show black than white. If you have one of these monitors change your background to black. For all computers lowering settings such as brightness and contrast will reduce the energy you use.
 Try to turn on only what you need.
 When you turn something off - really turn it off!

, Think twice before you throw away that old sheet of scratch or note paper. See if you can still use it for something.
 When taking a shower, try to keep it below 10 minutes. Don't turn the heat all the way up, either. Make it a kind of game, trying to beat your old 'score' every time you take a shower.

