 Choose an appropriate time and place to talk with a woman. Grocery stores, museums, coffee shops and dog parks are great places to meet women who are enjoying themselves and usually feeling relaxed.When a woman is at a bar or club, she is already on her guard. She may not be looking for a long-term relationship, or she might be out with the girls for the night. The place is not ideal for connecting with someone more than casually.
 People generally appreciate a good sense of humor. Be friendly and make light-hearted jokes to make the girl laugh.There are a lot of different situations that lend themselves to demonstrating your sense of humor. Try making jokes at the following things:The circumstance around you. If you’re at a park or walking down the street and you notice something funny, say something about it.
Make a joke about yourself. If you’re really tall, talk about how you can see the next city from your viewpoint.
Tell a funny story about yourself. Did you get into a silly fight in middle school? Tell her about it, and be sure to include the details about the ridiculous clothes you wore at the time or what song you rocked out to right before you got into the fight.
Talk about current events. Some things that happen in the news or with celebrities can be good material for making jokes.
These jokes might work well as your personal inside jokes later on.
Careful not to use crude or offensive humor. Until you know someone very well, this type of humor should be avoided at all costs.
 Show her that you’ve noticed something about her by complimenting her on it. For example, you might tell her:


”I really like your hair long like that.”
“You made some really smart points in the class debate today.””You’re really easy to talk to.”

, Once you find out the girl’s name, be sure to use it several times in the conversation. You might want to write it down later to help you remember it.
 You might be nervous about talking with a girl because she might reject you. Don’t let fears of rejection prevent you from striking up a conversation. At the very worst, she will ignore you or tell you to go away. But at best, she will return the conversation.This also helps demonstrate your confidence. View this as an opportunity for acceptance.
 When you meet someone new, give her a chance even if she doesn’t immediately fulfill your ideal of the perfect girlfriend. Don’t eliminate someone for silly or superficial reasons.


Make sure you don’t only compliment this person on her physical appearance. You can tell her that she looks pretty, but make sure you also compliment her on her artistic sense or her ability to weave through rush-hour traffic.
 If you like someone but your first conversation didn’t go well, definitely talk with her again. It may be that she was distracted or under a lot of stress when you first met.


You might need to arrange “accidentally” bumping into her. For example, if you initially met her at the dog park, keep taking your dog there regularly until you see her again.
 Don’t make a girl feel uncomfortable by acting possessive, following her around, or trying to talk to her about inappropriate things. Give her some personal space that will set the right tone for a potential relationship.

