 When a headache is visibly bothering you it is a dead giveaway that you’re sick. Avoid this by purchasing over-the-counter medicine that will reduce your headache if you have one.


Some Aspirin or acetaminophen contain caffeine or or a sedative that may be more effective than typical aspirin.Some popular brands of aspirin and ibuprofen include Advil, Motrin, and Aleve.
 You can buy over-the-counter cough syrup or cough medicine at most pharmacies. These medicines reduce common cold symptoms like a runny nose, congestion, or a buildup of phlegm or mucus. To help the process, make sure to drink a glass of water after taking the medicine.Many over-the-counter drugs reduce multiple symptoms. Evaluate all your symptoms and choose the medicine that best fits them.
Antihistamines reduce the effects of hay fever and can reduce other symptoms of a cold, like a runny nose and sneezing., Emetrol is a drug that’s used to prevent nausea from a viral or bacterial infection.Take this if you think you may need to vomit during the day.


If you have diabetes you should not take Emetrol as it contains sugar.
Do not take more than five doses of Emetrol in one hour.
 Cough drops can reduce a sore throat and prevent you from coughing.To avoid giving away your sickness, take these regularly throughout the day as directed on their package.


Hard candy can also serve as an alternative.
 Saline sprays can clear up nasal congestion.Always blow your nose before using them. To use them effectively, tip your head back and spray the solution into each nostril.When you're congested, it’s obvious because it can alter your voice.
Make sure to use as directed on the package. You will probably have to spray more than once throughout the day.
 Taking Vitamin C before the onset of a cold may reduce the duration of your sickness.If you work in a germ heavy environment, it’s probably a good idea to take cautionary measures. Echinacea also has a similar effect and has been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms and boost the immune system.

Taking Echinacea before the onset of a cold can reduce your chances of getting sick up to 58%.