 The National Fraud Information Center is a project of the Consumer’s League. While it is not a law-enforcement of governmental organization, it does collect information about scams on behalf of and shares information with governmental organizations about common scams.It is also another good place to find information about common scams of all types, so it’s also a good place to investigate a suspicious organization.
File a complaint at https://secure.nclforms.org/nficweb/nfic.htm


, Although the FTC doesn't act as a law enforcement agency, it is a governmental agency. The FTC collects complaints of fraud from consumers and distributes them to the appropriate law enforcement agencies. Report a scam at https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/GettingStarted#crnt.All you’ll need is your personal information, some details about the scam, and as much information about the company as you can get, including email, web URL, and telephone number and physical address if possible.
 The Department of Education’s Office of the Inspector General is yet another agency at which you can report a suspected or confirmed scholarship scam. Inspector General’s offices straddle the line between law enforcement and complaint clearinghouses. An Inspector General is an independent office that has the power to conduct wide-ranging investigations, can subpoena documents and witnesses, and issue reports and recommendations to attorneys general.Inspector General’s offices are particularly well-equipped to take complaints from and protect whistleblowers. If you want to report unethical or criminal activity at a place where you work, contact an Inspector General.
Report suspected of confirmed fraud at https://secure.nclforms.org/nficweb/nfic.htm.
 Each state also has a consumer protection agency, which is run from the office of each state's attorney general. If you'd like to file a complaint with the state office of consumer protection, simply perform an internet search for "consumer complaints to attorney general" or go to http://www.naag.org/current-attorneys-general.php and find the listing for the attorney general in your state.Although each state is going to have different rules and procedures, you’re going to want to have the same kind of information for a state consumer protection agency as you would want to have for the FTC. In addition, it’s best to try and make sure you know how much money you lost on the scam, if any. If applicable, add in the money you would have made while you were being swindled .
The biggest advantage of making a complaint to an attorney general’s office is this: and attorney general is an office of law enforcement—the most powerful prosecutor in a state or federal jurisdiction. They can take vigorous action where other organizations cannot.

