 Coming up with a well-thought-out premise for your story will give you the basis upon which to develop your characters, including your protagonist. In order to know how your characters will develop, what qualities they will have, and how they might change throughout your novel, you need to have a clear idea where your story is headed. When you’re finished, you should compile your thoughts into two or three sentences that give a synopsis of your plot. As you develop your premise, ask yourself:


Which character is the protagonist?
What is the protagonist like at the beginning and how might that change after they face conflict throughout the story?
What is the protagonist’s objective?
What or who will stand in the way of them achieving this objective?
What struggles will the protagonist face trying to accomplish their objective?
What is the result of the protagonist’s actions?;
, You will need to know the characters in your story inside and out so that you can be consistent in their choices and reactions. This might seem daunting, but there are strategies to help you complete this task:


For major characters, work backwards from the time they are first engaged in the plot, or when they face their first conflict or decision. Ask yourself:

What events have led them to be involved at this point in the plot?
What life experiences have shaped their reactions?
Did they do something to cause this event to happen?
How will they move forward?


Perform an “interview” of your characters to unveil the intricate details of their life. In addition to hashing out their physical appearance, dig further into their persona by asking questions that will develop their beliefs and values.

For example, ask questions like, “Do they believe in God?” and “What moments have shaped their life most significantly?”, Ultimately, you want your readers to become invested in your characters. They must be able to relate to them on a personal level. To help your readers relate, create characters that feel like real people and have qualities consistent with this idea.


When you’re developing your characters, consider their backstory, physical description, and how they speak.
Think about their goals, strengths, weaknesses, and fears and what qualities and quirks they have that make them unique.
Make choices for your characters that are consistent with the details you’ve uncovered. For instance, their name must embody their persona., To make your characters believable, demonstrate their persona through their interactions with other characters. After all, we all have relationships in our lives and your characters are no different.


Explain what your characters are thinking about the other characters. Don’t assume your reader already knows.
Allow you characters to challenge their own thinking. For example, instead of simply stating they hate another character, have them question why they hate this person.The best characters not only relate to the world around them, but also to the other characters in the story., All the characters in your novel should be well-developed, but your protagonist should be especially well thought-out. As the driving force in your story, you’ll need to pay special attention to this character to ensure they display qualities that will resonate with your readers and make them care about their fate.
 Your protagonist is the person driving your story. Their dilemma must be central to the plot and they should be the only character capable of solving this problem, or at least the character most capable of solving it.Examples of problems a protagonist might face include:


Completing a mission
Saving a loved one who is in trouble
Answering a question about their past

, Your protagonist must have an internal reason to take risks and make tough decisions. Make their motivation something that every reader can relate to, like an everyday want, hope, or fear.


For example, the need to be loved or accepted is a motivation to which readers can relate.
Whatever is driving the protagonist should be clear to the reader. Your reader should gain a better understanding of the protagonist with each struggle they face., Your protagonist needs to be relatable to every reader so create a character who is unlikely to succeed in achieving their goal. A protagonist that is already identified as a hero is uninteresting and hard for most people to identify with.


An example of a great unlikely hero is Frodo from The Lord of the Rings. Frodo is an unassuming hobbit who is small in stature but not in heart. His success seems unlikely, making his journey all the more interesting to the reader., In general, your reader should feel sympathy or empathy for the protagonist. This means they can see similarities between the struggles faced by the protagonist and those they’ve experienced in their own lives.


Make your protagonist somewhat flawed because real people are flawed and imperfect.
Use your own connection to the protagonist to guide their quest and determine how the reader might connect to them., The fate of your protagonist should be in their own hands throughout your story. This character should be the one making decisions and dealing with the consequences. Keep in mind:


Your protagonist doesn’t have to choose their fate right away. Allowing them to waiver in their decisions throughout the book can create an interesting read.
If they aren’t making decisions that affect their fate, they are not the protagonist, but merely a background character., Though the protagonist doesn’t necessarily have to change throughout the novel, a good protagonist will be given the opportunity to do so.The protagonist can effect change in several different ways:


They should wish to resolve their initial conflict in some way.The reader’s understanding of the protagonist should change.They should be given the opportunity to learn from their experiences and become a better person (though they don’t have to)., Your antagonist is there to create conflict and push your protagonist to question their decisions throughout your story. In the end, a strongly characterized antagonist will make your protagonist look even better when they win. Keep the following in mind when developing your antagonist:


They should be the opposite of your protagonist—a mirror image.
They are not necessarily a villain or someone evil. The personality embodied by the antagonist will directly relate to that of the protagonist.