 Try to notice what you like or don’t like about a design, and begin thinking about what makes some designs better or more suitable than others.


Nearly everything in the man-made environment has some sort of design behind it, whether it’s a graphic, a website, or a fashion accessory.
Notice how well the design functions for its intended purpose, as well as how it looks.
Practice being specific about aspects of particular designs, and how these aspects work together as a whole.
For example, if you are looking at a graphic design, notice how the colors, lines, proportions, text, and shapes make the design more or less pleasing, and how clearly it conveys its message.;
, While it strives to make things look good, design differs from other types of art in that it has a practical application.


A logo, for instance, is a type of graphic design that helps make a brand or company quickly recognizable.
An article of clothing serves the purpose of covering the body, in addition to making the wearer look more attractive.
A car’s dashboard is designed to make it easy to read the various gauges, as well as enhance the look of the car’s interior.
 Designers need to be able to make drawings or other representations of their designs in order to refine them and explain them to other people, such as design colleagues and manufacturers.


By learning how to visually convey what you imagine, you can improve on it and work out the details. There is only so much you can picture in your head or describe with words.
Drawing is a powerful tool for designers, but don’t worry if you can’t draw photo realistically. Designers’ drawings don’t have to be masterpieces, just a way to quickly capture ideas that will lead to the finished product. Tracing is also totally acceptable.
In addition to drawings, designers also use things like mock ups, prototypes, and computer imaging to visualize their designs.
 When you work as a designer, you not only have to consider what is pleasing to the eye, you always have to consider how your design will be implemented.


Shoe designers have to decide on technical aspects of creating a shoe, such as where the leather will be sewn together and what type of sole will be used.
For an object like a cellphone case, industrial designers need to think about what kind of plastic and molding processes will be used, and how each part will be attached together.
 In addition to design magazines, look for books about the process, principles, and methods of design.


Try looking at textbooks and technical videos for things apparel construction, manufacturing methods, and various craft techniques.
Even if you don’t understand everything, try to get a feel for what kinds of technical processes you might be interested in working with.
Learning about design goes deeper than reading fashion and decorating magazines, although these are a good resource for current trends.
 Finding out about their personal philosophies of design, educational background, and working habits can give you insight into your own interests and ambitions.


Do internet research, read biographies, and watch documentaries about famous designers, and pay attention to how their careers were shaped.
Remember that you can be a successful designer, even if you’re not from Paris or New York. Think about how your own background and imagination can make your designs unique.
Try looking at designers you don’t like as well. Find out how they contrast from the people you admire--or perhaps gain a new-found appreciation for their work.
 Design schools are a great way to gain information about design, learn good work habits and techniques, and network with other designers.


A 4-year design program at a specialized design school is an excellent start, but it’s not the only option.
Many universities and colleges also have design programs.
Consider taking a workshop or short diploma course at a design school. There are many excellent intensive programs that take as little as 3 weeks to two years.
 Don’t worry, also, if an interest in design is not something you anticipated earlier in your career path.


Many designers started out in other fields, such as fine art, architecture, or marketing, and others never studied formally.
It often takes some time to discover what aspects of design you’re good at, and sometimes you can’t anticipate the reception your designs will get.
The only way to figure out where your design career will lead you is to keep designing and showing your work!

, Study and practice is good, but the thing that will really take your design to the next level is real world experience.


When people have to pay for your work, it will become a lot clearer what is really expected of you as a designer.
This can actually cut through a lot of indecision, on your part. You will find out what it’s really essential to complete in a project. Sometimes as students we tend to be too finicky.
Consider getting an apprenticeship or working as an intern at a design firm. This will give you a good feel for working in a professional environment.
You can also take freelance projects. Tap your personal contacts and look online for freelancing opportunities, and gradually build up clients.
 As a professional designer, you will often work with other people on a team, and will have to know how to share and delegate work.


It’s important to maintain a cooperative, rather than competitive attitude towards other designers. This will lead to being able to do more work, faster, and getting better projects.
Don’t underestimate how much you can learn from your peers. While one person can have a lot of good ideas, more heads are always better than one.
Collaboration can also make decisions more efficient. Often, you can really benefit from another perspective.
Don’t insist on doing everything yourself. Often it’s more important that the work gets done- even if it’s not exactly the way you imagine. Learn to compromise.
 It’s important to nurture your own style, but at the same time, it’s important not to panic if you can’t decide what that is at first.


Sometimes it takes a while to figure out what sort of work is really unique to you, and usually this just happens by accident.
Don’t be afraid to take inspiration by what others have done, and incorporate it into your work from time to time. It’s important to try a lot of different things.
Of course, you don’t want to copy a design outright, but designers are often influenced by each other. Avoid falling into an “identity crisis” while worrying about not being unique enough.
Remember that a style evolves over time. The signature styles of great designers often become more apparent a bit later in their careers.
 Don’t focus too long on any one project, especially if you’re just starting. As a beginning designer, you will make lots of mistakes, and the faster you can get through them, the better.


Instead of making one design at a time, consider working on a series. This will give you room to test a lot of ideas, rather than worrying so much about making the wrong choices for one piece.
Also consider doing preparatory work for important designs. Make a lot of sketches and prototypes quickly, first, in order to economize on materials and avoid costly and time consuming mistakes.
Look for quicker ways to make things. For prototypes, make things out of cheap materials that are easy to work with. You don’t have to hand carve everything from mahogany.
 Have a camera and sketchbook handy, and collect designs that you find particularly interesting.


Look for inspiration everywhere. Inspiration doesn’t have to come from other designs or design trends--often it can come from nature or things that happen by accident.
Have a good filing system and go through your collection of ideas regularly.
 It’s not normal to feel like designing 24/7, so don’t get discouraged if your enthusiasm wanes sometimes.


Actively look for inspiration. If you feel stuck, go to a museum or look at interesting designs.
Have regular hours when you work on your designs. Often inspiration won’t hit until you actually sit down to work.
 Understand that from time to time you will have doubts about your talent, or get negative feedback, but this is all part of the learning process.


Don’t worry if your work really is terrible sometimes. Mistakes are often better teachers than successes.
Don’t take criticism personally. Just because someone doesn’t agree with your approach doesn’t mean you’re a bad designer or person.
If you get a negative reaction, consider how you could have done better. Be open to valid suggestions for improvement.
If you violently disagree, get more opinions. Not everyone has to like your designs, and perhaps you need a different audience.
 Sometimes you have to let your unconscious mind work on a problem, so you can go back to your work with a fresh perspective.


When you work for too long without stopping, sometimes you can get stuck in a rut, start to panic, or make mistakes. Learn to notice when you are losing focus.
Try to determine your optimal schedule for working and taking breaks. Everyone has times in the day when they are more productive. Try to notice when yours are.
Planning to have some downtime is essential. Working too hard can burn you out, and make you less productive in the long run.
 A portfolio is a showcase of your design skills, and essential for job interviews, some school applications, and freelance work.


Always show your best work, and present it as professionally as you can. Avoid having to explain your work, or showing unfinished work.
Consider an online portfolio as well, so that your potential clients and employers can view your work more conveniently.
Research how to make a properly formatted, professional looking portfolio. For some tips, check out this guide.
 Professionalism and a little bit of business savvy are absolutely necessary for a successful design career.


Even the most talented designers have to market themselves. Taking the time to strategize from a business perspective doesn’t mean you’re “selling out.”
Whatever kind of design you engage in, clients and buyers will only hire you if they think your designs will improve the success of their business.
Understand how your designs can help make profit for others, and this will help you figure out how to sell yourself.
 The more you are able to support yourself through design, the more time you can spend designing. Look for ways to get paid for doing what you love.


Think creatively about ways to market your designs. If there are certain types of designs you like to do, consider what kinds of establishments might be we willing to pay for them.
Find out how much clients are willing to pay designers for certain types of work, and see what you can do to maximize your earnings.
Also, paid work leads to trying new things that can help you progress further as a designer. See making money as a tool for learning about what works and what doesn’t.
 There are many different types of design work, and you may not, as a beginning designer, be aware of all your options.


There are many types of design professions, and some of them are not well known outside the design industry.
Keep your options open, and do some research on lesser known design careers. Many people go into design thinking they will be a big name designer, but there are many other exciting jobs available.
Here are a few less well known design careers:

Package designer
Environmental designer
User-Interface designer
Product developer
Fashion public relations specialist
Merchandise manager



, As a designer, looking and acting professional are the medium through which you communicate your ability to accurately gauge the world around you.


People will anticipate better work from you if you are able to show competence, not only through your work, but through the way you present yourself.
Do your designs justice by paying attention to your professional image. Look and act the part of a talented designer at all times, and people will tend to look more favorably on your work.
 Wanting a glamorous or prestigious design career can drive you to work harder, but always look for motivation from the work itself.


Ambition by itself will never make your designs any better. Look for problems to solve that fascinate you, and projects that you feel are truly beautiful and helpful.
Furthermore, if you truly love what you are doing, chances are you will find a market for yourself. Whatever happens, don’t give up!

