 The delicate fabric can hold onto white wine, champagne, and even perspiration stains that, while not immediately visible, may appear months after your wedding. A dress that has been properly cleaned is much more marketable.Even if you think you didn't get anything on the dress, it’s best to have it cleaned right after the wedding. Old stains are more difficult, and sometimes impossible, to remove without damaging the dress.
Take the dress to a specialist in cleaning wedding gowns and formal wear. If there isn't one in your area, ask your neighborhood dry cleaner about their expertise and even ask for references before leaving your dress with them. Paying a little more for a specialist is well worth the cost to know that it's done right.;
, Whether you plan to sell your dress directly or use an online service, it helps to have several clear, well-lit pictures of the dress to entice potential buyers. Make sure to take photos from both the front and back, so buyers can see what the entire dress looks like.When you’re taking the photos, it's better to place the dress on a hanger rather than lay it on a flat surface.
Take close-up photos of any detail work, such as beading, sequins, or lace.
If there is any damage to your dress, make sure to include photos of it. It’s better to let buyers know ahead of time, so they can decide if they’re still serious about buying the dress.
 Asking the right amount for your dress can help increase your chances of selling it. In most cases, you can expect to sell a used dress that’s in good condition and less than two and a half years old for half the retail price. You may want to start off asking slightly more than that, though, so you have some room to negotiate.You can often resell dresses made by well known designers, such as Vera Wang, Carolina Herrera, or Monique Lhuillier, for 60 to 70 percent of the price that you paid it.
 You’re usually going to get the best price for your dress if you sell it within two and a half years of purchasing it because the style will probably still be on trend. If you know that you want to sell your dress, don’t waste time after the wedding -- the sooner you sell it, the more value it will have.While you’re probably going to get more money for a newer dress, that doesn’t mean you can’t make money on a vintage dress. Even ‘80s and ‘90s styles can be popular these days.
In terms of timing, you’re better off selling your dress in February and March because those are the peak months for wedding dress sales. The holiday period between Thanksgiving and New Year’s is the worst time to sell.