 Bleeding is a sign of unhealthy gums and may be caused by a gum disease or other medical conditions. It is important you understand the cause of bleeding in order to take the appropriate steps to prevent it. Bleeding gums could be caused by:


Poor oral hygiene. Irregular brushing or flossing, or performing these actions incorrectly, can lead to gum disease such as gingivitis and periodontitis, which are common causes of bleeding gums.Brushing too hard with a toothbrush older than three months. Being too vigorous with your brushing or using an old toothbrush can inflame delicate gum tissue and cause it to bleed.Hormonal changes. Hormonal changes caused by pregnancy, menopause or menstruation can increase blood flow to the gums, making them more prone to bleeding.Medical conditions. Bleeding gums can be a symptom of many medical conditions, such as bleeding or clotting disorders, conditions of immunodeficiency, diabetes, heart disease, cancer and scurvy.Certain medications. Blood thinning medications can make your gums more likely to bleed, as can several other medications, such as antiepileptics or contraceptive medication, which dry out or thicken your gums.Vitamin K deficiency. This vitamin helps in aiding your blood to clot properly. Thus, vitamin K deficiency can cause gums to bleed.Hereditary factors. People with certain genetic markers are more predisposed to developing gum disease than others, making them more prone to bleeding gums.Unbalanced bite. Having an unbalanced bite due to crooked or crowded teeth, clenching or grinding can lead to excess pressure in certain areas of your mouth, inviting gum disease and bleeding., It is estimated that in the United States, gum disease affects about 3/4 of adults over the age of 35.The main cause of bleeding gums is gingivitis, a condition characterized by inflammation and swelling of the gums.
Gingivitis is caused by excess bacteria in the mouth. The bacteria come from the fermentation of carbohydrates. This leads to inflammation, which is a protective response of the gums. Bacterial growth usually develops due to poor oral hygiene. Luckily, gingivitis is often reversible, provided good oral hygiene practices are introduced and maintained.If left untreated, gingivitis can lead to a more serious form of gum disease called periodontitis. Periodontitis significantly weakens the gums and bone that hold teeth in place, which eventually leads to tooth loss.Research links gum disease with higher instances of health complications, such as heart disease, stroke, chronic kidney disease, pneumonia, osteoporosis, cancer and preterm birth. Therefore, it is very important to catch and treat gum disease early., If you notice that your gums are bleeding and suspect that you might have gum disease, it's highly recommended that you make an appointment with your dentist immediately.


Your dentist can confirm the presence of gum disease and come up with a plan to reverse or treat the damage.
Your dentist can give your teeth a good professional cleaning and instruct you on how to properly care for your teeth and gums at home.
If the gum disease is more advanced, your dentist may recommend scaling and root planing treatments to remove stubborn plaque and help gums to heal.Medications may also be prescribed in order to reduce the amount of oral bacteria.In serious circumstances, tooth extraction, laser treatments or dental surgery may be required in order to halt the progression of periodontitis.