 Hemorrhoids are caused by an increased pressure on the veins in the anus or rectum. The pressure can make a weaker portion of the vein weaker, which causes it to balloon a little, either inside the rectum or outside the body near the anus.It is common for pregnant women to develop hemorrhoids because of the extra weight and pressure from the baby.


Pregnancy also increases the risk of constipation, which is another risk factor of hemorrhoids.
Most women find that their hemorrhoids resolve after they give birth, but they require care and can recur weeks later.;
, The increased that causes hemorrhoids are typically caused from the pressure. Risk factors that contribute to the increased pressure on those areas are pregnancy, obesity, straining to have a bowel movement, constipation, anal intercourse, lifting heavy objects, weight lifting, and sitting on the toilet too long. Those who participate in these activities will likely experience a hemorrhoid. To reduce the likelihood of developing hemorrhoids or to alleviate the symptoms, reducing how much and often you do these activities.


Pay special attention to preventing constipation or standing for long periods in one place while pregnant. Do not gain more than the recommended amount of weight during your pregnancy as recommended by your obstetrician for your individual circumstances.
Do not lift heavy items at work or at home without help. Find someone to help or use mechanical assistance at work if possible.
Refrain from anal intercourse. It stretches the rectum past normal capacity and places additional stress on the veins in the anus and rectum.
 Hemorrhoids commonly form during pregnancy, but they are the same type that form during any other time. The only difference is the type of pressure that triggers the formation of the hemorrhoids. A hemorrhoid will be a lump around the anus, which is often sensitive or painful when touched. Symptoms of hemorrhoids include:Itching, irritation, and discomfort around the anus from the inflammation of the swollen vein.
Swelling as small as a pea
Pain with your bowel movements without bleeding and around the anus when you aren’t
Light bleeding from the pressure of the stool against the vein
Discomfort
Some leakage of stool into your underwear from the anus, which is not fully closed when the hemorrhoid is located near the entrance to the rectum

, Taking any medications for hemorrhoids can affect your baby if you haven’t given birth yet. The medicine will also be passed through your milk if you are nursing, which can also affect the baby. Before using any over-the-counter treatment medication or natural herbal supplement, talk about the risks with your doctor and pharmacist.


Although pharmacists are not trained to prescribe medication, she has a vast knowledge of how medications interact, their side effects, and when it is appropriate to use them.

