 Cut your avocado in half, so it exposes the oval shaped seed in the middle. Use a utensil like a knife or a fork to extract the seed out of the avocado. Once the seed is removed, rinse it under warm water to remove all of the avocado fruit from it.Do not remove the brown skin or "seed cover" from the seed.Read Cut-an-Avocado if you're unsure how to cut an avocado.;
, The top of the seed is the pointed end, while the lower part of the seed is rounded. It's important that you're able to identify the top and the bottom of your seed. The roots will grow out of the bottom and your tree will sprout from the top of the seed., Insert three toothpicks on a slight downward angle in the middle of the seed. The toothpicks will enable you to suspend your seed so that the roots can get enough water while the top of the seed stays dry.The toothpicks should be an equal distance apart from one another.
Make sure that each toothpick is inserted firmly.
 Use the toothpicks to balance the seed on the brim of a cup, ensuring that the bottom half of the seed is under water. The the other half of the seed should be above the water's surface. Place the glass in a warm spot where it can get some sun.Remember to replace the water as it evaporates.
Change your water once a week to prevent mold from growing in your glass.Use room temperature water for your avocado tree.
 In two to six weeks, you should see your avocado tree start to sprout.You'll notice that the seed will crack and roots will begin to grow from the bottom of the seed.If your avocado tree does not sprout in eight weeks, consider starting over with a new seed.
 Once your plant grows to 6 - 7 inches (15 - 17.7 centimeters), you should move it to a pot with soil. Remove the toothpicks from your seed and place it in a 8 - 10 inch (20.3 - 25.4 centimeter) deep pot filled with humus soil or a multi-purpose potting soil.The seed should be half exposed on top of the soil.


Humus is loose and crumbly soil. It includes organic material like leaves, grass clippings, and peat moss.Avocado trees thrive in fast draining organic soil.