 The lift should have two "legs" parallel to the floor, supported by four wheels. These need to be stable at all times, so make sure the wheels are tightly attached and do not use the Hoyer lift on uneven floors.;
, A vertical spreader handle (or shifter handle) next to the main column of the lift can be pulled to move the legs further apart or bring them back together. The handle should lock into a slot to keep the legs from moving once they reach the proper position.


Some models may have a foot pedal instead of a spreader handle.
Always lock the legs to their widest position before lifting a patient, and as long as the patient remains in the lift. Failing to do so could cause the lift to fall over.
 At the top of the Hoyer lift is a long, angled bar called the boom. At the end of this boom hangs a four-pronged sling bar, also known as a swivel bar.. This has four or more hooks for attaching the sling that will hold the patient.
 There are two types of Hoyer lifts: manual (or hydraulic) and powered (or electric). The only difference between these types of lift is the method used to raise or lower the boom. Manual lifts have a pump handle which must be moved up and down repeatedly to raise the boom, whereas battery powered lifts have simple "Up" and "Down" arrows to control the boom.Find the small control valve at the base of a manual lift's pump handle. When the control valve is positioned toward the pump handle, the valve is closed. The valve must be in this position in order for the pump to work when elevating the boom. Keep pumping until the boom locks into place.When the control valve is positioned away from the pump handle, the valve is open. Gently move the control valve from the closed to the open position to control the rate at which the boom lowers.
 In case of power failure, most electric patient lifts have an emergency release control, which mechanically lowers the patient. Know where this is located and how to operate it. Some models have an inset button which requires a pen to reach, but you should check your lift's manual for specifics.


Manual lifts do not have an emergency release, since the lift is controlled by human power rather than a battery with a limited lifespan.
There may be two or more emergency releases on your model. Know which is the primary release, and which should only be attempted if the first fails.
 U-slings are the easiest and quickest to use, and are appropriate for users that can sit up, even slightly. Lifting with a full body sling, or hammock sling, takes more time but is required for users that cannot sit up on their own.U-slings are shaped roughly like the letter U, with two long extensions running parallel to each other. They are often padded for greater comfort.
A full body or hammock sling is one large piece, sometimes with a commode hole.
Use a sling that provides head and neck support for users who cannot support their own neck.
Make sure the sling you use is appropriate to your model of lift. Contact the manufacturer to ask if necessary.
Use the advice of a physician to select a sling that is the right size and type for each user, and make it their personal sling.
 Tears, loose stitching, or worn loops could cause the sling to break mid transfer, possibly injuring yourself or the user. These slings are sturdy, but you should check before each transfer just in case the sling needs to be replaced., Different slings come with a variety of ways to attach them to the sling hooks of the lift, including chains, straps, and loops. Familiarize yourself with these attachment points, using the owner's manual or an experienced user to guide you.


If using a sling with hooks, attach them so the open side of the hook points away from the user, to prevent injury.Understand which side of the sling the patient should sit on, and which is the outside. Consult an expert or the manufacturer if unsure.
 The Hoyer lift does most of the work for you, but you will still need to move the user in and out of the sling. You should follow safe lifting practices to minimize risk of injury. All the tips that apply to lifting furniture or other heavy objects apply here as well.


Use your legs to provide strength and stability. Place them apart and bend at the knees before lifting.
Keep your back as straight as possible while lifting.
Do not twist your body as you lift. Position yourself directly in front of where the patient is going so you do not need to rotate your torso halfway through lifting.
 Follow these instructions several times using an empty Hoyer lift, then practice on a volunteer who has full mobility. Be familiar with each step before you try to perform a transfer on the intended user, especially alone.


If possible, perform your transfers with an assistant who also knows how to operate the lift. Many hospitals require two people to operate the lift even if they are experienced operators, to reduce the chance of injury

, Consult the owner's manual or contact the manufacturer to find out how much weight your model of lift and sling can support. Never attempt to lift a user too heavy for the lift or sling. Always use the correct sling for the user's needs, as described above.


Ask about a new user's mobility before lifting so you know how much they can contribute to the movement.
Use your best judgement when asked to lift a user who makes sudden involuntary movements, has a hostile attitude, or could otherwise cause injury to one or both of you. Refuse if necessary rather than endangering yourself and the user.

