 You'll need flour, water, a pot to mix paste in, newspaper/brown paper bags/butcher paper, a balloon, a paper egg carton, a box cutter, a and glue, stuff to decorate with (tempera or acrylic paint, tissue paper, acrylic decoupage medium, spray paint, markers, etc.), a pipe cleaner, googly eyes (optional), a marker, and scissors.


Flour, water and a cooking pot. These usually found in a well-stocked kitchen. You shouldn't need too much flour to make it work. Set aside a few cups, and put back whatever you don't use.
Paper. Newspaper and brown paper bags are usually the best. You want the sort of paper that is naturally absorbent.
A low-heat hot glue gun. As always, remember always to have an adult present when you use a hot glue gun.
Googly eyes, a pipe cleaner and a paper egg carton, for the pig's decorative pieces.
A balloon, for the piggy bank's frame.
A box cutter, to make the coin slot.
Decorating supplies. You could use anything from paint (spray or acrylic) to markers for this type of piggy bank. Paint is recommended, as the colours will stand out more. Acrylic decoupage is useful for gluing stuff like construction paper once the frame is done.
 Whisk together 1 cup of flour and 1 cup of water thoroughly in a small bowl. Boil 4 cups of water on the stove, and stir the flour and water mixture into it. Let it simmer for about 3 minutes, and then let it cool. Ask an adult to help you use the stove.You can purchase mixable papier-mâché paste at arts and crafts supply stores, but it’s easy to make your own at home.
 Get at least a full newspaper, along with brown paper bags, or butcher paper. Crumple it up into tight balls, uncrumple it, crumple it again, and then uncrumple it once more. This helps the glue soak into the paper more thoroughly. Once that's done, tear the paper into 1 inch squares.You will need a fair amount of it for this project, so prepare more than you think you'll need.
 Blow a balloon up to whatever size you want the body of your piggy bank to be. It doesn’t matter what color the balloon is, as it’s just providing a structure to papier-mâché on top of, and won’t actually be visible. Tie the balloon off when it reaches your desired size.
 Wet the pieces of paper with the flour paste you mixed earlier, and apply them to the pig. Get just enough paste on the paper to have it stick, but not so much that it's dripping. Smooth the paper onto the pig as you apply it, and try to cover the space evenly. Altogether, you'll need to do three layers, although you should use your own judgment if you don't think that's enough.


Your piggy bank will be stronger if you allow each layer to dry before adding another, but this is not strictly necessary., Your piggy bank will probably need at least a couple days to dry thoroughly.Put it in a well-lit, well-ventilated area to speed up the process. Once it's ready, you'll finally be able to decorate it.
 Have an adult use a box cutter to slice a coin slot in the pig’s bag. If you're not sure whether the coin slot is big enough, try putting a bigger coin in the slot. If it doesn't fit, that means you should cut a bigger slot. You should also be able to use this hole to pull the balloon out from the inside of the piggy bank.A coin slot will need to be at least 1 inch long to fit a standard US quarter. The size of your slot should depend on the biggest coin you're planning on fitting into it. Because papier-mâché can be delicate, it's recommended you measure out your cut before you commit to it.
 Cut out five sections from a paper egg carton. You will use these to create the pig’s legs and nose. Have an adult use a low-heat hot glue gun to attach them to the appropriate places on the balloon.The open sides of the carton "legs" should face into the piggy bank. That way, they can be painted after.
 The simplest way to do this is to paint it with tempera or acrylic paint. You could also use markers, spray paint, or tissue paper. To collage tissue paper and an acrylic decoupage medium, start by applying a thin layer of decoupage medium onto a small section of the water bottle with a paintbrush.Lay a piece of tissue paper on top of it, and brush another thin layer of medium on top of that. Keep going until the whole thing is covered.
 Decorating your piggy bank should be a creative exercise. You should decorate it however you want. However, for a truly pig-like appearance, you can add the pig's other body parts:


Make a tail by twisting a pink pipe cleaner into a spiral and having an adult help you hot glue it to the pig’s bottom.
Give the pig eyes by gluing googly eyes onto its face, or by drawing, cutting out, and gluing on your own eyes.
Draw nostrils onto the pig’s snout with a black marker.
Cut two triangles out of pink paper or felt, and glue them on as ears.
 This sort of piggy bank arguably takes more time and patience than the other designs, but it can look fantastic if you put the time into properly decorating it.


This sort of piggy bank can be difficult to withdraw from. Because the material is solid, you'll have to take a box cutter and cut a hole out from the top. It's recommended you cut a hole around the coin slot. If you want, you can tape the opening shut and re-tape it when it comes time to withdraw again.

