 Bid Whist begins with a bidding process that will make little sense to someone who has not seen whist played before.


(Fortunately, the rules for basic whist are written right on this page!)

, Players should agree which Joker is the "Big Joker" and which is the "Little Joker". The deck should now contain 54 cards.
 This pile of six is called the kitty. Players may look at their hands but the kitty remains face down.
 There are several varieties of bid a player can make. This is essentially a bet (or "contract") that the player's team will be able to take a certain number of tricks., This is the number of points the bidding player claims they can make.


Since the first six tricks a team wins aren't worth any points, add 6 to the bid to determine how many tricks the player's team has to take to succeed. A bid of 3 is a promise to win at least 9 tricks.
 A bid of "Four" or "Four Uptown" is a promise to win at least 4 points (10 tricks) and to follow the usual ranking of the cards. A bid of "Four Downtown" promises to win at least 4 points and follow a partially reversed card ranking:The uptown (or normal) card ranking from lowest to highest is: 2, 3, (...), 10, J, Q, K, A, Little Joker, Big Joker. Both Jokers are considered trumps.
The downtown card ranking from lowest to highest is: K, Q, J, 10, (...), 2, A, Little Joker, Big Joker. Both Jokers are considered trumps.
Note that Aces and Jokers remain high in the Downtown ranking!

, A bid of "Seven Notrump" promises that the bidder's team will win seven points (all 13 tricks) and that there will be no trump suit this round.


If a Notrump bid wins, jokers are worthless this round and can never win a trick.
You cannot make a "Notrump Uptown" or "Notrump Downtown" bid.
 Each bid must be higher than the last bid spoken, following these rules:


A bid is always higher than a bid with a lower number. Any bid of "Four" beats any bid of "Three".
A "Downtown" bid is higher than an "Uptown" bid of the same amount. Remember that an unspecified bid (e.g. "Five") is assumed to be an Uptown bid.
A "Notrump" bid is higher than any other bid of the same number.
 The rules declared in that bid are now in effect this round, once the winner makes some decisions:


If the winning bid was a Trump, Uptown, Downtown, or unspecified bid, the winner decides which suit is the trump suit this round.
If the winning bid was a Notrump bid, the winner decides whether to play with Uptown or Downtown ranking.
If the first three players to speak all pass, the dealer must make a bid and automatically wins the bidding.
 The six cards in this "kitty" count as the first trick for the winner. There are additional special rules associated with these:



Unless the winning bid was Notrump, the winner reveals the cards in the kitty to all players.
The winner may now secretly exchange any number of cards in his hand for an equal number in the kitty. The other players can see how many cards are being exchanged, but not which ones.
 Apart from the special rules determined by the winning bid, including the value of Jokers, the trick-taking portion of the game is unchanged.


The rules for this portion are detailed in the Basic Whist section.
Since the winner of the bidding portion took the first trick (the kitty), that player leads for the next trick.
 Only the team that won the bidding this round can score points, but they have the potential to lose points as well:


The bid-winning team counts the number of tricks they took this round. This includes the "kitty" set aside while dealing. (It counts as one trick.)
If the bid-winning team succeeded in its points goal, they score points normally. (Remember that a team's first six tricks provide no points. Each additional trick is worth one point.)
If the bid-winning team failed to meet its goal, it loses points equal to the amount they fell short. For instance, if the winning bid was Seven and that team only scores three points (9 tricks), that team loses four points.
 A common system is to play until one team earns 5 points total (and wins the game) or -5 points total (and loses).

