 If you are going camping in the Wilderness, it is advised to value defense over offense. Get a good amulet, like the Amulet of Power for free players, or the Amulet of Glory (4) for members. Don't bring in armor that is too expensive, as PKers may go after you for it.;
, If you are rich, this should be no problem. If you are poor, but don't plan on attacking other players or becoming skulled, you can bring 3 items. If you use the Protect Item prayer whenever you get attacked, you can bring 4. Never bring money or items that you don't need.
 An escape plan that often works in mid- to low-level Wilderness is simply running south. If you are below level 20 Wilderness, you can use any teleport to get away, such as the Cabbage-port on your Explorer's Ring. If you are a member, bring a charged Amulet of Glory, as it can teleport you away from up to level 30 Wilderness.
 Having an inventory full of crayfish may not help you much, but if you bring a few lobsters or swordfish, you might just survive for longer. Bringing potions to increase your defense or prayer can also be beneficial.
 If you have a very high prayer level, and someone is attacking you with a sword, pray Protect from Melee. This will keep you alive for a lot longer, or at least until your prayer runs out.
 They can whittle away your HP even if they are level 2, and can leave you prone to being killed by a passing PKer.
 If you bring a pickaxe and a hammer, you can go on the mithril trail, where you mine mithril and coal (and adamant) at the Hobgoblin mine, smelt the ores at the furnace in the East Ruins, turn the bars into armor or weapons at the anvil in the West Ruins, and return to the Hobgoblin mine. This is a way of making wilderness survival gear out of only two introduced items. (You don't even have to bring the hammer. There is a hammer spawn at the anvil.) There are other ways.
 The Forinthry Dungeon is the most dangerous because it contains revenants. Revenants are powerful fighters for their combat levels, and should not be taken lightly.
 If you lose, at least you will keep 3 of your items.

