 Whether you're doing the temple pose on its own or as part of a routine, mountain pose is the easiest place to start. When you stand in mountain pose, you may feel like you're just standing there, but the pose is a good starting or resting pose and can help you improve your posture.To get into mountain pose, stand with your heels slightly apart and your big toes touching. Open your feet, lifting and spreading your toes. You can rock back and forth or side to side to find your balance.
With your weight balanced evenly on both feet, firm up your thighs and lengthen your spine, dropping your tailbone toward the floor. Imagine a long line of energy running all the way up your body.
Broaden your chest and press your shoulder blades into your back, hanging your arms to your sides. Stay in the pose for about 30 seconds, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.;
, When you're centered in mountain pose, extend your arms down and out to your sides. Slowly widen your stance until your feet are directly under your hands. If you're a beginner, you may want to keep your feet a little closer together so you feel more stable.Turn out your toes and plant your feet firmly into the ground. A yoga mat can help you grip the floor more firmly and evenly. #*Don't lean forward or sway. Keep your back straight and firm. You can rock up and down, or side to side, to get used to the balance and stabilize yourself in the pose. Take a couple of breaths.
 On an inhale, bring your palms together in front of your chest in the prayer position as you bend both knees into a squat position. Keep your back and shoulders neutral and breathe through the position.With every inhale, think of pulling your shoulders up towards your ears, then pushing them back down on every exhale.
Keep your back straight, your tailbone tucked in and pointed toward the floor. Your upper body should be a straight line from your hips, not pitched forward.
Firm up your thighs and glutes, using them to hold and center your body.
 For the final movement of the temple pose, straighten your knees and stand straight up as you inhale, separating your hands and spreading your arms over your head as though waving.As you exhale, lower into a squat again and bring your hands again in front of your chest in prayer position.
You can do several repetitions of this pose. Do one breath for each movement: inhale and stand, then exhale and squat.
Pull your feet in closer if your knees start to knock or buckle. If you are a beginner, you may have to start from that position. The work should be done by your glutes, quads, and hamstrings – not your knees.

