 To avoid having your digestion wake you up in the middle of the night, you should avoid eating large meals before bedtime. Instead, make sure you eat dinner at least four hours prior to bedtime.Small snacks are fine but avoid any larger meals prior to bedtime.
 It is best to avoid caffeinated drinks such as coffee, cola or other carbonated soft drinks with caffeine. Instead, enjoy a glass of water or a cup of herbal tea.Remember that some foods, like chocolate, also contain caffeine.


Avoid medications that have caffeine, such as pain relievers or migraine medication with added caffeine, since these kinds of pills will keep you awake.ADHD medications are commonly stimulants, and adding another stimulant (in the form of caffeine) can worsen sleep problems.
 A soothing glass of warm milk may put you in the mood for sleep. Milk has a natural sedative, also found in turkey, called tryptophan, which can help calm your mind.If you are lactose intolerant, you should still avoid milk.
 Chamomile is a very relaxing herbal tea without caffeine. Make a cup of chamomile tea without any added sugar and enjoy it before falling asleep.Chamomile tea is a natural treatment that has been used for insomnia, bowel trouble, migraines, and menstrual cramps., You may think that drinking alcohol helps you sleep, since it can make you sleepy or even cause you to pass out. But, as your body metabolizes the alcohol, it is turned into sugar, which can disrupt sleep by increasing restlessness and agitation. It may also cause night sweats. In addition, drinking before bed may lead to multiple bathroom visits throughout the night, since alcohol is a diuretic., Melatonin is a hormone that contributes to your sleep-wake cycle. It is available over-the-counter in most drugstores and grocery or health food stores. Try taking 1 mg or less about 30 minutes before you want to go to bed., You should consult with your doctor about strategies to improve your sleep. Sleep problems have long been associated with ADHD and your doctor should be familiar with recent developments in effective medication as well as related sleep disorders like restless leg syndrome.Ask your doctor:


“How could I change my routine to improve my sleep?”
“Are there any sleep tests that might help you figure out what is going on with my sleep?”
“Are there any medications that I could take to improve my sleep?”

, Methylphenidate medication has been found to improve sleep efficiency and restorative effects of sleep in patients with ADHD.However, sleep medications can also be addicting, so they should be used short-term, in conjunction with good sleep hygiene, and as a last resort. Ask your doctor whether methylphenidate or related medications might help you:


“Do you think methylphenidate would work for me?”
“What kind of dosage would help with my sleep problems?”
“Are there any other medications we should consider?”

