 Don’t let the little things go unnoticed. You don’t have to compliment every little thing, but some praise for the everyday good he does will make him feel great. You could let him know how much you appreciate him changing diapers, doing taxes, or making dinner.You could say something along the lines of “You’ve been so helpful around the house today. I appreciate it so much.”
You don’t even have to tell him you appreciate these things. You could replace words with a high five or fist bump sometimes.
 Being loyal in a partnership is expected, but it doesn’t hurt to let your man you appreciate his dedication to you. In a world where betrayal seems common, tell him that he makes you feel lucky. If you have a family together, tell him you appreciate his dedication to your children. Let him know that his dedication makes a big different in your family’s life.For example, you could say “I see how much hard work you put in for this family. That hard work does not go unnoticed by anyone.”

, Outside of telling him that you appreciate his interests and talents, try to do something with him. It will be a confidence boost for him to know that you want to learn more about what he spends time doing. If he likes to play baseball, ask him to teach you the basics. If he enjoys a certain video game, learn how to play it and then surprise him by playing it with him.It could also be something as simple as cooking him Italian food for dinner, even if it isn’t your favorite.
 He may be having a hard time accepting his flaws, which brings his ego down. Pointing out flaws happens sometimes, but try to refrain from it. Instead, tell him you appreciate his flaws, and teach him how to appreciate them as well. Perhaps he can be a little too envious of people sometimes. Sure it’s annoying, but by embracing it, you can work together to fix the problem.If he’s a little insecure, you could say “I know you feel a little less than confident sometimes, but understand that you don’t need to feel that way. I think your great. Either way, we can work together to help you overcome that feeling.”
Some flaws shouldn’t be embraced. For example, maybe he’s wildly jealous to the point where you lose friends. This is a flaw that should be pointed out and changed as soon as possible.
 Yeah, it’s difficult to let small problems go sometimes. Maybe he keeps leaving his wet towel on the bathroom floor. Or, he dropped the eggs even after you told him to be extra careful with that bag. Things happen. Sure, there are some things that shouldn’t be let go, but try to let the small things go. It will make him feel more confident if every mistake he made isn’t called out.If certain problems persist, like not cleaning up after himself, it’s okay to gently bring up the problem. Try to avoid nagging.
 You are, of course, a capable and independent person, but it often makes a man feel good to know that you need him. It’s not necessary to ask him to ask for help for every little thing, or it could get annoying for him. Instead, occasionally ask for him to help with a problem you’re absolutely sure he would know how to solve.For example, if his job is fixing computers, ask him to help with your slow computer.
If he’s great at fixing things, ask him to fix a wobbly table.

