 Offer to do something together, and during that time, listen to her and invite her to share her thoughts with you. Many preteens and teenagers want to be understood, so she'll love having the opportunity to help you understand her. Here are some things you can do together:


Go for a walk
Bike
Hike on a trail
Toss around a football, or pitch a baseball for her to hit

, Tell her that you're willing to drop them off at the pool, roller skating rink, downtown shopping area, or mall (which involves quite a bit of walking). She'll love the free ride and quality time with her friends, and she'll be getting exercise while doing so.
 Decide on a reasonable wage, and ask her if she could take them for a walk or play with them at the park. Make her your accomplice and explain that you want to encourage her siblings to exercise. (This will also get her thinking about exercise, and she may suddenly decide that she wants more exercise too.)

, Try owning a variety of balls: baseballs, soccer balls, basketballs, kickballs, et cetera. Set up equipment like basketball hoops or volleyball nets in the yard. Your daughter might also like things such as scooters, jump ropes, and hula hoops.
 Ask if she'd like to join her school's volleyball or basketball team. If she doesn't like sports, she might still be interested in dance, yoga, or gymnastics.


Don't push her to sign up for something. She may resent the pressure, and want to quit as soon as possible.
Gymnastics and dance, while healthy, sometimes come with a strong cultural pressure to be skinny and lose weight. If she signs up for them, talk to her about that pressure, and make sure she has a strong support network.
 Set aside time each day or week to go outdoors with your daughter, and encourage her to engage in casual sports with her siblings or friends. This can be much more fun than jogging alone.
 As a parent, you teach not only by words, but by example. Incorporate exercise into your life. For example, if you go to the driveway and shoot hoops whenever you need to blow off steam, your daughter might notice and start doing the same thing.

