 When you draw on your personal narrative for support, you should analyze each situation separately. Use your narrative to guide yourself. Look towards your personal story to uncover what skills you have that can help your current team, project, or situation.Try visiting with a mentor or someone who knows you well. Exchanging ideas with this person about your value can be very helpful.
Always read back through your daily journal to try to find inspiration from your past.If you’re struggling with a situation, you might write about it in your journal. The process of writing might help you work through the problem.
 If your team is facing a problem or your employees are lacking morale, you might take one of your narratives, and share it with them. This story should be relevant to the current situation, but it can also be personal and inspirational. Be sure to include some information about your insecurities and mistakes as well or your story might come off as bragging, and this would have the opposite effect on your team.


For example, if your team is struggling to meet a deadline, you might consider all of the different ways that you made deadlines in the past. Consider what you did in those situations, and decide if those stories can help inspire your team.
Stories at the beginning of a project should be motivational whereas stories later in a project should be strategic.For example, at the beginning of a project, you might tell a story about how hard work and motivation helped you persevere through a difficult work load. In the middle or end, you might state ways and methods you used to reach the deadline.
 You can learn as a leader by listening to others' stories as well. This will create a bond between you and your team. It can also help you learn from someone's different experience, and if they ask for your advice, you can provide meaningful guidance from your own experience. You can also use this as an opportunity to encourage someone else and give them confidence in their abilities, which will help to motivate your team.


Instead of interrupting their stories to tell your own, start asking meaningful questions that will help both of you explore the present issue. For example, you can ask them “why do you think you were unable to get a response from the client?”
Reflect back what the other person is saying to demonstrate that you understand. You can say, “What I’m hearing is that you were frustrated when your team members were not listening to you.”

, An effective leader develops a team that feels like a community. To do that, you will have to build on your team’s similarities to form a cohesive group.As a team building activity, try to encourage your team members to look towards their own narratives for inspiration. You can ask them:


“Have any of you ever encountered a problem like this? Can you share how you overcame it?”
“Can you all share a story about a mistake or personal failure in your past?”
You can even start by telling your own story, then encourage others to follow up by asking, “So what do you think of this? Have you ever experienced something similar?”

