 Look inside yourself and use what you find to determine why you do not wish to go. Answer yourself honestly, then choose what's best for you.;
, Make sure that this is what you wish to do and that you do not have second thoughts.
 Do you know them well enough that they understand your reason?

,


Saying, "My wife is in labor" wouldn't work unless she is actually pregnant and is close to delivery.
 There are many ways to inform them.



Call them. If you have their number and have spoken to them through phones, then this is the right thing to do. Phone calls reduce the formality and the host might get more influenced with your emotions. Do not drag the conversation though. Try to keep the phone call short and sweet. Following is an example :






Hey Jane, how are you? I just called you to inform that I might not be able to attend the function since I have a prior commitment. I'm sorry, and I hope the function goes well.



Notify them through email. If the host is a kind of person who regularly checks their mails, then this might be suitable. With emails, you escape the awkwardness and the nervousness that you might feel while talking to them. Follow email etiquette and inform them properly.







Meet and tell. If you live near the host's house, or meet them on a daily basis, like a college classmate, tell them directly. Tell that you have your reasons and you wouldn't be able to attend. Following is an example :






Hey Noah, thanks for inviting me to the party. I hate to say this, but I won't be able to come because my mom is ill. I'm sorry for any inconvenience caused. You enjoy!



Sending a greeting card. Probably the nice and sweet way of letting them know. Buy a greeting card that suits the situation or make one yourself!


, In any case, it is not suggested to lie or just cook up an excuse. You might be caught, and that might create a dent in your relationship with the host.
 Thank them for considering you, and say that you are touched and very much happy by their thoughtfulness.
 Do not keep them in doubt by telling that you might attend it. Be direct, and tell them clearly.


Hey Hannah, I appreciate that you considered me. Very thoughtful of you!

, Tell them that you wish you were there, and that you're very happy for them.


Hey Sam, so how did the event go? Did you enjoy yourself? I'm sure you did. I wish I was there to give you company!

