 Sun-In is a classic hair-lightening product that became popular in the 90s. It is a very cheap and effect way to lighten blonde to medium brown hair, although the results tend to look more golden yellow than white blonde.


Sun-In can be purchased in most drug stores and online. It should be spritzed into damp hair, then worked through with a comb (this will prevent the color from developing unevenly).
Once the color is in, you should sit in the sun to activate the lightening agents. Alternatively, the heat from a hair dryer will also work. The more often you use Sun-In, the lighter your hair will be., Peroxide will effectively bleach your hair, leaving it a lighter shade of blonde. However, peroxide is also quite damaging for your hair, so it's best not to repeat this treatment too frequently.


Bottles of hydrogen peroxide can be purchased at the drugstore. Mix one part hydrogen peroxide with one part water and pour it into a clean spray bottle. Apply the peroxide solution evenly over your entire head of hair, but try to avoid your scalp as it is easily irritated by the peroxide.
Leave the peroxide solution in your hair for 20 to 40 minutes -- the longer you leave it, the lighter your hair will become. Just don't leave the peroxide in for any longer than 40 minutes, as it can severely dry out your hair.
Shampoo your hair twice to remove all traces of the peroxide and apply a deep conditioning treatment to your hair.
 Some sources recommend using lemon-flavored vodka to lighten blonde hair. The alcohol combined with lemon juice helps to strip pigment from the hair.


Pour the lemon vodka over your hair and use a comb to distribute it evenly. If you want more of a highlighted effect, dip a cotton ball in the alcohol and use it soak individual strands of hair, from the roots to the tips.
Sit in the sun for up to 30 minutes to intensify the bleaching effect of the alcohol, then rinse thoroughly and wash with shampoo.
 If you're looking for a less damaging option that will still effectively lighten your blonde hair over time, you should use a lightening shampoo and conditioner combo -- such as John Frieda's "Go Blonder" range.These lightening shampoos and conditioners use a combination of lightening ingredients that includes chamomile and citrus. They can be substituted for your regular hair care products and used on a daily basis.
They work best on hair that is already a light to medium shade of blonde, though darker blondes will still notice a gradual lightening effect over time.
 Of course, if you want lighter blonde hair in a hurry and you're willing to spend a little more money, you can always use hair dye.


Most store-bought kits will do a pretty good job of lightening hair (provided you follow the instructions), though the results can differ depending on your natural hair color.
All-over dyes are probably the simplest option, but if you are significantly changing the color of your hair the regrowth will be quite obvious, so you will have to reapply the dye every couple of months or so.
Alternatively, you can buy an at-home highlighting kit, where you only apply the color to strands of hair on top of your head and around your face (where the sun would naturally hit). These are a little trickier to apply, but don't require quite as much maintenance.If you don't feel comfortable putting color in your hair at home, see a professional stylist instead -- just be prepared to pay a lot of money for blonder hair!

