 If your bird is feeling ill or in pain, he may be squawking to let you know about his ailment. This is especially pertinent if your bird has started screaming or squawking recently, but doesn't normally behave that way. Take your bird in to the vet for a proper examination, and be sure to check that your bird has enough food and water when he gets noisy.Other common signs of a serious health problem include:


Sudden changes in appetiteDifficulty standing or maintaining balanceChanges in stool color or consistencyA disheveled, ruffled appearance., Some birds squawk and scream when they're bored or feeling neglected. While you don't want to reward negative behavior with attention, your bird may just need other outlets for his energy.Try giving your bird a jungle gym for his cage. This will allow him to exercise and play whenever he wants to.Leave toys in his cage. Birds like to feel stimulated, and may respond well to having toys, especially those that have food hidden inside and require your bird to figure out how to get the food., If your bird is prone to boredom but responds well to toys, it's possible your bird needs new stimuli on a regular basis. Changing up his toys every few weeks may provide your bird with the stimulation he needs.Birds love colorful toys. If the toy makes sounds, it will be even more desirable to your bird.Give your bird some sort of puzzle-based toy. Birds love mental and physical challenges, and odds are your bird will appreciate having something to stimulate his creativity., Try cradling your bird underneath your shirt, if he is small enough to fit. Having added warmth and physical contact can often help calm a loud, upset bird.
 Birds in the wild participate in "flock calls" as a way of communicating with other birds and ensuring the safety of the flock. If your bird is prone to squawking when you leave the room, it could be his attempt at sending you a flock call. Try squawking back at him from the other room to let him know where you are and reassure him that you're safe.