 Rainbow lorikeets are one of the larger lorikeets that people commonly keep as pets. They mature to about 12 inches in length (30 cm). Their distinguishing feature are their rainbow-colored feathers that include reds, greens, violets, yellows, and oranges., While still somewhat large at 9 inches in length (23 cm), scaly-breasted lorikeets are smaller than rainbow lorikeets. They’re mostly green in color, but their beaks are red and will have some yellow and red on their wings, chests, and neck., These lorikeets are on the smaller side and measure about 7 inches in length (18 cm). The bird is mostly different shades of green and yellow, with red on their wings. However, it may have a blue belly. Its distinguishing feature is a purple crown, which might appear black. Its ear and forehead may also be orange or yellow.This bird is ideal for people who want a smaller lorikeet.
 The little lorikeet is a similar size to the purple-crownded lorikeet (7 inches/18 cm). It is mostly bright green, has a red face, and a black bill. The area under its tail may be yellow and have some red., If you’re looking for a bird you can train and cultivate a life-long relationship with, you should consider a younger bird. This is important, as lories and lorikeets can live to 30 years or more. As a result, if you choose a young bird, you will necessarily be committing to many years of companionship and responsibility.While the longevity of different size, species, and subspecies of lories and lorikeets may differ, they can all live for decades.
 Novice bird owners or people who are less sure about lorikeet ownership may want to consider mature birds. The upside of owning a mature bird is that they will likely already have been trained, housebroken, and may be easier to manage than a very young bird.If you don’t think you have the time to ability to train a young bird, but still want a lory, consider a mature bird that has already been trained and housebroken.
 Older pet owners, foster pet owners, or other people who are unsure about the time commitment associated with lorikeet ownership should consider adopting older birds. Birds that are already 15 to 20 years old will likely be trained, housebroken, and may only have a limited time in which they can offer companionship.Older birds can be just as active and exciting to own as younger birds, but simply have a shorter life expectancy.
 Pet stores are perhaps the easiest place you can find a lorikeet to adopt. Depending on where you live, local pet stores may have few or many individuals for sale. Ultimately, by buying from a pet store, you are making several choices about the lory you’re going to bring home.Pet stores may have smaller lorikeets for sale.
They will have young or juvenile birds for sale – this means they won’t be trained or housebroken.
 If you buy a lorikeet from a breeder, you’ll have more information about the breeding stock, species, and history of the individual you’re going to bring home. The breeder may also offer you advice on training, housebreaking, and caring for your lorikeet.

Ask your veterinarian or a local bird organization about reputable breeders near you.
Check www.birdbreeders.com to read reviews about bird breeders near you., Just like with other types of animals, many lorikeets are available to adopt from bird rescue organizations. In fact, because of their longevity, many lorikeets need new homes. As a result, if you adopt from a bird rescue, you may be able to get a bird that has been trained, housebroken, and loved. In addition, the rescue may be able to provide you with advice and resources about how to care for your new roommate.Depending on your country or region, there may be a parrot or lorikeet rescue near you.

