 Ask a hairdresser what your face shape is, then look below for some reference on what styles might look good on you.


Round face: The best hairstyle for round faces definitely has to be long length, long layers, and a long fringe, hair parted down the side. If you have the length already, get to the hair dressers and add some face shaping, wispy layers - you will be surprised at how much difference this can make to your style.
Oval face: There isn't "one" best hairstyle for oval shaped faces - there are many! Lucky for you, you suit almost any hairstyle, as long as it doesn't hide your features, and is styled correctly. If your hair is short at the moment, and you feel you have the will power, then grow your hair out. Experiment with angled and long, wispy fringes or layers, whilst its growing, to give your style new looks. This will also stop you from getting bored and having it cut short again.
Heart face: The best hair styles that will do wonders for you heart shaped faces will include the following: Side parts, long, soft layers, a soft side sweeping fringe, highlights/low lights, long, full waves and curls minus the frizz. Just remember, you need to create volume around the bottom of your face, and make it soft and sleek at the top, to balance out your face shape and show off your features!
Square face: Hairstyles that have long, soft layers towards the top of the head are an instant disguise for a square jaw. Soften your square face with waves and curls, which will also add some femininity to your style. Whether you opt for a long or short style, remember not to go too short or too long. A couple of inches below or above the chin is perfect. Add a sweeping side fringe to soften your wide forehead, and you will look fabulous.
Diamond face: Most hairstyles would look complimentary on you, but hairstyles that would look great on you are ones with side parts and/or layers.;
, All shampoos are meant to clean your hair, though some could also de-frizz hair, moisturize dry hair, protect colored/highlighted hair, or deep-clean oily hair.


If your hair is greasy, try going to a salon or looking online for tips and tricks on how to get it less greasy. Also get shampoos and conditioners that suit your hair type.
 You can do a lot of things with hair. Try straightening, curling, or crimping it, or style your hair into beachy waves, a fishtail braid, a side ponytail, a messy bun... the possibilities are endless.


If your hair is frizzy or dry and you don't have any time to do anything to it, try an anti-frizz spray, mousse, or a leave-in conditioner. Then, wear it however you wish. For example, you could wear it up in a ponytail, or down naturally.







