 Because babies swallow so much during a feeding, it is important to burp them midway. This will help them expel gas that has built up in their esophagus. It will also help them eat better and keep them from getting fussy later. However, if your baby seems comfortable and happy, keep nursing.For bottle feedings, burp the baby every 2 to 3 oz. (60 to 90 mL).
Burp breastfed babies every time you switch the baby from one breast to another.
In general, try burping your baby every 15 to 20 minutes., If your baby starts to cry or refuses to eat, a burp might be required. Regularly burping your baby during feedings should prevent fussiness, but each baby eats at their own pace and you might have to wait for your baby to let you know that they need some relief.If your baby cries when your interrupt their feeding, you should allow them to keep nursing. Crying babies ingest air, which can make them more uncomfortable., Most babies will need a little pat at the end of a feeding. They have usually ingested about 6 oz (180 mL) of breastmilk or formula, as well as a lot of air. You should burp your baby after a meal even if they do not seem fussy. This will help them release any gas that may build up later.If your baby has not burped for four minutes after feeding, you may need to burp them.
Your baby should no longer need burping once they are 4 to 6 months old.
 If your baby is fussy during the night, but uninterested in eating, they may be a gassy. Picking them up and helping them burp might make them feel better., This disease occurs when a baby’s esophageal sphincter is weak or not working properly, allowing stomach juices to flow back up into their mouths. This can be painful and uncomfortable, causing your baby to be fussy. Regularly burping your baby can help reduce the symptoms of GERD.If your baby suffers from GERD, try burping them whenever they become fussy.
Talk to your doctor if your baby's symptoms are causing them to be uncomfortable, to not want to eat, or to spit up a lot.

