 Look at random pictures of yourself. Is there a certain pose you tend to stand in? Is there an angle that looks best on you?


Try to spot patterns. Which angles, smiles, positioning looks best? Replicate it the next time your photo is taken.
Models and professional photographers often use very precise angles. They study what works for a particular person in photographs and what doesn't. Don't just shoot randomly.
 It’s rarely a good choice to face the camera straight on, unless you have a large nose.


Turn your head to a three-quarter position or a 45-degree angle. This will give your features more depth.
If you have a very large nose, though, you might want to look at the camera straight on, as that pose will reduce the size of your nose in pictures., Celebrities have mastered the art of looking slimmer through a red-carpet pose. This look creates a diagonal line and elongates the body.


To replicate this, put one hand on your hip and angle your body to the side. Now, turn your head towards the camera. Celebrities will do this pose two ways. Either they will put their left hand on their hip and left leg out, or they will put the right leg out with both hands on their hips.
Some experts say this pose will give you an automatic “tummy tuck” in pictures. It’s an immediate slimming effect.Facing straight forward makes the body look wider.
 It is more flattering if you are photographed with a camera positioned above you. This will create a slimming effect, and it will give the illusion that your eyes are bigger.


If the person holding the camera is shorter than you are, sit down when they take the photo to create the downward angle.
If you’re taking a selfie, hold the camera slightly above your head, and tilt it at a downward angle. If someone (say a child wielding a camera) shoots you from below, you’ll look overweight and like you have a major double chin (even if you really don’t). That’s almost no one’s most flattering angle.
 Few people’s faces are exactly symmetrical. The differences often derive from the side of the face a person sleeps on or which side is exposed more to the sun.


Figure out which side of your face looks younger and photographs better. Do this by studying many photos of yourself. Then try to position your face in photos to highlight your better side. The side of your face that is stronger, more structured, and more defined is usually the side that is “best.”One study found that most people’s left sides are their “best side.” Research has found that highlighting the left cheek creates a more positive emotional response in surveys.