 Well that doesn't matter! There are all kinds of things to use for a facial! First look in the refrigerator, Any fruit or vegetables? If there are, first ask your parents, If he/she says yes, put them in your bathroom. ( don't mash cucumbers, just slice them!) Then look for chocolate, it makes a good mask. Look around your house and see the different kinds of soaps you have. Grab At least one soap bar of each kind. Go outside and see if there are any un-rotten petals. If there are grab a lot of petals. Then go back into your bathroom and mash the fruit and put it into a small, plastic container.;
, What I do is I do a little of both, I'll use a store bought cleanser and some all natural fruit. (those 2 things are not the only facial stuff I use) If you don't want to buy facial masks cleansers and other then just look around your house.
 cleanser, Exfoliating cleanser, Masks of all kinds, Skin cooling moisturizer, Just plain moisturizer, Heals dry problem skin moisturizer, deep cleansing cream and toner.                                                              

, Get something small to hold lotion in, and find all the lotions you have and put them in that small container,( don't use too much lotion!) then mix it up with a cotton swab.
 To do the steam go into your bathroom, and start up the sink until it gets nice and warm, then pull the plug on your sink and let it fill up. Then turn of the water, and get a wipe,( don't use toilet paper because it could really plug up your sink!) and get the wipe warm and rub it all around your face. then put it back in and lay it on your forehead as if it was a cold compress. finally let and the water and throw your wipe away, because you just did the steam!

, Cleanser, exfoliating cleanser, masks, just plain moisturizer, heals dry problem skin moisturizer, skin cooling moisturizer, deep cleansing cream then toner.
 Wash it off and dry off your face just a little, then rub the chocolate all  over your face but don't use the whole bar! Then then spread the petals all around your face and go to your room then put cucumbers on your eyes and just relax. go back into your bathroom wash off everything throw the cucumbers and petals away and dry off your face again and apply your almost home made moisturizer to your face with the swabs.
 I sure hope it worked for you!

