 Before you leave for work, enjoy some time with your canine friend, and expel some of their energy by taking a walk together. You will both enjoy the exercise, and your dog will be able to have some time outside before they are cooped up inside the house all day.


A 20-minute walk daily is recommended for most breeds of dogs. Working dogs may need two 20-minute walks a day.;
, Find a sturdy aluminum or plastic container and fill it with toys and treats for your dog to discover during the workday. Layer the treats and toys with old hand towels, so that your dog has to dig through to find treasures. To keep them entertained with the bucket from day to day, add new toys that your dog has never seen before every now and then., Technology has not only made our lives easier, it has helped make entertaining our pets easier too. Try iFetch, an automatic ball launcher which will allow your dog to play catch by themselves for hours! There are different sizes that launch full-size tennis balls or smaller balls to accommodate all sizes of dogs and living spaces., If you have tried everything, and your home is still being turned upside-down by your bored dog, consider hiring a dog walker. That way, your dog can get the exercise and stimulation they need without being cooped up all day indoors. Ask for recommendations from friends and other dog owners, and make sure that you find someone who your dog gets along with well.Before hiring someone to walk your dog, ask the person to go on a test walk with you and your dog. You can see if the person is a good fit for your dog’s personality.
Keep in mind that your dog walker will also require access to your house, so make sure to hire someone who you trust in your home.
 Dog daycare provides socialization, exercise, and plenty of stimulation for your dog. If you can afford to, consider sending your dog to daycare at least once or twice a week.Keep in mind that dog daycare is only a good option if your dog gets along well with other dogs and doesn’t have separation anxiety.

