 Prepackaged and processed snack foods such as chips and dips often contain gluten. You can make gluten-free tortilla chips at home and dip them into a homemade guacamole with peppers, garlic, and poblano for a spicy gluten-free alternative.You can buy pre-made guacamole at a restaurant or grocery store, or make your own using a fresh avocado and fresh ingredients such as bell peppers, chile or salsa, green onions, and cilantro.
Guacamole is a dip that is naturally gluten-free. However, check the ingredient listing on prepackaged guacamole carefully to make sure no gluten has been added.
To make your own tortilla chips, cut corn tortillas into wedges and toss them with two teaspoons of lime juice and a quarter-teaspoon of salt. Spread them out on a baking sheet and bake them for 10 minutes at 425 degrees Fahrenheit (about 218 degrees Celsius), or until they are light brown and crisp. Turn them over about halfway through baking.
 If you have a food processor, you can make gluten-free hummus at home using garlic, garbanzo beans, olives, vinegar, olive oil, and other spices. Greek yogurt adds some tang to your mix.You can find several hummus recipes online that use different ingredients. With a food processor, it should only take a few minutes to whip your hummus into your desired consistency.
You also have the option of experimenting to find different flavors you like. Simply start with one can (8 ounces) of chickpeas or garbanzo beans, drained. Use two tablespoons (about 29.5 milliliters) of skim milk and one tablespoon (about 14.7 milliliters) each of cider vinegar and extra-virgin olive oil. Add herbs, spices, and other ingredients in teaspoon (about 4.9 milliliters) increments.
 Rice and pita chips are available in most grocery stores, and are a naturally gluten-free alternative to potato or corn chips. They also have less salt than other similar snacks.You also can use carrot or celery sticks for dipping instead of chips.
If you buy prepackaged chips, check the ingredient list carefully – even if you're buying rice or corn chips – to make sure no gluten has been added.
 Nuts and dried fruits are naturally gluten-free, and can be mixed together with spices to create a flavorful snack mix to satisfy your munchies while sticking to your gluten-free diet.Toss seeds and nuts with spices to create a savory or spicy snack. You can simply measure your spices into a container or freezer bag, then add the seeds and nuts you want in your mix. Close the container and shake until all the seeds and nuts are thoroughly coated.
An egg white or olive oil can help your herbs and spices stick to the seeds and nuts and coat them. Shake your seeds and nuts into the mix the same as you did with dry spices, then spread them out on a bake sheet and bake them for 10 to 20 minutes at 300 degrees Fahrenheit (about 148.8 degrees Celsius).
Look online for different snack mix combinations you can use, or experiment and create your own using your favorite nuts, seeds, dried fruits, and gluten-free cereals.
You also can add gluten-free cereals, such as rice cereal, to your snack mix. Consider adapting your mix for the season, such as adding pumpkin seeds to your mix during the fall., If you're planning to use bottled sauces or dips for your savory snacks, make sure they're gluten-free. Manufacturers of bottled sauces often use gluten as an emulsifier.Making dips and sauces yourself from whole foods is the best way to guarantee they are gluten-free. Most dips and sauces can be made relatively easily at home in only a few minutes.
Keep in mind that gluten-free dips and sauces may be more expensive than their wheat-based counterparts, and typically have a shorter shelf life.
Make sure you refrigerate gluten-free dips and sauces immediately after opening.

