 Look at the UN employment websiteto see current vacancies with organizations in the UN Secretariat. You can use UNjobfinder to search vacancies in all UN organizations. Vacancies are constantly updated, so if you don’t immediately see a position that fits your goals and qualifications, check back often.
 Click on the “Register as a User” option at the top of the UN employment website. You will be required to fill in your name, email, and date of birth, as well as creating a user name and password.
 Once you register you will be prompted to create your PHP. This profile will be your confidential online resume, and includes general information about you, your education, and your employment history. You will only need to complete this once, but you can edit it for different vacancies if you wish.


You can complete the PHP right away, or come back later. It will take between 30 minutes to one hour to complete, and you can save a partially completed profile at any time and return to finish it.
Ensure that your PHP is thorough, detailed, accurate, and picture perfect. When you apply for a position, the PHP is the first (and, initially, only) thing the recruiter will see. If you don’t do a good job of representing your qualifications, or if your profile is marred by spelling or grammar mistakes, your application will be passed over.
You can continue to update your PHP at any time, but make sure it is in perfect condition when you actually apply for a listed vacancy.
 Be certain you meet all its requirements; if not, either have very good reasons for why the recruiter might overlook whatever is lacking, or don’t apply. The UN website makes it clear that you can apply for as many vacancies as you like, but your credibility will be hurt if you apply for positions for which you are not qualified.
 You will be prompted to submit your most recent version of the PHP, along with any other information required by the particular vacancy. Update the PHP if necessary before submitting your application.


Provide an e-mail address so that they can acknowledge your application. If you don’t get such acknowledgment within 24 hours, contact them again for confirmation.
 Only candidates selected for an interview will be contacted, and this can take some time. You may check the status of your application in the “Application History” of your “My UN” account. Many positions require that you pass an examination in order to be considered. Follow the instructions given for the specific vacancy for which you are applying.

