 When the symptoms first occur, you may feel like you have a cold or the flu. For example, you may get a runny nose, headache, fever, sore throat, or cough. You might also feel more tired or achy than usual. As you get sicker you might experience more serious symptoms that are associated with mono. , With EBV or mono, you might run a fever of about 102°F or 39°C., Both pain when you swallow and a sore throat that lasts for over two weeks are typical of the virus and mono., About 30% of people with EBV also get strep throat. . Usually you’ll see white blotches on your throat and tonsils when you have strep throat. A health care provider can test you for strep throat and prescribe antibiotics if you test positive for the infection.


If you have both mono and strep, use of amoxicillin should be avoided due to risk of drug-related rash.
 People with mono or EBV often complain of long-term fatigue, achy muscles, and weakness. You might also feel a general malaise or strong sense that you’re simply not as healthy as usual. If your upper-left abdomen is sore, you might have a swollen spleen., You might have swollen lymph nodes in your neck or armpits. Here are some suggestions for checking for swelling:Feel the area around your larynx and under your jaw. It may be helpful to turn your head towards the side you’re checking or to hunch your shoulders forward. This will relax your muscles. You’re looking for any tenderness or swelling. Enlarged lymph nodes at the back of your neck are very common with mono.
Use your opposite hand to check under your arm. Lift your right arm slightly and feel under it with your left hand. You should feel around the borders and in the middle of your armpit.
Try sitting down when checking your lymph nodes so you’re most relaxed.
 The rash will first appear on your torso and upper arms, then may spread to your face and forearms. You can also develop red splotches on the roof of your mouth. If you take antibiotics to fight any other infections you might get as a result of EBV, you can also develop rashes related to those antibiotics. Rashes in EBV patients can appear in many ways, including: Red spots that look like measles
Raised bumps
Little blisters
Purplish

