 If you are already have a gmail account, then you already have a Google account. If you don’t, you can sign up for one for free.


A Google account allows you to use all of Google’s services, including Google AdSense. You can do this through Google.
You will use your Google account to log in to Google AdSense after you have an account.;
, Google will look more favorably on your site if you’ve owned it for six months before you try to get Google Adsense.


It’s not impossible to get approval for sites that you’ve owned a shorter time, but it does increase your chances if you’ve owned the site longer.
If you live in some countries, like China or India, you may be required to meet the six-month threshold of ownership.
 You must have access to edit HTML source code of the web pages you’re seeking ads for. You won’t be able to use Google AdSense if submitting an account you don’t own and if you don't have access to that function.


If you don’t already have a blog or website that allows you to edit HTML source code, you could set up a new blog through the Google service, Blogger. You will be able to display Google ads without copying or pasting HTML code on this site. It’s fast and free to sign up for a Blogger account. You don’t need a blogger site if you have a website or other blog that allows you to edit HTML source code.
Once you’ve created a site on Blogger, you will need to enable AdSense on your blog.To use Google Adsense on You Tube, apply for the You Tube Partner Program or follow instructions displayed on You Tube for applying to AdSense.
 First, go to https://www.google.com/adsense/start/. You will be asked what type of advertiser you are.


You can submit an application to Google AdSense online.Select the type of advertiser that describes you best, such as new, experienced, etc. Click on "get started."
You can use Google AdSense even if your site already displays Google ads. But publishers can only have one account under each name.You will be asked to pick the ad types and formats that you want on your site. If you choose more options, you will have more chances to make money. Ad types that are available include display ads, text-only ads or ads that are a mixture. , You must provide your phone number and the postal address of your bank. This is necessary for you to get paid.


You will be asked to provide a full address for your bank account, including the zip codeYou will be asked to provide your website URL and to choose the language you want the ads in.
Customize your ads. You can change how your ads look and how they feel, and you can also choose where you want them to show up on your site. You can use automatic targeting to make sure that the ads which appear are relevant to the users of your site.
 AdSense only allows people who are at least 18 years or older to have an account.


If you are under the age of 18, a parent or guardian can submit an application through their own Google account. If they are approved, the payments will go to the parent’s account.
The system will flag sites that are negative, non-family safe or could be considered offensive. Examples of prohibited content include hacking, drugs, alcohol, copyrighted materials, weapons, and content condoning illegal activity., You will need to have original content that complies with the program policies of Google AdSense in order to qualify for the program.


The content can be hosted on a website, a blog, or other space. If you’re just copying and pasting a lot of other people’s stuff, though, you might not get approved. Don’t use copyrighted images, either.
Create subpages on your website that make it look more professional. Google is going to look at all pages of your website to judge its professionalism. So there are some pages you can create that help give this impression.
Create a privacy and disclaimer policy on your website, as well as a page devoted to terms of usage. Proofread all pages so they are clear of spelling and grammar errors.
Make sure the contact us page has clear information about who you are. Google AdSense wants to make sure it can verify who you are. Similarly, you should have an about us page, and use your name and address on it that match that which you used to apply for Google AdSense. Make the website’s mission clear.
 It’s important that your website or blog has a large number of quality articles with original content. If you’re just posting work other people do, you’re less likely to get approved.


Experts recommend that you have between 15 to 40 quality, original articles on your site before applying. However, there is no guarantee about that your application will be approved after 40 posts. There are many bloggers who got approved accounts with just 10-12 posts and some who were rejected with 100 posts. Everything depends upon the quality of your site and content. Make sure that every web page of your site contains a good amount of content. Your web pages should not be empty or thin in quality.
It’s a good idea to write 1000+ words articles to publish on your blog. Focus on good content. It’s a good idea to have about 50 pages on your website for subpages and articles, at least. If you have a lot of short posts (less than 200 words), they might not be considered rich content by Google.
 Obviously, you need to be working in an area that you’re passionate about. However, if you have a lot of quality articles in certain categories, Google AdSense might approve you faster.


Some categories that interest Google AdSense include travel, lifestyle, health, law, and business.
If you have prohibited content on your site, such as pornography or hate speech targeting a group of people, get prepared for a denial. You might face rejection if you’re just blogging about events too.
 Strong content should have a mixture of text and other media (such as photographs).


The site isn’t going to look fondly on a page that has a lot of text with no imagery.
You also want a balanced amount of external and internal links on your site. You site might be deemed more spam-oriented if you have a lot of external links on a page. Make sure your site doesn’t have broken links.
 If you have more users, your chances will improve. However, you don’t need really high amounts of traffic to get Google AdSense. Thus, it’s a good idea if you don’t apply for Google AdSense right after you first create your website. Let your site mature a bit, and apply for Google AdSense after you’ve started gaining traffic.
Traffic will be consideration for approval. One rule of thumb is that you shouldn’t apply until you have at least 30-50 people who visit your site each day., If you are using a free domain name, your site won’t be taken as seriously by Google AdSense.


It only costs a few dollars to get your own domain name. Your domain name shouldn’t be long, and it should not contain sexual references. Domain names such as .com, .org, and.net are valued. Unique domain names are more desired.You should also create an email that has your domain name in it. Use this email to apply for Google AdSense.
 If you have a lot of this code on your site, you may not receive approval.


So stay away from things like Yahoo Ads, Infolinks, or other networks, especially those that are competitors to Google AdSense.
Avoid having a lot of widgets on your site, as well as affiliate links, until your site is approved.
 It matters how your website looks. If it looks clean and professional, and is designed well, Google AdSense is more likely to want its ads on your site.


Focus on creating strong navigation on your site. You don’t want it to look too cluttered or filled with dated graphics like flashing or spinning animations or glittery icons. Strong design includes a header, content section sidebar, footer, and so forth.
Stick with a professional color scheme (like primary colors), and use a professional template that you’ve installed on your website. For example, if you’re using WordPress, you can easily import different professional themes for your site.
 Google Analytics is a separate program offered through Google that allows website publishers and bloggers to track their metrics (such as user traffic).


If you have Google Analytics installed on your site, the people who approve the Google AdSense applications are likely to see you as a more serious website publisher. That’s because people who aren’t just amateurs are going to want to closely analyze their metrics.
To enroll in Google Analytics, just go to the site online and sign up.You will get tracking code that you can place on each page.
You could also sign up for the Google Webmaster program, which allows you to track critical errors to your website and fix them. You can also register online for Google Webmasters.. You could also add a sitemap to your website. If you are using WordPress, you can do this through Google XML Sitemaps., You will need to click on the “my ads” section of your AdSense account. Find the ad code (this is embed code). You need to put this on a page that receives traffic.


Place the ad code on the site that you are using to sign up for AdSense. You should carefully select the page you choose. You will want a page that has both content and receives regular visitors.
If you don’t place the ad code on an active page, it could take you a long time to get approved, if at all.You will be notified by email.
 Search engine optimization shows that you’re serious about your site.


The Google AdSense reviewers will look for things like whether you have a meta-description and meta title.
Keep your meta title at about 69 characters, including spaces, and keep your metal description about 156 characters, including spaces.
 Once you’ve signed in to your AdSense account for the first time, you will see a red bar at the top of your account. This means that you application is under review.


Google Adsense will start an automatic review after it detects that you’ve posted the ad code on a live in page of the site you’ve used to sign up. The entire site will be reviewed, though, not just that page.
It usually takes about 1-2 days for the review to be completed. You will get an email with details after your site is reviewed. If you application is reviewed, you will start seeing ads appear automatically on your site. You won’t see the red alert in your account anymore
Once your application is fully approved, ads will automatically start to show in your AdSense for content ad units, and the red alert in your account will disappear.

