 Put on your most sultry, seductive outfit and greet him at the door as soon as he comes over. It will make a nice surprise welcome home for him, especially if you know that he has had a long or frustrating day.


You do not necessarily need to wear something skimpy. Anything that makes you look your best will show that you put some extra effort into surprising him.
Just make sure that he is alone when he comes through the door. If not, it could get awkward.
Better yet: Forget about the door. Wait for him in the bedroom.
 Things getting a little boring in the sack? Do some research and try out a new technique or move that'll drive him crazy the next time you're hooking up. Surprises like these are guaranteed to please.


If you're not interested in a new move, wake him up with one of your old ones. Always a nice surprise.
 Next time your boyfriend is hanging out, surprise him by springing a sensual massage on him. This helps to relax your boyfriend and can be quite a turn-on. What's not to like?


Massages don't have to mean sex. Even if you're not at that stage in your relationship yet, a shoulder massage can be a nice way of doing something nice for your man.
 If you're usually pretty G-rated, it'll be quite the surprise if you start talking like you've been binge-watching X-rated movies while he was gone. Not to mention a turn-on. If you know this is something that might embarrass your guy or make him feel uncomfortable, then just don’t overdo it.


If dirty-talking makes you feel awkward, try asking him to talk dirty to you. Give him the chance to try out something new, if he's interested.
 If your boyfriend has a busy day, letting him know that you're thinking about him "that way" will drive him absolutely crazy. Getting a dirty text is one of the best kinds of surprises. Let him know what you plan on doing with him later.


Be careful with pictures. If you're in a committed relationship and you trust your boyfriend, that's one thing. If you're just texting someone you don’t know that well or someone who may turn around and use your pictures against you if you break up, think twice.
 If you’ve been in a relationship for a while, you probably went through a phase where you engaged in lot of naughty surprises and teasing. Think about what you used to do or say, and do them all over again. Maybe you forgot to wear underwear under your slinky black dress while you’re at dinner or watching a show once—make sure he remembers by doing it again.
 If you're not sure how to surprise your boyfriend in the bedroom, talk to him. Learning more about your partner's fantasies is a great way to get closer and become more intimate. You don't want to risk throwing some wild and kinky thing at him in the bedroom, only for him to turn up his nose. Always talk to him about what he wants to do, and try your best to be open-minded.


Don't do anything that makes you uncomfortable. Him wanting to do something doesn't mean you have to do it to surprise him. Be honest with him in return. Besides, just having the fantasy-talk can sometimes be hot enough to spice it up.

