 Many hunting supply stores sell turkey calls. These are small devices that will make the sound for you when you use them.


Some stores sell these devices for only a few dollars, although you could pay between $10 or closer to $100.
Some of the turkey calls perform a single call, such as gobbling, and other turkey calls offer a series of call choices.
Many of these turkey call devices are available for purchase online. They are usually small enough to fit inside your pocket.;
, Rhythm matters in turkey calling. You’ve got to get the cadence down or the turkey won’t come in.Don’t make the call too fast or too slow. In order to practice the cadence of the sound, listen to good turkey callers or to the sounds of live birds.
You could try recording your practice calls and then compare those to the sound of a live turkey to see if you’re making the call too loud or slow.
Not all turkeys sound the same. Some hens are high-pitched and some aren’t. Use different calls and change it up to increase your chances of calling in a turkey.
 Some people believe you should only make a call every hour when you’re doing “blind-calling” of turkeys from, say, a hill.


Turkeys make calls when they see other turkeys. If a turkey Is lonely, it will call long enough for other turkeys to hear.
These turkey calls may come in long strings. To increase your chances of drawing out a turkey, don’t be afraid to get aggressive and make more calls if you’ve gotten no response with the first one after 15 minutes.
Understand that turkeys make different calls for different reasons and some calls are more effective in certain seasons than others are.
 Male turkeys are called gobblers, and they make the most famous turkey call. It sounds somewhat like the crowing of a rooster.The sound is loud, shrill, descending and throaty and it lasts for about 1 second only. Usually male turkeys goggle from treetop roosts.
They do this because the sound carries better through the trees than it does on the ground. Male turkeys make this sound to attract females.
Turkeys also cackle when they fly down from roosts, and they give short, soft purring sounds as they move on foot. They also give long yelps to reassemble their flocks; young turkeys whistle three or four times so their fellow turkeys can find them when they are lost.
 Maybe you don’t have any luck trying to call turkeys with your own voice. These days, there’s plenty of technological help for that problem.


You can download a free sound app on iTunes that makes turkey calls. You can set the app to play a turkey call once or to play different calls in a loop.Listen to expert callers or actual birds on You Tube. This will help you emulate the sound of the call.
Many online hunting sites have audio sound files online that allow you to hear the different sounds turkeys make.

