 Spring onions do not have strict requirements for sunlight, but they do need at least partial sun in order to grow.Alternatively, you can grow spring onions in a small pot or windowsill garden that is close to the house.;
, Spring onions thrive in loose soil that drains well. Clay-based soil or other heavy, dense soils may not work well. You can use a trowel to break up the soil on the day you sow your onions, or you can accomplish this gradually by raking over the plot every day for several weeks in advance., A week before planting the seeds, add a general fertilizer to the soil. If you are concerned about the potential effects of consuming garden chemicals, you may prefer to use an organic fertilizer. Mix the fertilizer into the soil as you break it up., Use litmus paper or another testing kit to determine how acidic or neutral your soil is. Spring onions need a pH level ranging from 6.3 to 6.8 in order to grow.You can drop the pH by adding manure or compost to the soil and you can raise the pH by adding lime to the soil., Spring onion seeds germinate best when the weather is moderate. Wait until after the last frost of the season, but do not procrastinate until the hottest days of summer.Alternatively, you could plant a winter-hardy variety of spring onion in the late summer or early autumn months. These onions will take longer to grow and will be harvested in the early spring, sometime between March and May., The holes should be no more than ½ an inch (1.5 cm) deep. Use your finger or a small drill to dig the hole. Place the seeds into the holes., Space the seeds approximately 2 inches (5 cm) apart in order to allow the onions enough room to grow and mature. If you are planting multiple rows of spring onions, there should be no less than 6 inches (15 cm) between the rows., Once you have planted the seeds, they should be covered with about ½ an inch (1.5 cm) of soil. This layer of soil will protect the seeds from the elements and natural predators, like birds., Rather than digging a small hole and planting each seed, you can scatter the seeds across the garden plot. Keep them scattered thinly, and rake them into the soil upon finishing. Cover these seeds with 1/2 an inch (1.5 cm) of soil.This method works because spring onions are typically harvested while they are still relatively small. This means they do not need too much room to grow.

