 As already noted, the photo needs to be something you can live with for years to come and be something that will blend seamlessly with existing décor and furnishings. Avoid anything that will date quickly and steer well clear of photos of people who may be here today but gone tomorrow––after all, staring at your ex won't endear you to staying in that room! Images that tend to work well include:


Repeated features, such as similar trees in a wood or forest landscape or pebbles on the sand.
Landscapes, such as a favorite cityscape, beach, view from your summer cabin, etc. can make ideal wall features.
Sunsets, sunrise, moonscapes, stars, etc. are all possibilities for a wall photo.
Your child's artwork or a piece of art by someone in the family.
If you do want to include people, such as your children, have them as part of a wider landscape so that they're not the focus point. It can be overwhelming for them to see themselves blown up large, and it can also date quickly.;
, A crisp, clear photo that can be expanded without losing its integrity is vital for wallpaper images––every blur and unfocused element will be increased when the image is enlarged. Grainy or old photos may seem like a cool effect, but consider carefully how such images will work if expanded.
 Part of the photo choice will be guided by where your feature wall is going to be. Is this for your living room or a game room? Elegance in the living or dining room is a must, so a full sized photo of the Denver Broncos won't be the best placement for this area but might be absolutely ideal for the man cave. Match the content of the photo to the right room.


This article recommends a feature wall rather than covering all four walls of a room. You're free to do so of course, but be aware that more than one wall in a room covered in a photo will often look overwhelming.
 Once you’ve chosen your photo, walk away for a few days and then return. At the time, your heart may be saying one thing, but a few days later, your head may ask, “What was I thinking?” These few days of thinking it over will save you from making a rash decision, as this will be a big change to your home's décor.


On the whole, this is likely to be an expensive exercise, so part of your reflection should include a focus on the budget you have for this feature wall. Find out about the costs before getting too involved.
 While the photo may already be adequate (in which case, skip to the next step), enhancing it is one way of adding features that you think might improve the ability of the photo to blend in with the room's décor. Some possible enhancements to toy with include:

Try black and white with a splash of color. Using your computer photo software, add color to an unexpected spot on your black and white photo. From eye color to perhaps even a building in a skyline, a very small hint of accent color (that matches with the intended room) can add interest.






Create an old-looking photo out of a brand new one. Perhaps you want to “age” the photo and give it a more heirloom-type look. You can use either your internal software or use a program like Instagram to add a different take on the new photo.






Turn your photo into what appears to be a painting. Some software can actually transform a regular photo into a watercolor or oil type painting in only a matter of seconds. For a more sophisticated room, try different paint types; the end look can be extremely pleasing.






A border can be an excellent feature, to show where the image ends and where the wall resumes. Additionally, a border allows you the freedom to create photo wallpaper that covers only a part of the wall, rather than the entire wall. This means that you might consider an enormously enlarged photo (say, of your children), that is placed carefully in the middle of the featured wall and nothing else is added to the wall, just the paintwork serving as a frame around the border of the photo.
 The photo dimensions must be accurate because any part that appears to be missing, too short or too long will be immediately obvious and will ruin the entire appearance. Precision takes effort but is well worth it. If you aren’t good with measurements, consider hiring a handyman to do the job; although this might seem a bit wasteful, having the most exact measurements is key to creating the right effect and will ensure that there isn't waste after the wallpaper has been made.


It's recommended that you choose a wall that isn't oddly shaped or curved unless you're having professionals cover it. Such walls are fairly difficult to get perfectly right and can look dreadful when botched. Moreover, many vendors cannot create custom wallpaper for odd shapes, so you might be forced to do your own cutting for oddly shaped walls, meaning that it could look unprofessional.
See the previous step for the possibility of not covering the entire feature wall, just a part of it. This can reduce costs and may be a lot easier to work with than a whole wall space.
 In addition to the internet (which offers many choices for photo-to-wallpaper conversion), local copy and craft shops may offer this service, so it's advisable to check out both possibilities to see who offers the best deal in your area. Explain clearly what you want done and be sure to give the precise measurements so that they know whether they're up to the task or not.

If ordering online, only use a well-reviewed site or ask friends through Twitter, Facebook, etc. for their recommendations. Only order through trusted sites where you can read reviews and even contact previous clients. Ask how the wallpaper will be shipped to you, shipping costs, paper quality, and the overall turnaround time.






Consider your hometown copy shop. Not only do many local copy shops offer the service of turning photos into wallpaper, some private mail companies and graphic design firms can help you as well.
 Inquire about how to mount the photo wallpaper on your wall. Does the wallpaper mount like typical wallpaper (wallpaper paste) or does it come with a different type of backing, such as self-adhesive or similar? Ask if the adhesion can damage your walls if you decide to remove the wallpaper; this is especially important given that many photo wallpaper types will fade in a few years and need to be removed and replaced––can you be bothered totally repainting the wall after?

Have a complete understanding of application of the wallpaper before ordering it. You don't want to go to all the expense and trouble only to find out that its application is just too hard for you. In general, wallpaper paste is the easiest for self-application; many other backings may require you to get a professional to hang the wallpaper, adding to the final cost.






Ask about the inks and how long the image will last. After all, this is a photo and like most photos, when exposed to sunlight and other sources of light, it will probably fade within a certain space of years. For most people, this is fine as it's a reminder to change it!






Make sure the vendor you select can accommodate any special requests. Review any and all requests with the vendor before placing your order. You may need a special size or certain type of paper type that the vendor doesn’t have. Better to find out beforehand than after you’ve paid and received the product you didn’t want.
 Follow the instructions provided by the retailer who has produced your photo wallpaper. As with any application of wallpaper, ensure that the wall is cleaned properly first and that all traces of old wallpaper or flaking paint have been removed. If you are centering an enlarged photo piece of wallpaper, measure with great care. If you decide that the application is too difficult for you to do, get help from friends or family, or call in a professional. It's better to seek the help than to apply wallpaper unprofessionally––botched wallpaper is instantly obvious to everyone.

