 The most obvious difference between the two is that an active DI requires a power supply for you to operate, while passive DIs do not. Beyond that, due to differences in design, each of these has strong suits that should be taken into consideration. For example, the transformers used in passive DIs are more resistant to the hum created by ground loops, making these ideal for on-stage performing.Additionally:



Active DIs are generally better suited to passive instruments, including:

Electric guitars
Passive basses
Vintage Rhodes pianosPassive DIs are generally better suited to active instruments, like:

Active basses
Keyboards
Electronic percussion, There are many options of DI available, some packaged with features that you might find useful. Amp simulators, for example, can be layered on top of your DI recording. This will give your recording a sound more like what you'd hear produced from an amp.


Though the use of a DI can be relatively cheap, quiet, and space efficient, most audio experts agree that even masterful DI recordings miss a quality captured through miking an amp.The price range for DIs varies considerably, with lower end models costing as little as $40 and high end models costing over $1,000.Some audio experts recommend investing $1 in a DI for ever $5 you spend on your instrument., You should always follow the directions that came with your DI, but generally, you should be able to hook it up by connecting your guitar with a ¼" output cable. Then you will need to connect your DI output, which will likely be an XLR connection, to your mixing console/audio interface/computer.


Due to the fact that the signal being transmitted from your DI to your mixing console is normalized to the microphone level, you'll need to connect the DI output to your mixing console's mic input., Set your DAW/audio interface to "Record" and play your music. When you have finished, stop recording and listen to what you have played on headphones. Keep in mind, your DI will only have captured the sound of your guitar, and because of this, your recording might sound thin, or like it is lacking something.


Through the use of amp simulators, you can add normal distortion and speaker effects to your recording, which will fill out the sound.
 If you have an amp simulator at your disposal, you can add its effects to your recording to give it a more realistic sound.Listen to the changes you make with headphones, and use the simulator's interface to adjust the recording until you are satisfied with its sound quality.

