 You can start thinking about a career in criminology while you are still in high school. Concentrate on doing well in all academic subjects, since this will help you prepare for a criminal science program in college.


Good high school courses for a future criminologist to take include sociology, government, history, psychology, and statistics.Some high schools offer courses in criminology, criminal justice, or related areas.If yours does, be sure to take them.
In addition to academics, seek out extracurricular activities to broaden your education and deepen your interests. You could join or start a Criminology Club, for example, as well as participate in common activities like Mock Trial, Debate Club, Math Team, etc.;
, Some colleges and universities have degree programs in criminology, but there is no set subject your degree must be in. Whatever your chosen major subject is, make sure to take courses in areas like sociology, psychology, criminal justice, statistics, writing, and computer science.Criminologists enter the field from a variety of academic backgrounds, including:


Criminology
Sociology
Psychology
Criminal Justice

, Work with your school to develop an internship plan that fits your educational and career goals. You might seek internships with:A police department
A law office
State or Federal government offices
Community organizations
Research groups

, Earning a master’s degree or even a doctorate can help you gain more advanced positions, greater responsibilities, and higher pay. You can earn a graduate degree in a field such as:


Behavioral Science
Criminology
Sociology
Psychology
Criminal Justice

, In other words, even if you earn your degree, you may not be able to practice as a criminologist until you pass the licensure examination.


The specific format of the examination will vary depending upon your location and the agency you want to work for. Expect the examination to be rigorous, however, so study hard beforehand.
 There are a number of organizations serving the field of criminology, such as:


The International Society for CriminologyThe American Society of CriminologyThe Academy of Criminal Justice SciencesThe Law and Society AssociationThe Midwestern Criminal Justice AssociationThe Western Society of Criminology, While you may look for an entry-level position at first, there are usually good opportunities for advancement. However it may be difficult to cross fields. For instance, if you are hired with a state agency, it might be more difficult to later get an advanced job at a federal agency, and vice versa.Criminologists find positions with:


Police departments
The FBI
State and local governmental agencies
Colleges and universities
Consultancy agencies

, During the process of being hired for a job in criminology, you can expect to have to pass background and security checks.As participants in the fight against crime, criminologists are expected to have good records and impeccable ethics.
 Your day-to-day work as a criminologist will vary depending upon your specific position and area of expertise. Most jobs in the field, however, eventually involve some combination of fieldwork, analysis, and reporting. For instance:


You might be present at a crime scene, to help gather evidence and determine exactly what occurred.
You might investigate how the crime is related to social issues.For instance, you might consider how crimes are related to other problems, such as drug abuse, poverty, and corruption.
You might be involved with cataloging information, processing data, and writing reports based on criminal investigations.You might be involved with helping policy makers determine how to respond to and eliminate crime.
 Many individuals trained in criminology wind up working in jobs that do not bear the title “criminologist.” Nevertheless, these careers can be just as fulfilling, and draw on your skills, training, and experience. Job titles of people with a background in criminology include:Border Patrol Agent
Compliance Officer
Court Administrator
Evidence Technician
Federal Protection Officer
I.R.S. Agent
Legal Assistant
Penologist

, Attending professional criminology conferences is a great way to network, learn about new developments and issues in the field, and get information about jobs and other important matters. Regular conferences are hosted by many of the major professional criminology associations, such as:


The American Society of CriminologyThe Western Society of CriminologyThe European Society of Criminology

, You can keep up with new developments in criminology by reading current research in journals devoted to the field. If you are interested in sharing research that you have conducted, or want to report on work you have done, you can also try to publish articles in these journals, such as:



The CriminologistThe Journal of Quantitative CriminologyInternational Annals of CriminologyCriminology and Criminal JusticeThe British Journal of CriminologyThe European Journal of Criminology
Criminology and Public Policy

, Criminology is a field that is constantly changing as new technologies, methods, and policies are developed. Taking refresher courses even after you complete a degree and have experience working as a criminologist is a good way to keep up with these new developments. Continuing educations courses in criminology may be offered through colleges and universities, professional associations, and governmental agencies. These courses cover topics like:Documentation and forensics
Combating cyber crime
Promoting crime prevention

, You can also dedicate yourself to gaining expertise in a specialty such as translational criminology, national security, or cyber crime.Working on projects in your area of interest, taking relevant courses, and publishing in the field can all help you gain this expertise. Developing skills in a sub-field of criminology can leader to greater responsibility, recognition, and employment opportunities.

