 Go into your week by planning ahead. Set aside one evening to look at your work schedule, so you can organize meals and snacks. This is especially important to do if you have a busier time of day or week when you might need to eat on the go.For example, if you'll be running errands one day you might plan on making an oatmeal bowl the night before. You can grab the oatmeal on your way out the door in the morning. You might also pack a mid-morning snack, plan on lunch at a salad bar, and buy a smoothie in between lunch and dinner.;
, While you're deciding what meals or snacks to eat, keep in mind what foods travel well. With a bit of planning and smart packaging, you should be able to take most of your favorite foods as you rush out the door. Remember that you may need to make some things in advance and store them in the fridge until you're ready to leave for the day.For example, mix up a fresh salad with veggies and store it in an airtight container. Package up a small container of dressing and store it separately, so you can pour it over the salad right before you eat it.
Whole fruit, bags of nuts or granola, string cheese, and packaged cut produce are great for quick transportation.
 Prepare foods for your busiest time of day, so you're more likely to eat regularly. If you know you have a hard time eating breakfast before you leave the house in the morning, make breakfast the night before. You can quickly reheat the breakfast or eat it on the go.Try to store snacks at home, in your car, in the office, or in your bag. This way, you'll always have something quick to nibble on between meals.
Have healthy snacks setting out at your home and work place. You might keep a bowl of fresh fruit out, keep whole grain crackers in a container, or have slices of cheese in the fridge.
 Don't beat yourself up if you don't get around to planning your meals and snacks or if you forget them on your way out of the house. Try to have a backup plan for really hectic days. You might stop by a fresh salad bar, grab nutritious foods from a convenience shop, or eat healthy snacks that you've stored at your office.


When you do have to eat out, avoid overeating and look for nutritious options. For example, instead of getting a burger and fries from the drive through, order a salad or lean chicken sandwich.
If you don't have many options, don't stress yourself out. Remind yourself that the important thing is that you eat something, especially if you've been experiencing nausea.

