 If working solo leads to a creativity block, it may be time for you to call in reinforcements. Working alongside a partner, friend, family member, or colleague may be just the spark needed for your creativity to flow.


Collaboration can lead to both of you seeing your art through new eyes, enabling you to develop something truly inspired together. Plus, working together to make art will likely strengthen your bond and improve your mood, which is a perk when treating bipolar disorder.
Ask someone to work with you by saying, “I’ve been feeling a little uninspired lately. I would love to watch your methods for inspiration. What do you say we work in the same space? We can even collaborate on a project together!”;
, Creative inspiration is necessary to brainstorm new ideas and see existing projects through to fruition. You are more likely to perform best at your work when your environment motivates you.Take a break from your work for a while and get the materials needed to make an inspiration board. Hang this board into your workspace and pull from it when you’re short on creativity.


Think of it like a vision board for your art. Find images, quotes, textures, colors, and other media that relate to your given craft. For example, a painter might include a grid of colors they’d like to use in addition to some samples of work completed by one of their idols.
You can use an online platform to keep an inspiration board as well, such as Pinterest, a blog, a personal website, or another social media platform.
 Another way to stay creative while treating your bipolar disorder is by stepping out of your comfort zone. Too often, people stay within the confines of a safe space, not knowing that the magic happens by leaving it.


Think of a way you can challenge yourself. This may involve changing careers, learning a new skill, or stepping your game up in your current work.Find a new hobby unrelated to your creative pursuit. Try learning a new language, mastering French cooking, building something, gardening, or participating in team sports. Doing something different lets you take a break from the pressure, and may fill your creative stores so that you return to your work revived and inspirited.
 Distractions are the enemy of creativity, which is why many creatives often hole up in their workspaces to get projects completed. Withdrawing from your social support isn’t the answer when it comes to managing your bipolar disorder. But, you could do well by reducing the number of distractions.Let your friends know your creativity window by saying, “Hey, guys, I’m going to be in my art studio until noon. Could you guys try not to bug me unless it’s important?”
Power off your cell phone or tablet. Turn off notifications to social media if your work is on a computer. You can even download nifty apps on your computer or smartphone that keep you on task.