 The federal and state governments sell almost any piece of property you can imagine. Whether you are a new business looking to equip your office or a home buyer looking for an affordable place to live, you will usually be able to find something you are looking for. Each piece of government property is being sold for different reasons. Some property has been seized from or forfeited by criminals, other property was seized for failure to pay taxes, and some property is simply excess. Examples of property usually available through government sales include:Aircraft
Antiques
Art
Clothing
Commercial equipment
Computers
Houses
Jewelry
Vehicles;
, Once you know what you are looking for, search through various government websites to find the particular item you are interested in. Unfortunately, there is no single federal website that offers every piece of surplus property. Instead, each individual agency offering property will usually have their own website. The Small Business Administration and usa.gov have a pretty good list of agency websites you can search through. Some of the most common websites used by the government to sell surplus property include:Fannie Mae
homesales.gov
govsales.gov
gsa.gov
Internal Revenue Service
Department of the Treasury
U.S. Marshals Service
Department of Defense

, In addition to searching through government websites, you can also get surplus property information by finding government run advertisements. The General Services Administration (GSA) offers information about sales through an automated telephone system. Call your regional office for information.The government also advertises with local media outlets including newspaper, radio, and public postings. If a sale is thought to bring national attention, the government might announce information through various national media outlets, including online with FedBizOpps., Most of your general surplus items can be found on the GSA website. If you are using that site, you can search for an item using the tabs at the top of the page. For example, if you are looking for personal property, you would go through the "acquisition", "government property for sale or disposal", and "personal property" tabs. Once there you will navigate to the GSA Auctions site., Once you locate the item you can browse, read descriptions, and contact the seller if you have questions.The general action of finding the auction site and learning about a particular item will work for almost any government website you come across.


It is important to take this step seriously and analyze each item carefully. The government does not guarantee the condition of any item they sell. While the government will tell you about any deficiencies within their item description, they will not be responsible for any problems identified after the sale.
In addition, remember that the government is selling these items for fair market value. The government has an obligation to get the most money possible for each item. The more you know about each item, the better you will be at making bids and landing on a reasonable price., When you click on the items you are interested in, not only will you be able to learn about those items but you will also learn about how they are sold. Items will be sold in different ways and government agencies will use any number of sales methods. Make sure you understand how each item will be sold before you try to purchase it. In general, items are sold either online or offline. Even if an item is sold offline, it will usually be advertised online., Before commencing any purchase of surplus property, you need to read the government's terms and conditions. The government sells all of their property in accordance with these rules. The terms and conditions can be found online or by contacting a local GSA office.In general, the terms and conditions will discuss:The condition and location of property
The consideration of bids
How title will be transferred
How the property will be delivered
Limitations on government liability
The eligibility of bidders

, When you select an item you want to buy by clicking on it, you will be taken to an authorized sale center (i.e., the website where the item will be sold if it is an online sale, or the website where you will register for offline sales). When you get to the sale center, you will have to register in order to continue with the purchase. When you register, you may have to do one or more of the following:Give your personal information (e.g., name, address, phone number)
Give your Social Security number
Make a deposit to ensure you have the funds to purchase items

, If your item is being sold in an online sale, you will be able to browse through items, view items, bid on items, and pay for items. For example, if you are using GSA Auctions, you will be able to bid online for any number of items available for sale., If there are a lot of items available in one location, the government may conduct a live auction. If you go to a live auction, you will receive an auction catalog that will include item descriptions and bidding instructions. You will also have an opportunity to inspect the items prior to the sale., Some government agencies may conduct sales through drop-bys. If this is the case, you will inspect a piece of property and bid on it the same day. When you bid, you will fill out a bid card and drop it in a designated box. At the end of the day, the government agency will pick up the bid box and look through the bids. They will award the property to the highest bidder. If you win, you will be contacted by phone or through the mail., During a fixed-price sale, the government agency will post available items along with a fixed price. The agency will sell the item to the first person who offers the asking price. This is most like retail shopping because there is no negotiating or bidding., A lot of government agencies will allow you to negotiate with the seller regarding the sale price of a particular surplus property item. For negotiated sales, you will usually analyze an item then call the seller. When you call, a sales contracting officer will negotiate with you to find a reasonable price. Negotiated sales are usually conduced for specialized equipment or items of limited interest., When sale items are scattered between various locations, the government agency may choose to have a sealed bid sale. If a sealed bid sale is taking place, you will not be able to bid electronically. If you are interested in an item being sold this way, you will contact the seller and they will send you an invitation for bid (IFB). The IFB will contain the item description, sale terms and conditions, item locations, inspection times, and a bid form. If you are interested in an item, fill out the bid form and mail it to the location identified on the IFB. Be aware that late bids will not be accepted. Once the bidding has closed, the seller will look through the bids publicly and award the item to the highest bidder., When a seller offers items through a silent auction, you will go to a physical location and write down your bid while walking around (as opposed to voicing your bids). The bids will be taken item by item and each piece of property will be sold on the same day as the bidding takes place. In most circumstances, you will only be able to bid on each item once., If you successfully make a purchase of surplus government property, you will need to pay for the item before you can take possession. However, government agencies are only equipped to accept certain types of payment. Therefore, in general, you will only be able to use the following methods to pay for the property:U.S. currency
Cashier's checks
Money orders
Traveler's checks
Government checks
Credit cards

, If you are paying with cash, you will need to contact the regional sales office responsible for your item. When you contact them, tell them about the item you purchase and tell them you would like to pay with cash. You need to do this because some offices are not equipped to take cash payments. In addition, some government agencies might have the following restrictions:If you are paying with cash, the purchase cannot be for more than $10,000
If you are paying with a credit card, you can only use certain types of credit cards and your purchase cannot exceed $49,999.99

, You can only pay for items with personal checks if the payment is guaranteed by your bank. The government will not provide any form of financing for your property. The letter must be on the bank's letterhead and state that payment is guaranteed for 30 days so long as the money is used for the purchase of U.S. government property only. In addition to this information, the letter must also contain:The date
The bidder's name
The amount of the guarantee
The date of sale
The signature of someone at the bank authorized to guarantee payment

, Once you have your payment lined up, make the payment. The entire payment must be made and the government will not allow you to make payments over time. In addition, you must complete payment within two business days of purchasing the item., Once you have paid for your item you will be allowed to take possession of that item. In general, unless other arrangements have been agreed to, you must remove your purchase within 10 business days from the time and date you were made aware of your successful purchase.


Government agencies do not provide shipping unless you make those arrangements with the government. Usually you will be responsible for picking an item up in person. If you do arrange to have an item shipped, you will be responsible for paying the additional costs., While the government does not warrant the merchantability of the item or its purpose, the government does warrant that the property will conform to its written description. If you have already taken possession of the property when you find out the description was incorrect, the government will refund you so long as you return the property to a designated location. To file a claim:Submit a written notice to the sales contracting officer within 15 days from the date you removed the item
Maintain the property in its purchased condition
Return the property at your own expense

