 Many colleges and universities offer work-study positions that provide the perfect opportunity to work and study at the same time. Some of these positions are associated with a financial aid award that goes directly towards your expenses as a student, and some are jobs that are only open to student applicants. Types of work-study positions and the specific parameters these positions entail will vary by country, state, and type of institution. Begin your job search by researching opportunities associated with the institution you are attending.Not only are these positions designed for students, they are also more likely to fit into a student’s schedule. Your superiors will be well aware that you are also a student, and will likely take this in to account when scheduling and other specific issues arise.
Examples of positions you may be eligible for as a student include working at the library or in a residential hall.
Keep an eye out for a position that may even offer the opportunity to study while on the clock!
You can likely register on an email list that will notify you when new student positions are posted.;
, For example, if you’re pursuing an anthropology degree bachelor’s degree, see if they anthropology department has any part-time positions open. At larger universities, specific departments will often employ several students to help with administrative tasks, etc.


Working for the department in which you are studying is also a great way to expose yourself to the faculty and students in the department, and stay-up-to-date on any opportunities relevant to your course of study.
Alternatively, ask your favorite professors about good entry level jobs with relevance to your interests. They may even know of a few gigs that other students with your interest have held previously, and may be able to point you in the direction of a potential employer!

, If you’re spending time, money, and energy on an education, it should probably take priority to your job. The important point is that you should make an honest assessment of the time you have available to spend working. Fortunately, you’ve got plenty of options regarding types of jobs to consider. If a weekly part-time seems to be a bit too much, you could always work during breaks in your academic schedule.
 If, for instance, you’re beginning an education program that is extremely involved – such as law school or med school – it may be worth taking out loans to cover you expenses and focusing on your studies. Similarly, if you want to avoid needing to work while studying, consider deferring going to school for a year and work full time to save some money.


If you're studying within an extremely competitive program wherein your success will likely determine the quality of the job you get, it’s likely worth prioritizing your studies. Depending on your discipline, the job you'll end up landing could potentially make short work of your debt.
 If you’re on the fence about working while studying, or if you’re hoping to work more for the sake of experience than financial compensation, there are a few important factors to consider. The “real-world” insights offered by a job are often seen as equally – if not more – valuable than a degree. While many professions will want to see both, getting your foot in the door somewhere may also lead to an easier job search following graduation.Even if your work and studies are completely unrelated, work is still providing you with experience prioritizing responsibilities, communicating, etc.
 One of the classic examples of quick gigs for students is participation in academic studies – some of which pay surprisingly large amounts of money. You can also potentially tutor other students, particularly if you know a language that other students are studying.