 Avoiding things you dread doing never makes it easier to do them. Force yourself to tackle the hard stuff early in the day while you are somewhat fresh. You’ll rarely stop dreading something if you put it off longer. Once the dreaded task is completed, you’ll feel a burden lifted and it will spur you on for the rest of the day.Dreaded tasks may not always be things that are prioritized highest, but it’s an exception to the priority rule.
If you are dreading something that also happens to be a time-consuming task, weigh this in mind. Maybe you can tackle a significant chunk of the process in the morning one day and finish it in the morning the next day.
 You’ll have times when you are working on something important, but you just hit a wall and stop making progress. Staring at the wall and beating yourself up are not helpful, so make a smooth transition on to other work. You may need to come back quickly, but taking a break will help keep you productive.Switching off to another task may not always be an option, especially if you are under a tight time crunch. Consider your situation and act accordingly. Maybe you don’t have time to switch completely to a different project, but you can take a five minute breather and refocus.
If you have the time to switch off to a different project, give that one your full attention. It’s no use changing projects if your mind is stuck on the first one.
 You may have habits while working on projects, but you realize those things are not directly contributing to the work at hand. Don’t make extra work for yourself. Evaluate your processes and look for things that you can stop doing. This will free up time for important things and will streamline your efforts.For example, maybe you always make a themed bulletin board for new projects, which is really only a tactic to put off getting started. Or maybe you come up with funny code names for team members, but you never actually use them during the project.
You don’t want to start cutting things out that are worthwhile practices, but try to be honest about what things contribute and what things don’t.

