 Once speaking with Ulfric, he will direct you to his lieutenant, Galmar Stone-Fist (beside Ulfric), who will give you the task of killing an Ice Wraith in Serpentstone Isle. Once you complete the short task, return to the palace and speak with Galmar, who will initiate the oath to become part of the Stormcloaks. Upon completing this quest, you will be rewarded Stormcloak armor, including a hide helmet, fur gauntlets, Stormcloak Cuirass, and fur boots.

You can find Serpentstone Isle directly east of the College of Winterhold. When attacking the Ice Wraith, it is recommended you use a melee weapon or magic. Using a bow can be difficult to hit the ice Wraith. Make sure to bring a health potion or two as well.
 Once you speak with Galmar, he will instruct you to head to Korvanjund northeast of Whiterun to clear out the ruins with him and his squad of troops. Once you retrieve the Jagged Crown, return to Ulfric. This will start the next quest, called “Message to Whiterun.” There is no reward for this quest., After completing the “The Jagged Crown” quest, you will need to speak with Ulfric, who will tell you to deliver an axe to the Jarl of Whiterun. Head to Whiterun and hand the axe to the Jarl in Dragonsreach, who will end up giving it back to you. He will not support the Stormcloaks and will seek out Imperial aid to defend the city. Take the axe back to Ulfric in Windhelm. Ulfric will be disappointed in the Jarl’s decision and will begin planning for an assault on Whiterun., Report to Galmar who will tell you to meet him and his army outside of Whiterun. Head to the Whiterun Military Camp, which is southwest of Whiterun. Once the rallying of troops is complete, charge Whiterun and head for the initial barricades. They can be easily taken down with a couple hits of a weapon. You will then need to lower the drawbridge by pulling the lever beside it and make your way into the city itself. Head to Dragonsreach (the highest point in Whiterun) and clear out the enemies and seek out the Jarl. Once his health reaches 25%, he will surrender and you will be victorious. The next quest will immediately begin. Return to Ulfric in Windhelm for your reward of a random enchanted weapon and the title of Ice-Veins., Once you successfully capture Whiterun, the quest “Liberation of Skyrim” will begin. You will be given the task of capturing Imperial-controlled holds around Skyrim. Depending on whether you completed “Season Unending,” some holds may already be completed., Speaking with Galmar Stone-Fist will result in the quest “Rescue from Fort Neugrad.” You will be required to meet up with Stormcloak troops outside of the Fort Neugrad, found southeast of Helgen. You have the option of storming into the fort or going in quietly by sneaking past guards. If you decide to sneak into the fort, you will need to clear the guards later to release the prisoners. Storming into the fort can be more dangerous but is possible for someone who is wearing heavy armor.

Locate the prisoners from within the fort and eliminate any Imperial troops. Once you have freed the prisoners and cleared the fort, speak with Ralof, who can be found just outside the fort, to complete the quest.
 Once you report back to Galmar at Windhelm in the Palace of the Kings, he will inform you that the steward of Markarth, Raerek, is worshipping Talos and you need to find evidence of this. Blackmail Raerek by locating an amulet in his room. You can find Raerek’s room by going right as soon as you enter the Understone Keep found in Markarth. Raerek will inform you of a wagon transport of silver and weapons. Report back to Galmar on what you have found out. You will be given the task of attacking the caravan, which will be marked with a quest marker on your map. Once you take over the caravan, report to Ralof to complete the quest., In the quest “The Battle for Fort Sungard,” speak with Galmar. He will ask you to meet up with Stormcloak soldiers to help take over Fort Sungard west of Whiterun. Once you have taken the fort and killed all Imperial troops, the quest will be completed., Get your orders from Galmar, who will tell you to locate a courier at Four Shields Tavern or Frostfruit Inn. Four Shields Tavern is located in Dragon Bridge southwest of the Solitude sawmill. You can find the Frostfruit Inn in Rorikstead west of Whiterun. Ask the innkeepers of the courier’s whereabouts, and track him down. Retrieve the documents and return them to Galmar, who will have them forged. Return the documents to Legate Taurinus Duilis in Morthal (north of Whiterun). After you have returned the documents, return to Galmar to complete the quest., Speak with Galmar who will tell you to meet up with Stormcloak men to attack Fort Snowhawk west of Morthal. Once the Imperial troops are killed in the fort, the quest will be completed., Retrieve your orders from Galmar at the Pale Stormcloak Camp southeast of Bronze Water Cave. You will need to meet up with Stormcloak troops east of Fort Dunstad. Clear the entire fort of Imperial troops to complete the quest., Visit Galmar Stone-Fist at the Winterhold Stormcloak Camp located northeast of Windhelm. You will be instructed to meet up with Stormcloak troops west of the fort. Clear out all Imperial soldiers to complete the mission successfully., Meet up with Galmar at the Rift Stormcloak Camp found northeast of the Sarethi Farm. He will tell you to meet up with a group of Stormcloak troops to take over the fort. Clear the fort of Imperial presence. Once all enemy troops have been killed, the mission will be completed., Start the quest by visiting Galmar at the Haafingar Stormcloak Camp, located off the road from Solitude to Dragon Bridge. He will tell you to meet up with Stormcloak troops southeast of the fort. Take over the fort and clear out any Imperial troops. Once all the enemy troops have been destroyed, you will have successfully taken over the fort and completed the quest., Once you have taken Fort Hraggstad, return to Galmar, who will tell you to meet up with Ulfric Stormcloak at the gates of Solitude. Ulfric will proceed to give a speech before the battle. Once completed, make your way through the city and to Castle Dour. Castle Dour can be found by heading straight up the ramp ahead of you and heading left. Enter the castle and attack General Tullius and Legate Rikke. Once Tullius has had enough, he will give in and you will have to kill Tullius. Once completed, you will receive a leveled sword as a reward for killing Tullius. This will complete the quest and finish the Civil War questline.

Before you attend this battle, make sure to bring plenty of health potions as Tullius will put up a fight.

