 Any time you borrow information from another source, you must indicate this in your paper, otherwise it's plagiarism. Use quotation marks ("Quote") around the words that you take verbatim (word for word) from another source with an in-text citation in parenthesis at the end (more on this in Part 2). Paraphrases (summarizing in your own words) don't require quote marks, but they still need an in-text citation at the end of the borrowed idea.


If you don't take these steps correctly, then you aren't giving credit where it's due to the original author and your teacher may consider this plagiarism.;
, Do not underline or italicize them.


Example sentence: Robert Frost’s poem, “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” discusses the idea of solitude versus living in a world of other people and obligations.
 Insert a slash with a space on each side to separate the lines of the poem. Type the lines verbatim as they appear in the poem--do not paraphrase.Capitalize the first letter of each new line of poetry.


Here is an example of several lines of poetry from Robert Frost’s “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening”:
The woods are lovely, dark, and deep,
But I have promises to keep,
And miles to go before I sleep.
Here is an example of how to insert several lines of poetry into an essay: In "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," Frost writes, “The woods are lovely, dark, and deep, / But I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep."

, These quotations should be indented 1 inch (2.5 cm) or 10 spaces from the left margin. Do not add quotation marks for a long quote. Add the line numbers inside parentheses right after the closing punctuation of the quotation. Do not put another comma after the in-text citation. Use a colon after a complete sentence that introduces a quotation to avoid a comma splice.


Example: Robert Frost writes about solitude and man’s relationship with nature:
                    Whose woods these are I think I know.
                    His house is in the village, though;
                    He will not see me stopping here
                    To watch his woods fill up with snow. (1-4)

, Use an ellipsis when you have a long quotation that needs shortening or when you need to leave out material that is not relevant to the point you are making.Example: Robert Frost discusses solitude and a desire to forget obligations when he writes, “The woods are lovely...but I have promises to keep” (13-14).
If an ellipsis covers a line break, do not worry about including a backslash inside the ellipsis, as in the above example. But if you continue on without an ellipsis, include the backslashes that indicate line breaks.

Example: Robert Frost discusses solitude and a desire to forget obligations when he writes, "The woods are lovely...but I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep" (13-15).
 Again, delete lines that are not relevant to the point you are making. Make the line of ellipses approximately as long as the lines of poetry to keep the symmetry of the poem.Example: Robert Frost discusses solitude when he writes,
                    Whose woods these are I think I know.
                    ………………………………………….
                    He will not see me stopping here
                    To watch his woods fill up with snow. (1-4)

, Add the line numbers, if provided, in parentheses right after the closing quotation marks. Place the closing punctuation after the parentheses. You do not need to put the author’s name or the name of the poem in the parentheses if you include the author's name in your introduction to the quote (eg Robert Frost writes about...). However, if you do not include the author's name in your quote introduction (eg Some poets write about...), then you need to include it in the in-text parenthetical citation before the line numbers with only a space in between the two--no comma!Example: In "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," Frost writes, “The woods are lovely, dark, and deep / But I have promises to keep / And miles to go before I sleep” (13-15).
Example: The notion of solitude appears in many notable poems including the famous lines, "The woods are lovely, dark, and deep, / But I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep" (Frost 13-15).
 Add a line number at the end of your sentence when you only quote one word.


Example of one quoted word: Robert Frost uses the word “sleep” to imply fantasies about solitude and perhaps death (15).
Example of multiple words: Robert Frost uses a variety of words and phrases such as “frozen” (7), “darkest evening” (8), and “before I sleep” (15) to imply thoughts of solitude and the desire to not return to his obligations.
Just make sure that you include the proper line numbers, whatever the form. If you are citing a longer section of the poem, you will include more line numbers (12-32). If you cite two separate sections using an ellipsis, indicate the range of the sections with a comma separating them (11-15, 18-21).
 In MLA format, any quote over three lines is considered a long quote and should be formatted and cited differently. As previously mentioned, long quotes are indented 1 inch or 10 spaces from the left margin and aren't surrounded by quotation marks. Because there are no quotation marks for a long quote, the punctuation goes at the end of the quoted material, not after the citation, whereas the punctuation appears after the in-text citation for a short quote.


Example of citing a short quote: In "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," Frost writes, “The woods are lovely, dark, and deep, / But I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep” (13-15).
Example of citing a long quote: Robert Frost writes about solitude and man’s relationship with nature:
                    Whose woods these are I think I know.
                    His house is in the village, though;
                    He will not see me stopping here
                    To watch his woods fill up with snow. (1-4)

, If you're using two or more poems by the same author, then just using the author's last name isn't a clear enough indication for the in-text citation for which poem you're discussing or quoting from. In this case, put the author's last name, a comma, the poem title (or a shortened version) in quotes, a space, and then the line numbers from the poem.


Example: The notion of solitude appears in many notable poems including the famous lines, "The woods are lovely, dark, and deep, / But I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep" (Frost, "Stopping by the Woods" 13-15). This idea is mirrored in the lines "And both that morning equally lay / In leaves no step had trodden black" (Frost, "The Road Not Taken" 11-12).
 List: the author’s Lastname, Firstname. “Title of Poem.” Title of Book. City of publication: Publisher, year. Page number range. Publication medium (Print.)


Example: Frost, Robert. “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” The Poetry of Robert Frost. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston Inc., 1969. 224-225. Print.
 List: the author’s Lastname, Firstname. “Title of Poem.” Name of Website. The date the poem was posted (in day-month-year order. If there is no date, put n.d.) The publication medium (Web). The date you accessed the poem on the website.

You do not need to add the URL of the website as they change often and are generally long and confusing, and URLs are not required in MLA format.Example: Frost, Robert. “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” The Poetry Foundation. n.d. Web. 6 January 2014.
 An anthology is a collection of texts; it can be a collection of poems, short stories, excerpts from novels, a combination of these things, etc. List: the author’s Lastname, Firstname. “Title of Poem.” Title of Anthology. Name of editor of the anthology. Edition of the anthology (if there is one). City of publication: Publisher, year. Page numbers of the poem. Medium (Print.)Example (note this is a made up anthology): Frost, Robert. “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” The Little Anthology of American Literature. Ed. Marie Shier. 3rd ed. San Francisco: Some Publisher, 2010. 21-22. Print.
 If you have two or more poems by the same author, list them alphabetically on your Works Cited page. The first entry (alphabetically) will appear normally, but the second (and any other subsequent entries by the same author) entry will have three dashes (-) instead of the author's name.This indicates that the author listed is the same as the previous entry. For example:


Frost, Robert. “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” The Poetry of Robert Frost. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston Inc., 1969. 224-225. Print.
---. “The Road Not Taken.” The Poetry of Robert Frost. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston Inc., 1969. 227-228. Print.

