 Whether you are waiting in line, waiting for your date to finish getting ready or eagerly awaiting an important day, the time will pass faster if you are able to find a way to distract yourself. When you read, you become engrossed with the story or the topic, and so it will be easier to keep your mind off your wait-time.


It's easy enough to keep a slim paperback or an electronic reader in your bag for unexpected waits.
Similarly, if you're tossing and turning in anticipation of your upcoming vacation or big date, turning to a book is a great way to feed your mind and distract it at the same time!;
, If time seems to be dragging on, and if you don't have a book or magazine ready (or if you're just not in a reading mood today), look for other engaging activities.


Other great ways to distract yourself include watching movies, getting caught up on the latest hit television shows, playing video games, or knitting.
 If you're able to get away, consider going for a walk or a run to distract yourself. The fresh air and change of scenery can help you deal with your frustration and impatience.


If you're waiting for a flight or an appointment, for example, you may not be able to leave the premises, but you still may be able to fit in a short walk. There's no need to stay parked in the waiting area outside your gate at the airport, given that there are signs with flight info at regular intervals . Moving your body and stretching your limbs can help you deal with the wait.
 Music can have profound effects on our moods, and so if you are looking for ways to distract yourself of keep your anxiety down as you have to wait, be prepared with a good set-list.


This is a great step to combine with the one above (move your body): if you're concerned that you'll still be focused on what you're waiting for (for example, maybe you have an important job interview in the morning), pop in your ear-buds as you get moving. It's hard to worry about waiting while trying to sing along with your favorite tune.
 There's nothing wrong with burying your nose in a good book or using your phone as a way to distract yourself when faced with a long or unexpected wait. Keep in mind, though, that you may have a readily available source of entertainment right in front of you: look up at observe all of the interesting characters around you.


Without being obnoxious or intrusive, engage in a little bit of eavesdropping. But don't get into their personal lives. That could lead to a lot of trouble and drama if you do.
Invent back-stories for the people you see: write them down for your own amusement or text your observations to a friend.
 Think of the time you have to spend waiting as an unexpected gift of time that can be put to good use instead of something to be endured. Easier said than done, we know!


Of course it's annoying to have to wait at the doctor's office 45 minutes past your appointment time. Instead of fuming and checking your watch every few seconds, though, do what you can to cross other tasks off your to-do list.
Use the time you have to spend waiting cleaning up your email inbox, writing thank-you notes (keep a few blank note-cards in your bag), filing your nails, journaling, etc.
 Maybe you're overwhelmed at the prospect of completing a long, grueling work-out or a similarly long and tough exam. If time drags on and the end of your suffering seems far beyond the horizon, try the mental trick of dividing your task or waiting period into shorter more manageable chunks. This may help the time pass more quickly.


For example, maybe you have to run twelve hard 400s (for non-track folks, this is a tough running workout: a 400 is once around the quarter-mile track; if you're running it hard, you are almost sprinting). Instead of counting down from twelve, think of the workout as being divided into four sets of three. Your immediate focus will be on the first set, and you only have to get through three laps. By the time you've finished that, you'll only have three sets left.
Perhaps you are dreading getting through a difficult standardized exam that will take up all day. Instead of thinking that you have six hours of testing to endure, though, focus on just getting through the individual sections: the quantitative reasoning section, the language section, the writing section, etc.
 We've all played this game before while trying to cope with painfully long waiting times: “I won't look at the clock until half-an-hour has passed,” only to finally look at the clock and see with dismay that only five minutes have passed.


If you're trying to make time pass faster (enduring a travel delay or getting through a rough day at work, for example) obsessing over the clock will only reinforce your frustration and boredom.
If at all possible, put your watch or clock out of sight. If you absolutely need to be ready at certain time, set an alarm and then resolve not to peek before it goes off.
 Studies have shown that body temperature seems to have an effect upon our perception of time: the hotter we are, the more our perception of time slows down. Conversely, time seems to speed up (a bit) when we're cooler.Though there's no guarantee that time will suddenly zip by if you remove your sweater, it certainly won't hurt.
 Remember how awful and tedious long car trips were when you were a kid? But remember how awesome it was to doze off and wake up right as your parents pulled in at your destination? Sleeping of course makes time pass faster, so if you're able to take a short nap or get to bed earlier, you'll be able to shorten your conscious waiting time.


If you're having trouble falling asleep because you're so eager for tomorrow's plans (or anxious at what awaits you), try meditation or relaxation techniques to help you fall asleep more quickly.

