 You have a choice here, you can choose a large weapon and run slow, or a little weapon and run fast. It's usually easier (and more fun) to choose a large weapon, as this will give you more ammunition, range, and power in your shooting. A good large weapon is the Water Warriors Orca.


Weapons can be more than water guns. For example: Water hose, sponges, water balloons, water drenched rags, etc.;
, No matter what size your primary weapon is, have a backup, just in case. The easiest backup is just an inexpensive water pistol that can fit in your pocket.
 If you chose to have a small weapon, you can omit this step. However, the extra ammunition can change the tide of a battle. To carry extra ammo, simply carry two water bottles full of water. Use water bottles with squirt tops to speed up the refilling.
 If you have access to the battlefield beforehand, hide ammo in places where only you'll be able to find it. Try hiding 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottles full of water in bushes, underground, in trees, or wherever else you can hide them. Don't let the enemy know where they are.
 Try to wear colors that can blend in with your surroundings as much as possible. If you are fighting at night, where a dark, dark blue. If you chose to use a large weapon, try to wear "cargo" pants so that you can carry your extra ammo in the "cargo" pockets and backup gun in the pockets.
 Raincoats can provide good protection but are sometimes too heavy. A light windbreaker is better.
 Water comes off of skin easily, so opt for going shirtless or wearing a swimsuit.
 If you have access to the battlefield beforehand, look around it. Remember where any good hiding spots are and where your ammo is hidden. Look for good sniping spots, easy-to-climb trees, etc. If you have time, you can even draw and label a map, and share it with your teammates.
 Before the battle, get to know your gun. Know how far it shoots, if it has more than one nozzle, how much water it holds, how many pumps it takes, etc. Practice angled shots to learn how far up to angle your blaster to range your opponents at a given distance. Practice shooting targets. You can use stood up paper plates, styrofoam cups, people, etc. as targets.
 Now that you know your primary gun, you need to know your backup gun. Know everything about it. Practice switching from your primary to your secondary gun while running. If your primary has a neck strap, just let go of it and pull out your secondary. Remember to do it while running. Again, practice shooting targets with this.
 You should use your backup gun when you are reloading or pumping your primary gun, you ran out of ammo for your primary gun, or you dropped, lost, or gave your primary gun to a teammate.
 You should only reload or pump when you are hidden or guarded by team mates. It is not safe to do it out in the open. If you are running away and need to pump before you can shoot again, just use your backup.
 If your opponent has a good chance of dodging your shot, don't waste the time and ammo on a full shot. Instead, use brief tap shots. You can recover more quickly from this using just one or two pumps, and you can be ready to shoot again faster.


Re-pump after every shot. Most pressurized blasters only need 1 or 2 pumps after a quick tap shot but if you let it run out of pressure it can take 20 or more pumps making you an easy target.
Shoot your enemies when they're weakest. Sneak up on them when they're refueling or pumping and won't be able to retaliate.
 Sniping isn't always shooting from far away, it is just shooting from a concealed location. A good tactic if you have a big gun is to hide in a bush or tree and wait for someone to pass. When they do, just shoot them with your biggest nozzle and run away fast.


Choose your hiding places carefully when sniping. While shooting from high up in a tree can give you a great view of everyone else, it also makes it harder to escape. Plan your escape route when choosing a hiding spot.
 Work together to come up with a battle plan. For example, have the person with the longest-range gun take out opponents while the rest of the team ambushes.


Choose people who are easy to work with and enjoy victory (preferably friends).
 Water balloons should usually only be used as a last resort. They are too hard to transport, and they sometimes don't break on impact. However, if you are hidden in a tree, you can throw them across the battlefield (with a slingshot if you can't throw very well) at a formation of enemies, taking out multiple people with one shot.
 Hide behind anything you can. Try to let only your nozzle and eye (covered in eyewear) be visible to others. If you are being shot at, you can use your gun as a shield.

