 Make sure you pick a good time to tell your partner about the PTSD. You should ensure there is plenty of time to talk without being rushed. You may need extra time because you are nervous or you may find it difficult to share this. Choose a time when both you and your partner are free.You should also choose a time where you are at a good place emotionally and not under too much stress. Your partner may be emotional, angry, or upset, and you may find yourself feeling emotional as well. Make sure you are not under too much stress beforehand or that it is not on a day when you feel worse than usual.
Choose a setting where your partner will be giving your his or her undivided attention.
 One thing that will help you in strengthening your relationship with your partner when you tell him or her about your PTSD is being honest. You may feel a lot of different emotions, such as sadness, anger, or anxiety. You may feel detached or vulnerable. That’s okay. You should share this with your partner.Being honest not only helps the relationship by letting your partner know what has happened to you, how you are feeling, or why you may be acting the way you are, but it also allows you an outlet. Your partner can help carry some of the burden for you.
The more you talk to your partner and gauge his or her reaction, the more comfortable you will become with discussing your trauma.
 You should tell your partner what the symptoms of PTSD are for you. This includes the physical and the emotional symptoms. Your partner may be unfamiliar with PTSD or may not realize that some of your behavior is a symptom of the condition.You may explain to your partner that you always think about your trauma though you don’t want to. You may have nightmares or flashbacks, or get upset if triggered.
You may have anxiety, be irritable, or get angry due to what happened to you. You may have difficulties with sleep, concentration, or other physical things.
You may need to stay away from reminders of the trauma, or you may have detached yourself to try and deal with the trauma. You may have no interest in socializing or activities you used to enjoy.
You may have panic attacks, trust issues, or substances abuse. You may have physical problems, like headaches, digestive issues, or pain. You may also have trouble functioning or feel depressed.
 Your partner may want to know what treatment you have been undergoing for your PTSD. You can tell your partner about your psychotherapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, exposure therapy, and talk therapy. You should also explain the medication you take, such as SSRIs, sedatives, or anti-anxiety medication.You should also tell your partner what self-care treatment options you undergo and explain how important it is. For example, you may explain to your partner that being with him or her helps you because being alone is not good for you. You may also tell your partner that being with your friends and family helps with your recovery.
If you use exercise, relaxation, sleep, or meditation to help manage your PTSD, you should tell your partner about these things. Explain how each of these helps your depression and anxiety.
 Since your partner and you share a lot of your life together, you should tell your partner which activities may be triggering or problematic for you. Explain to your partner that you will not be able to participate in these activities, or may not be able to participate in them all the time.For example, if your partner uses recreational drugs and alcohol, you should tell him or her that you cannot partake in these things. Alcohol and drugs can slow recovery, cause your symptoms to be worse, and lead to addiction or substance abuse.
You should also explain to your partner that some activities, even things like watching movies or the news, may be problematic for you. If you can’t watch programs or movies with certain themes or subjects, explain this to your partner.
 Just because you have PTSD doesn’t mean you and your partner will have a one-sided relationship. Explain to your partner that you will be there if he or she needs you. This may be something your partner needs to hear and needs from you. You should make it clear you will help support your partner just like he or she will support you.For example, you may say, “Even if I’m having a bad spell and you need me, know that you can come to me and I will be there for you.”

, Your partner may be afraid of you because of your PTSD, or afraid of you when you are experiencing symptoms. Reassure your partner and let him or her know that you love him or her and you are his or her partner. Let your partner know that even if you are going through bad patches, you are still partners.For example, you may say, “When I feel bad, it doesn’t last forever. My symptoms go away, and I eventually feel better. It may be difficult to see me when I feel bad, or it may be hard for you to be patient, but it won’t last forever. Just being around you will help me.”

