 Stir 2 teaspoons of powdered Agar per into 2 cups (450 milliliters) of water. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat. Keep stirring with a whisk until the Agar dissolves. At this point, you can sweeten it with 2 tablespoons of sugar. Cook it for 2 minutes, then remove it from heat and pour into some molds, cups, or small bowls. It will set in about an hour, but you can speed up the process by putting it into the fridge for 20 minutes.You can also use 1 tablespoon of Agar flakes instead. Soak the Agar flakes in water for 30 minutes first. Drain the water and squeeze the extra moisture out of the flakes. Add the flakes to 2 cups (450 milliliters) of water and cook for 2 minutes.
Agar is made from seaweed. You may also find it labeled as: Agar-Agar, China grass, or kanten., Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of gelatin powder over 6tablespoons of cold water and set aside to bloom, about 5 to 10 minutes. Meanwhile, heat 4 cups (1 liter) of heavy cream and ½ cup (100 grams) of sugar in a saucepan over a stove. When the sugar dissolves, stir in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. Pour the mixture over the bloomed gelatin, and stir with a spoon to mix. Pour the panna cotta into cups or molds, and let set in the fridge for at least 4 hours.You can also use half-and-half instead of heavy cream. This will give you a lighter panna cotta.
Keep in mind that gelatin made with dairy may take longer to set.
 Pour two packets of unflavored gelatin over 1 cup (225 milliliters) of juice. Boil 3 cups (675 milliliters) of juice, then pour it over the gelatin-juice. Stir until the gelatin is dissolved and everything is combined. Pour the gelatin into molds. You can also use cups or small bowls. Refrigerate for about 4 hours, or until the gelatin becomes firm., Sprinkle 1 tablespoon of gelatin over ½ cup (112.50 milliliters) of cold water and set aside to bloom. Dissolve 1/3 cup (75 grams) sugar in 1 cup (225 milliliters) of hot water. Add in the bloomed gelatin and 3 tablespoons of lemon juice. Stir until everything has dissolved. Pour into molds and leave in refrigerator until it sets., You can place pieces of fruit into the bottom of the mold before you pour in the gelatin. You can also suspend pieces of fruit in the gelatin. To do this, leave the gelatin into the refrigerator until it is almost set. Once it feels like a soft gel, stir the cut pieces of fruit in. Put the gelatin back into the fridge so that it can finish setting.Be careful when adding topical fruits, such as figs, ginger, kiwi, papaya pineapple, and prickly pears. The enzymes in these fruits will keep the gelatin from setting.If you want to use these fruits (with the exception of kiwi) in gelatin, you will need to peel, cut, and boil them for five minutes before adding them to the gelatin.
Kiwi should not be used in gelatin. Even peeling and boiling it will not get rid of the enzyme., Let each layer of gelatin almost set before adding the next layer. You want the consistency to be soft and gel-like. If you add the layers too late, they won't stick together. If you add them too soon, they may melt together., Once you have the gelatin in the mold, let it set in the fridge for about 4 hours. To take the gelatin out of the mold, stick the mold into a bowl of very hot water. Be careful not to get any water onto the gelatin. After a few seconds, pull the mold out and jiggle it. Hold a plate over the top of the mold and flip everything over. Put the plate on a table and lift the mold off. The gelatin should be sitting on the plate now. If it's not, repeat the hot water soak.Try chilling the mold in the fridge for a few hours until you are ready to use it; this will help the gelatin set even faster.

