 In the modeling world, models are classified by type. Are you a natural beauty (meaning you look pretty even without makeup and in sweatpants)? Do you look exotic?;
, Do you look so feminine you make men feel like a man just by standing next to them? Or are you a flawless beauty (meaning you look gorgeous even with some acne/flaws)? Find out what you are and don't try to be anything else. Show 'em you don't need a guy to define who you are. It's super hot.
 What do you like about yourself physically? Stay proud of who your body type. Find out which outfits and makeup accentuate your best features: Are you tall and leggy? Wear cute short skirts! Are you "well endowed"? Wear a sexy v-neck! Got a tiny waist? MID-DRIFTS, PEOPLE!! Do you have gorgeous eyes? Cute nose? Pretty pout? Play 'em up!

, If unsure what they are, ask a few people. Makeup is the icing on the cake (though some guys prefer a clean face, too). First, use a concealer or foundation to blind-away zits and acne. After that, think back and remember what compliments you received in the past: Anyone ever say you have nice eyes? Play them up with attention-grabbing eye shadow that makes the color pop (purple and green look wonderful with brown and hazel eyes, while smoky blacks and browns accentuate blue and green eyes). Do you have a pretty pout? Two words: Lip Gloss! AND LADIES PLEASE DON'T UNDERESTIMATE THE POWER OF THE CLASSIC RED LIPSTICK! It may not be what everyone is doing nowadays, but it's such a classic, polished look, I guarantee all eyes will be drawn to your lovely mouth!

, Men are very primal creatures that respond when all senses are stimulated. So a dab of scented body lotion, a drop of perfume, or a spritz of body spray can't hurt. Always remember a little goes a long way because guys hate it when girls over-do it in that department!


Note* Studies show that men are more aroused by scents that remind them of their favorite foods: fruit sprays are sexy, exciting and sassy, while candy scents (vanilla or even cotton candy) are winsome, innocent and playful. If you make em hungry, they'll want a bite!

, Don't gush or they'll get the idea that they're "too good for you"... Guys get dumb like that sometimes. But you'll get more flies with honey! If you make a guy feel good about himself when he's with you, he'll want to be with you more and more and more. A little compliment can go a long way, even something so small as "You're so funny!" can brighten any guy's day. *Note* Men are generally accomplishment-oriented. If you make him feel encouraged that he CAN DO IT (whatever "it" is) he'll fall head over heels. Make him feel like he can conquer the world! Be a personal cheerleader for him! Why do you think guys say cheerleaders are always hot??? (aside from the short skirts, of course)

, Models have a "runway walk" that always make heads turn. Learn how to do it and practice practice practice! One model suggested walking with your back straight, chin up, and push your pelvis slightly forward, rotating your hips in a backward circle with each step (think Shakira-hips). This will make them swivel a bit when you move. Now, when you step try to step with your toe touching the floor first, THEN your heel, like a cat. Look straight forward as if to say " I know you're all JEALOUS of how gorgeous I am, and you should be!" Smirk a little, as if you know something they don't know and it's a secret.
 You hear the modeling agents and whatnot bragging about "attitude attitude attitude". What they mean is CONFIDENCE. This starts from within. KNOW you're hot, and you will be.
 Don't compare yourself with others because in reality, they're probably comparing themselves with you! You've got what it takes, girl, every woman does. You just gotta find it inside, bring it out, and FLAUNT IT, BABY! Make those boys DROOL!

,