 An Individual Retirement Arrangement (IRA) is a savings plan established by the IRS to encourage retirement savings by workers. At its most basic level, an IRA is a type of trust created through the execution of a written governing instrument. Self-directed IRAs are a type of traditional IRAs but they allow you to personally control your investments and they include a broader array of assets. In a traditional IRA, most investments are made from paper-based assets including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and certificates of deposit (CDs). These assets are incorporated into the account where they are allowed to appreciate (or depreciate) over time. The investments are usually made by a specialist at a bank or investment firm where your IRA was created.


With a self-directed IRA, you, as the investor, can choose exactly what you will invest in. In addition, trustees of self-directed IRAs usually permit investment in real estate, promissory notes, tax lien certificates, and precious metals.;
, To open a self-directed IRA for the purpose of investing in gold, you will need a qualified trustee who can open and manage your account. Because self-directed IRAs are usually considered custodial accounts, which are trusts under federal IRA law, you may hear a trustee called a custodian. In either scenario, you will need a trustee who meets federal qualifications.The trustee you choose will be responsible for, among other things, physically holding the gold you invest in.


The trustee must be a bank, trust company, credit union, or brokerage firm that has been approved by federal and/or state agencies to provide asset-custody services to individuals like yourself.
To find a reliable trustee, contact reputable banks and investment firms and ask about their policies regarding the purchase of precious metals in an IRA. For example, some companies will allow you to purchase only certain types of gold for your IRA. Those companies usually also make it clear that these investments are not generally allowed in any other type of retirement account.Because a lot of major firms do not offer these services, you need to be careful when searching. Of the firms that will allow for investment in gold, look for ones that are transparent (i.e., you should know what the fees for their services are), flexible (i.e., you need to make sure the trustee offers a wide array of services that fit your individual needs), qualified (i.e., you must make sure they are appropriately licensed, registered, and insured), and have an outstanding track record (i.e., the firms should have solid third party ratings from companies like the Better Business Bureau or the Business Consumer Alliance). , For tax and legal purposes, your account must be funded with cash and you can only make so many contributions per year.For traditional IRAs, which include self-directed traditional IRAs, the yearly cash contribution limit is usually $5,500. You may be able to contribute more if you are more than 50 years old or are rolling over money from another IRA.Due to the price of gold, which can often be greater than $1,000 per ounce, you may have to save up for a period of years before you can make any large purchase of gold for your IRA.
For example, assume the price of gold is $1,000 per ounce and you want to buy 16 ounces of gold for your IRA. To do so, you will have to accumulate at least $16,000 ($1,000 per ounce x 16 ounces) in your IRA before you can purchase the gold you desire. If you are only allowed to invest $5,500 per year into your IRA, you will have to make the maximum contribution for a minimum of three years before you can purchase the gold ($5,500 x 3 = $16,500). Remember, you can only purchase gold using funds already in your IRA (you cannot use cash you have on hand).
 When it comes time to invest the money in your IRA, you will be solely responsible for choosing investments as well as understanding the governing laws and tax implications of your actions. While your trustee will hold your assets for you and make the investments, they will not give you any guidance on what to invest in or what the implications of any particular investment are. Therefore, if you are going to open a self-directed IRA and invest in gold, you need to know what you are doing.When you open your IRA, be sure you identify gold to your trustee as one potential investment.
 Only certain types of coins and bullion can be acquired with money from your IRA for the purpose of investing. If you purchase precious metals that do not qualify under federal law, the purchase will be treated as a distribution (i.e., a withdrawal of IRA funds) and you will be taxed and/or penalized for it. If you purchase qualified gold, it will be considered an investment and will not be seen as a distribution. Qualified gold products include:Any gold coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury
Any gold coin issued under the laws of any state
Any gold bullion exceeding certain purity standards (usually must be 99.5% pure or .995 pure).
 Your trustee may not be able to purchase gold on your behalf due to the fact you are responsible for your own investments with your self-directed IRA. If this is the case, you will need to find a qualified broker to purchase gold on your behalf.Brokers who deal specifically with gold will have a good idea of who to purchase from. To find brokers, search online or ask your trustee.
 Once you know who you are buying qualified gold from, you will need to pull the funds from your IRA in order to purchase the gold investment. To pull funds from your IRA, you will need to do the following:Identify your investment by filling out a direction of investment form. This form will include details about the investment, how much it costs, and where the funds need to be sent.
Ensure the investment is titled correctly. You are a separate entity from your IRA and the investment must be titled in your IRA's name. If it is not, you may be taxed for an IRA distribution.
 After your trustee reviews the funds request, he or she will send funds from your IRA to purchase the gold per your instructions. Your trustee will retain all important correspondence, including deeds, notes, and operating agreements., Any trust property, in this case gold, has to be in the physical possession of your trustee.If it is not, it cannot be considered an IRA investment and you may be taxed or penalized for early IRA distributions. Your trustee will likely charge you an annual fee for storage (commonly between $125 and $200)., In addition to storing your gold with your trustee, you must continue to maintain your gold investment. For example, if you sell off any of your gold, all of the proceeds must return to your IRA account. If you owe any payments or expenses associated with your gold, those payments must come out of your IRA account as well., Investing in gold means investing in a physical commodity. Due to its physical nature, gold can be picked up, moved, and transported with little oversight. In comparison, stocks, bonds, and mutual funds are usually paper-based investments that are stored in computers and online. Moving these investments involves more skill and expertise and it will leave some sort of trail showing where the investment was moved to.


Therefore, investing in gold can lead to a risk of theft because of its physical nature. Individuals can break into the depository where your gold is stored and steal it.
However, this risk is minimized by the fact your depository should be insured. When you search for and choose a trustee, be sure they are insured in an amount you are comfortable with. If the gold is insured, any amount stolen will be reimbursed to you up to the limit of the trustee's insurance policy., While gold can provide high returns, it is a volatile commodity. The price of gold can fluctuate greatly in short periods of time. In addition, gold's value can be difficult to predict. Therefore, it is not always a safe investment.


However, this risk is minimized by the fact gold has been so valuable for the past 5,000 years. Because of this, its value is incredibly unlikely to reach zero. Unlike gold, stock investments (e.g., Lehman Brothers) can go to zero and bonds (e.g., Argentinian bonds) can default. Gold may offer you some peace of mind that it will always be worth something (unlike other investments).
In addition, if the price of gold does dip, it usually means your paper assets are doing well. Therefore, if you balance your investment portfolio between gold and other, more traditional investments, any volatility in gold will likely be offset., Fraud promoters often try to exploit self-directed IRAs because of the lack of oversight with alternative investments. Self-directed IRAs allow investors to hold unregistered securities and the trustees of these accounts are not required to investigate the investments being made. Common fraud schemes include people who try to deceive you and make you think your trustee has vetted and approved of the investment, untrustworthy trustees who claim to make the investments you request when in reality they are taking your money, and individuals who take advantage of the difficulties in valuation and try to charge you more than the commodity will ever be worth.To combat potential fraud, verify the information in your IRA and never rely on someone else's valuations or determinations. In addition, avoid unsolicited investment offers. Fraudsters will often try to lure you into IRA investments because of the penalties for withdrawing your money early. Due to these penalties, investors tend to keep their funds in a fraudulent account longer than those who invest using other means. In addition, early withdrawal penalties can encourage investors to become passive with little or no oversight.