 You will need proof that you lost your job, so hold onto any evidence, such as an email, letter, or pink slip.If you were told orally that you lost your job, then write down the date and the person who told you.;
, A judge won’t modify your child support payments if you have substantial assets, such as $100,00 in the bank. In addition to showing that you lost your job, you will also need to show that you don’t have much money in your savings account or checking accounts.


Get up-to-date statements from your bank or credit union.
 Each state has an office that helps parents collect child support. You might even send your child support payments into this office, which then distributes them to the other parent. In many states, the office is a part of the Attorney General’s office. You need to report that you lost your job to this agency.In some states, this child support office can draft and file the paperwork for you if they agree to modify the child support order because you lost your job.Don’t delay. Depending on your state, you may have to report any changes to your income within 10 days or so.
 You should check your state’s law about modifying child support. Generally, you can search for the law online. Type “your state” and “child support modification” into your favorite search engine.


Generally, states allow you to apply for modification if your income drops 15% or more. If you lost your job, then you certainly qualify.
You may also qualify if your new job pays less than your old one.
 Each state’s law is different. To fully understand your situation, you should meet with an attorney who can advise you about what you need to show a judge in order to modify your child support obligations.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Once you have a referral, call up the attorney and ask to schedule a consultation. Also check how much the attorney charges.
If you can’t afford an attorney, then stop into your courthouse and check if there is a family law facilitator or a self-help center. You can get the answers to some of your questions there.
 Even though you lost your job, you are still obligated to continue making payments until the judge modifies your child support. If you stop paying, then the missed payments accrue as “arrearages” and you will have to pay them eventually.Try to borrow money from friends or family so that you don’t miss a payment.
Child support payments can also be withheld from unemployment benefits, although it takes a while for unemployment to start after you lose a job.
 You should continue to find new work. Also document where you have searched and the businesses you have applied to. The judge may want to see this information., You and the other parent can agree to change the child support payments.You should talk to him or her and explain that you have lost your job. Show the other parent proof and explain that you are trying to find new work.
 If you can agree, then you and the other parent can draft a new child support payment schedule and submit it to the judge for approval.Use your original child support agreement as a guide for drafting your new one.


Many courts also have printed forms you can use. Check with the clerk.
Typically, you can submit your agreed-upon child support arrangement along with a “Motion to Modify,” which is described in the next part.
 The court might make mediation available to parents who cannot reach a voluntary agreement between themselves.In mediation, you and the other parent meet with a neutral third party, who is called the “mediator.” The mediator helps each side listen to the other and come to an agreement you both can support.


If you do reach an agreement, the mediator should help you draft your child support agreement and submit it to the judge for approval.
 You need the judge to approve any changes to the child support order, even if you and the other parent reach a voluntary agreement.The judge must decide that the change is in the best interests of the child. You should take your signed agreement to the court clerk and ask to file.


The judge might require a hearing. If so, then ask the clerk how you can schedule it.
 Your court might have a “fill in the blank” form you can use to request child support modification. The court should also have a “financial affidavit” and/or a “child support worksheet” for you to fill out. You should look on the court’s website or stop in and ask the court clerk.Generally, you need to have the court that granted the original child support order modify it. For this reason, go through your papers and find the right court.
 If there is no form, then you must draft your own motion. You can begin by opening a blank word processing document. Set the font to something readable. Generally, 14 point Times New Roman or Arial works well.You should also give the document one-inch margins. You will be printing it off on 8.5 X 11 inch paper.
Also remember to double-space your document.
 The first page should have the caption information at the top. The caption information stays the same throughout the case and helps the court identify your case. It includes:The name of the court at the very top of the page.
The names of you and the other parent, aligned with the left-hand margin. Usually, this reads something like “Michael Smith v. Alice Smith.”
The case number. Each case is assigned a number, which doesn’t change.
 Just below the caption you should insert the title to your motion. You can title it “Motion to Modify Child Support.” Put the title in all caps, bolded, and centered between the right- and left-hand margins., In the first paragraph, you should identify yourself. Also state if you are representing yourself without a lawyer (called “representing yourself pro se”). Sample language could read:


“I, Carl T. Johnson, being duly sworn, certify to the following information…”, The judge might not remember who you are, so you need to begin the body of the motion with helpful background information. Remember to write this information using numbered paragraphs. Provide the following:The date the current child support order was entered. (Be sure to attach a copy to the motion).
The children covered by the support order.
How much you were ordered to pay in monthly child support.
 You should tell the judge that you have lost your job. Provide other helpful information, such as how much money you make now and whether you have the resources to continue making child support payments.


For example, you could write: “I was laid off from my job at Conyers Construction on August 14, 2016. Since then, I have been searching for work but have not been able to find anything. My unemployment benefits will not begin until the beginning of next month. As my financial affidavit shows, I only have $353 in my savings.”

, You have to sign every motion that you submit to court. You also need to sign under penalty of perjury. Just above the signature line, you can insert the following: “I solemnly affirm under penalty of perjury that the contents of this document are true to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.”Check the form to see if you also have to sign in front of a notary public.If so, get valid forms of identification (such as a passport or driver’s license) and take your motion to the notary.
You can find notaries at the courthouse or your town office. Also, most large banks offer notary services.
 You need to give the other parent a copy of your motion. Accordingly, you should tell the judge how you made service. You can report this information by including a “certificate of service” on a separate sheet of paper. Attach the signed certificate to the back of your motion.


The certificate can read, “I certify that a copy of this document was mailed to the person listed below on September 2, 2016.” Then insert the name and address for the other parent. Be sure to sign your certificate., The judge may want to hold a hearing before modifying your child support order. Each court handles hearings a little differently, so talk with the court clerk about the process for your court.


In some courts, the court won’t schedule a hearing unless the judge reviews the paperwork and decides one is necessary.In that situation, the clerk should contact you with the hearing date.
In other courts, you might need to ask the clerk for a hearing date before you file. You then have to fill out a Notice of Hearing form and send it to the other parent.
 You should use the method of service identified in your certificate of service. Generally, you can have someone hand deliver the motion to the other parent or they can send the motion through the mail using certified mail., Gather all of your documents: motion, Notice of Hearing, financial affidavit, and supporting documents. Make several copies of the entire packet. Then take the copies and the original to the court clerk to file.The clerk should stamp your copies with the filing date. You may also have to file one or more copies with the original.
 The court may charge a filing fee to file your motion.If so, call ahead of time and ask how much the fee is. Also ask what are acceptable methods of payment. Don’t assume the court accepts credit cards, cash, personal checks, etc. Each court is different.


If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form., At the hearing, the judge will hear evidence on why you should modify the child support order. If both parents agree to the change, then the judge might ask some basic questions. However, if the other parent disagrees with the change, then the judge will hold a contested hearing. A contested hearing will include the following:You have to present evidence that the child support order should be changed. You can introduce documents and have witnesses testify on your behalf. For example, you might want to introduce your pink slip and any financial records in support of your argument.
The other parent gets to present evidence. He or she has to explain why the child support order shouldn’t be changed.
The judge should make a decision after hearing the evidence. Get a copy of the final order.

