 Before you get your paws on the chocolate, you’ll need to prep your work area and giant bar receptacle.


Cut out the Kit Kat logo from the floor tile. If you don’t want to freehand it, obtain an image online, print and trace it onto the floor tile.
Stick the logo to the bottom of your trough, but place it in reverse so that the name appears correctly on top of the bar.;
, This can be a sticky job, so go with a chocolate melting method that works best for you. Suggestions are:


Double boiler (bain marie). Either use an actual double boiler or create one at home. Using two pans, fill one pan halfway with water. Place the second pan on top––you should have a small amount of space between the pans so steam can seep out. Place chocolate in the top pan and simmer on low until the chocolate is melted. Stir often to ensure that the chocolate melts evenly and doesn't burn.
Microwave. Place broken chocolate chunks in a microwave-safe bowl. Place the uncovered bowl in the microwave and cook for approximately 30 seconds to one minute. Remove the bowl and stir. Place the bowl back in the microwave and cook for another 30 seconds to one minute. Repeat this step until the chocolate is smooth and creamy.
 Use a rubber spatula to smooth the chocolate, ensuring that it is evenly distributed throughout the trough. Let the chocolate set for several hours (overnight is the best).
 Break wafers into small squares or along the intuitive “break” lines and completely fill the bottom.


Build wafers to the top of the trough. You should have approximately five to six layers, filling the entire trough by the time you are finished.



Pour the chocolate so that it distributes evenly over the giant bar. Ensure that chocolate seeps down each side so that you have a fully encased chocolate bar.
 If the bar does not fit in a flat position in your refrigerator, wait until the chocolate has hardened and then place it in a slightly slanted position. Do not place unhardened chocolate on a slanted surface (in the fridge) or it will end up sliding out of the mold.



Invert the mold on the wax paper and gently tap the top of the mold to loosen the bar. Continue tapping until the mold can be lifted from the wax paper while leaving the chocolate behind.
Transfer the bar from the mold to your wax paper. Have a friend help by standing on one end and with you on the other to avoid breaking the chocolate when trying to free it from the mold.
 The best way to serve this is to set it out on a large plate or tray. Invite everyone to "help themselves" but do provide a knife or two in case they experience problems trying to break off pieces!

