 Right after completing “The Pursuit” quest, head back to the Ragged Flagon found under the city of Riften (take any doors found in the city that will lead you underground).;
, Once you’ve talked to the two, Karliah will ask you to prepare and kill another man named Mercer Frey. She will ask you to meet outside Riften.
 Head outside Riften and travel a short distance straight southwards. Along the way, you’ll find a group of engraved stones, one of which has a hole in the middle of it. This group of formation is called the Shadow Stone. Here you’ll find Karliah waiting for you.
 After talking to Karliah, she will then lead you inside the Nightingale Hall nearby the Shadow Stone. Just follow her as she leads you to a small wooden door that opens to a large cave.
 Once you get through the door, Karliah will tell you to wear the Nightingale armor. Go down the cave path until it opens up to a large hall. In the middle of the hall you’ll find a wooden bridge. Cross this bridge and enter the room to the left where you’ll find three stone slabs.


Approach the stone slabs and press the “Activate” key on your controller, and the Nightingale armor will be instantly added to your item inventory.
 Press the Menu button on your controller and select “Items” from the in-game menu. Choose “Apparel” from the left panel on the game screen and pick out all the Nightingale armor set—namely, the Nightingale armor, boots, gloves and hood.


Press the “Equip” button on your controller to have your main character wear the said items.
 After wearing the armor set, Karliah will tell you that she needs to have you complete a test. Follow her on to the end of the hall where she will open a gated opening that leads to a room.


Enter the room and stand on one of the three platforms in the middle of the area where an arrow is pointing, and wait for Brynjolf and Karliah to be on the other two remaining platforms.
Karliah will start the test, and a large talking blue orb called the Lady Nocturnal will appear at the center platform. Just stay on where you’re standing and wait for the dialogue between Karliah and the Lady Nocturnal to finish.
 Once the Lady Nocturnal disappears, approach the two other characters and talk to them. Brynjolf will then tell you that the Thieves Guild is currently leaderless and that you should be the one to take over the group. This completes the Trinity Restored quest.

