 Since Scorpios love to be in control, maintain your own control of the situation by playing to their expectations. As hunters, they love the thrill of the chase, so think of yourself as prey for them to hunt. Present yourself as a prize who is truly worth hunting., Scorpios love to hunt, but they need something to go after. Initiate contact. Flirt a little to taunt them into chasing you, or let them catching you sneaking peeks at them from across the room. Keep it subtle. Spark their interest by indicating your own without throwing yourself at them., Once they go for the bait, pull back a little and make them work for it. Act a little aloof, but no so much that you come across as cold, bored, or distant. Engage in conversation to show you’re interested in them, but hold your best bits back at first to maintain a sense of mystery about yourself., Even if you have a million things to say about the weather, use the less-is-more tactic. Whether or not they’re right, Scorpios might view your nonstop small talk as the sum total of all you have to say.If and when you do have to resort to small talk, keep steady eye contact and lean in close to indicate that the topic at hand is really just an excuse for you to talk to them.
 Avoid coming across as easy prey. Even if you already think the world of them, keep that to yourself for now. Scorpios love challenges, so make them think they have a way to go in order to impress you., If you happen to disagree with something they say, say so. Be provocative by challenging what they believe.Keep it friendly, though. Frame your arguments by saying, “Well, I believe …” or “I just think …” instead of stoking their competitive streak too much by flat-out declaring, “You’re wrong.”, Scorpios crave real connections and strong chemistry, so improve your chances by making each moment about the two of you and no one else. Either plan ahead to have a one-on-one encounter, or draw them into a private corner if you find yourselves at larger gatherings. Prove yourself to be secure enough to forego the safety net of other people’s company. Stroke their ego by showing them that you would rather be alone with them., Scorpios value privacy, so speak in low tones that no one else can overhear. When you decide it’s time to make a move, whether it’s simply holding hands or something more intense, do so furtively and out of view of other people. If you want to be their love interest, that means you want to be part of their private inner life, so keep the public displays of affection tasteful and to a minimum., Let your body do the talking, especially whenever you have to fall back on small talk to flirt with them in the beginning. Lock eyes with them and don’t let go.Stand a step closer to them than you would with anybody else. Touch their hand to draw their attention or emphasize a point that you're making.
 Show how tuned you are to them by helping them out before they even think to ask.If you’re sharing a pitcher and you see that they’ve almost finished their glass, pour them another drink. If you notice that they seem to feel too hot or too cold, ask them if they want to relocate to somewhere more comfortable. Scorpios respond to chemistry, and nothing says chemistry better than knowing what the other person wants before they do.
 If they strike you as being exactly like your best friend from school years ago, stay mum on the subject. If they make a comment that you heard someone else make just the other day, zip your lips. Maintain the air of intimacy by keeping the focus on the two of you without bringing anyone else into the conversation, even if the comparison is favorable., Scorpios have a tough time sharing their inner private lives, so don’t scare them off by coming across as someone who likes to snoop or blab.Since they love to be in control, simply follow their line of conversation. Steer clear of topics that they might consider taboo or otherwise find uncomfortable. If they receive a phone call or text, or if a friend of theirs walks up and whispers in their ear, leave it unmentioned., Avoid speaking ill of others, especially if they’re family or friends. Even if you have a valid complaint about your sister or a buddy, remember that your Scorpio will wonder why you shared it with them. Avoid leaving the impression that you're just as likely to speak negatively of them behind their back, too.