 You can often source these maps online, either from the local Governments Website or from Bush-walking sites. Often bush-walking trails are clearly marked on the map with recommended rest or camp areas, points of interest and good vantage points for photography or scenic beauty.;
, The best time to visit the bush depends on the local area. Many states have wildflower tours and seasons when the bush is ablaze with colour. Its typically late spring, being late September through to November that is an ideal time for wildflowers, but pay attention to local climate. A mild winter will mean flowering will start much earlier.
 Many bush tracks can be less then a kilometre long so are a light stroll, some can be many kilometres long.
 A basic list would be:


Robust but comfortable walking boots with good grip are highly recommended, and better still if they are water-tight. The Australian bush varies in terrain from clay to sandy soils (both of which can be treacherous when wet and dry), as well as flat, hilly and/or mountainous. If you need to make a river crossing and there is no bridge, or you are travelling during the winter where there may be mud and deep puddles; gumboots or waders would be very useful.
Clothes to suit the landscape & climate. In the tropics, ticks and other parasites are happy to make a meal of you, so it is recommended that you wear leggings or trousers that breathe easily. In summer, the landscape of much of Australia is very hot and dry, it is important to include a hat and wear clothing to protect you from the sun. Popular hats also have net-veils sewn into them to keep flies and the sun away from your face. In cooler seasons, you can wrap a thin scarf (such as a linen cloth) around your nose and mouth to keep flies away. In winter, it can drop to freezing in southern or mountainous areas so it is wise to pack warm clothes, even if you are walking in the middle of the day. High visibility clothing is useful on long country treks.
Take adequate supplies. A bottle of water is essential, although fruit juice or other sports drinks are recommended for supplementing your energy.
Take medicines if necessary. A first aid kit is always useful on camps and long treks. Low odour insect repellent and sun blocking cream is highly recommended as well as antihistamines; Australian plants flower en-masse so people who suffer from allergies will be well advised to take some.
Pack hiking equipment. For short walks, you seldom need anything more than your map, but walking sticks, a compass, binoculars and a backpack are useful for longer journeys, especially where GPS (Global Positioning System) and other web based services will not get a signal.
 In practice, if you don't know the terrain, are going on a long journey (more than 2 km. in the hot season, or 5 km. in the cool season) or plan to camp in a National Park, you should travel with a partner as outside of the metropolitan areas, phone coverage is extremely limited.
 Some seasons are renowned for their heat and cold spikes and heavy rain in some districts can make areas dangerous.

