 Before you compliment the person directly on their plastic surgery, or at all, you may want to consider your relationship to them. Are they good friends of yours? A family member? An acquaintance? If you know the person well, you may feel more comfortable complimenting the person on their plastic surgery directly. If you know them in passing or on a more casual level, complimenting them may not be appropriate or comfortable for either of you.


Consider your comfort level around the person as well as how well you know them. If you think they may be offended by a compliment about their plastic surgery, you may opt to not say anything. If you feel they might appreciate the compliment, you may decide to say something.
 Once you have weighed your relationship with the person, you can decide if a compliment about their plastic surgery is appropriate. Thinking long and hard about your relationship with the person may help you decide that giving them a compliment about their plastic surgery will not offend them.You can try giving the person an indirect compliment that addresses their general appearance, such as "You are looking great today!" or "You look amazing."

, Not everyone will appreciate a direct compliment, no matter how nicely worded it is. Be okay with someone reacting negatively to your direct compliment, especially if they want to keep their plastic surgery secret. Do not expect the person to respond in kind, especially if you do not know them well and they seem to want to hide their plastic surgery.


Be prepared for a snappy comeback from the person if they do not appreciate your compliment.
 If the person appears upset or uncomfortable by your compliment, apologize. Say "I'm sorry" or "I apologize if my compliment offended you." Apologize as soon as you realize they are upset or offended. Be sincere when you apologize. Make eye contact with them and speak clearly.


The person may be so offended, they do not respond or acknowledge your apology. Be okay with this. Let the person know you would be willing to make it up to them in some way. Then, move on from the issue. It may take them time to accept your apology.
 If your indirect compliment ended up offending or upsetting the person, you may want to follow the don’t ask, don’t tell rule in the future. Some people do not want their plastic surgery to be obvious or commented on by others. Even if you notice someone has gotten work done, don’t ask unless they instigate the conversation.Often, people who are comfortable discussing their plastic surgery will bring it up first. Waiting for the person to tell you about their surgery can make it more comfortable for you to compliment them and talk about their plastic surgery with them in more detail.

