 The ninja had to be alert at all times and be prepared to solve complicated problems on the spot.They did not believe anything was impossible for them to figure out and they looked at obstacles as opportunities to learn.


Try to approach your daily problems with that same mindset.
Along with solving problems, also practice being able to identify exactly when problems occur and what caused them.;
, Scan all areas of visibility and look for any red flags. Work on your navigation skills – always look for the best route when you’re on the move.


Rely on your GPS as little as possible by becoming very familiar with the areas that you spend a lot of time in.
If you use public transportation, memorize as much of the system as you can.
 The ninja trained themselves to be confident and act without fear in all situations.Even when you don’t feel particularly confident, stand up straight and try to channel the feeling of confidence. The mere act of trying can actually boost your confidence!


Spend a little time each morning on your grooming ritual. This is a very simple way to feel more confident about yourself.Keep your body language positive. Stand upright, keep your movements fluid and avoid crossing your arms.
 The ninja needed to be totally aware of their environment, and that included the people in it. They studied body language and psychological techniques so that they could interpret their interactions. Pay attention to other people’s body languages and learn to read their nonverbal cues.


For example, when you scan a room, what postures are you seeing? How do they correlate with what you know about that person’s personality?
Note who meets your eyes easily and who has problems looking at you directly. People who are anxious or worried generally avoid meeting anyone’s gaze., If you allow your emotions to take control in a stressful situation, things generally don’t go well. Emotions cloud your judgment, preventing you from thinking clearly enough to get yourself out of a bad situation.


Managing your emotions doesn’t mean you have to become an emotionless robot!
Instead, practice staying calm and keeping your wits about you in difficult situations.

