 A rental property is a great investment that can generate a steady monthly cheque. It is a fairly reliable way of giving yourself a raise but also involves quite a bit of work, such as renovations, fixing appliances, and dealing with tenants. If you are a very busy person, you should first consider whether you will have the time to handle a rental property. However, if you have a little extra time on your hands and some money to invest, this can be an excellent way of giving yourself a raise.The biggest mistake people make is buying a rental property with renovation costs that are too high, which will cut down on any extra income., Buy a house, renovate it, and then sell it for a profit. You can make lots of money flipping homes, as shown on numerous home and renovation television shows. However, it is hard work and you can also lose money if you make a bad decision. Nonetheless, if you choose the right property, invest appropriately, and sell at the right time, you can give yourself a substantial raise.In fact, you should be able to give yourself a $25,000 raise.You will need money, patience and a strong constitution. Flipping homes is hard work and involves significant financial risks.Plan to buy and renovate the house for 70% of your final selling price.You want to know the local real estate market, as well as local realtors and contractors., Invest your money in a franchise such as a sandwich shop, health food store or hair salon. You can make good money with a franchise. You should find a franchise that you can operate in your spare time and read the franchise agreement carefully. Although some franchises can be a full time job, other franchises require little effort and bring in a handsome pay cheque.If you buy a vending machine franchise, you will not have to work as hard to keep your franchise going., You can also give yourself a raise by improving the performance of your investment portfolio. Your investment portfolio should include a diversified mix of stocks, which make you money through dividends, and bonds, which make you money through interest. Talk to your investment portfolio manager about ways to improve the performance of your portfolio:You could ask them: “What do you recommend for improving the performance of my portfolio?”
You might say: “What are some stocks that I should be thinking about right now?”
You could inquire: “Do you think my portfolio is strategically diversified?”

