 This adds the little sour taste needed to make ambrosia. You could use either regular or fat free.;
, You get this at the frozen food isle but you'll need to thaw it out because you're going to have to work it in and mix it. Again, any regular or fat free will do.
 Any solid spoon around one foot will be nice. For slotted spoons, small holes would be perfect. Mix until you are satisfied with the smooth look of the ambrosia

, Some taste differences will occur if you use a light cocktail. Light fruit cocktail is sometimes packed in pear syrup from concentrate while regular is packed in heavy syrup. These often come in 15 ounce cans, so just dump the whole thing in.
 These also come in 15 ounce cans so again dump the whole thing in. You don't have to use the water that the mandarin oranges come in, so it's okay to drain out the water before putting it in.
 You'll need a 16 ounce jar for the solution. Again you'll need to dump the entire container in the ambrosia. The cherries add that extra fruity sensation that will make it more refreshing. Cherries in most stores are expensive, remember to select and store cherries the correct way.
 That is the very distinguishing quantity of ambrosia right there, or if you prefer "secret ingredient". Whole coconuts are fine too. If you want to shred them so they become flaked, remember the importance of knowing how to store them and get a good deal on them. Read, Buy and store Coconuts for more information.
 Marshmallows make the sweet side of ambrosia a little sweeter. It makes the taste a little more enjoyable for children too. If you want to try a fun twist instead of buying these read make marshmallows

, A regular soup spoon isn't going to do much if you try to mix the ambrosia with it. Mix until you're satisfied with the way the marshmallows, sour cream and whipped topping lather up on the fruits.
 Mix for about one minute until you're happy with the delicious thick outcome of the ambrosia.
 The nectar will be any kind of fruit that stores sell in nectar juice. Examples of that are apples, mangoes, pears, and peaches.
 30 seconds to two minutes should be enough.
 The sweetness of ambrosia and nectar counts!

, It's perfect for hanging outside on a hot summer day by the pool or on the porch.
