 To filter out Foursquare tweets from your Twitter profile’s feed, you must log into your Twitter account.


Go to Twitter’s home page at www.twitter.com to sign into your account.
Enter your registered email address and password in the required fields then hit the “Sign in” button to access to your account.;
, You need to create a new list to filter out all Foursquare tweets from your Twitter feed. You can also modify the list by adding or removing certain users on Twitter.


Click on your profile image at the top right corner of your Twitter home page to open a drop-down menu under your profile.
Click on the “List” tab to create a new list modified for Foursquare tweets. On the List page, you can view all the lists you have subscribed or joined as a member.
Click “Create a list” on the right side to add a new list. A dialog box will appear on your screen as a “Create a new list” form. Type a title for the list in the “List name” field. As this list is Foursquare-tweets related, you can put the title “Foursquare Tweets.”
Enter the list description in the “Description field.” You’re limited to only 100 characters. You can also leave this blank.
Choose the radio button next to the “Privacy” or “Public” setting to set the privacy of this list then hit the “Save list” button below to create the list.
 After creating the list, you need to add the verified Foursquare users in your list by searching on Twitter. You already have a dialog box titled “Find people to add to your list” on your screen.


Type “Foursquare” in the “Find users by name” field. Now, click on the “Search” button next to it to find the users having the “foursquare” keyword in their names.
Wait for the process to finish. You should then see “Results for foursquare” and a list of users having the “Foursquare” keyword in their names.
To view the full list of the users, scroll down the page.
 Now you can select the verified users whose Foursquare updated tweets appear on your Twitter newsfeed.


Click on the “Settings” icon next to each profile to open a drop-down menu. Choose “Add or remove from lists” from the menu.
You should see a dialog box titled “Your lists” on the screen. Check the box before the list name you created earlier, then click on “Create a list” on the dialog box to add the user to the list.
Close the dialog box by clicking the cross icon at the top right corner. You can now add other users in this list following the same method.
 Go to your Lists page by clicking on the “List” tab under your profile image at the top right corner. You will see the newly created list name at the top of your lists, including the number of added members in this list.


You can also browse the published tweets of the users in the list by going to the created list’s page.

