 Labrador retrievers are one of the breeds that are at the highest risk for obesity. Your lab should be kept at a healthy weight, and you should take measures to prevent "fat lab" syndrome. A healthy weight for a Labrador retriever is between 55 and 80 pounds.Male labs may weigh five to 10 pounds more than females and be considered healthy.
Make sure to base the healthy weight on your lab's build. Determine if your lab is small or large, stocky or lean, or tall or short.
Labs have a tendency to gain two to three pounds each year between the ages of one and five, which can lead to obesity when your lab hits the middle age mark.If your lab is nearing the 100 pound mark, she is obese.
 Preventing obesity in your Labrador retriever is a lifelong endeavor. It takes proper feeding and exercise to keep a dog at a healthy weight. Check your dog’s weight once a month. If you find out that she is gaining weight, it is time to take steps to help her lose weight.A simple way to determine if your dog is overweight is to run your hands along her ribs. If you feel a padding of fat and have difficulty feeling the ribs, your dog is overweight.
It should take about six to eight weeks for your dog to lose weight.
 Feed your Labrador retriever properly from the moment you get her. This helps prevent your dog from gaining weight in the first place. A high quality dog food is essential to maintaining a healthy weight. To choose a high quality dog food, look on its ingredient list. The top two ingredients should be meat and not a meat by-product.Meat provides your dog with more protein, which a dog needs to maintain a proper weight.
You can always ask your veterinarian for help in choosing a good quality food for your dog and one that fits your budget. However, remember that food is the most cost effective medicine you can give your dog. Generally, it is more cost effective to invest in a good quality food than to try to correct medical problems later in life.
 Proper exercise and play are essential to developing muscle mass and to keep a bored dog from mindlessly eating. Exercising your dog can help keep her healthy and lower her body weight. Plus, exercising or playing with your dog is a great way to bond with your dog. There are many types of exercise that dog’s love and that may benefit your health as well.Games of fetch or chasing the ball outside are always a good choice for an active dog.
Walks are also necessity to keep a dog fit, especially a Labrador retriever. This is a great option for an elderly lab or a young lab puppy. A walk two or three times each day can do wonders for your dog’s health.
If you’re a jogger, your adult lab, older than 18 months, can jog with you. Keep in mind that running or jogging for sustained time, like longer than 20 minutes, is too much for dogs under 18 months as their joints and bones are still forming.
Dog parks are another good way for a Lab to get exercise, and to socialize with other dogs as well. As long as his or her vaccinations are up-to-date, dog parks are okay for your dog to visit. #*Agility training is an alternative way to get exercise and socialization in a structured training environment. Contact your local pet store or vet clinic to inquire about agility clubs in your area.
 Obesity in Labrador retrievers can cause a lot of medical problems. An overweight or obese lab has a shorter lifespan than one at a healthy weight. Labs are also at a higher risk for arthritis, joint, and skeletal problems when they are overweight.Obesity can also cause heart and liver problems, respiratory diseases, and lower immunity for labs.

