 Heat the butter over medium-high heat, long enough for it to melt.


For a stronger flavor, consider using tallow, which is a rendered form of beef fat, or lard, which is a rendered form of pig fat. Vegetable oils can also be used.;
, Make sure to sprinkle both sides evenly to distribute the flavor throughout the meat.
 Add the steaks to the hot, melted butter and cook for roughly 3 minutes per side or until both sides are brown.


Once brown, remove the steaks from the skillet and put them on a plate with a shallow rim. This rim is necessary since it prevents any juices from running off the side of the plate.
 Add the remaining 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of butter to the skillet and heat over medium-high until the butter melts.


As before, consider using tallow or lard instead of butter to enhance the flavor. For a healthier alternative, replace the butter with a vegetable oil.
 Add the onion to the skillet and sauté it in the hot butter, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes. Add the minced garlic and sauté for another 1 minute, again stirring frequently.


The onions should be tender and fragrant when done.
The garlic should be toasted and fragrant when ready.
Garlic cooks faster than onion, so the two should not be added simultaneously. Moreover, garlic burns easily, so you will need to keep a close eye on it to prevent that from happening.
 Add the tomato sauce, maple syrup, soy sauce, apple cider vinegar, and red pepper flakes (if desired) to the skillet. Stir well, then add the beef broth, and stir again.


It is a good idea to combine the sauce ingredients before returning the steak pieces to the skillet. If the steak remained in the skillet, they would create an obstruction, and you would have a harder time blending the sauce ingredients together.
 Bring the mixture to a boil before dropping the heat to low or medium-low, letting the mixture reach a steady simmer.


Make sure that you also return to the skillet any juices from the steak that seeped out onto the plate. These juices are valuable, both in terms of moisture and flavor.
 Cover the skillet and cook for 60 to 90 minutes. During the last 20 minutes, uncover the skillet.


Stir the contents of the skillet occasionally as the steaks cook.
Uncovering the skillet during the final part of the cooking process will allow the sauce to reduce and become thicker.
Slow braising is an ideal cooking method for round steaks, which tend to be fairly lean and not very tender. The slow cooking process helps the meat break down more, and the liquid involved in braising prevents the beef from drying out.
 Transfer the steak to individual serving platters and ladle the thickened sauce on top.

