 Deficiencies in zinc, vitamin C, calcium, and protein can sometimes cause white dots on nails. Upping your intake of these vitamins and minerals can help reduce spots.Eat fruits like oranges, lemon, grapefruits, and apples for added vitamin C.
Broccoli, cabbage, kale, turnips, poultry, fish, and nuts also provide the needed nutrients for nail health.
You can also try taking a multivitamin, which you can buy at any grocery store or drugstore. This can help if you have food sensitivities that prevent you from gaining nutrients directly from food.
 You can actually damage your own nails through bad habits like picking and biting. If you're prone to fiddling with your nails, stop doing it. With less picking and biting, you may notice a reduction in white spots.If you have difficulty not picking or biting your nails, try wearing bandaids over your nails. Painting your nails may also help, as you may not want to ruin freshly painted nails.
 If your toenails tend to get white spots as well, change the shoes you're wearing. Tight, uncomfortable shoes can damage toenails, causing white spots. Switch up the shoes you normally wear for roomier, more comfortable varieties and see if you notice a reduction in white spots.This is particularly important if you engage in activities like running, jogging, or other vigorous exercise. Comfortable tennis shoes are vital to your nail health.
 Never do things like dishes, dusting, or other household chores with bare hands. While such activities may not seem taxing, they can actually damage and dry out your nails. Invest in a pair of rubber gloves for cleaning for optimal nail health., If you paint your nails regularly, try not to paint them two days in a row. Nail polish can dry out and damage nails, leading to issues like spots. You should also pay attention to how your nails react to polish. If you tend to get spots after using a particular polish, you may have an allergy that's causing that reaction. Stop using that polish right away.Also, minimize manicures. Try to only get a professional manicure on special occasions if you're prone to white spots.

