 Sometimes you can’t stop a bully on your own. If they are physically hurting you or won’t stop picking on you even after you’ve tried to get them to stop on your own, you need to tell an adult about what they are doing. Let your parents know what is going on at school. They can help figure out the best person for you to talk to at school and can help you decide how to approach them. They can also help you figure out and practice the best ways to deal with the bully until the issue is resolved., Teachers are there to make sure you stay safe and aren’t being treated badly by anyone, even if you’re a new student. They are a good person to tell about bullying and will usually be able to resolve the issue quickly.When you talk to your teacher about your situation, try saying something like, “Mark has been calling me mean names and pushing me in the lunch line. Can you help me get him to stop?”
While any teacher at your school should help you, you might feel more comfortable talking to certain ones. Tell the teacher you feel most at ease around. Feeling comfortable will make it easier for you to talk to them about your problem.
 If you think the first person you told didn’t believe you or if nothing is happening after telling them about the bully, ask another adult for help. This person can be a different teacher, a coach, your school principal, or a guidance counselor. Don’t be discouraged if you don’t get the help you need right away. If the first person you told wasn’t able to help you, one of these people should be able to. Bullying is never okay and you should keep talking to the adults at your school about it until it stops., It can be difficult to talk to an adult about bullying, especially in a new school. To make this easier, come up with a plan on how you will approach them before you do. Decide who you feel most comfortable talking to, when is the best time to talk to them, and what you are going to say. Going in with a solid plan can make things much easier.


For example, think about who your favorite teachers are so far and why. You might decide to talk to your gym teacher because he is always nice and he always asks you about your favorite sports teams.
When you’re deciding when the best time to talk is, think about when you’ll have enough time and how you’ll feel after the meeting. For instance, asking to talk after school might be best because you’ll have as much time as you need to talk about your problems and you won’t have to go right back to class if you’re feeling upset after the meeting.
Plan out what you are going to say by writing it down or practicing it over and over before you talk to an adult. This will help you feel more confident and ensure you can explain everything clearly and without forgetting important details.
 If you’re nervous about talking to a new teacher, principal, guidance counselor, or coach, try bringing a friend or your parents with you. It might make you feel more at ease having someone you feel safe and comfortable around there with you, which can make it easier to talk about your problems.


In addition, your friend might be able to back up your story and help you tell the adult what happened.
Your parents can help make sure your teacher understands everything that happened and can work with them to figure out what to do next., It can be tough to talk about bullying. If you think you might be too nervous to speak about your problem, try communicating a different way. For example, you can write a note that describes what happened, when it happened, and who it happened with. Tell the adult you’ve been having a problem and that you’ve written down what happened, and then give them the note. This will make it easier to open up a conversation with the adult so you can get help to stop the bully.


You can also send an email, use an instant messaging system if your new school has one, or drop a note in your teacher, principal, or guidance counselor’s mailbox. Any of these methods will work to open up a conversation about the problems you’ve been having with a bully.