 Find out everything you can about the product. If you are spending your money, you need to know as much about the product as you can.



Pros of cups:

Cups are inexpensive. The average woman spends about $3000 dollars in her lifetime on disposable menstrual products. The average menstrual cups costs $25-50 and can be reused for ten or more years.
Cups are safe and clean. Unlike tampons and pads, which can contain harsh chemicals and can harbor bacteria, cups do not encourage bacterial growth and are made of inert, medical-grade silicone, rubber, or TPE (thermoplastic elastomers). Additionally, cups also do not soak up extra moisture like tampons, so they keep the vaginal environment intact.
Cups are convenient. For most women, cups can be worn for twelve hours before emptying them. They show nothing outside of the body (i.e. tampon strings) and can be worn while playing sports, swimming, and sleeping without leaking. There is also no need to carry around spare supplies, as you will always have your cup with you while you're on your period. Cups can be worn before a woman's period starts, which is helpful for those with irregular periods. Menstrual cups leak 0.5 less frequently and have to be changed 2.8 less times, and they also eliminate any period odor.
Cups are environmentally friendly as well as body positive. The average woman uses over 16800 disposable, paper menstrual products in her lifetime. Compare that to just one silicone cup in terms of its environmental impact. And you will have to know more about your body and your period in order to use one.
Cups are comfortable. Most users can't feel their cups at all; it's quite possible to forget that you're wearing one. It may look big, but a cup folds up into a very small object for insertion and removal. Some women even report less cramps and bloating while using cups. The fact that they do not dry out the vagina is a comfort factor for many as well.



Cons of cups:

Cups are hands on, meaning you will get a little messier using them. They're probably not the best option for you if you are squeamish at the sight of blood.
Cups have a longer learning curve than other menstrual products. It can take about 3-4 cycles to get truly adjusted and comfortable with using your cup.
Cups may cause discomfort. Some women have discomfort from too much suction or a firm cup pushing on their bladder or rectum because of their body shape.

;
, The Menstrual Cup LiveJournal Forum is a great place to do this.
 If you feel fully comfortable with purchasing and trying out a cup see these wikiHows for more information on choosing the cup that's right for you and learning how to use one.


How to Choose a Menstrual Cup
How to Use a Menstrual Cup
How to Clean a Menstrual Cup

