 There are online services which will convert your file, but it is difficult to verify the security of those sites. Apart from being a good converting tool, Adobe Acrobat also provides features for marking up documents. Adobe Acrobat Reader does cost money, but you can get around this by downloading a 30-day trial from this link: https://www.acrobat.com/en_us/free-trial-download.html?promoid=KQZBU#. Follow the steps to install the program.


You will need to enter in some information such as name, e-mail, and date of birth. Be sure to uncheck the option which notifies you through e-mail about new Adobe products and information. These e-mails can get annoying
If you do not want to sign up for an account, or if you have already used a 30 day trial, there are online services which convert your documents for free. Check out https://www.pdftoword.com/ or http://www.pdfonline.com/pdf-to-word-converter/ and follow the instructions on the page. Be aware that there are some security issues with using these online programs.
 The process is slightly different depending on if you are Mac or PC user.



For PC users:Click the Windows key, type "Acrobat Reader," then press ↵ Enter.

For Mac users:Open Finder from your dashboard, search for "Acrobat Reader in the search box, then open the program.
 To convert a PDF document, you will first need to open a PDF document in Acrobat Reader. On the left side of the window, find and click on "Computer" under the "Storage" header. Then, click on the blue "Browse" button and open up the PDF file.
 This can be done through two different methods. Both will create a Word document from your PDF document.



Option 1: Click File in the upper-left of the window. Then, click "Save as Other" from the dropdown menu. Finally, click "Word or Excel Online" from the two options.

From the new page opened up, choose your "Convert to" and "Document Language" options. Be sure you are converting to your version of Word and you are using your preferred language. Then, click the blue "Export to Word" button.



Option 2: Click the "Export PDF" button on the right side of the window, choose your version of Word, then click the blue "Convert" button.
 Find and open the newly created word document from wherever you decided to save it.

