 You may have feelings of shame or that you are worthless or bad. Lowered self-esteem is one of the negative effects of childhood sexual abuse. Do things that make you feel good about yourself and increase your self-esteem so that you can heal.Keep a list of the positive and good things about you in your journal. Make it a point to read over and add to the list on a regular basis.
Look in the mirror each day and remind yourself, “I am a survivor, not a victim. I love myself and am worthy of love.”
When negative self-thoughts sneak into your mind, catch them and recognize them for what they are – a result of your abuse, not reality.
 You may be feeling critical of yourself, disappointed, or may be angry at yourself for letting what happened affect you. Give yourself a break and heal from the abuse by using encouraging self-talk and being patient with yourself.Think about how you would respond to a friend in your position. How would you show that you care? What words would you use? How would you act?
Treat yourself with the same compassion you would use with that friend. Give yourself the same reassurances and comfort.
Tell yourself, “This is a traumatic event you are healing from. It will take time, but you are a survivor and you can do it.”

, Working through the trauma of being sexually abused as a child can be mentally, emotionally, and physically hard. The things you are remembering and feeling can affect your appetite, sleep patterns, and even cause chemical changes in your body. Make sure that you are taking care of your health so that you don’t develop related problems.


Eat healthy, balanced meals. Survivors of sexual abuse sometimes develop eating disorders.Develop a bedtime routine so that your body knows when it is time to sleep. If you have frequent insomnia or find yourself sleeping much more than usual, it may be a sign of depression.
Do something active to help relieve tension you may be feeling as well as improve your mood and reduce stress., Enjoy yourself, and don't let your abuser win by destroying your life. Start or continue doing things you love. Having fun will help you see the positive in life, reduce your stress and anxiety, and help you heal from what happened.Research indicates that laughing can immediately reduce tension and relieve stress.Go dancing, draw a picture, get ice cream, hike with your sister, volunteer for a good cause, and enjoy your life.

