 See your doctor to rule out any possible reasons to not exercise. If your doctor approves, get plenty of daily moderate exercise.It is recommended that pregnant women get at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise every day.There are no heart rate limitations on the exercise you can do. Make sure you can still talk normally while working out. If you are breathing too heavily to talk, you are probably working too hard.During your third trimester, it is safe to exercise as long as you are not at risk of delivering a preterm baby. If you usually do moderate or high-impact exercise, discuss if you can continue as usual with your doctor or midwife. Try prenatal yoga, brisk walking, along with abdominal and back exercises. Since you can't do crunches on your back, do standing pelvic tilts. This late in pregnancy, you should avoid lifting heavy weights. And as always, stop if you feel dizzy or lightheaded.If you are tired, try short bursts of exercise instead of one long exercise.Exercise helps keep your heart, lungs, and muscles healthy, and ensures you get plenty of oxygen to your brain and other organs.
If you will be exercising at an altitude, be aware that acute mountain sickness (AMT) is a risk. Give yourself time to get used to the altitude if you travel to a location that is above 2500 meters. Wait two or three days before doing any moderate exercise.Resistance exercises are safe, but use light weights and complete a large number of repetitions (e.g. 15-20 repetitions).;
, Make time each day to go for a walk. Go for a walk during your lunch break, take the dog for a walk, or set aside time to walk with a walking partner after you get home from work. Walking is important because it increases blood flow, which boosts energy.When walking, keep it slow. You don't want to raise your heart rate so you huff and puff. Only engage in a light walk.
Try for at least a 30 minute walk every day., Strength training while pregnant can be a great way to get safe exercise. However, you will want to use lighter weights. Your center of gravity is changing and you may have trouble supporting a lot of weight. In stead of choosing heavy weights, use light weights and do 15-20 repetitions per set.Work on creating upper body strength while pregnant. Do bicep curls, tricep extensions, and shoulder presses. It'll help you when you're lifting your baby later.
 Swimming is considered one of the safest exercises for pregnant women. It doesn't add extra stress to your joints or get you too heated as you work out. This is a great, refreshing way to get your blood pumping and wake your body up.Splashing your body with cool water refreshes instantly, which can help boost your energy levels., Half an hour on cardio machines at your local gym can help boost your energy levels. A stationary bike is a good, safe way to exercise. The bike supports your weight, and because it's stationary, you don't risk falling off. A stair-climber, elliptical, and treadmill also are good ways to exercise and fight fatigue.Just be aware that some activities may require special adjustments to keep you and your baby safe. If you are not sure if an exercise is okay, talk to your doctor to be sure., There are many yoga routines geared towards pregnant women, and many of them aim to help raise energy levels. Go to a yoga class at your local gym or yoga studio. Look online or buy a DVD of pregnancy yoga routines so you can fit a half hour of yoga into your day whenever you have a spare moment.


Some studios and gyms offer classes specifically for pregnant women., A good way to boost your energy, your endorphins, and your overall mood is to put on some upbeat tunes and dance. Increasing your endorphins helps reduce stress, which can cause fatigue.Make sure you don't do too much jumping, leaping, or spinning.
 If you are at work and just can't seem to wake up, try doing spurts of light movement. Do a few stretches and breathing exercises at your desk, take a walk around the office, or step outside for some fresh air and sunshine.