 Women have a few more options for dressing business formal than men do, but they also need to be more careful when they dress.


Skirt suits: stay with a dark color, a knee-length skirt, and a tailored jacket.
Pant suits: stay with a dark color, as well as tailored pants and a jacket.
 Transparent or see-through blouses are big no-nos. Wear a shirt or camisole underneath if needed. Stick with cotton, silk, or microfiber material.Material that can breathe well, like cotton, may feel the most comfortable in a potentially stressful situation.
 Your job interview is enough of a balancing act as it is, so don't make your shoes into one as well. Shoes that are any taller than that risk looking unprofessional. Dark shoes are best.
 As long as the stockings/pantyhose is dark, not heavily patterned, and seems like it would be appropriate to wear to work, it's acceptable to pass as business formal. Pantyhose or stockings that might be worn for a night on the town will probably not pass muster, and may be more distracting than is necessary. Do not wear pantyhose or stockings that are damaged in any way, as you will definitely appear as unprofessional. Be sure to check for any damage before you put them on.
 Don't cake on layers and layers of makeup. Dressing business formal is not the same thing as getting dolled up for for Friday night. A little bit of makeup is probably better than none at all, but too much isn't. Conservative is best.
 As for men, fragrances are best avoided altogether. It can be off-putting for other people who don't share your sense of smell, and it doesn't mingle well with the smell of sweat. If you need to wear perfume, know that a little goes a long way.
 Accessories can be the pride and joy of the female wardrobe. Knowing which accessories to wear — and which not to — may mean the difference between a lasting impression and a passing glance.


Wear a conservative watch. A watch is a good symbol that you're punctual and like to stay on top of things. Make sure that the metal flatters your clothing, as some colors go better with either gold or silver and may clash with the other.
Scarves and jewelry styles can be fickle, so stick with conservative options. If you're interviewing for a position in a creative field, you probably have a little more leeway here than if you were applying for a position, say, as a banker.
Do not carry two large bags to your interview. If you need to carry a purse, make it small, so that when you combine it with a business-like tote bag, it doesn't seem like you are schlepping bags upon bags with you to the interview. In your tote bag, keep a Padfolio with extra copies of your resume.

