 No diet has been shown to relieve or “cure” depression. However, eating a healthy, well-balanced diet will provide your body the nutrients it needs to help fight illness. Eat a diet that incorporates fresh fruits and vegetables, complex carbohydrates, and lean protein.Avoid heavily processed foods, refined sugars, and “empty” calories. These provide very few nutrients for the amount of calories you consume, which can leave you feeling hungry. They can also cause swings in blood sugar, which can affect mood.Eating foods high in B12 and folate may help regulate your mood. Liver, chicken, and fish are good sources of B12. Beets, lentils, almonds, spinach, and liver contain folate.Foods high in selenium may help with depressive symptoms. Good sources include Brazil nuts, cod fish, walnuts, and poultry.
Foods that are high in tryptophan can be converted by your body into serotonin when combined with vitamin B6.Tryptophan-rich foods include soybeans, cashews, chicken breast, salmon, and oats.Studies suggest that regularly consuming omega-3 fatty acids may help regulate your mood. Flaxseed or canola oil, walnuts, kale, spinach, and fatty fish such as salmon are good sources of omega-3s. Oils such as corn, soybean, and sunflower are not as high in omega-3s.You should check with your doctor before taking omega-3 supplements, as they may worsen some chronic illnesses. Dosage between one and nine grams daily may be helpful to improve mood., Alcoholic beverages should usually not be consumed while taking antidepressants. Even if you do not take antidepressants, watch your alcohol intake. It is a depressant and excessive alcohol can deplete serotonin.Heavy consumption of alcohol is also associated with anxiety and panic attacks.
A “drink” usually refers to a 12-ounce beer, 5-ounce glass of wine, or 1.5-ounce shot of hard liquor. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend no more than one drink per day for women and two drinks per day for men. This is considered “moderate” drinking., Studies show that regular, moderate exercise — at least 30-35 minutes a day — boosts your body’s natural “feel-good” chemicals (endorphins). Exercise may also stimulate neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine. These may help relieve depressive symptoms.Regular exercise can improve mood in people who have mild to moderate depression. It can also be used as a support in treating severe depression. However, if you continue to experience depressive symptoms even with regular exercise, you should contact your doctor., Your sleep can often be disturbed by depression. It’s important to follow good “sleep hygiene” to ensure that your body is rested. Good hygiene steps include:Going to bed and getting up at the same time each day (even weekends).
Avoiding stimulation before sleeping. Activities such as exercise and things involving screens, such as TV or computer work, can disrupt your sleep patterns.
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine before bed. Even though alcohol may make you feel sleepy, it can disrupt REM sleep.Keeping your bed for sleep. Don’t do work in bed.
 Some types of depression, such as seasonal affective disorder, may benefit from getting exposure to sunlight. Research suggests that exposure to sunlight may affect your serotonin levels.A lack of sunlight may also increase your body’s production of melatonin, which can cause depressive symptoms.If you cannot get natural sunlight, consider purchasing a light therapy box. Talk with your doctor about what box will best suit your needs. Generally, it’s recommended that you use your light therapy box for at least 30 minutes every morning.If you are going outside for sunshine, make sure to wear sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15. Choose a “broad-spectrum” sunscreen., Keep a close relative or friend involved in the discontinuation process. She or he may be able to help provide emotional support or recognize signs of relapse. Tell this person about side effects or symptoms to watch out for.Throughout the discontinuation process, stay in touch with your doctor. Let him or her know about your status, feelings or symptoms.
 A Johns Hopkins review of studies suggests that 30 minutes of meditation daily may reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety.Mindfulness meditation has received significant scientific study and is well-supported for reducing depression and anxiety.“Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction” (MBSR) is a common type of training that may help.Meditation usually includes the following elements:Focus: Focusing on a specific object, image, mantra, or breathing
Relaxed breathing: Slow, deep, even breathing increases oxygen and reduces stress hormones
Quiet setting: Eliminating distractions


You can download several guided meditations online. MIT has relaxation and mindfulness meditation MP3s.The UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center has downloadable or streaming audio guides for meditation.