 Each document that you create can contain 1 perspective grid.


Select the perspective grid tool in the tools panel. It looks like a grid or group of windows. You can also press "Shift" and "P."
Zoom out so that your document is smaller, either 90 percent or less. You should see a grid and several diamonds around the document that control the grid.
Choose the horizon level by moving the top side diamonds. This changes the eye level of the horizon as if you were looking up, looking forward or looking down. Experiment with horizon height by moving it with your mouse. Make the grid bigger by moving the top diamond up and down.
Use the 3 dots at the bottom of the grid to adjust the bottom, left and right panels. The right dot moves the left panel, the left dot moves the right panel and the bottom dot moves the ground level.
Change the vanishing points in the left and right panels using the small dots on the left and right. These points are tied to the horizon, so you can only move them along the horizon height.
Change settings on the perspective grid by choosing "Perspective Grid" in the "View" menu. Choose the "Define Perspective Grid" option to change elements of the grid, such as the opacity.
Draw and create objects in your document. Align them with your grid so that you will create a uniform perspective.
 Open your "Strokes" panel by going to the "Window" menu and clicking the "Strokes" option.


To create dashed lines, click on the objects on which you will use a dashed line border or stroke. Click on the "Dashed Lines" box in the panel. Then choose the size of your dashes.
Create variable widths in your strokes. Instead of simply changing how wide the stroke by choosing the size of pt. you prefer in the top strokes bar, you can use the width tool to make it a variable width along the stroke. Click on the width tool on the left or press "Shift" and "W." Then, return to the outline and change the size with your mouse, making wider or narrower at any point.
Go to your "Brushes" panel. You will see that there are new ways to adjust your brush so that it can appear more like a painter's brush. Choose the width, style and other features in the top brush bar.
 As with earlier versions of Illustrator, you can save in numerous different formats and edit graphics in different formats.

