 Do you still have feelings? Admit it (to yourself, not the ex). Do you truly not care about them? Are you still angry, upset, or hurt by the break-up?;
, Are you going to be friends with them, or not talk to them at all? If you would still consider dating them again, it's strongly suggested to maintain a friendship, even if it's not active. If you are confident that you want to move on with your life, decide if you can deal with them being in your life as a friend or if you truly need to cut them completely out of your life to keep going? If you are not sure of what might be between you, you are best off just being nice to your ex.
 You don't want to invoke anger or fits of crying with either one of you. Remember, you are at work, keep it professional.
 They are bound to find out sooner or later, and it doesn't make you look like a very nice person. Also consider, out of respect for yourself and your ex, that you probably don't want everyone to know your business. It was private and should stay between you.
 It's hard as heck to watch your ex-boyfriend flirt with other employees or sometimes customers, but accept that they have moved on and do the same.
 Don't run away or ignore them; it just makes you look immature.
 Be the better person. Even if they are mean, rude, or ignorant towards you, remember that you are mature and professional and act accordingly.
 If not talking or acknowledging each other's presence at work helps you both to work better, then do it. However, don't be afraid to speak to them if you need to discuss something work-related with them.
 Don't pass along messages for other employees to tell your ex or threaten to get them fired or flirt with other people to make them jealous; it's stupid and not worth your time. If you do want to do something to make them want you back, do it when you're not at work. If you do it at work, it's very visible and doesn't look believable to anyone, including your boss.
 Like any break-up, it takes time to get over someone and having to see them at work definitely doesn't make it easier but you will get over them. Just give it time.

