 By reading books and web pages, you can gain vast information on the sickness, like what is typical condition and what can cure or ease it. By doing so, you will not feel like you are fighting against darkness.;
, Often the sick feel guilty about making the loved ones (read: you) get through the situation, so show your affections to them well.


Buy or make a small arsenal of cards. Send one a day. Make sure the cards are upbeat and not so sympathetic that they pull the friend's spirits down.






Send or drop off the best book you've ever read (or several!). It doesn't need to be new, just entertaining and riveting enough to take the person somewhere else for a while, at least in their imagination. Include a letter explaining why you loved it.






Send, email or drop off favorite photos. They don't need to be recent. Photos of fun times together bring on happy memories and put a smile on anyone's face.






Create a box of fun. Put in ridiculous things that will make the person smile. A gigantic candy bar, a miniature bottle of wine, silly tee shirts, aromatherapy candles, massage oils, scented soaps, stuffed animals, trashy celebrity magazines, sports magazines--whatever they would find comforting and fun.






If the person is bed-bound or in the hospital for a while, send or drop off some soft, fluffy slippers, a soft bed pillow, lavender scented linen spray, wonderful pajamas, comfy socks, or foot massage cream to make them feel pampered.






You know the old saying that "food is love". If they are not on a restricted diet, you can make them something wonderful and drop it off. You can even organize friends and family to take turns bringing meals over. A quick and easy way to invite people to help with this effort is through a website like www.foodtidings.com. Foodtidings allows you to input what they like and don't like to eat, and any food allergies they may have. It also maintains the schedule so the loved ones you have invited to bring meals can sign up for a specific day and what meal they are bringing. Foodtidings even sends out a reminder email to you the day before you are scheduled to bring a meal. A meal schedule like this gives loved ones who are ill something to look forward to each day.
 Sometimes the patient acts irrationally due to pain/powerlessness/sadness, and it of course makes you feel sad/mad/confused, it is normal reaction. Do not try to be strong 100% all the time.
, It is important to 'cut' yourself from the situation if it is too overwhelming for you. Go for a day-trip if possible, go to museums, concerts, do whatever makes you smile and happy. But if you are not very 'outgoing' person and staying indoors makes you relaxed more, stay inside. Just do whatever you like to do, so that you can be an uplifting person to be around.
.

