 Think about any actions you’ve taken that may have increased the hatred people have toward you. It can be difficult to admit you’ve made mistakes or have made things difficult, but be honest with yourself if you’ve made some missteps. Admit them and resolve to do better.If you need to make amends, do so. While you may not convert your haters to love you, you can smooth things over.
 Practice forgiveness for people who have hurt you. It doesn’t do you any good to carry around anger or resentment toward someone, even if you feel it’s justified. Forgiveness doesn’t mean you have to forget what happened or pretend it didn’t happen. It just means that you’re ready to let go and move on.Forgiveness is a process, so don’t think that things can change overnight. Try forgiving a little more each day.
For example, if someone said something mean about you, don’t dwell on it. Spreading untruths is wrong, but you can choose to let go of resentment.
Try to think of forgiving others as a gift to yourself. You are relieving yourself of the burden of holding a grudge.
Give yourself the opportunity to talk to the person about how you felt about what they did. You can do this in a conversation with the person, or in a journal entry or letter. Either way, it will help you heal.
 If lots of people don’t like you, think about what they may be turned off by. While it’s true jealousy can spark hatred in some, make sure you’re not an easy target for people’s hatred. For example, ask yourself if you’re overly competitive and have to win at everything. You might try to control other people, assign blame onto anyone but yourself, or be overly critical of others. If this sounds like you, try to work on your social and people skills.Be the kind of person people can get along with easily. If you notice yourself reverting back to bad habits, catch yourself and focus on treating people nicely and fairly.
Use self inquiry and listen to what others have to say about your role in what happens in your relationships. You may discover that you are unknowingly hurting others. For example, maybe you tend to criticize others without meaning to, or maybe you often brag in front of others.

