 Depending on the event, some people may camp out overnight. Bring a book or some music to keep you entertained while you wait.


Consider bringing a friend, particularly if you will be arriving several hours early, or waiting overnight. You can save each other's spot in the line, take turns going to the bathroom, and bring back food and drinks as you wait.
 An autograph? A photo? You may be able to get both, but if the person arrives late, is hurried past you by her publicist, or only spends a few minutes with fans, it's best to know exactly what you will ask.


Ask for your autograph to be personalized. This decreases the likelihood you will sell the autographed item for money, and increases the chances that they will sign it, or maybe start a conversation with you.Be prepared. Have a pen or sharpie with you, as well as something for the celebrity to sign such as a photograph or playbill. If they're being generous and giving you an autograph, make it as easy for them as possible.
 The celebrity may not have a lot of time, so have a short introduction prepared. Tell them your name and a sentence or two that expresses your appreciation for their work. Clearly and politely state your request, and always phrase it as a question (“May I take a photo with you?”) rather than a statement (“I want to take a photo with you.”)


If you have a lot of things to say to the person, consider writing a letter and handing it to them at the event. They may read it when they have more time at a later date., This person's music may have changed your life. You may think the two of you are undiscovered soul mates, but they have never met you before. Be friendly and polite, but avoid gushing and hyperbole. Excessive fawning, screaming, or adoration may make them uncomfortable.
 Celebrities are very busy people and do many press and publicity events every month. Don’t be demanding or aggressive. Genuine friendliness and appreciation are more likely to be met with generosity.


Always ask before taking a photograph. It may come across as presumptive or rude to just whip out your phone and start snapping without permission.
 If you are attending an event or waiting at the stage door, there will probably be many others waiting too. After getting your photo, handshake, or autograph, let others meet the celebrity. They are likely just as excited as you are.


Don't be disappointed if you don't get a handshake, or if the meeting is very quick. There will always be more opportunities!

