 If you're a beginner, there is no point in buying something expensive. 200-300$ are enough.;
, If it's your first guitar, then better pick an acoustic.
 For example, if you want to play metal, Ibanez, Jackson or BC Rich are pretty popular, but Fender Stratocaster is not a very good choice, because it has a single coil pickup. Instead of that it's actually awesome for rock, funk or jazz! Think about what do you want that guitar to sound like, if you imagine it with lots of distortion, for example, then you should consider getting an amp or better, an effect pedal.
 Research on the internet, read reviews, if you know other guitarists, ask them how do they feel about the guitars they've tried, or in other words, get information about it! The more you know, the better!

, Now that sort of got the picture of what do you want your guitar to be like, go to the shop, or better, visit many different shops, don't give up and spend your money before you find what you're looking for. When you find a guitar that fits the looks and features part, try it out. Make some taping, thrilling, try some tremolo picking and the whole time listen carefully to the sound and watch out for buzzing and unclean sounds. You can play a couple of scales or something like that, just to check if it's comfortable to play it, for example the griff may be too thick for your hand, or too thin, it might be hard playing fast on it, or simply not fitting you, but this is important, if you don't feel comfortable to play it, then better don't buy that guitar. Try to decide how heavy the guitar is, if it's too light, then the wood is not good, and this is a very important factor, especially for acoustics. If it's too heavy, then it's not a good idea buying that one too. It has to be the right weight for you, the most important is for you to be comfortable playing.
 You have to feel exited about that guitar, you have to love it, what's the point in buying a guitar you wouldn't enjoy? You should be sure you really want that guitar before buying, or you'll most likely regret it after a while.

