 Publications create submission guidelines to make it easier on both writers and editors. By reading and following the guidelines, you're producing work that the publication is looking for, making it easier on you as a writer, in a format that its editors can more easily vet for suitability and quality.


Most publications with an Internet presence offer their submission guidelines on their websites. For those that don't, you can obtain the guidelines by writing to the publication at the address given.
If you blog, consider writing your blog posts according to the guidelines of the publication you plan to submit to. You can then invite the editor to review your posts at the time you contact him or her. Not only will the posts show your expertise in the subject, but by matching the publication's style, it makes it easier for the editor to see how your work will fit with the publication.;
, While the submission guidelines often provide a short description of the publication's target audience, you should try to gain a better understanding by reading at least a single issue of that publication and possibly also issues of competing publications. If you can show how your submission will benefit the publication's readers, you stand a better chance of getting noticed by an editor than by filling your correspondence with flattery or big words.


This working understanding should also include an understanding of the publication's necessary lead time for seasonal material. You'll gain an editor's notice and respect if you learn to anticipate when a publication needs certain material to run in the spring, summer, fall, winter, or holiday seasons.
 To be noticed by an editor, you need to develop your skill at pitching story or article ideas to him or her. You can do this through any of the methods listed below, but if you can master more than 1 of them, you stand a better chance of being noticed and accepted.


Query: In either letter or email form, this is the most common and often the best method to contact an editor. Your query should be focused on your story or article, your background that qualifies you to write it, and your relevant past writing experience.
Letter of introduction: A letter of introduction (LOI) is useful for contacting publications where you haven't yet been able to determine what their needs are. An LOI should be written in the same tone as the publication whose editor you're contacting and should mention something you have been able to learn about it and its audience. It should focus on your writing expertise and conclude with an invitation for them to contact you, such as offering to send them writing samples. When possible, include a referral from either a staff writer or an editor you've worked with in the past. (Despite being called a "letter" of introduction, you can also do an LOI as an email.)
Cold calling: If you're more extroverted than most writers typically are, you can pitch your ideas to editors over the telephone. You may find it frustrating to navigate through the publication's voice mail directory, but if you have several ideas ready, you can pitch 1 and then the other if the first is rejected. You can also use the telephone as a follow-up to a query or letter of introduction.
Networking: You can approach editors with your ideas and credentials directly at networking events. You may meet editors for local publications at events sponsored by local businesses or chambers of commerce and those for national publications at writer's conferences and conventions for fans of a particular genre, such as romance, mystery, or science fiction.
 You may be good at several forms of writing; however, because of the number of manuscripts editors may review, you stand a better chance of impressing them with your single strongest skill than a large number of good, but not great skills. If you know 1 subject better than anyone else, look to write about that subject first and foremost; if, in writing fiction, you excel in dialogue, write a story where the dialogue stands out.


If you, in fact, are very strong in several areas, then find other publications that play to those strengths and direct your strongest work in each area to the publication best suited to it.
 None of the above steps are a magic formula to getting an editor to notice you or to get your work published. However, by persistently directing work of consistent quality, you will gain an editor's notice and respect and eventually see your work in print.

