 Listening can also be an act of love. Whether your friend or loved on is ranting or not, show your love without using words with your eyes and your body. Put your phone away, angle your body towards them, and hang on every word. When is the last time you had someone paying attention to you so thoroughly that you realized it? It's a pretty rare and great feeling.While your loved one is talking, do your best to be a good listener. Give them your undivided attention. Put down anything in your hands like a phone or book, listen to what they are saying, and put thought into your response. If you don't know what to say, a nice hug helps, too.
Try to always be a sympathetic listener, even if there is no special occasion. When your friend walks in, ask them about their day. They should have your undivided attention as if they were going through the grocery list. It is when they don't expect your attention that it matters most.
 Humans like to be touched. We need it to thrive. We need to feel like social creatures and as if others care for us and can keep us safe. It's natural and innate. What's more, research has shown that we subconsciously like people that touch us more than those who don't.Not only can you show your love through touch, but you solidify your relationship.


Let’s be clear that by “touch” we are not just talking about intimate or sexual contact. A hand on the shoulder, a high-five, a pat on the back – they all have the same effect. Touch breaks down physical barriers, giving the cue that you acknowledge your loved one’s presence, care about them, and feel close.
Give your loved one a good, long hug. Like other kinds of touch, hugs are great for showing love and building connections. A solid 7 seconds should do it.Scientist don't know why, but seven seconds is the amount of time that it takes to establish a true connection.
This is no pity or consolatory hug. This is a super hug for no good reason at all. There are no underlying motives, no guilt, no sense of duty. It is loving because your only goal is to show that you care.
If you are both comfortable with it, a brush on the forearm, arm around the shoulder, nuzzle, or kiss are also good ways to be affectionate.
 Relationship grow stronger when things are shared, whether it's a significant other or just a good friend. What can you share in your own life? A dresser drawer? A special glass just for them when they visit? School supplies? Literally make your loved one a part of your life. It conveys that you care.Part of including your loved one in your life might be to introduce them to other friends and family. Everyone wants to be the prized friend, boyfriend or girlfriend, or even sibling. Make them feel important – important enough to talk about and brag over with other loved ones.
As said before, ask for advice, compliment, and thank. All of these make your loved ones aware that you are thinking about them.
 Relationships are all about those little moments we spend together that no one else really understands. To show that these moments mean a lot to you, reinforce them. How? Be creative. Make a mixed CD of all those songs you geek out to. Get a photo mug made from that trip you took to the beach. Give your loved one something to remember your good times. The effort will show how much you cherished them, too.This sort of gesture doesn’t have to be big. It just has to show your friend or partner that you are paying attention.
Did they mention how they always wished they had their own personal stock of Splenda? Bring them some packets. Did you once joke about mac n' cheese donuts? Make it happen. Now that moment is twice as memorable.
 If you are in a romantic relationship, dress in your partner’s favorite outfit or wear something that she likes. Does your girlfriend love it when you wear a tie? Surprise her one night. Does she adore you in aviator sunglasses and a fedora? Go ahead and don them. You don't have to say anything about it; rest assured that she will know it is for her.


This principle applies to scents, foods, and other items. Does your husband prefer a certain wine? Buy a bottle on your way home.
Does your girlfriend secretly love anchovy pizza? Let her indulge once in a while. She will be more likely to mirror your actions, and you'll both be happier.

