 What things have happened to you in the past that caused you to put up a moat around you, to push people away? The person/people and events that did this to you are part of the past and are not a good guidance for all people or your future. You might like to work through what has caused you to adopt habits that keep people away, either through therapy or doing your own self-analysis.;
, You might be constantly irritable or grumpy. You might be curt and snap at people. You might try to make yourself invisible by not answering questions, not volunteering information and hiding away in the background. Whatever your behavioral habits targeted at driving away other people, it's essential to recognize them so that you can work on stopping them. For example, if you hide away and don't make eye contact, it will be important to start working on being able to make eye contact and being comfortable with talking to other people and being acknowledged.
 It is easy to say "every human being is hateful" because sometimes you feel so intensely about things that aren't going right in the world, that you feel all alone. The reality is that you're not all alone in these feelings and there are plenty of other people who see the injustices you see, who feel the pain you feel and who want this world to be a better, kinder and gentler place. When you generalize about everyone else being horrible, scary and awful, you cut off the potential for meeting the people who can bring light into your life and who can join up with you to do good in the world.


Don't let the people who have done wrong by you cause you to feel less than yourself or to assume that the rest of the world will feel the same way.
 If you had a savior complex or a need to "fix people", then you might have been attracted to the wrong sorts of people, mostly damaged or controlling people. You are right to want to steer clear of such people as they are harmful but they are not every person and form only a small percentage of any population. There are plenty of warm, caring, unconditional and helpful people still out there waiting to be found by you.


Take care not to so overthink the problems of the world that you lose heart. While it's all very noble to try to fix people and the things harming some people, no one person can fix everything and it is important to remember that every soul has their own responsibility in life to set their course straight again.
 The emotional vampires, the narcissists, the sociopaths, the hard-driven perfectionists, the control freaks, etc.––whoever pushes your buttons and causes you to feel as if all humans behave so abominably, avoid those people. If you cannot cope with them or feel drained by them, then ignore them when possible and work around them when it's not possible. Manners are an excellent way to deal with such persons––be ultra polite without actually connecting in any meaningful way. But whatever you do, don't let such people get to you. And remember, they are not "everybody", just some people, so be discerning.


Keep away from people who make you feel as if you're unlovable or who make their love/respect for you conditional. These people do not deserve to cause you to dislike everyone in the world.
 Once you've worked out a) why you push people away, b) what sorts of people bother you and c) that there are good souls in this world, it's time to let the people who matter like you. This will require dropping your protective façade around the people you've determined matter and whom you'd like to like you back. Some ways to do this include:


Smile and be friendly. A smile goes a long way to undo grumpiness, fear and hiding away.
Learn to chat, to use a little small talk. Base it on asking the other person about themselves. You don't need to have a full blown conversation but it's useful to have a list of questions to ask them, and they'll help the chat along nicely.
Be authentically friendly. Actually care about the person enough to let this come through in your speech and actions. When you want this person to like you, then authenticity makes all the difference.
 Listen to what people say. Even if you would rather switch off, be polite and stay present. It isn't forever and it does a great deal to put yourself in high esteem with the other person, as people love being genuinely heard. Repeat back your understanding of some of what the other person has said, to reinforce that you truly hear them, and care.
 If you see something beautiful in someone, if you see good in someone or if you recognize a kindred spirit, tell them! Don't hold back on such vital connecting material, as it can make all the difference in the world for both of you.
 It doesn't matter if you don't normally do the activity, sometimes it is about the spirit of participation. At the very least, you can say you tried; you might even end up liking the activity so much that you do it again. People enjoy having others try things with them and will appreciate the compliment of you being willing to give things a go, for their sake.
 Forever be confident in what you're doing. Let people know that you're confident. Think what you want to do, be confident with it and help people to feel that you're interesting to be around because you're interested in life.
 Finally, the most scary advice and yet potentially the most valuable, is for you to never be afraid of being the one who loves the most. Love is not a competition, it is a wellspring from within a healthy, positive and centered person. If you happen to love more than what comes back to you, don't analyze it or use it as an excuse to hide away again. Instead, realize that your love is endless, bountiful and will in many ways come bouncing back to you, from different people at different times. You just need to trust that it is worth continuing to send out more love into the world. Because it certainly is.

