 It is easy to clutter a baby’s room with toys and tools that they do not need. For a minimalist design, you should decide ahead of time what types of furniture you need in the room. Only write down the bare necessities.A crib is the most important item in the room. You should look for a crib with a high safety rating that can potentially be used for future children as well. It should be sturdy but stylish, with sleek lines.
A rocking chair glider will be the centerpiece of the room. It should be comfortable but sturdy. If you’re planning on having more children, you should make sure it is a neutral color that can fit into the décor of any room.A changing table and dresser will be necessary. You can buy a changing table built into a dresser or a separate attachment that can be placed on top of a dresser.
You will want enough storage for your baby’s toys, clothing, diapers, and other necessities but not so much that it clutters the room. Consider storage bins, shelves, and hanging storage.;
, Before you begin, start looking through design books, magazines, and websites for tips and ideas about nursery designs. If you find an idea you like, save it for later. Decide what it is you like about the design. Does it have a pleasing color palette? Are there particular pieces of furniture that stand out to you?


Design websites, such as House and Garden or Parents may have galleries of pictures.
Pinterest is a popular place for people looking for nursery ideas.
 A single unifying theme for the room can help you pick furniture and décor that go together well. If you do not want one overwhelming theme, you can also choose a few motifs to guide your design instead.If you’re struggling to find a theme, think of one or two words that you want to describe your nursery. Some ideas include:


Geometric shapes
Ocean
Animals
Stars
Tranquil and serene

, A good color palette can help make your nursery interesting and eye-catching. A good minimalist palette will have a neutral or semi-neutral base. If you want more colors, add it with bold accent pieces.


Gray, white, and black are the best base colors for a minimalist palette.When deciding on accent colors, you might want to choose two or three colors. These colors may also be the same type of color tone, such as pastels, earth tones, or jewel tones.
Colors do not need to be based on the baby’s gender. You can always design a nursery with neutral colors or non-gendered hues, such as orange or yellow.
 On a piece of paper, draw the shape of the nursery. Be sure to measure the nursery on each side so you understand how much space you have. Mark where the windows, doors, and closets are. Draw in each piece of furniture where you think it will look best. Erase and move around furniture until you have a design that appeals to you.


You can use blue painter’s tape to help you visualize the furniture inside of the room. Outline with the tape places where you want the furniture to go. Move the tape around as it suits you., Friends and family members may want to give toys, clothing, or other extra, unneeded items that can clutter the nursery. Tell them that you are planning on staying minimalist and only buying what you need. If you are willing to receive gifts, sign up for a registry at local baby stores, and register only for what you need.


You can say, "We are designing a minimalist nursery for the baby. This means that we're only buying what we need for the baby so that the nursery does not become cluttered."
If you have a registry, you can say, "If you want to get something for the baby, we have a registry at ABC Baby Store that can tell you what we need."

, While you may want to maintain a minimalist look, babies will require quite a few things as they grow older, including diapers, wipes, clothing, bottles, sippy cups, and toys. To keep the room looking neat, you should try to find different storage options that allow these objects to be tucked away out of sight.Some items include:


A dresser that also serves as a changing table
Hanging storage in the closet
Cube shelves with removable bins
Boxes or drawers that slide beneath a crib

, For a minimalist look, you should find pieces that have sleek lines or rounded edges. Find furniture that does not have overwhelming design elements, such as brightly painted patterns or branded characters. You can add these elements through accent pieces.Think about what the baby needs now. While the baby may grow up to need different toys or furniture, you can wait until they are the appropriate age to buy them those things.
 If you have already decided on the color palette, you can look for objects that provide a pop of color to the room. These accents can be decorative objects such as pictures, toys such as stuffed animals or practical pieces such as blankets.


While you can choose colorful curtains for the room, you will need to make sure that they at least have a blackout liner to prevent too much light from getting in when your baby is napping.Crib liners are a good way of adding some color to the room. You will need many different options, as these can easily be ruined. Pick a few different designs for variety.
If you have wood floors, you should invest in a rug. It should be plush, such as a wool or shag rug, but make sure that the pile is short rather than long.Wall art can provide interesting statement pieces without cluttering the room. You can put up wall stickers, framed prints, or a mural.
A mobile can add an interesting touch while giving the baby something to look at. Choose ones with high contrast colors. You can buy one or make your own.
 You may not find minimalist furniture for your nursery in every baby store, so you may need to shop around. You can look both online and in stores to find the right pieces. Start early in the pregnancy to make sure that you have plenty of time to find the pieces that you want. Some places you can look for minimalist furniture include:


Ikea
Wayfair
Houzz
Buy Buy Baby

, Before you move the furniture in, you should paint the walls. Generally, the wall color will be the base color from your palette. White or gray walls are popular, or you could do an off-white, such as a cream or light yellow.


Wallpaper is another option for the walls.If you want a mural in the room, now is the time to paint it.
 Once you have bought the furniture, you can start arranging it in the room. You might find that the furniture you chose doesn’t work with your original floor plans. Rearrange the furniture until it suits you.


If you are pregnant, you may want to ask your partner or another person to help you with moving and arranging the furniture.
 If you need more storage, you do not have to go out and buy more bins. Instead, build floating shelves into the wall. You can buy shelves from a furniture store or make your own. You can use these shelves for books or toys. You can also use them to place lotions, bottles, and other objects that you want to keep out of the baby’s reach., While it may look cute to put stuffed animals or a blanket in the crib, you should not have any objects where the baby sleeps. All the baby needs is a crib mattress. Blankets and pillows in the crib can actually increase the risk of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS).You can drape a blanket on the rocker or glider instead.
Put stuffed animals on a shelf or window sill.

