 Cutting ties can mean putting some distance between yourself and your negative trigger or cutting all ties completely.You have to decide how toxic the relationship with the family member is. Would reducing the frequency of your contact with them be enough to ease your feelings?
If you get uneasy and tense at the mere thought of them visiting, severing the ties completely may be what is best for you.
 Perhaps it is a phone call that presents itself as the final straw. Maybe it is a sick feeling in the pit of your stomach that has been building. Whatever the reason, you know when it is time.If you are with the relative(s) when this occurs, you are apt to say something like "That's it, I'm done", and end the relationship right then and there. Though this is mostly to assuage you, take the time to explain to them why you feel the way you do, and make it clear that you choose to end your relationship with them now.
You may find it easier to send them an email or letter. You can then take your time to make sure your wording is just right and that you are saying everything that you need or want to say. If you send an email, you will have a copy of what you send. If writing a letter, you may want to make a copy of it, just so that you can refer to it, should you need to down the road.
Realize that just because you have said "enough", that does not mean it will be the last you hear from them. As mentioned above, a toxic person does not respect personal boundaries and, in their mind, are always right. They will in all likelihood turn the tables on you, making you the bad guy in the situation.

Do not buy in to the sad story of how the abusive person suddenly feels bad for being mean. If they had actually felt bad, then they would not have treated you like better in the first place. Also, it is unlikely that their behavior will improve.
 When a relationship turns sour and you choose to let it go, you have to be strong. You made this decision because it is right for you. Just because this person is family, it does not mean they have the right to hurt you.

Technology has made it very easy for anyone to contact you through a variety of mediums. It has also provided us with the opportunity to screen or block such communications. Again, be strong. Delete messages without even reading or listening to them. It will be hard at first, but that feeling will pass.
 If the family member you have cut ties with tries to send you messages through others, stop it immediately. Explain that you are not interested in playing this game, and you hope that they can accept this. If they refuse to stop talking, just walk away. 