 It should have your paper title, your name, and your organization or school. It should also have the page header. The title shouldn’t be longer than 12 words. This section should be double-spaced like the rest of the paper.;
, The abstract should be on a new page with the centered word “Abstract,” and it should have the page header.


An abstract is a summary of your paper, including the key ideas and conclusions. It should be about 200 words, give or take 50 words.
You can list keywords after the abstract if you wish in a new paragraph that begins with “Keywords:”

, In the main body, the headings should be formatted in 5 levels.


Level 1 headings should be for the main title. They should be centered, bolded, and in title-case capitalization, meaning you capitalize the first and last word and other important words, like this:
Coffee Mugs and Other Knickknacks

, They should be bolded, in title-case capitalization, but aligned to the left:


Coffee Mug Collections

, For level 3 headings, use bold type, aligned to the left with an indention, and sentence-case capitalization.


Sentence-case capitalization is where you only capitalize the first word. Use a period at the end, and begin the text immediately afterwards:

Coffee mugs with sayings. Many coffee mugs include sayings on the side…

, With level 4 headings, use bolded type, an indention that's aligned to the left, and a period at the end.


You also begin the text immediately, use sentence-case capitalization and italicize the text:

Types of Coffee Mug Sayings. Coffee mug sayings fall into several categories…

, For level 5 headings, use an indention that's aligned to the left, and use sentence-case capitalization and italicized text. Put a period at the end and include the text afterwards:



Funny Coffee Mug Sayings. Some of the best sayings are hilarious ones…

, The last part of your paper is the reference page. On the reference page, use hanging indention, which is where the first line is all the way to the left on each reference, but the subsequent lines are indented. Alphabetize the page by the author’s last name.

