 There are many ways to collect water, and some are more accessible or sanitary than others. Consider the following places from which people often draw their water:


Rainfall: You can collect and store rainwater. It is usually pure enough for drinking, cooking, and bathing. Beware, however, of the chemical contaminants in "acid rain."
Groundwater: You can collect water from underground using a tube well or a pump machine. This is usually pure water, although chemicals and bacteria can seep into the water table and contaminate this source.
From a lake or pond: you can collect water from ponds, but this water is not usually potable. It must be purified before drinking. You can, however, use it for watering or irrigation purposes.
From a river/canal/sea: This water can be used for irrigation. This is big source of all water of our daily use.
Water from air: By applying new technology we can get collected water from air. This may be a very small amount, but it could be useful in some circumstances.;
, Water collection can be done in a variety of ways, but the one thing in common that they all have is that the water in categorized as grey water. Grey water is water that has contaminants but may not be necessarily toxic, however it does need to be filtered and processed before it is classified as clean. This grey water can be distinguished further by where it comes from and the one that is most suitable for collection is rain water.


Apart from standard outside water use, grey water can also be used in cooling your house and filtration for more drinking water.
 Reports on water management in various locations should be able to highlight most viable and economic ways to tap and harvest water for use.This includes plans on how to achieve water collection through demonstrative projects confirming the same. Some initiatives includes:


Roof catchments: This can be done on schools, public offices, etc. However, a monitoring plan should be put in place regarding quality, and on the amount of water harvested and used.
Storm water storage and urban parks: Stormwater storage can be developed in a mid-sized urban park to harvest storm water for use during dry seasons after being treated and also for fire fighting not forgetting urban agriculture.
Reclamation of waste-water: The possibility of reuse of waste-water should be considered, e.g for irrigation purposes.
 If you're running out of water and you're around plants, take a plastic bag and tie it around a leafy branch. Make sure that there are no holes in the bag! When plants release water through their leaves in the hot sun, it gathers and pools, and the plastic bag catches some water. Give it some time—maybe a couple of hours.


You can also wait overnight and gather some water from the morning dew. Try finding a smooth, light surface—like a large plastic board—so that the dew can simply slide off into a leak-proof container.
 First, dig a shallow pit in the ground. Then fill it with any vegetation you can find. Put the water-holding container in the center of the pit, then cover everything with the tarp or other waterproof cover. You will want the cover's lowest point to be in the center, over the container. Water will evaporate from the plants, condense on the tarp, and drip into the container, giving you something to drink in the morning.
 Rainwater may often carry chemicals or pesticides from nearby fields or plants, and may also have bacteria or parasites in it. To avoid this, boil the water for about 5 minutes.

