 The simplest and quickest way to sleep better next to someone who snores is to simply buy a pair of ear plugs. You will want to shop around for the type that fits your ears best.Ear plugs can be found in almost any store that has basic medical supplies.
You may need time to adjust to wearing the earplugs as you sleep.
Most ear plugs are made of soft foam, which is placed inside the ear canal.;
, White noise machines generate a continuous tone that helps cover-up other distracting noises. By using a white noise machine, you will be less likely to be disturbed by any snoring throughout the night.Some white noise machines produce only one sound, a gentle static that is considered pure white noise.
If you prefer, other white noise machines will produce relaxing natural sounds such as that of ocean waves.
White noise machines may have external speakers, however, most are used with earplug style headphones.
Adjust the level of volume until you find an appropriate setting. You want it to be loud enough to block out external noises but not so loud that it keeps you awake.
For a cheaper alternative, you may use a fan or other such device to create a low level of white noise in the room.
 Many times the person who snores is unaware of the fact that they do. Make sure that they are aware they snore and work together to find which solution works best for you both.As difficult as it may be to try and sleep next to a snoring person, don't take it personally. Remember that snoring is not a personal failure.
There are methods they can use to stop snoring as much. Learn more about these methods to try and restore restful sleep to you both.
 Although often times undesirable, if you are unable to sleep next to a snoring person, you may, want to sleep apart from one another. Sleeping apart from the snorer will help improve your sleep.Make sure your new room is far enough away, or quiet enough, to ensure that you are not still able to hear any snoring.
Although it may seem like it, sleeping separately doesn't reflect poorly on your relationship. Remember that you are simply trying to improve sleep quality.
It's not so unusual for couples to sleep separately. Current estimates show that around 25% of couples are sleeping apart from one another.Sleeping apart may not be desired, however, it can actually improve your relationship. Sleeping apart can improve sleep quality, which can actually increase appreciation for one another.