 Write down something and ask someone to read it. Ask for their opinion and constructive criticism. They might give you good advice on what they would prefer to read, and what you could improve.


This is a good idea because it gives you an idea of how people really see your writing, apart from your own opinion.;
, This is perhaps the most important aspect of writing something worth reading. The more you know words and their meaning, the more rich will any text you decide to write, be.
 Practice makes perfect. It's a believed saying that is actually true. You should start off writing something every day - not necessarily something anyone should see, just something to improve your skills.


A good idea is to keep a diary, or write some random stories everyday.
 Is it on paper or on a computer? Is it in a special environment? Do you like music while you write or do you like it quiet? It's important to discover that part of yourself that brings out the best creations of writing.
 Whatever text you might be writing, it's important to improve your knowledge in that area. Even if it's something that you don't need to know about, or something you are not going to write down, having the knowledge will make your text more interesting, because the thoughts going through your mind will reflect in the text.
 Don't forget punctuation, grammar, capital letters and so on. This is possibly the most important of any text, even short ones. No one finds it amusing to read texts with too many or a lack of periods, neither does any one want to read a text with absolutely no capital letters, or capital letters all over the place. Make your text seem nice, readable, and professional.
 When you are writing a text, make the moral/point very clear. It's confusing and frustrating to read something, and when you have finished reading it, you still don't have a clue what it meant, or what is was about.

A good rule is, when you read the text, is it easy to analyze, resume and understand? If not, you should probably start over, to make your intentions clear.
 Before even writing the title, you should thoroughly plan what you want to be in the text. A good idea is to brainstorm - write all your ideas down on a paper and decide what should stay and what should go.


Think about how you are going to introduce the text, end it, create the drama, show the point - everything is better when it's planned and thought through.
Even if this doesn't make anything more clear in your head, it will help you along the writing, because it's easy to get lost, at times. It will also make your text more presentable, and of higher quality.
 When you are done writing your text, read it again. Notice any formal rules, as grammar and punctuation, and notice if anything can be made better. If it can, go back and rewrite the section that can be improved. This will make your text seem more put together.

