 The world is increasingly digital. To keep up with this, many educational resources about World War I are now available online. Draw upon online sites to help you build your knowledge of World War I.Recognize that there are a lot of great resources on World War I from established institutions such as the Imperial War Museum in London or the . Look for these types of sites that present neutral information. Just as there are a lot of great resources, there are a lot of terrible ones, too. Watch out for any site that seemingly contradicts basic facts you have learned or pushes one opinion a little too much.
Look for resources from media such as the British Broadcasting Center (BBC), which has information and different types of interactive media you can use to learn about World War I., Movies are another way to learn more about World War I. Some are original scripts, while others are based on memoirs and other testimonies. Some of films about World War I you may want to watch are:The Big Parade, 1925All Quiet on the Western Front, 1930
A Farewell to Arms, 1932
The Lost Patrol, 1934
A Very Long Engagement, 2004
Testament of Youth, 2015, Museums of all kinds are great places to learn more about World War I. They can be educational and help you see the war within its broader context. Go to local museums and plan to visit other museums when you are on vacation or traveling for other reasons.


Go to educational museums with exhibitions on World War One. For example, in London you can go to the Imperial War Museum, while Washington, D.C. offers the National Museum of American History.If you go to France or Belgium, you can visit museums on the battlefields of World War I including the Somme or Verdun.Avoid discounting places such as art museums. One of the many notable aspects of World War I is the art that was created before and after it. Viewing exhibitions on movements such as Dada or visiting the Käthe Kollwitz Museum can provide even more learning material about the visual impact that World War I had on society, culture, and politics.