 Your boyfriend may not be aware that you don’t think he’s acting the way a boyfriend should. Resolving your issue may be as simple as having a conversation with your boyfriend about your expectations.Tell your boyfriend how you feel without accusing him of anything or making fun of his behavior to make sure he’ll be receptive to what you have to say.
Be clear about how you’d like him to act and be open to hearing his opinions about it.
Try saying something like, “I would feel better if you were more willing to show me affection around your friends,” or “I wish you would pay more attention to me during the school day.”;
, If your boyfriend does something that makes you feel like he doesn’t care, take some time to discuss it with him. Your boyfriend may have hurt you unintentionally, but he won’t learn what hurts you if he isn’t aware of his mistakes.If your boyfriend does or says something that hurts you, it may not be appropriate to sit down and discuss it right away, but don’t let it go.
When you have a chance to sit down and talk to your boyfriend about what he did that hurt you, try to speak to him calmly about it.
Use “I” statements like, “I feel like you don’t care when you say things like that,” instead of accusing him of anything to avoid an argument.
 Some guys have trouble opening up about their feelings, and that can make it difficult for them to act in an affectionate or romantic way. You can help make your boyfriend feel more comfortable by asking him questions about his feelings to help him open up slowly. Ask your boyfriend how he feels about you, and listen to what he has to say. Once he gets accustomed to answering questions about how he feels, he may eventually be able to volunteer the information without you asking.
Ask direct questions to make it easier for him to answer. Try asking things like, “how do you feel about me?” or “what’s the most important part of our relationship to you?”
Pay attention to how you respond when he opens up. Acting critical of his feelings may make him less apt to answer your questions again. Support him by thanking him for answering you and telling him it means a lot that he tries.
 If you feel uncomfortable discussing things with your boyfriend in person, you may want to write him a letter that explains your concerns and how you feel about him. What’s important is that your boyfriend understands that you’re unhappy and what he can do to fix it.Try not to use aggressive or mean language in your letter as it may make him feel defensive.
Your boyfriend may want to speak to you in person after reading the letter. Remember to stay calm and discuss your feelings without getting angry.

Getting angry is perfectly natural, but people tend to become more closed minded in arguments. Avoiding an argument can help to ensure your boyfriend really listens to what you have to say.

