 Again, your paper needs to be square to do the folds properly. If you are using something other than origami paper, like printer paper or a paper bag, you can use scissors to cut off parts of the paper so that all sides are equal.
 Start by laying the paper with the side you want facing outward down on the table. Make your crease in the center, then unfold again., This will divided your paper into fourths by folding each side into the center crease. Once you have done that, open the paper back up. You should have three creases, and the paper evenly divided into four parts., You should be looking at a long rectangle showing the outside of your paper.
 This step gets a little tricky, but you should end up with a trapezoid with the bottom part showing the backside of your paper.Fold the upper corners inward so that their sides match up with the creases from the second fold. Unfold these corners
Fold the upper corners backward to the same point on the other side of your shape, then unfold.
Make a squash fold using the two creases you just made. Push the creases you just made outward and fold over each other by squashing down the middle of the top. This should fold over the lower part of your paper, showing the back side.
 Use your quarter creases to fold back and make a square. The top half of your square should be showing the front of your paper, and the bottom should show the back., This is the last step to firm up the opening for your wallet. These will be thick folds to help keep the pocket from opening up when you have stuff in there.


Fold up the bottom corners to the middle of your square.Fold up the bottom of this square. From about ¼ of the way down from the center of the paper, fold up the thick center triangle.Apply another fold, this time in the center so that the thick part mostly covers the triangle you just folded.Flip your wallet over and repeat these folds on the other side., You should have a pouch with thick folds on either side helping to keep it shut You have finished your traditional origami wallet.


Once you are finished, you can also decorate the outside with drawings or stickers to help make your wallet ever more personal, or to remind you what is in there.

