 Notice how you feel throughout the day. Do some situations make you feel cheerful and energetic, or do you feel down much of the time?Depression can creep up on you slowly, so it’s important to be aware of whether your overall mood has changed over time.
Know that depression doesn’t necessarily involve feeling sad. Many people with depression feel empty, guilty, or irritable.;
, Explore your thoughts and emotions by writing in a journal on a regular basis. Pay attention to any topics or feelings that you find yourself returning to frequently.Keeping a journal can help you notice how your moods are related to the events in your life.
 Ask yourself whether you have a hard time getting up in the morning or if you just can’t seem to focus on work or school anymore. For many people, a constant feeling of physical or mental fatigue is one of the defining characteristics of depression.If you feel tired all the time, visit a doctor to rule out any physical causes.
 Ask yourself if anything has changed in your personal life or social life lately. Big shake-ups in your everyday routine, your social habits, or your health habits could signal that depression is affecting you.For instance, if you’ve stopped exercising and seeing your friends, it may be a red flag for depression.
Of course, there are many reasons why aspects of your life might change over time. If there’s no obvious reason for the change, though, a mood disorder might be involved.
 Pay attention if you dread going to a certain place or if your mood takes a nosedive whenever you’re with a certain person. Even if you don’t know why a situation makes you feel negative, your intuition is trying to warn you about it.For instance, if you feel fine at work but dislike going back home to your partner, your relationship is probably unhealthy in some way.
 The subconscious mind often communicates through daydreams, so if you find yourself thinking about a certain scenario frequently, ask yourself what it means. If you frequently fantasize about escaping to a different life, it’s a sure sign that something in your real life needs to change. For instance, if you often think about what life would be like if you weren’t with your partner, you might subconsciously want to break up.

