 Many highly-respected universities offer the materials used in their courses online for free. These include some of the most prestigious universities in the world, such as the University of California at Berkeley and Yale University. While you can find information on the courses and materials available for free on these and other university’s websites, universities are increasingly getting involved with collaborative online course-providers. Further, some universities, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, make material available through several different online organizations.


Find a class with the Open Education Consortium. This consortium is a network of individuals and organizations that exist to provide open, collaborative, and innovative educational materials – including full courses – for anyone, for free. As a non-profit, they treat education as a social good, and seek to make as much content as possible available for you and anyone else that’s interested in taking online classes.On the OEC website, search for classes based on the institution that facilitates them, the language you wish to take a course in, or the thematic category of classes they host.
 Some of the world’s most respected universities offer free courses online. MIT, Harvard, and some other universities have teamed together to create an online platform called edX, which offers all sorts of extremely high quality classes online – including online learning tools, videos, games, and even a 3D virtual molecule builder – all for free!edX courses are taken at your pace, wherever you’re most comfortable, and virtual classrooms are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
You can either audit courses, or earn a certificate of achievement based on assignments and other coursework.
edX incorporates social learning by facilitating peer-to-peer coursework to facilitate cooperation with other students taking the courses with you.
Examples of Harvard-facilitated classes include overviews of research done by members of the Harvard community, focusing on certain fields of study. These include courses geared towards law, the science of cooking, neuroscience, and politics.Examples of MIT’s edX-affiliated courses (called MITx courses) include lessons on aerodynamics, quantum mechanics, quantitative biology, and introduction to game design., OCW is an initiative to make all the materials used in MIT’s undergraduate and graduate courses freely available online.Enough material is made available to effectively take the course, though you self-direct your progress through the material. You can get syllabi, necessary software, materials broken into units, and access to online study groups.


Use a study guide laid out by a blog called aGupieWare to guide you through a four month plan to complete MIT’s extremely popular (and free!) Introduction to Computer Science course., Coursera offers many sorts of classes that are designed and run by professors from the University of Michigan, Stanford University, and the Johns Hopkins University, among others. While the full experience (which includes graded assignments and a certificate of completion) has a cost, high quality lectures and non-graded assignments are freely available on the Coursera website.Coursera’s class list is extremely substantial. They offer courses in the Arts and Humanities, Business, Computer Science, Data Science, Life Sciences, Math and Logic, Personal Development, Physical Science and Engineering, Social Sciences, and Languages.
 Many universities that are predominantly or exclusively online are primarily businesses whose main goal is to earn a profit. These universities are not free, but often advertise themselves aggressively, promising large amounts of financial aid for students. Acquiring federal financial aid money is the basis of these businesses’ financial model.The quality of the courses offered by predominantly online, for-profit universities is very low.
Examples of for-profit online universities include DeVry University, Kaplan, and the University of Phoenix, which was found by a federal investigation to systematically operate in a misleading manner and has been fined millions of dollars for doing so.

