 The best way to make a substitute nest for the baby bird is to get a covered cardboard box, such as a shoebox, which you’ll need to punch a number of holes in the bottom of. Place a small plastic or wooden bowl into the box and line it with undyed paper towel. This will make a nice, snuggly nest for the baby bird.


Never line the nest with stringy or shredded bedding as these can wrap around the baby’s wings and throat. You should also avoid using grass, leaves, moss or twigs as these can be damp and easily become mouldy.
You should change the chicks bedding whenever it becomes damp or soiled., If the chicks feel damp or chilled you will need to warm them up as soon as you place them in the box. You can do this in a number of ways. If you have a heating pad, you can set it to a low heat and place the box on top. Alternatively, you can fill a ziplock bag with warm water and place it in the box or hang a 40 watt bulb above the box.


It is very important to maintain the bird’s nest at a regular temperature, so it is probably best to keep a thermometer in the box. If the baby is less than a week old (eyes closed, no feathers) the temperature should be around 95 °F (35 °C). This can be reduced by 5 degrees with every passing week.
It is also important that you keep the box in an area away from direct sunlight and drafts. This is because newly hatched baby birds are very susceptible to chilling and overheating, as they have a large body surface relative to their weight and have not yet developed insulating feathers.
 Baby birds will not thrive unless they are kept in a calm, low-stress environment. When baby birds are stressed, their heart rate rises significantly, which is harmful to their health. As a result, the box should be kept in a quiet environment, inaccessible to pets and children. You should also avoid exposing the baby bird to the following:


Excessive or improper handling, loud noises, incorrect temperatures, overcrowding (if you have more than one chick), disorganized feeding schedules or incorrect food.
You should also try to observe and hold the bird at eye level, as birds do not like to be peered down on. Holding them at eye level makes you seem less predatory.
 You can monitor a baby bird’s progress by weighing it everyday to make sure it is gaining weight. You can use a diet or postage scale for this purpose. The bird’s weight should be increasing everyday and within 4 to 6 days it should have doubled its hatching weight. The bird should continue to rapidly gain weight over the course of its first two weeks.


To get an indication of whether the baby bird is growing normally for its breed, you will need to consult a growth chart.
If the bird is gaining weight very slowly, or not at all, it is a definite indication that something is wrong. In this situation, you should bring the bird to a vet or rehabilitation center immediately, or it is likely to die., Once your baby bird has become a fully developed fledgling, you will need to move it into a large cage or a screened porch where it can spread its wings and learn to fly. Don’t worry about it not knowing how -- a bird’s ability to fly is instinctive, and after a few failed attempts it should be doing just fine. It can take anywhere between 5 to 15 days.


Once it can fly easily and gain altitude, it is ready to be released outdoors. Take it to an area where you have noticed other birds of the same species and there is plenty of food ability and let it fly away.
If you are releasing the bird into your garden, you may leave its cage outside with the door wide open. Then the baby bird can decide for itself when it is ready to leave.
The less time a bird is kept in captivity, the better the chance of survival in the wild, so don’t put off the release date for any longer than strictly necessary.