 Coupons are arguably the easiest way to save money at a fast food restaurant. They're often dropped off as spam mail at a home address. Even though they're freely distributed, coupons can be quite valuable, even shaving several bucks off a single meal purchase.


Because many coupons offer a 2-for-1 deal. With this in mind, it helps to go with another person and split the cost between the two of you.
 Most fast food joints feature a "dollar menu" or list of value items. These items are typically simpler than the full-priced entrees, but give you a chance to eat the restaurant's food without paying the full price.
 For instance, by buying two or three dollar burgers, you'll have more food than a full-fledged double cheeseburger.
 The vast majority of fast food locations have transferred over to self-serve drink stations. This means you can help yourself to as many refills as you'd like. Buying the smallest cup the restaurant offers means you can get your unlimited soda for the lowest cost.


If you're especially thrifty, you can save a cup and bring it with you on multiple occasions, although this will be considered stealing by the restaurant management.
 Places like Subway offer lots of free extras for an entree item.If you have value in mind, capitalize on whatever free extras a restaurant offers. Whether it's toppings, condiments or a "free" side (like peanuts at Five Guy's), loading up on these while spending a minimum on ordered items can fill you up for less.


While freebies are great, exploiting it past the point of reason could get you in trouble with the restaurant management.
 Most meal add-ons (like extra cheese slices) are vastly over-priced. If you have a habit of bringing fast food home as take-out, you can considerably cut down on added fees by adding your desired sauces and toppings at home. If you want extra cheese and have slices at home, add them yourself. You'll be saving yourself a lot of money over a long run in exchange for a slight amount of effort.

