 If you have a pool, maybe you could set it up beside the pool. Or you could set it up in the garden.;
, You could do a pineapple shaped invite, or a palm tree, or a coconut. Anything tropical!

, Make sure it's a time that suits your parents, but don't give away too much! If they ask you why you want to know, just tell them that your best friend was going to give you a call on that day and you wanted to make sure you had nothing on.
 Tell them about your plan for the date night. Just make sure you don't try to give them the invitations say, when they're doing the vacuuming, or typing an email, etc.
 If you have an iPod, you could download some songs onto it that are sort of Hawaiian.
 Next time your mom goes shopping, ask her if you can come along too and explain that you need to get some food and things for the date night. Hopefully she'll agree. If she doesn't, just see what you've got at home.
 If your mom said yes to you getting what you need for the date night, then look in the party section of the shop. Get little umbrellas (decorations that go round the stem of a wine glass), drink stirrers (you can get them in the shape of palm trees), and most importantly, straws. Also get the ingredients you'll need for the food you'll be making, and maybe even a bunch of roses for your dad to give to your mum at the end of the date night!


Get the decorations that add to the theme. While you're out, ask your mom or dad if you can go to a dress-up store. Explain again about the date night and how you need to get stuff for it. If they say yes, go to the store and look for things like fake grass skirts and plastic leis. If you have any siblings, let them in on the date night plan as well.
 Hang them wherever the decorations would look most appropriate and add to the tropical atmosphere around the dining area.


If you have the date night up to a table, scatter shells on it; if your neighbours have a hibiscus bush, ask very politely if you could have maybe two or three hibiscus and explain what they're for.
 And you could even make a table number too. All you need to do is get a straw and cut two slits in it, then get a piece of cardboard and cut it into whatever shape you want. Decorate it, then write the table number on it. Slot it into the straw and push a wad of poster tack onto the bottom of the straw so that it can stand up.
 There are tiki torches and things like that, available at hardware stores. Little solar LED garden lights aren't expensive either and can look good. If you buy these lights before the date, they'll be all charged up and ready for when the night comes.
 All of you could wear grass skirts and have plastic leis and little notebooks to jot down your parent's orders. Remember that you need to have a chef and a waiter.
 Get sheets of paper and write all the menu items on it. Decorate.
 When your parents come to the date night, take them to their seats, say 'Aloha', and give them each a plastic lei.
,