 Many people wrongly believe that same-sex parents are unfit to raise children. This is untrue: all serious research has shown that same-sex parents are as fit as opposite-sex parents to provide loving, supportive homes for children. Children in LGBTQ families are as well-adjusted and happy as children in heterosexual two-parent homes.The myth that gay people are more prone to child molestation than straight people is untrue.
 Some people believe that homosexual orientation is a choice. Others say it is an illness related to childhood trauma. Both of these statements are untrue. Scientists affirm that a person's sexual orientation is inherent and cannot be chosen or "changed" by another.Sexual orientation is formed from a complex mix of genetic and environmental factors, and may be in place before a child is even born.
While being LGBTQ can raise a person's risk for traumatic experiences, it doesn't work the other way around. Trauma doesn't cause homosexuality, but homophobia can raise a person's risk of trauma.
You might say to your friend, "You say that 'these people are sick," but there's nothing unhealthy about homosexuality. It's a natural form of human sexuality."

, A common logical fallacy is that if one previously taboo practice achieves mainstream acceptance, every other taboo will also become mainstream. This is untrue: while some social conventions are prone to change, others, especially those rooted in scientific fact, tend to remain.A common homophobic statement is, "If we allow homosexuality, what's next? Bestiality? Pedophilia?" You can counter this by saying, "There is no relationship between homosexuality and bestiality or pedophilia. Homosexual relationships are consensual bonds between adults. Bestiality and pedophilia are nonconsensual acts of sexual violence against the powerless."

, Ultimately, homophobic rhetoric returns to logical fallacies and easily debunked myths. The best thing you can do is get the facts. Research statements by legitimate organizations such as the American Psychological Association for scientific evidence that homosexuality, transgenderism, and other varieties of human identity are natural and healthy.Then someone you know says something like, "Nobody is born gay," you can say, "Actually, many scientists believe our sexual orientation is in place before we were born, and the American Psychological Association has proven that sexuality is not a choice."
Look out for hate groups disguised as legitimate organizations, such as the fringe group American College of Pediatrics.

