 You can build from their own understandings to develop a more sophisticated definition of “theory.” A good definition should clarify that a scientific theory is a statement intending to explain natural phenomena. Clarify to your students:


A theory is worth very little if it doesn't correctly predict all known evidence.
Theories are subject to changes as new evidence becomes available. (Most theories that you will discuss in a high school science class are well-confirmed and are unlikely to be revised in any significant sense.)

, You will get some common answers like:


The theory of relativity: that the laws of physics are the same for all observers
The theory of evolution by natural selection: that the observed changes in species occur due to selection of well adapted specimens over less well adapted specimens.
Big Bang theory: that the universe began as an infinitely small point that underwent expansion to form the universe as we know it today.
 A fact is an objective, verifiable observation, which is the same everywhere. It can be, and has been, verified many times.


For example, we know that the germ theory of illness is a fact because we can take bacteria from someone suffering from an illness, look at that bacteria under a microscope, and then inject that bacteria into another individual, who will then get that same illness.
We know that the Earth is round because we can travel due west and eventually end up where we started from.
 Remember, a theory is a general statement intended to explain facts. As a useful example, present your students with the development of the theory of the heliocentric theory and the facts that inform the theory.


Ancient peoples noticed peculiar points of light that “wandered” among their background. (We now know these to be the planets.)
The planets moved through the sky because they, like the Earth, were orbiting around the sun, each at different speeds, different distances from the Sun.
Nicolaus Copernicus is generally considered to be the first to propose this theory, and supported his theory with hard evidence, but ancient cultures stumbled upon this through speculation.
We now consider this a fact because we have sent many craft to these planets and can predict their motions to a very high precision. Of course, our predictions come from the theory (and the laws underlying that theory).
 This is a complicated concept and tends to confuse students. Laws tend to be more mathematical in nature and are usually derived from simple statements about mathematical systems and their behaviors. Explain that, like a theory, a law can also be used to make predictions, but the primary purpose of a law is to describe natural phenomena. Some scientific laws include:


Newton's Law of heating and cooling: the change in temperature of two bodies in thermal contact is proportional to their difference in temperature.
Newton's Laws of motion: statements about how large objects made of atoms behave when moving at low speeds relative to each other.
The Laws of Thermodynamics: statements about entropy, temperature, and thermal equilibrium.
Ohm's Law: the voltage across a purely resistive element is equal to the current through the element times its resistance.
 First, a theory is constructed from facts; fact precede and inform a theory. Secondly, theories contain laws, but laws mean very little without supportive facts. Theories also contain logical inferences.


For example, one must infer that the derived laws actually predict the facts. Accumulating all of the previous forms of knowledge, a scientist makes a general statement to explain all the evidence.
Other scientists reaffirm the facts and use the theory to make predictions and obtain new facts.

