;
, There are three ways that you can do this, but the most important way is to hold the A button as soon as two gets as large as possible. If you hold it too early, you'll stall and puff smoke, so be careful. You know if you have a perfect start because your character will accelerate.
 To do this, wiggle the Control-Pad left and right while drifting twice. (You don't need to wiggle the Control-Pad fast. Try to do these around every corner.)

,, Snaking is performing Mini Turbos on a straight road. This helps your catch ahead immensely. (If you want to be a snaker, practice on the Figure 8 Circuit, because it has wide roads.)

, For instance, use Mushrooms to boost across grass or dirt.
 You can do this by dragging things behind you by holding the Left Trigger. This does not work with dragging fake boxes behind you. Drag a Green Shell, Banana, Triple Bananas, or Red Shell.
 Let's say a blue shell was just fired from a racer in 4th place. You'll hear the 'whooshing' sound a blue shell makes as soon as it is launched. You should get yourself ready or start to position yourself for a powerslide depending on how far ahead you are from that racer. The blue shell noise should dissipate briefly. As soon as you hear it again, you should begin your powerslide, or already have the blue sparks appearing. The blue shell noise should begin to pulsate rapidly. By now, you should have the orange sparks. Be ready to release them at no more than a moment's notice because that is what you will have. This is where it gets tricky. The blue shell should be directly overhead by now. You'll be able to see it hovering at the top of your DS screen. Using your peripheral vision, you should be able to see the blue shell suddenly stop at the top of your screen and then begin its descent to the ground. At this point, let go of the 'R' trigger. Press it again to jump and lean into the natural direction of your powerslide. With the proper timing and a little luck, you will successfully dodge the infamous blue shell. Don't let it get to your head though. Just because you did it once, doesn't mean you'll be able to do it again with the same results. Besides, the race isn't over yet! You can also watch the video in Sources and Citations.
 Staying directly behind a driver in front of you for a few seconds will help speed you up a lot. You will see white lines around your driver while you are doing this, signifying the wind is passing above you. Be careful that they don't drop a banana in your face!

, There's a good one on Bowser's Castle! Try to find it.
, It is also useful to hit your enemies when your Star power-up is activated.
 Fire your Red Shell when you are sure that your enemy in front of you isn't dragging anything behind them that could defeat your Red Shell. If they are dragging a box, feel free to shoot it at them, because the boxes can't stop a Red Shell. Fire your Green Shell behind you when your opponent is trying to Draft behind you.

