 While you might believe that it may be possible to learn any psychic talent, some people believe they have a predisposition towards one or another methods of psychic reading. If you’ve had foreknowledge of certain facts or events (even those not related intimately to someone’s life), you may believe you have claircognizance.If you’ve had accurate visions of the future, some people might think you possess psychic energies which enable clairvoyance.If you hear voices or receive audible directions which you believe are from beyond this plane of existence, you might think you have clairaudience.


While these abilities might manifest themselves in different ways, each could have roots in a common psychic energy which the living, the dead, and the spirit world share.
 Visions you believe to be psychic in nature might arrive when deep in meditation. Assume a comfortable position. Some people like to lie down; others prefer the greater awareness they attain by sitting on a carpeted floor with their legs crossed below them in a rigid posture. Wait for a vision which feels intuitively significant, or which you feel you recognize.
 Chant your personal mantra. This is a short phrase you can use to focus your thoughts and energy. For instance, you might chant "I am present in the moment." Chant out loud at first, but wind down towards a silent chant.
 The fear and doubt which follow worry will cloud the mind and lead to confusion. Use mindfulness to stay in the moment rather than reflect on what might happen or what has already happened. When you focus on things you can control, you’ll be able to break the cycle of anxiety and worry that can easily suck you in. Finally, if an issue or problem in your life is so big that you have to worry about and deal with it at some point, try to schedule a time in which to do so, rather than let it take up all your time.When you are confident in yourself and your abilities, you might be able to tap into the positive energy which fuels a successful and accurate psychic reading.
 Take time each day to commune with the world you believe to be spiritual in nature, the world of psychic energy. If you find it hard to develop one particular ability, try your hand at another. It can take many years before an adept (one who might have some psychic power) can become proficient at reading.

