 When children are involved, agencies are available for assistance. "Ask and you shall receive."


Contact the social service agency in your area. They will offer guidance and direction for food, medical attention, housing assistance as well as financial and legal advice.
Local churches and charitable organizations may offer additional assistance during the holidays with food and gifts.;
, Realistically, you may not be able to support yourself and your children if your financial situation remains the same. You may need to improve your income by seeking further education.


Calculate what you can accomplish based upon the day care services in your area. Examine the expense. Local YMCA's have affordable rates. Ask friends, relatives or neighbors if they would be available to babysit before and after school or on a periodic basis.
Contact the financial aid office at your local community college to explore what is offered. Financial aid may help with books, transportation and day care as well as tuition and fees.
Evening classes are available after work.
Try an online education.
Pursue any further educational opportunities and advancements in your place of work in the meantime. Working from home may not offer these same benefits.
 Work with what you have and do not accumulate debt.


Find cheap housing along with fuel and housing assistance, if needed. Some landlords will reduce rent in exchange for home improvements. Be sure of a fair exchange.
Limit the use of utilities.
Travel only to work or school. Do errands along the way home.
Find inexpensive transportation, if needed. Walk, jog, ride a bike, carpool or take the bus.



Use grocery coupons or buy the generic store brands.
Look for combination discounts, such as a generic store brand on sale with a coupon.
Sign up for a customer reward card for a discount at a store where you frequently shop.
Learn to cook from scratch and pack a lunch.
Maintain a simple nutritious diet of whole grains, legumes and vegetables.
Find free recipes online or at the library.
Crock pot recipes are economical and most freeze well.
Three basic meals without snacks in between can be sufficient.


Have a basic wardrobe of jeans and t-shirts, if possible.






Visit thrift stores or consignment shops for formal clothes and shoes, if needed. Sell and trade your own used clothes for others.
Find toys and household items at yard sales. Have your own sale with items no longer needed.
Live with less. Buy only what you absolutely need. Better yet, do without.
 Go to the park, a walk in the woods or visit with your neighbors.
 Save change and pinch a few pennies to buy an ice cream or see a movie.
 Hard work will eventually improve your lives. Concentrate on the positive and surround yourself with positive people to spur your motivation.

