 Start here if your dog hasn't yet learned basic commands, such as "Sit" and "Come." These are easy first commands to learn, because the dog can connect them to an obvious, immediate action. Train the dog in sessions no longer than 15 minutes at a time, using these techniques:Get the dog's attention with a treat or toy.
Say a short command (like "Sit") in a loud, clear voice. Say the command one time only, to teach the dog that he needs to respond right away.
To get the dog to sit, raise the treat above the dog's ahead, or gently press down on the hindquarters. For other commands, you may need to mimic what you want the dog to do, or wait until the dog does it accidentally.
Praise the dog as soon as he obeys, and give the treat. Many dog owners use a clicker tool to make a sound that the dog will learn means a reward.;
, Once the dog knows a couple commands (at least Sit and Come), you can start teaching it good manners during fetch. The Drop It command is useful for dogs that won't let go of the ball or stick, even while they're begging for you to throw it again. Here's how to train this behavior:Give the dog a toy to hold in its mouth. Choose one it likes to play fetch with.
Hold a small treat near its mouth. Pick something the dog likes, but not so much that it ignores the toy.
When the dog lets go to eat the food, say "Drop it" and pick up the toy.
Repeat until the dog starts opening its mouth as your hand approaches. When this happens, start saying "Drop it" before the toy is released.
Finally (perhaps after several 5–15 minute sessions), leave out the food and reward the dog with praise instead.
 When the dog tries to start a fetch session, throwing the ball will teach it that this method works. This isn't a problem for many dogs, but if yours wants to play fetch for 24 hours, deflect these requests with other activities. Take the dog outside instead, go for a job, or give him a belly rub. Once the dog is distracted, get its attention and start a fetch session. This shows that you are the one who decides when to play fetch, not the dog.e yourself.
 Don't let the dog determine when you play fetch. Watching her bark, whine, and jump isn't fun, but if you give in, she'll learn that it gets her what she wants.Don't give in to "one last throw" after you decide to end it.


A stern "That's enough" or "No play" command can teach some dogs to stop bothering you.This is more difficult to train, since you can only use the command while the dog is misbehaving. Try an additional signal, such as clapping your hands, to reinforce the idea.
When playing outdoors, end the play session by putting on the leash and walking calmly back inside or to the car.
 Some "ball-obsessed" dogs, including many retrievers, have trouble resisting the extreme drive to play fetch. If you've tried training for two or three weeks and you aren't happy with the results, start a fetch schedule. Play fetch only at certain times of day, in five minute sessions — or longer sessions with a break every five minutes.If you regularly visit a dog park or other play area, consider only playing fetch during those visits.


The more structured the play session is, the more likely the dog is to learn how it works. Try starting each session by saying "Playtime!," and giving the dog a set of commands: "Sit," "Stay," "Fetch," "Come," "Drop It."

