 Most supply lists don't come out until the first day, but its good to get started! Also write down the first day of school, enrollment, etc. The more organized you are, the better!;
,


For supplies you will need basic things like pencils, highlighters, book covers, 3-4 binders (or one for each class), erasers, etc., basically the same things you bought in middle school. Any teacher's requests can be picked up later.
Color coordinating by class is an awesome way to stay organized! Pink for English, green for science etc.
Read your high school books. High school is much more tougher than middle school so be prepared.
Locker organized things may be necessary (bins and things). Avoid shelving until you know how large your locker is and how far classes are from your locker (You might never need to use it!)
Pick out your backpack! Make sure it is sturdy enough to last the whole year (or at least most of it) and big enough to hold all your things. A two-strap backpack is recommended, as it is easier on the shoulders.



Find a quiet area that you can do homework, write papers, and overall think in your home. Maybe its the desk in your room or the desk under the stairs. Its entirely up to you!
Organize and make the most of this space. Its easier to work when you have a clean space.Add shelving, file boxes, drawers etc. to keep your space organized and as clutter free as possible. Many ideas found on the Internet are rather inexpensive and easy!

, Have a parent go enroll you in school or go enroll yourself(if possible, varies by school district). Pay attention to what bus you will be riding (if riding a bus) and more.
 Many of us stay up long into the morning hours in the summer and sleep until noon. Go to bed at a normal time and wake up at your regular time or a time that will give more than enough time to be up and at 'em!

, Put all your things in your backpack.
 You want to be you, unique. Pick out something that shows who you are and want to be.
 Get at least 9 hours of sleep the night before school.
 Breakfast is most important diet, choose some cereals or an omelet.

