 Exercise has been found to raise your pain tolerance. To get the benefits, you need to do regular aerobic exercise at least three times each week for thirty minutes. This exercise needs to be at a moderate to vigorous intensity.Exercise releases endorphins, which will help you not feel as much pain.
 Exercising with a friend or in a group can also increase your tolerance to pain. Being around others increases your endorphins, so you are getting benefits from the physical activity and from being social.Ask a friend to do a physical activity with you, like walking, hiking, swimming, or cycling.
Consider joining a group exercise class. Exercising with others can be more beneficial to pain management and pain tolerance than exercising alone.
 If you are suffering from pain, you may not think you can do any physical activity. However, this is not true. You can start participating in physical activities, but you may have to do it slowly at first. The more you do physical activities, the more manageable your pain will be.Start by identifying a physical activity you would like to do. This may be walking, hiking, swimming, or lifting light weights.
Come up with a measurable and achievable goal for your physical activity. This may be a time, distance, weight, or number of repetitions. For example, you may decide you want to walk a quarter of a mile today. Make sure the goal is something you can do at your current pain level.
Make a time frame to achieve the goal. This may be a few days or a week.
Then, once you hit your goal, increase it. You may make a goal to walk half a mile by the end of the week. Continue setting goals to improve your physical activity.
 If you have a pain condition, you should talk to your doctor before beginning physical activity. Talk to your doctor about your condition, which types of physical activities would be best for you, and what exercises may not be safe.You also may want to talk to your doctor about your pain tolerance and how to safely monitor your pain.
 While you exercise, you want to make sure you are not hurting yourself. Monitor your levels of pain during the exercise. Think about assigning a number to your level of pain, from one to ten. Ten is the worst, while one is the least.


You will probably feel discomfort, pain, and soreness while increasing physical activity. This will get better as you are more active.
However, if your pain increases to a seven or eight or higher, you should stop. Reduce the intensity of the exercise, change the exercise, or consult with your doctor.

