 People who push your buttons and put you into fight and flight mode regularly should be avoided until you learn stronger coping mechanisms. For some people, this may mean avoiding them long-term. All the same, it may be unrealistic to avoid all fear generators, especially if they're your boss or a family member, so practice very non-committal responses when these people begin to create fear situations and quickly and politely remove yourself from their sphere of influence. Don't explain yourself, just simply make excuses to get going.Balance the fear generators with emotional nurturers. For every fear generator, find an emotionally regenerative and calming person you know that you can turn to and unwind around. People who are good listeners, healers, carers, and good humored are generally excellent antidotes to the nastier, darker personalities out there. This isn't a time for trying to find the good side to the person who has generated your fear; deal first with calming down and building yourself up again.
Use your eyes and not your heart. Look at people to judge their real intentions and behavior. By learning to better translate body language, you will learn that much of what people say is counteracted by their body, giving you far greater insight into their real motives and even their own fears.
Studies have shown that emotion is contagious. How the people you spend time with feel rubs off on you.Fortunately, this works both ways; while spending time with people who are anxious and fearful can provoke your own fear responses, spending time with people who are calm and balanced can foster those feelings in you, too.
 When terrible things happen, there isn't a reason to force yourself to participate. Watching endless repeats of violent newscasts or disasters will increase your fear greatly and offer nothing in return than awful images and worries. Realize that doing this doesn't help the victims of such crises and it makes you feel more helpless.If a disaster does set you off, get proactive and plan how you'd be prepared for a disaster if it happened, instead of worrying your socks off.
 The four A’s are Avoid, Alter, Adapt, Accept.Different stressors require different responses. Using these techniques, depending on the situation, can really help you fight your fear response.


For example, if traffic increases your fear levels because you're worried about time, accidents, and noise, you can choose to Alter or Avoid this source of stress. Find an alternate route to drive to work that decreases your chances of being involved in traffic jams. Read How to cope with rush hour for more details. Or, see if you can take public transportation or carpool to work instead, and avoid that stress altogether.
If conflict provokes your fear response, you can Alter how you handle it or Adapt to have different expectations.Learn to reduce conflict by managing it. Instead of avoiding it, find constructive ways to cope and to assert yourself around others. Always remember that you don't have to provide explanations for excusing yourself or for standing up for yourself. You do not have to tolerate abusive people or situations.
Some sources of stress you may just need to Accept. For example, you can’t control how other people react to stress. If a person in your workplace gets all flustered over missing a big deadline and spreads that stress around your office, you can try to soothe her, but you can’t control whether she changes her behavior. You can look at this situation as an opportunity for you to grow as a person, instead., If you're highly sensitive and tend to get overwhelmed by the sights, sounds, and activity around you, until it builds up into a fearful crescendo, make an effort to take regular breaks to restore a sense of inner calm.Sit outside for a bit, go for a walk, do a short meditation, etc. In this way, hopefully you will alleviate the build-up of fear that can be triggered through any event during the day that upsets you.

