 These are available for download on the official website of the city in which the property is located.


If the property is located in Miami Beach, you can access the application here

If the property is located in Orlando, you can access the application here.
If the property is located in Jacksonville, you can access the application here

If the property is located in Tampa, you can access the application here

If the property is located in a city that is not one of the cities listed above, check the official government website of your city to access the application.;
, Begin by filling out the applicant information, which includes the address of the property and the parcel or folio number. The folio number is a 13 digit number that identifies the property, and this number is available on your property tax statement., Check the appropriate box of the type of permit you are requesting. This depends on the type of project you are carrying out. New structures require a general “building” permit. The possible permit types include:Building
Electrical
Mechanical
Plumbing
Roofing
Phased Permit
Demolition
Generator
Special Event
Fire
Elevator

, Check the appropriate box of the type of request that you are making. These options include:New Permit
Change of Contractor
Change of Architect/Engineer
Permit Extension
Permit Renewal
Permit Revision
Change of Use
Private Provider
City Project

, Check the appropriate box of the type of property that is being constructed or renovated. Your options include:Commercial
Multi-Family Residential
Residential: Single-Family Residential or Duplex

, The form asks for the square footage of the property that is being worked on and a dollar value of the work. The dollar value must be stated for component parts of the project as well as the total value of the work., The form requires providing a description of the work to be carried out. Provide a brief summary of the work that you intend to carry out. If the form is a fillable PDF (as in the case of the Miami Beach application), then you can fill out this summary online in order to save space and make the description easier to read.
 The form requires listing the names, addresses, and phone numbers of the parties responsible for the project. These parties include:Property Owner
Contractor
Architect
Structural Engineer

, The form requires signatures from the owner or lessee (if lessee is carrying out work) in the form of an affidavit that has to be signed in the presence of a notary public.
 The filled out application must be submitted with upfront fees. To submit the forms, visit the building department in your city. You may also pay upfront fees before visiting the building department by visiting this website, which is the website of an outsourced payment processor that covers a select number of cities in Florida. Check if your city is one of the ones for which this website provides online payment options. Otherwise, visit your building department.


If the property is in Miami Beach, the building department address is: Building Department, Miami Beach City Hall, 2nd Floor 1700  Convention Center Drive, Miami Beach, Florida 33139.If the property is in Orlando, the building department address is: Permitting Services, City Hall – 1st floor, 400 South Orange Avenue, Orlando, FL 32801.If the property is in Tampa, the building department address is: Construction Services, 1400 North Boulevard, Tampa FL 33607.If the property is in Jacksonville, the building department address is: Building Inspection Division, City of Jacksonville, 214 North Hogan Street, Jacksonville, FL 32202.If the property is located in a city that is not one of the cities listed above, check the official government website of your city.
 At the permit counter of the building department, submit the filled out and signed application (notarized) along with two sets of plans for review.
 If you have not paid the upfront fee online, at the time of application, you will be required to pay an upfront fee, which is a percentage of the permit fee. In Miami Beach, this upfront fee is 20% of the permit fee.You will then be issued a processing number, which you should keep safe for future reference.
 Once you submit your application and upfront fees along with your plans, the city will conduct a plan review. The waiting period of the review can vary by city. For example, residential projects can undergo a 30-day review and commercial projects a 60-day review period in Miami Beach.While you wait for the plan review process to be completed, you can check the status of your application by visiting Velocity Hall, an online portal that offers status updates of this nature for a select number of cities in a select number of states.
Check if your city is covered by Velocity Hall. Otherwise, status updates may also be available by contacting the building department of your city. You will need to provide your processing number, obtained at the time of submitting your application, for an update.
 Your application may be delayed if there are deficiencies in your plans. These deficiencies may be required to be remedied and the plans resubmitted. Address these deficiencies in plans with the relevant agencies if necessary., Depending on the nature of your building project, your plans may have to go through a number of different types of reviews. These review-types include:Building/Accessibility;
Structural;
Mechanical;
Electrical;
Plumbing;
Flood Plain Compliance;
Elevator;
Planning & Zoning;
Public Works;
Fire Prevention.
 Know that your plans may also have to be reviewed by a number of external agencies that ensure compliance with relevant legislation. These external agencies include:Environmental Resource Management (DERM);
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP);
Water & Sewer;
Florida Department of Health;
Army Corps of Engineers;
Water Management District;
Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT).
 If your plans are rejected three times, the owner, design team and reviewers will be required to meet with the Building Official before any further reviews will be allowed., Once the plan review is completed, you will be notified, at which time you can visit the relevant building department in your city to collect your building permit. Each city has its own building official from whom permits must be obtained depending on where your property is located:


If the property is in Orlando, the building department address is: Permitting Services, City Hall – 1st floor, 400 South Orange Avenue, Orlando, FL 32801.If the property is in Tampa, the building department address is: Construction Services, 1400 North Boulevard, Tampa FL 33607.If the property is in Jacksonville, the building department address is: Building Inspection Division, City of Jacksonville, 214 North Hogan Street, Jacksonville, FL 32202.If the property is located in a city that is not one of the cities listed above, check the official government website of your city.
 While you paid a percentage of the permit fee upfront, you must pay the remainder of the fee at the time of collecting your permit. Your permit will not be issued unless this balance is paid in full., Once your remaining balance is paid in full, the official at the permit counter will issue your Building Permit. Keep this permit in a safe place.

