 If the café is owned by someone who owns the actual building where the café is located, the whole purchasing process will be much easier because you’ll only have to deal with one person. If, on the other hand, the café owner is renting a space from a commercial landlord, you’ll be in a slightly trickier spot because you will have to keep two people informed about what you want, and you’ll have to make sure all three of you are on the same page every step of the way. Express to both the landlord and café owner your interest in purchasing the café.


While you technically only need to talk to the café owner to buy a café, the landlord controls the space where the café is, and can kill your business if you don’t keep him or her happy.
Maintain a polite, friendly tone when conversing with the landlord and owner.
Don’t delegate the task of keeping the landlord in the loop to the café owner or anyone else. Get the landlord’s contact information and stay in touch with him or her. You should be getting to know them now, since you’ll want to build a good working relationship with them.
If the cafe owner is just renting commercial space, you’ll probably have to take on the remainder of the café owner’s lease when you buy the café. For instance, if the café owner has a 15-year lease, and they’ve been in the space for 10 years, you’ll be expected to take on a 5-year lease when you finalize the café purchase., Your lawyer will be able to provide you with guidance about how to best go about obtaining a cafe and offer direction as to what paperwork you need. A business lawyer will help you avoid pitfalls and make your purchase as painless as possible.
 These laws vary from state to state, and can even vary by municipality within a state. Check with your local zoning department or county planning commission for more information. You should also contact your local health department to find out if they need to conduct an inspection prior to you obtaining the business.


The U.S. Small Business Administration offers a list of common licenses and paperwork small businesses need -- according to state -- at https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/state-licenses-permits.
Ensure the seller provides any tax documents that were promised.
Insist that the seller provides evidence that the business is in good standing. A letter from the Better Business Bureau or similar organization should be sufficient.
If you’re buying both the right to operate the business and the actual cafe space, keep after your realtor. They’re often juggling multiple clients at once and if they are under the impression that you’re in no rush to finalize the purchase, you’ll end up on the back burner.
Keep your landlord or realtor in the loop at all times.
 It is a non-binding document that basically lays out the terms and conditions under which you want to buy the café, including the sale price, lease agreements, and other relevant provisions. The letter of intent will show you’re a serious buyer and are ready to move forward with the purchase.


Both the café owner and landlord should receive and acknowledge the letter of intent.
Get help from a lawyer or business person familiar with business documentation to draft a letter of intent for you.
 The bill of sale should list the specific equipment, fixtures, vehicles, and appliances that are staying with you when the sale is finalized, and which are not.


Insist on keeping as many essential appliances and fixtures as possible.
Without the bill of sale, you have no legal recourse to prove that you’ve purchased the cafe.
Adjust the sale price to the adjusted purchase price. This is the pro-rated final purchase price that incorporates any taxes, utilities, or other bills the previous owner has incurred but hasn’t paid for. It should result in a slight decrease in the final sale price for you.
 If he or she does that, they might lure the customers who were faithful to your cafe away to their new business.
 Canceling the lease and drawing up a new one will cost you.Usually there will be a penalty for ending the lease early, even if you intend to stay in the same space but want to renegotiate the lease terms or get lower monthly payments.


Instead of canceling the lease, wait it out.
Most commercial leases last 10-15 years.

