 Think of perennials as the basic building blocks of your garden. They will come back each year, and they also tend to be more of a financial investment. The colors and designs you choose now will have the longest lasting impact on your garden., Decide what size to make your perennial beds based off the size of your house. A smaller house or cottage generally looks better with several smaller beds. A large house will support several larger beds around the perimeter., Dig them around your garage and house. Perennial beds can be set back further, because they require less tending, unlike annual flowers and vegetables., Use wooden stakes to mark off the corners of your garden, the wind brightly colored string around your proposed beds. It will help you visualize the look of your garden, and allow you to fine-tune your placements.
 Select sun-loving plants for sunny beds and shade-loving plants for shady spots. Research each plant and make sure that they are compatible with your hardiness zone.


Plant shade-loving plants against existing trees or shrubs.
 Many perennials can grow on rocky terrain. Include a rock garden area as part of your perennial design. This can be a great option if you are unable to weed. Look for plants that do well in a “dry garden,” with less water., Decide in advance which perennials will go into each specific bed, as well as where each perennial will be located within that bed. You can return to your online garden-planning tool to accomplish this task. Place taller plants at the back of the bed. You don’t want them shading smaller plants.
Give wider plants more space. The beds may look too empty while the plant matures, but they will fill out each season.
Intersperse different colors of plants. You can try a design with every other plant being a different color, or diagonal rows of plants that are the same color.
Plant very small plants along the borders. Some small perennial plants will also do well against paths.
You may also consider using landscape fabric as a barrier for weeds. It can be covered with mulch or rocks to keep your garden looking consistent.

