 Many of the most sought after foot models have more than just beautiful feet. They know how to use their feet to evoke emotion during a photo or video shoot to help sell a product.


Your feet may have to look like they’ve just been tickled, or your curled toes might need to convey excitement.
Practice striking poses with your feet in the mirror and quickly changing between different foot positions. On the set of a photo shoot, you want to be able to immediately follow the instructions you’re given about how your feet should look.;
, Have a professional photographer take pictures of your your feet. You can keep this portfolio organized online in a website. Include an “About Me” page or a list of your work history in modeling.


Make sure to have pictures from different angles and in various styles of lighting.
You can also include short videos in your portfolio to show potential brands how your feet move. This is especially important if you want to do commercials or other types of video advertisements.
 In turn, the agent gets a commission percentage from the model.


You can sign with multiple modeling agencies to book more jobs, when you are first beginning.
Sometimes, there are specific agencies for body part models, like foot models.
When you are just beginning to build your career, don’t sign an exclusive contract with any agency.
Always have a lawyer read any contracts that you do sign before you sign them.
 Most of these places are larger U.S. cities.


New York City and Los Angeles are the largest markets in the United States.
For example, Parts Models, located in New York, is one of the largest body parts modeling agencies in the country., Foot modeling is a niche type of work, and it may be hard at first to find steady work in just this area.


Look into modeling clothes or becoming a clothing fit model for a brand.
If you do want to model in more than one area, make sure your portfolio includes a variety of types of photos of you.
 Most foot models have similarly proportioned feet.


You need to have slender, but not overly narrow, feet with thin toes that are proportionate to each other.
Most foot models have high arches, which gives their feet a nice curve when photographed.
 To find consistent work, foot models have to take care of more than just their beautiful feet.Besides looking at your foot structures, you want to make sure you have the other features of a typical foot model.


To be a foot model, you need clear skin with no varicose veins, scars, or discoloration.
In addition to lovely feet, you need to have toned legs and slender ankles. Many shoe designers that hire foot models are concerned not only with how the feet look in the shoes but also with how the shoes make the legs look.
 In all sectors of modeling, you can be either a fashion model or a fit model. A fit model works directly with designers to make sure that shoes fit to size and look good. Fashion models work on advertisements and photo spreads with companies and designers.


Foot models can help to advertise things like shoes, ankle bracelets or toe rings, foot care products, nail polishes, or socks.Often, the feet of a foot model are photoshopped into existing adds on other models bodies.
 This should be a regular part of your skincare routine.


Use a sugar scrub to exfoliate all over your feet. You can buy a scrub or make your own with sugar and a variety of household ingredients like oil or honey.Once you have exfoliated all over your feet, use a pumice stone to gently exfoliate any problem areas further.You should exfoliate approximately once a week., Once you’ve exfoliated any dead skin on your feet, you want to moisturize to keep your skin supple and smooth. Moisturizing regularly will help you maintain photo-ready feet.


Your feet can handle a heavy moisturizing cream daily.If you have extra dry feet, you can apply a moisturizing cream at night, and then sleep in socks for more of a moisture treatment., Not only do foot models need to have beautiful feet, they also need to have articulate and strong feet, like dancers.Certain exercises can strengthen your feet.


Rub your feet or have them massaged regularly to keep their circulation good.
Flex, point, and bend your feet. You can use something like a stretchy Thera-Band to help you work out your feet., In your every day life, you want to do everything you can to keep them free of strain or marks.


When you can, wear comfortable flats.
If you do want to wear a dressier shoe, it’s best to wear something with a wedge or platform. You want your weight to be evenly distributed. Open-toed shoes that don’t pinch are best.

