 Place about one cup of raw, unflavored oats into a blender, food processor or coffee grinder. No need to get too fancy—the kind of normal packaged oatmeal you’d find at the supermarket will work just fine. Blend the oats until they reach a very fine, powdered texture. This will help them dissolve more easily in the bath.The oatmeal particles must be very small in order to spread through the bathwater without simply sinking to the bottom of the tub.
If you’re not sure whether the oatmeal has been ground fine enough, try testing it by blending about a tablespoon into a bowl of warm water. If the water becomes a uniform, milky color, the oatmeal will dissolve in the bath.;
, Run a warm bath. Once the oatmeal has reached a fine enough consistency (meaning it will successfully blend with the water), shake the powder into the bathtub as it fills. If you wish, you can also incorporate other additives at this point, such as whole milk to soften skin, sea salt to exfoliate or essential oils to moisturize and provide a pleasant fragrance.


Roughly one cup of ground oatmeal, along with any other additives of your choosing, will be the perfect amount to add to a full bathtub.Try combining the oatmeal with essential oils that soothe and nourish your skin., Run your hand through the bath water until the oatmeal powder and other additives are completely dissolved. The water will begin to take on a milky appearance. This is a good thing, as it means that the oatmeal has been evenly distributed throughout.The loose oatmeal may create a thin film in the bathtub once it has been drained.
 Climb into the bath. The powdered oatmeal will make the bath extra slippery, so be careful. Relax and soak until the water has cooled to room temperature. If you feel somewhat sticky when you're done, rinse yourself off with clean warm water after you get out of the bath. Use a towel to gently pat yourself dry and ensure that the oatmeal remains under the surface of the skin to provide a protective barrier.For people with persistent ailments like chickenpox, taking multiple oatmeal baths a day can provide much needed comfort.

