 The idea that rabbits can happily live out their days in a 2'x3' cage and eat nothing but pellets and carrots is a myth that hurts and even kills a large percentage of pet rabbits. Rabbits require unrestricted and unlimited access to timothy hay (or alfalfa hay, if the rabbit is under a year old), which can be expensive and messy.


Since rabbits eat a lot of food, they also go to the bathroom a lot, and while rabbit poop is not particularly gross (since they're herbivores), it does have a tendency to get everywhere and the rabbit's cage and litter box will need to be cleaned often.
Rabbits also need space to run around, so you will have to either provide a fenced-in pen with sufficient space or rabbit-proof your apartment and let your pet run around for at least a few hours every day, if your landlord will allow it.;
, A healthy rabbit can live for around 10 years; they are not a short-term commitment by any means. If you have children, take into account that rabbits are a lot more fragile and less cuddly than you may have been led to believe, and they are not appropriate "starter pets" for kids who don't know how to handle them.


You will also have to clean up their living space at least every other day or so, and they tend to chew on things like furniture and carpet, which is annoying anywhere but can be particularly costly if you live in an apartment.
That said, rabbits do make great pets, especially for people with limited space and time to deal with a larger animal like a cat or a dog. They are affectionate, entertaining, and some (but not all!) enjoy being cuddled. They also don't smell or make much noise, which makes them particularly great pets for apartment-dwellers.
 Let your landlord know that you're planning on getting one if you want to be absolutely sure that everything is okay. Also, start rabbit-proofing your apartment just to be on the safe side.
 If you are not going to let your rabbit run around your whole apartment, purchase a dog exercise pen and some appropriate flooring (outdoor carpet works well; you don't need to install it in the apartment, but set it under the pen like a rug) so that your rabbit will have room to exercise.
 Rabbits come in all shapes, sizes, and temperaments; take some time to research what kind of rabbit you want and how large a rabbit you can comfortably house. Also, consider obtaining your rabbit from a rescue organization instead of a pet store. Pet store rabbits may be cheaper, but they are often sold too young (resulting in them being timid, antisocial, and/or dangerous for most of their lives) and do not tend to live very long due to various breeding-related health issues. Additionally, a pet store will not usually give you time to get to know your potential pet, whereas rescue centers almost always do.
 You will want to bring a small towel-lined pet cage with you to pick up your rabbit. If at all possible, try to bring your new rabbit home in a car (as opposed to taking public transportation), as your rabbit will likely be scared and a bit stressed and loud, confusing places will not help. Don't make any unnecessary stops on the way home and make sure the car is not too hot; rabbits are very sensitive to heat and it will only exacerbate an uncomfortable situation. When you get back to your apartment, give your rabbit some hay and leave it alone to settle in.
 Rabbits who are "fixed" tend to live longer, have fewer health problems, be less aggressive, and also won't spray urine to mark their territory as much, which is good news for your apartment's carpet and baseboards.
 This will make your life with your new rabbit considerably easier and cleaner. Rabbits like to go to the bathroom in corners, so this may be a good place to put your litterbox (and look out for messes there in the meantime). Give your rabbit a small treat when you see them using their litterbox, and eventually, they should start to go to the bathroom there every time.
 If you don't want to buy anything, cardboard tubes (from toilet paper or paper towels) make great bunny enrichment toys.
 Provide it with an appropriate and well-balanced diet, clean its litterbox and cage at least every other day, and spend some time with your rabbit every day. Hopefully, your rabbit will be your closest companion for years to come, and will thrive in its new home in your apartment.

