 Videos that have a clear purpose are more popular and interesting than ones with random, unrelated bits of content. Below is a list of popular topics to consider:


A straightforward playthrough
A demonstration of specific abilities, gear, or achievements
Providing a guide/instructions for other players
Telling an entertaining story through characters within the game
Creating a music video featuring your character;
, The style of video you create should be appropriate for your audience. The player base for World of Warcraft includes both children and adults. This means that there is a wide range of people who may come across your video.


An instructional video, for instance, should not use advanced language or concepts because the viewer may become confused, which defeats the purpose of an instructional video.
 Sound is an important part of video production. The sound you choose to incorporate into your video should fit the purpose. A demonstration video with music rather than vocalized instructions could turn away potential viewers.


If you are recording your own audio, be sure to minimize background noise as much as possible. A few ways to do this without a professional noise-reducing microphone include closing doors, informing others when you will be recording, and shutting off any appliances that make noticeable background noise.
 A video will not become popular if it contains false information. Whether it be lore, ability statistics, or important dates, it is always important to ensure the validity of your content before publishing a video.
 To create a video, you must have the proper recording software. Open Broadcaster Software (OBS) is one such software, designed to record and stream games for free.


To get this software, open an Internet browser and head to www.obsproject.com.
 Right-click the “Download” button in the bottom-right corner of the scrolling banner, and select “Open in new tab” from the drop-down menu. Do not left-click as it may produce an error message instead of downloading the EXE file.
 Once you’ve finished downloading the installer, go to your Downloads folder and double-click on the file named “OBS_0_625b_Installer.”

, Click “Next” in the bottom-right corner of the introduction screen, and after reviewing the license agreement, select “I agree,” also located in the bottom-right corner. This will begin the installation.


After the software is installed, select the “Finish” button in the bottom of the window. The program will automatically open once it has finished installing.
 Go to Settings in menu bar at the top of the screen and choose the Broadcast Settings tab. Change the mode drop-down option to “File output only,” and then set the directory box that will appear under it to the location you want to save the video.


This is where your recorded files will be saved each time you end a recording.
 Head back to the main screen of OBS, right-click the “Sources” list box at the bottom of the screen, scroll over “Add,” and select what source you would like to record from. To record World of Warcraft, there are a few options available:


Window Capture—This is useful if you are playing the game in windowed mode.
Monitor Capture—This mode will capture everything happening on your screen whilst recording.
Video Capture Device—A common component of gameplay videos involving a picture-in-picture display showing the player’s actions and expressions alongside the game they are playing. This mode will not record the game itself but will record the player using a webcam, which can add a personalized touch to a video. If you choose to use this option, you will have to add another source to simultaneously record the game.
Game Capture—This will record only what happens in the game, even if the game is minimized on your computer.
 Depending on which source you chose, a menu will come up containing a few settings specific to that source. These can be left at default unless you want to hide your mouse by clicking the check box at the top of the menu or change the brightness in the video using the slider in the center of the menu.


Click “OK” in the bottom right after reviewing these settings.
 Recording video is a memory-consuming task for a computer. If you do not have a machine capable of recording and processing graphics at the same time, then it is recommended to turn your game settings down to accommodate the memory being used to record video.


If your computer is capable of recording and processing graphics at the same time, you may skip this as well as the next step; however, skipping these two steps is not recommended.
 Be sure to shut down any unnecessary programs to free up as much memory as possible. This will ensure that the game will run smoothly and produce a high-quality video.
 To begin recording, click “Start Recording” at the bottom-right corner of the OBS menu.


It may take a while for the recording to actually begin and appear in the preview window.
 Once the recording has begun, open the World of Warcraft window and start playing.
 To end the recording, click the “Stop Recording” button that replaces “Start Recording.”

, Many videos contain content that is unnecessary, such as the character standing around waiting while the player is setting things up. These segments can be edited out to condense the file and make the video more interesting. This can be done using video-editing software that is included with the Windows OS, such as Windows Movie Maker.


Open Windows Movie Maker and select the box that reads “Click here to browse videos and photos.”
Select the footage you would like to edit, and click “Open” in the bottom-right corner.
Play the video, and when you see the beginning of the part you would like to cut, select the “Split” button on the bottom right of the video preview. This will split the video into sections.
Continue playing the video until the end of the part you wish to remove. Then select “Split” again.
Select the section in the middle that was just created, then hit Backspace on your keyboard to delete it.
 Open an Internet browser and type in www.YouTube.com to head to the YouTube website.
 Do this by entering your username and password into the fields provided.
 Click “Upload” at the top-right corner then click the symbol in the center of the screen and select your video file. The video will automatically begin uploading; just wait for it to finish.
 Once the video is finished uploading, click “Publish” at the top-right corner to share it with the YouTube community.

