 R.I.C.E. stands for Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. This principle can be used at home to treat forearm Tendinitis and should be practiced on a daily basis for the best results., Resting the muscles in the affected tendons is crucial to treating Tendinitis, especially in athletes.Athletes who continue to push through tendon pain risk escalating their injury from the acute inflammation phase to chronic Tendinitis, which is much harder to treat.Avoid in sports or strenuous physical activity. Don’t try to play through the pain.
Small amounts of activity can still be done by patients with forearm tendinitis. Complete abstinence from using the affected area can cause muscle stiffness. Try low impact activities like swimming and gentle stretches to keep your muscles active without putting too much stress or use on them., Use an ice pack, wrapped in a towel, or give your forearm an ice massage, or a slush bath with ice and water. This will decrease the pain, muscle spasms, and swelling of your forearm.To apply an ice massage, freeze a plastic foam cup of water. Hold the cup while applying the ice directly to the skin of your forearm.
You can use frozen bag of vegetables such as peas.
 Swelling can result in a loss of motion in the injured joint. Use a compression wrap or a compressive elastic bandage (available at any pharmacy) on your forearm until it appears less swollen., Elevating your forearm will help to reduce the pain and swelling. Raise the affected forearm above the level of your heart on a chair or a stack of pillows., Ibuprofen, Aspirin or other anti-inflammatory medication will help with the pain and swelling in the short term (five to seven days).Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) is a very effective pain reliever and anti-inflammatory medication. You can usually take two pills at a time, and repeat every four to six hours.
Naproxen sodium (Aleve) is another anti-inflammatory medication. You may take this every 12 hours as needed for pain and swelling.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is another effective pain reliever that can be used to ease the discomfort associated with forearm tendinitis.

