 Bring your legs in and sit cross-legged, and make sure your knees aren’t at a level any higher than your hips (sitting on the blankets will help with this). Don’t let your chest sink down: hold your chest out and pull your shoulders back.Hold this pose for several minutes, and feel the stretch working through your quads, hips, and lower back.
Alternate the pose: switch up which shin is crossed in front of the other.
It might seem too simple to just sit crossed-legged, but this pose is an excellent way to get your stretching routine started.;
, While sitting, bend your knees and bring the soles of your feet together. Drop your knees as far to the floor as possible. Don’t force your knees, but open where your thighs and hips meet and allow these two joints to work together toward the floor. Bring your heels in toward your pelvis as far as is comfortable.Keep stretching for 30 seconds, continuing to breathe as you do so.
As in the easy pose, lengthen your chest and keep the shoulders back.
Use your breathing to control the stretch. Feel the stretch work through your inner and upper thighs, hamstrings, buttocks, and lower back.
 Sit on the floor with your legs together in front of you. If possible, keep the back of your knees to the floor. Inhale, and flex your feet by drawing your toes toward your torso. Exhale, and reach for your toes with your hands, keeping your back and core straight.


Sit against a wall with a towel rolled between the wall and your lower back if you need support.
 Lay on your back with your arms flat by your sides, knees bent, and your feet flat on the floor shoulder distance apart. Inhale slowly; as you exhale, lift your buttocks by pressing your arms and feet into the floor, tucking your sternum to your chin as you lift. Your buttocks and thighs should be parallel to the floor, and your knees should be directly over your heels and bent at a 90 degree angle.The short bridge is a great beginner flexibility exercise that stretches the lower back and quads, and strengthens the buttocks and hamstrings.Hold the pose for 5 seconds as you slowly exhale, then inhale as you come back to the floor. Keep breathing slowly and hold the pose for 30 seconds to a minute if you’re able.
Use a yoga mat if you have one, and place a rolled up towel under your neck if it makes you more comfortable.
Avoid this pose if you have recently injured your back or neck, unless your doctor, physical therapist, or chiropractor recommends it.

