 Eraser, a program recommended by security experts, installs an option in the right-click menu that allows you to securely delete (“wipe”) any file or folder with a click.You can also use Eraser to fill the space that once housed your older deleted files with brand new data.


The installer will download to your default download folder (usually called “Downloads”).;
, Double-click the Eraser installer, then accept the license agreement. Choose “Complete” as your setup type, click “Next,” and finally, “Install.” When you see a box with a Finish button, click it to complete the installation.



To select multiple files or folders at once, hold down the Ctrl key as you click their names.
 This will wipe the files from your computer completely, bypassing the recycle bin. This can take several minutes, depending computer speed and file size.


You can also delete entire folders this way.
 To make sure sensitive data you deleted at a previous time is completely wiped from your computer, you can completely wipe all of your previously deleted files by creating and running a new task in Eraser. Press ⊞ Win+S to launch the Windows search box, then type Eraser into the blank. When you see “Eraser” appear in the search results, click it to launch the program.


Running Eraser on the drive can take several hours, depending on your computer and drive size. You can use the computer while the process runs, but it might be slow. You may want to run it overnight.
 Erasure methods are specific patterns that are filled in to replace the data left over from deleted files. Different methods run the patterns several times (each instance is called a “pass”) to ensure that the data is truly wiped forever. You’ll need to select an option for both "Default file erasure method” and “Default unused space erasure method.”

, “US Army” and “Air Force” provide fast but effective wiping. While other options have higher passes (some up to 35 passes), 3-pass methods like 'US Army" and "Air Force" provide some extra insurance. Click “Save Settings” when you’re done.
, Because the files have already been deleted, select “Unused Disk Space” and choose your main hard drive from the list. Click “OK.”

, To ensure that Eraser runs without issue, close all open programs except for Eraser.
 Click on the task you just created (it should say “Unused Disk Space”) and select “Run Now.” A progress bar will appear, showing you the progress of the task. When the process is complete, the progress bar will reach 100%. At that point, the files you deleted earlier will be wiped from the hard drive.

