 As with talent agents, many talent managers were once performers themselves or connected to the entertainment industry in some way, such as being an acting teacher, producer or theater critic. Still other talent managers were previously talent agents who decided to focus on building the careers of their most successful clients.;
, The part of the entertainment world that interests you most should be the area for which you have the greatest affinity. If music is your passion, you'll want to work with musicians; if you love the theater, you'll want to work with actors. If you have multiple interests, you may want to work with multi-talented performers.


You should also identify the kinds of personalities you are comfortable working with. While talent agents may represent a large number of clients on behalf of their agency, talent managers usually represent an individual or a group of individuals. In some respects, managing a performer is akin to being married to that performer.
 There is no formal coursework in how to be a talent manager, but you can learn many of the skills you need through formal study. College coursework in marketing, communications, public relations and human resources will make you a more capable talent manager, and studies in the fine arts will give you an understanding of the creative minds you'll be working with.


You can supplement your training with independent study. If you want to manage actors in film, it's helpful to have seen popular and enduring movies, such as those on the American Film Institute's Top 100 list. If you want to manage musicians, develop a working knowledge of the music business through reading industry publications such as "Billboard." You'll need this knowledge to pass it on to the talent you help develop.
 Get your foot in the door with a talent management firm or booking agency. If you can't find a talent manager to work with right away, you can also learn the business by working for producers, directors or casting directors. Regardless of where you start, observe as much as you can of how the business of managing talent works.


Depending on what kind of talent you choose to manage, you may want to move to one of the major cities that deal in such talent, such as New York City or Los Angeles for actors or Nashville for musicians. Even so, you can learn a great deal from talent managers in smaller cities before making the move.
 As you gain more experience, look for the chance to assist in evaluating scripts, planning tours or developing promotional packages. Eventually, you may be given complete charge over a client.
 Joining an organization such as the Talent Managers Association (TMA) gives you the chance to learn more about the business from your colleagues, as well as network for opportunities. The TMA maintains an online registry of its members, who are required to follow the association's code of ethics.

