 Bacteria, dust, or other undesirable elements may have contaminated your mister in the factory, during packaging, or in transit. You should always follow the care instructions for best results, but in most cases you can clean your mister by screwing off its top, removing its inner pump mechanism, and then:


Using warm, soapy water to clean all parts of the mister, inside and out. This includes the top and pump mechanism.
Allowing the mister to air dry completely before moving on, or pat your mister dry with clean paper towel or a dishcloth to speed the drying process.;
, You can use most oils, like olive oil, grapeseed oil, and similar oils, in your oil mister. Oils that have floating ingredients should be avoided, as these could cause the sprayer of your mister to clog.


Additionally, you may want to avoid coconut oil. This oil tends to solidify over time, and could contribute to clogs., Now that oil is in your clean mister, you can reassemble all the parts. In most cases, this will involve inserting a pump mechanism that is usually plastic into the oil and screwing a top in place.


Make sure that all parts of your mister fit together securely and snugly. Gaps can cause air pressure to leak out, in which case your mister won't work., In some cases, a primer lever may be located on the screw on cap, but in most cases, you'll use a special priming cap to build up air pressure so your mister can spray. Use the primer lever or priming cap to pump up and down until it becomes difficult to pump.


Most oil misters only require 7 to 10 pumps before they are ready to spray. However, the kind of oil you are using can influence the number of pumps necessary., Remove the priming cap, if necessary. Then hold your mister so the nozzle is pointed in the direction you wish to spray oil. Press and hold the top button on your mister firmly to apply the spray.


Depending on your model, when you finish spraying, you may need to press a button or turn the cap to a special position to relieve the remaining air pressure in your mister.