 Emotional abuse can take many different forms, but you may be engaging in emotional abuse if you are projecting your feelings onto your child and taking those feelings out on him or her. For example, if you are feeling angry about something, then you might project those feelings by being overly critical of your child’s clothing. Some other types of emotional abuse include:humiliating your child in front of others
negating your child’s feelings or ideas
being overly controlling of your child’s choices
causing your child to feel ashamed
making unreasonable demands of your child
giving your child the silent treatment
being overly involved in your child’s personal life;
, Discounting your child’s emotions and not acknowledging his or her right to feel sad, angry, or other emotions can be abusive.To avoid engaging in this sort of emotional abuse, make sure that you acknowledge your child’s emotions and try to comfort him or her instead of telling him or her to stop feeling his or her feelings.


For example, if your child is crying, don’t command him or her to “Stop crying!”
Instead, try asking your child some questions to find out what is wrong. You might say something like, “I am sorry you are so upset. Do you want to tell me about it?”

, Not listening to your child is a form of emotional abuse.Good listening skills are essential to every relationship, especially your relationship with your children. Don’t ignore your children when they are talking. Be willing to sit down and give them your full attention.


For example, don’t focus on your cell phone, television, or computer when your child is talking. Also, don’t change the subject when they are telling you about something that is important to them.
Instead, give your child your full attention by putting away all distractions, facing your child, and making eye contact. You can also ask questions to show that you are interested, such as, “What happened next?” or “How did that make you feel?”

, Putting your child down and ignoring your child altogether are forms of emotional abuse.Instead, try to build up your child’s self-esteem. You can build up your child’s self-esteem by encouraging your child, telling your child that you believe in his or her abilities, and pointing out your child’s strengths. Look for little opportunities every day to build up your child’s self-esteem.


For example, you could tell your child he or she did a good job of cleaning up his or her toys. Or, if your child has a big test one day at school, then build up your child by saying something like, “I believe in you and I know that you will do well!”
You could also point out your child’s strengths if he or she is feeling down, such as by saying, “You are a talented artist and you are a kind caring person.”

, Being critical of your child is another form of emotional abuse, so do your best to stop this kind of behavior.If you tend to dismiss or discount your child’s thoughts and feelings, then this is a form of emotional abuse. Criticism can also take the form of put-downs and insults, such as telling your child that he or she looks ridiculous in his or her clothes.


Instead of putting down your child, try to build him or her up, even if you feel like being critical. For example, if you have the urge to criticize the outfit that your daughter has chosen for school, you might say something like, “You have such a unique style! I am sure that your friends are going to love that!”
You might also find it helpful to develop more empathy for your child. This means taking your child’s perspective and imagining how you would feel if a parent had said the same thing to you. For example, if a parent told you that you looked stupid, would you feel hurt, angry, frustrated? Imagine the effects of what you want to say before you speak.
 Children need routine and normalcy to thrive, so it is important to build a good routine for them. You can do this by providing a home with a consistent, stable, and nurturing environment. This will help to reduce the potential for child harm.Some things you can do to establish a healthy routine for your children include:



Providing three healthy meals per day.

Putting your child to bed at the same time every night.
Ensuring that your child goes to school every day.
Providing a clean living space and clean clothing for your child to wear every day.
Setting aside time for your child to play and providing age-appropriate toys and activities.
 Creating healthy relationships with your partner and other adult household members may help to break the larger cycle of abuse within a family.This means that by modeling positive communication techniques for your children, your children will be less likely to end up in abusive relationships later on or abuse others themselves. Some things you can do to improve your relationships with the adult members of your household include:Being a good listener, such as by giving your full attention, making eye contact and nodding, and asking questions if something is unclear to you.

Performing random acts of kindness for the people you live with, such as bringing home a small surprise for someone to brighten his or her day.

Showing respect for others, such as by giving someone space when they ask to be left alone.

Empathizing or putting yourself in someone else’s shoes to better understand their thoughts and feelings.
 Children need to hear that violence in the home is wrong. Talk to your children about how to resolve conflict and maintaining healthy relationships.For example, tell your child, “Karen, you know that no one has the right to hurt you, right? You can always talk to me or another adult you trust if someone treats you badly.”


Teach children that certain body parts are private, and that no one should ask to see or touch them.
Remind your child that no adult should ask them to keep secrets.
Supervise your child’s school and extracurricular activities and involvement with older children and adults., It is important to find non-violent ways to resolve your conflicts with the adult members of your household and with your child. Respond consistently and calmly to your child’s behavior. Children thrive when they understand expectations and have firm boundaries.Work on improving your communication with other adult members of your household and with your children so that you can discuss your problems rather than trying to solve them physically. Effective communication strategies can help families problem-solve and avoid the potential for abusive behavior.Don’t tolerate physical fights or name-calling between siblings or other adults in the household.Help your children express their feelings about being angry or upset. For example, you can say “You’re upset because we have to get in the car to go to school. You wish you could stay home and play longer.”Use alternatives to physical discipline such as time-outs or family conversations.Have family meetings, communicate clearly and directly, and practice active listening to improve the quality of the family relationship as a whole., Understanding the risk factors that can contribute to child abuse is an important part of ending the cycle. Feeling like you don't understand your child's behavior or what to do in different situations with your child can be a risk factor.Being aware of your risk factors can help you to identify areas where you might need improvement in caring for your child. If your family history contains any of these issues, then seek education and counseling to implement change. Other risk factors for child abuse include:Substance abuse
Financial stress
A family history of physical or sexual abuse, family disorganization, and violence
Mental health issues
Concentrated neighborhood disadvantage

, Being a parent is challenging and sometimes it can be incredibly frustrating. Parenting classes help caregivers learn to deal with parental frustration to help reduce the risk of child abuse and neglect.If you are interested in learning some more effective parenting strategies, then look for a parenting class in your area.


You might also consider signing up for a home visitation program through your state’s child welfare services department. These programs offer a variety of family services, and can address issues of maternal and child health, positive parenting strategies, safe home environments and other services., If you are experiencing any kind of abuse, physical, emotional, or sexual, then it is important to tell someone who can help you, such as a teacher, school nurse, counselor, neighbor, or parent.. If you are unsure, it’s always OK to ask a trusted adult or friend about what you are experiencing.Know that you do not deserve abuse, and no one has the right to abuse you. It is not your fault.A kid who is being seriously hurt or harmed needs to tell a trusted adult immediately.To ask an adult for help, you can say “May I talk to you about something private?” You can explain what is happening and tell the adult you need help reporting the abuse.It is an adult’s responsibility to help kids who are being abused.It is okay to be scared, angry, or upset. Getting help is the bravest thing you can do to handle what is happening to you., It may not be easy to leave home, but you can contact a child abuse helpline for help in finding safe shelters if necessary. Or, ask to stay with a trusted relative or friend.Avoid being alone with the person that hurts you if possible.Memorize important phone numbers such as those of other friends or family you can call for help.
Have a plan for who you will call or talk to first if someone is yelling at you, trying to hurt you, touching you inappropriately or asking you to touch them, asking you to keep secrets that make you feel uncomfortable or scared, or if you are not getting proper care at home., There are a number of non-profit organizations dedicated to preventing abuse that offer immediate help. You can call them on the phone to be connected with a trained volunteer who can help you.Call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453) then push 1 to talk to a counselor. The hotline counselors are available 365 days a year to help kids, and adults who are worried about kids they suspect are being abused. You can call this number if you live in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam or the U.S. Virgin Islands.The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (1-800-THE-LOST) has a 24-hour a day hotline.
 If you or a child you know is in immediate danger from physical or sexual abuse, call 911. Do not hesitate or wait. Emergency situations include imminent threats of violence, acts of violence, or if someone’s life is in danger.


Each state has a system to receive and respond to reports of child abuse.Find your state’s contact information to report abuse at the Child Welfare Information Gateway, part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.Take legal action if necessary. Seek the advice of a lawyer if you need more information on child protective orders, restraining orders, or other legal actions such as assault or child custody. Contact your state’s legal aid services, or legal non-profit organizations such as LawHelp.org to find resources., If you or another child in your family experiences abuse, seek immediate family and individual counseling. Cognitive and behavioral therapy, including group therapy, can help survivors deal with the effects of abuse. For children over the age of two, play therapy is an excellent therapeutic treatment to help resolve the trauma from abuse.For people who identify as abusive, or who are concerned about their own behaviors, they can contact an organization like The National Domestic Violence Hotline for recommendations and next steps., Healing from abuse can take time and work. Talking professional therapists can help you find support.Sharing your story when you are ready can help you move on and improve your quality of life.
A therapist can help you overcome traumatic memories, find healing, and regulate the strong emotions stemming from being an abuse survivor., Experiencing abuse can be very stressful and traumatizing, but there are ways to cope. Practice self-care – read a good book, listen to music, exercise, or do something that you enjoy.Take deep breaths when you get anxious. Try breathing deeply and focusing on something else you enjoy.Practice calming techniques. Combat anger and stress with meditation.Establish a routine. Resuming your normal activities like going to school, regular meals, and time for play, sports, and leisure can help you resume your life after the disruption of abuse.Form supportive relationships and talk to people you trust about your feelings and needs.Ask your trusted adults about getting professional help and therapy. Talking to someone who is trained to help kids cope with abuse can help you get back to normal and feel safe.>, Surround yourself with people who love and support you. Although it may be tough to reach out, connecting with others is key to recovering from the trauma of abuse. You can say something like, “Sarah, I’m having trouble coping with some feelings. Would you be willing to sit and talk with me about what I’m going through?”


Your support network can be formal or informal – either consisting of a therapist, an established support group, your physician or other professionals, or simply your friends and family., Many survivors of abuse find it effective to join a support group. Sharing your story and hearing others’ stories can help you find strength and support.Your physician can recommend resources to find a group or you can contact one of the abuse hotlines listed above.
 These can be safe places for those who have experienced emotional, physical, or sexual abuse. You can share your story anonymously, chat with other community members, and discuss coping strategies.Practice online safety and privacy. Never give out personal information such as your address, phone number, personal photographs, or other confidential details about yourself.Be aware of triggers. Reading and talking with other people about their abuse stories can bring up your own traumatic memories and flashbacks. By identifying triggers, you can also work on overcoming them and taking away their power over you.Focus on support and positivity. Avoid reading or discussing aspects of abuse that don’t help your recovery and mental health.

