 You may not know who he really is, but you do know and listen to his music. Getting to know him is a good first step to becoming his fan. You may:


Read his page on Wikipedia
Visit and read his bio and blogs about him all over the internet, from Google search results to every other site including his official website
;
, Buy his singles and albums on iTunes or Amazon or whatever music store. Just make sure you do not "steal" or illegally download his music! He has a few mixtapes you may get for free, but buy first, then you'll get those mixtapes.
 He's got a nice natural voice that you'll never get enough of. Fall in love with all of his music and don't forget about him too. Listen to him daily, repeatedly and stay tuned.
 Staying tuned will help you discover more of his great music and him himself as well. You can do this by:


Liking his page on Facebook
Following him on Twitter
Joining his YouTube channel
Signing up for his newsletter from his official website

, As a fan, you want to show support towards him. Make sure to:


Bookmark his website on your internet browser
Like and comment on his Facebook posts
Tweet about him and re-tweet and favorite his tweets on Twitter

Buy his music, on iTunes or Amazon or wherever, and support it by sharing it with potential listeners
Request his songs for radio air plays, on your local radio stations or online, and vote for chart performances whenever available-for his music.
Attend his shows, concerts, etc and be willing to support his tours

,, Write them out and decorate the paper with appropriate illustrations.
 If you can't find photos in current music magazines since he is hardly a hot topic these days, you can search online and print out images. Be warned, his own website hasn't been update since December 2014.
 Go to an imaginary Mario concert, be in yet another Step Up movie with him, play football, go horse riding, whatever you want. If you are a Mario fan, one thing you can do to show your fanship is while away time imagining entertaining scenarios involving you both.

