 Advertise in newspapers, online ads, put signs up, and give flyers. If you have experience in child care, solicit coworkers and contacts to see if they are interested in providing nanny service or if they know others who would. Also keep in mind if someone does not want a flyer they are not interested so don't bug them they might spread the word, ruining your business.;
, There are several online companies that can provide a professional background check that includes criminal history and residence information. You can do some investigative work yourself online too. Once you gather enough evidence to tell they are not a good service, you won't have to think about one more team. Many counties offer online sources to check property and criminal records for free. Ask for personal records and check them. Google each candidate and look for social networking sites and general online information to see if anything raises a red flag. It's important to do thorough checks and reject a candidate who seems dishonest or criminal. The safety of the children under the nannies' care is ultimately your responsibility. Besides that, one bad experience can ruin your nanny agency's reputation. Make sure the applicants sign a form authorizing you to run background checks.
 Come up with a list of general interview questions that will give you some information about the applicant's work history and general personality. Make sure they have experience in childcare services and a general personality that is fun but firm for dealing with children. Find candidates who have some early childhood education and have CPR and other safety training.
 Apply for local and state licenses. Register your nanny agency with the Internal Revenue Service.
 Find out whether you need to set up your company as a corporation. Get information about what insurance you need.
 Start by determining what wages your nannies demand, and work in a commission fee for yourself. Remember to account for your expenses like background checks and advertising. Offer discounts for full time service and other incentives.
 Use Craigslist, your local newspaper, and online forums that attract mothers of young children. Have business cards printed and hang them up on bulletin boards in grocery stores, toy stores and other facilities.
 Talk about the childcare services you provide, give a general idea of the cost and stress that your nannies are screened and qualified. As your business grows, add statements from happy clients and nanny profiles.
 It's helpful to have all information about the nannies entered into a spreadsheet or database. When you get a call from a client, it will be easy to find a nanny with the best experience and schedule for the situation.

