 If the air in your bedroom is dry, this can worsen your psoriasis. If your psoriasis get itchier at night, this can make it difficult to sleep. A dry room can be fixed by purchasing a humidifier.You can buy a humidifier online or at a local department store. Keep it in your room at night, especially during the winter as air tends to get dryer.
 Taking a warm bath can help to soothe irritated skin. Try adding some colloidal oatmeal, Epsom salts, or bath oil to the water. Use lukewarm water, not hot water to avoid drying out your skin. Soak in the water for 15 to 20 minutes before bedtime each night., Getting too much sun can cause psoriatic flare-ups, but a small amount of sunlight can help to keep your psoriasis under control. Try going for an afternoon or evening walk to get a bit of sun, or simply sit outside in the sunlight for about 10 to 15 minutes.Apply sunscreen if you will be in the sun for more than a few minutes.
 Moisturize your body in areas where psoriasis tend to flare up, such as your feet, hands, and arms. Make sure to moisturize near bedtime, as this will keep your skin from drying out overnight. Dry, itchy skin can affect your sleep.If your psoriasis is particularly bad, talk to your doctor about a prescription skin cream.
 Alcohol can make psoriasis worse, so it is best to avoid it.Alcohol can also disrupt your sleep, so this is another good reason to avoid it.If you often have a drink in the evening, then you might consider switching to herbal tea. Talk to your doctor if you are having a hard time avoiding alcohol.
 For some, psoriasis can cause major disruptions of your sleep cycle. Tracking your sleep issues can help as you can pinpoint specific problems to address. A sleep log can also help you see if any factors worsen your sleep issues.Keep a log where you track things like how long it took you to fall asleep and the quality of your sleep. In addition to this, note the activities you did in and around bedtime.
If you notice anything that seems to make sleep work, cut that activity out. For example, maybe you tend to struggle to sleep more when you exercise near bedtime. Try exercising earlier in the day.
 If you're consistently having trouble sleeping due to your psoriasis, talk to your doctor about your treatment options. They may be able to prescribe you certain medications to help with skin irritation or sleep. Sleep is important to your overall health so it's important to address the issue if your psoriasis are keeping you up at night.Other medical treatment options for psoriasis include:


Prescription topical treatments.
Oral or injected medications, such as biologics.

Light therapy.

