 Legal costs include all phone calls, emails and other correspondence related to your case; conferences with you, potential witnesses and other attorneys assisting with the case; meetings with investigators; preparation and research time; interaction with opposing attorneys; and court appearances. If you are paying your attorney hourly, you will be charged for all of your attorney’s time.


Additionally, you will be required to pay any filing fees, expert witness fees or court costs.
If you retain your attorney on a contingency fee basis, you will not be required to pay legal fees unless you obtain a settlement in your case. However, you are still responsible for paying any court costs, including filing fees, fees for copies and fees for any expert witnesses.
 Your attorney will need documents and information from you. Prompt responses to your attorney's requests will prevent unnecessary reminder calls and letters that cost you additional fees. Return all calls from your attorney's office as soon as possible. Your attorney likely works on many other cases.


You will be charged fees every time your attorney needs to refresh his memory regarding your case, make reminder calls or create reminder letters.
 Putting your case together could require copying a number of documents, obtaining records and waiting to file documents with the court. You can ask your attorney about completing some of these or similar tasks yourself to cut down on expenses.
 It will keep you on track regarding your questions and concerns, which will make the meeting shorter and less costly.
 Your matter may last several months or even years. By taking notes you can refer back to them, rather than contacting your attorney to refresh your memory.


Create a journal. Keep the journal near the phone when you speak to your attorney and take the journal with you to legal meetings so you can take notes.
Date the journal entries, so you know when the conversations with your attorney take place.
 You will receive documents, court papers and letters from your attorney's office. Keeping all the correspondence from your attorney's office in one central and organized place will prevent you from asking for copies of your file.
 Don't change your mind about what you want the outcome to be. Continued changes may require your attorney to change the way he works on your case, which will cost more money. Your attorney will prioritize his work on your case based on the outcome you want to achieve. Most legal settlements are based on a series of compromises between the parties. The outcome you want is used by your attorney to negotiate and compromise to meet your desired conclusion.


This includes having realistic expectations for the outcome of your case based on your attorney’s expertise.
 Do not correspond with your attorney by email, phone or in person every time you are upset about how your legal matter is affecting your life. Your attorney must respond to the correspondence. He or she will then charge you for the time it takes to respond, even though the correspondence isn't relevant to your legal issues.


Even if you pay your attorney on a flat-fee basis, do not call just to talk or otherwise discuss matters not directly related to your case. Your relationship with your attorney should remain professional. It may irritate him/her if you continually waste his/her time discussing personal issues. You want to remain on your lawyer’s good side; not become known as a difficult client.

