 Cards are generally a standard size of 5 inches (12.7 cm) by 7 inches (shown here as rectangle #1), so you should keep the elements of your text/images within the boundaries of this safety line. Rectangle #2 is a cutting line, or a tolerance around your card, and should be bigger than your safety line around 0.25 inches (0.6 cm).;
, Click on the #2 line and go to View > Guides > Make Guides. Create an another line. This line is a bleeding line, extending the background color all the way to the edges of your card. Set it bigger than your cutting line by about 0.25 inches (0.6 cm) so that it serves as another guide.
 Remember, #1 is the safety line, #2 is the cutting line, and #3 is the bleeding line.
 The overall look will, of course, depend on the type of greeting card you wish to send. This card is an example of a birthday card, so the picture will be of balloons. To create an image of a balloon or any other circular object, use the ellipse tool, as shown here.
 In this example the circle's sides are tapered downwards so it starts to resemble a balloon.
 Here a small triangle is drawn and positioned at the bottom of the balloon, as shown, then seamlessly connected using Pathfinder > Add to shape area > Expand.
 For candy apple red with a bit of shine, set the first color to C = 1, M = 90, Y = 50, K = 0 and second color to white, with border stroke = none. Use radial mode to complete this step.
 Make a new circle and make it fit like a shadow. Then select the circle and the copy of the original balloon and go to Pathfinder > Option-click on Minus Front ( also called subtract from shape area) > Expand. Drag the shadow to the original balloon and choose Multiply for the transparency. You might want to change the color.
 Use the pencil tool to draw thin lines or other details, like strings on the balloons here.
 Select the portion you want to write on and set it to transparency = 30, or more if you'd like the background to be fainter.
 If you want any kind of effect on the text you put you can go to Effect and select it from there.
 This will show you if your text is too small or too big, or if your images look strange in the way you've positioned them. If you are satisfied with the appearance of your card, go ahead and print out however many you need. Congratulations--you've successfully created your very own greeting card in Adobe Illustrator!

