 The number of piping bags you need will depend on the number of frosting flavors you plan to use. For example, if you want to swirl three different frostings, then you will need three piping bags plus one. The extra frosting bag will be used to combine all of your frostings into one and should be set aside.Keep in mind that going over four different frostings will make fitting everything into one bag very difficult.
 Take each bag and put them tip down into separate cups. Then fold the excess of the bags over the edges of the glasses. Secure each with rubber bands. It’s important that they stay in place as you will be putting frosting in the bag that will weigh it down., Use a spatula or large spoon and start moving your frosting into the piping bags. Push down, but don’t pack the frosting as you want the tip to remain unfilled. Since you are only putting one frosting in each bag, you can fill them however you’d like. Just make sure you are only filling them around 3/4ths full as you will need to twist the bags closed later., Remove each piping bag from their glass and use your hands to push the frosting down towards the tip. You can twist the base of the piping bag as you’re doing this to aid in moving the frosting downwards. Once you can no longer push down, secure the ends of the bags with rubber bands or twist ties., Now that each bag is full of frosting, it’s time to cut off the tips. You don’t need a large hole, just a small area for the frosting the go through. Try just snipping off the very tips of the bag. You can always cut off more if you run into trouble with it later on., Now take the spare piping bag you set aside earlier, and push a frosting tip into the end of it. The type of tip you choose will change the way the frosting on your cupcakes looks. For example, a Wilton 2D closed star tip creates a ruffled look while using something like the Wilton 1M open star creates a smoother line of frosting. There’s no wrong choice here, so feel free to play with it!, Once you’ve placed the frosting tip into the end of the piping bag, mark a line just before the tips base. This is where you will cut the bag. Make sure you leave a bit of overlap between the bag and the end of the frosting tip as this will help with leaking. It will also keep your tip securely in the bag!, It will be a tight fit, however, you should be able to get three to four bags into the spare one. You may have one or two bags slightly higher than the others, but this won’t matter once you start frosting. Everything should even out as you go along., In the same way you moved frosting downwards in the separate bags, squeeze all the frostings down towards the tip of the combined bag. You will want to do a few practice swirls or lines to get each color out. However, it shouldn’t take long for you to see a perfect mix of each shade.