 Like in many other disorders, sleep is one of the foremost symptoms of a nervous breakdown. You may toss and turn getting to sleep and may wake up several times throughout the night. You may find yourself sleeping far too much or far too little than you usually sleep.Sometimes it is difficult to get back to sleep due to racing thoughts and excessive thinking.
Though you may feel a need for sleep and feel constantly tired, getting a good night's rest becomes more and more difficult with each passing day.
 If you’ve significantly let your hygiene slide, it may be due to extreme stress. You may lack any motivation to take care of your body. This may include failing to shower, use the restroom, brush your hair or teeth, or change your clothes. Perhaps you’ve been wearing the same clothes for days, despite visible stains. You may wear socially inappropriate clothes in public., Physical symptoms of intense anxiety can lead up to and sustain during a nervous breakdown. If you tend to experience anxiety and then experience a major life event, it can trigger intense symptoms of anxiety that can feel immobilizing.Take note any symptoms of anxiety, which include:Tense, clenched muscles
Clammy hands
Dizziness
Panic attacks

, You may feel completely lacking in energy. Feeling constantly exhausted or fatigued is another common symptom, as all of your energy is being channeled into coping with the crisis you're experiencing. Even small, everyday activities can feel like massive hurdles to overcome.Even basic daily activities such as showering, eating, or even getting out of bed may feel like too much energy to complete.
 When experiencing intense stress as a result of a nervous breakdown, you may feel your heart pounding, a tightness in your chest, or a lump in your throat. Despite this, medical testing will not reveal any problems with our heart, as the symptoms are purely stress related., An upset stomach and digestive issues are common stress and anxiety-related problems. This is due to the fact that when you are extremely stressed, your body goes into survival mode, and digestion is not at the top of the priority list., Shaking hands or whole body trembling is one of the most obvious physical symptoms of a nervous breakdown, and one of the most embarrassing. Unfortunately, the embarrassment caused by the trembling and shaking only increases your stress levels.Trembling and shaking may be physical manifestations of all the stress your body and mind are experiencing.

