 The basic hardcore look consists of hoodies and skinny jeans with your keys on a carabiner around your belt loop. Other options include flannel skate shirts and band tees. Any skate brand is popular. Contemporary hardcore styles are fairly androgynous - the look works equally well for girls and boys.


For girls, hardcore pants trends are very simple. Plain skinny jeans with a typical dark wash are a good bet, as well as versatile colors like gray or dark purple. Layered camis or tank tops are popular. Some of the classic zebra and cheetah prints are acceptable, but limited because those are more trendy for the scene style. Shirts with words are okay, but only select phrases.;
, More fashion-centered than idea-centered, contemporary hardcore culture is often closely linked to certain strains of pop-metal and emo music. Bandannas, New Era athletic caps, and studded belts are all common.


Plugs or gauges are popular across the board in contemporary hardcore culture. Consider getting your ears pierced if you don't already and slowly stretching them with plugs.
Popular necklaces are sparrows, guns, brass knuckles, and various random objects are the most popular. Bracelets usually are chunky plastic bangles, hemp, or brown chunky beads. Rings aren't a big trend, but cheap plastic rings, and class rings are the best bet for girls.
Skate shoes like Vans or Airwalks are common, but Nike dunks and 6.0 shoes are the most popular. Make sure your shoes fit snugly for moshing and hardcore dancing. For girls, black ballet flats or Converse are also common.
 Hair, make-up, and tattoos are variable depending upon the particular strain of hardcore you're interested in. Sleeve tattoos can sometimes be seen on everyone at a hardcore show, and sometimes they're rare. Like traditional hardcore, the contemporary scene is theoretically more about individuality than fulfilling a particular image you can cultivate by shopping at the mall. If you're not interested in a swooped haircut but love going to hardcore shows, don't feel any pressure. Look and listen to other hardcore kids for pointers and see what parts of the subculture appeal to you.


Makeup for hardcore girls is very different than scene girls. Use cover-up, that is a good match too your skin tone. Eyeliner is a must, but not raccoon style. Keep it light. Smokey gray eyeshadow is the best, no bright colors or black. Heavy mascara. Pale or natural lips, and no blush. This makeup style should be very simple.
 Developing your taste of music by appreciating a list is often subjective and difficult. When exploring hardcore music, always have an open mind. appreciate the music for what it is. Often, sub-genres spring up at an alarming rate, oftentimes in direct response or opposition to other strains of music you may like.


Old-school hardcore bands like Minor Threat, Youth of Today, Agnostic Front, Black Flag, Gorilla Biscuits, Bad Brains, Sick of it All, Earth Crisis are a good place to start, but you can expand your taste when you hear things you like. Good hardcore labels include Bridge Nine, Rivalry, Revelation, Deathwish, Eulogy, and Seventh Dagger, a militant straight edge label.
 If you're starting out, go to a show and watch for people, don't just jump in to the middle of a mosh pit and start thrashing. Go with someone who is familiar with the unwritten rules of hardcore. The Friends Stand United is a group (some call a gang) affiliated with hardcore scenes who will sometimes violently confront people they perceive as "doing it wrong," whether that be selling drugs at a straight edge show or moshing incorrectly. Be very careful at your first shows before you get the hang of what's appropriate.

