 You can create an easy trap from common household supplies. The base of the trap is created out of two empty soda pop bottles. The pop bottles will be rigged to attract minnows in, but won’t let them out. You’ll need these supplies:


2 2-3 liter pop bottles
1 woodworking nail (size isn’t important)
Twine or small string
Scissors
Pliers
Access to a flame
15-20 feet of rope, string, or twine;
, Use your scissors to cut out a third of the bottom of one bottle. It is important to keep the cap, or top part, untouched. Cut out the “neck and shoulders” of the second bottle. This is the top portion of the bottle; a half inch below the part of the bottle where the sides begin to straighten out.The bottles must be the same size before you cut into the bottles.
Remove the cap from the second, smaller bottle.
Take the second bottle and insert it into the first bottle.
 Turn on your flame to a low setting and grip your nail’s head using pliers. Once your grip is secure, place the point directly in the flame for about thirty seconds. Poke 10 to 12 holes around the bottom circumference of the conjoined bottles. Space out the holes about an inch apart.
 Use the string or twine to sew the two bottles together. You can either use a large piece of string to sew around the circumference, or use individual strings to secure the bottles. If you are sewing, thread the string over into a hole followed by an under thread.


You could also cut out individual strings for each hole. Use a double knot on each hole.
If you sewed the bottles, tie the tail securely in a double knot and cut off the excess string.
 Reheat the nail with the flame using the grip from the pliers. Let the nail’s point heat for about 30 seconds. Create several holes all over the top bottle. Create at least two dozen or so holes. Reheat the nail if it becomes tough to puncture through the plastic., The trap works by sinking into a body of water for several hours. To reel the trap in, you'll need to attach a rope or string. Gather a long narrow rope, string or twine that is about 15-20 feet. Tie a double knot to the top of the trap around the neck.


Tie the opposite end to a nearby tree or secure it with a heavy rock near the water.
Use a secure object that is close to the water so the trap will sink deeper.
 Search for a spot along a moving body of water like a stream or creek. Creeks will have a larger population of minnows. Check a map to locate creeks that feed into a larger body of water.
 Now it’s time to fill the trap with bait to lure in the minnows. The trap is designed to attract minnows inside, but won’t let them out. Add some bread or crackers through the bottom of the trap and shake the trap to secure the bait. Once the rope is secured around the bottle and nearby object, toss the trap into the water.


Check on the trap in two hours. The trap will be more effective if left overnight.
Pour the captured minnows into your bait bucket.