 Finding out that a crisis or traumatic event has occurred can be devastating. However, you can avoid having a meltdown if you step away and take a moment for yourself. If presented with bad news that is overwhelming, you can say “Excuse me for a moment,” and step away to a restroom or private space to get your thoughts together, cry, or collect yourself.;
, When you are beginning to feel upset or overwhelmed, calm yourself through some deep breathing exercises. Breathe in deeply for 5 seconds through your nose and then exhale slowly from your mouth. Do so until you can feel calm again., In addition to focusing on staying calm, it is important that you talk about your feelings. Talk to your friends and family who know about the situation and who are compassionate and empathetic. Avoid allowing your negative feelings to fester.For instance, if you are going through a divorce, you might reach out to your close friends or to your parents. Call them when you are having a rough day.
 In dealing with this time of difficulty, your thoughts and feelings might be a mess in your mind. However, you can begin to sort these out through documenting your thoughts on paper. If you don’t know where to start, begin by writing out what you did that day. Write how you’re feeling in the moment and any highs and lows of the day.


Pour out your feelings about the trauma on paper rather than letting them run wild.
 During this difficult time, though you may be on the verge of falling apart every day, work to keep your emotions in check until the appropriate moment. Schedule time each day to think about the issue, cry, and truly feel the intensity of the situation. Scheduling time will allow you to process your emotions while also not spending too much time being down in the dumps.


Consider scheduling an hour or two per day for this.
 During this time, you might not be feeling very social, but being reclusive will likely make the difficult time you are facing all the more lonely for you. Schedule time each week to spend with friends and family. Try not to make all of your interactions about the hardship you are facing.Make plans to do fun things like going to the movies, concerts, festivals, or the beach.
Don’t turn your friends down when they try to make plans with you.
 It can also be tempting to spend all of your free time consumed with thoughts of your difficulties, but try to avoid this. Fill at least some of your free time with activities so that you can get away for a bit in your mind. Do things like listening to music albums, watching new TV shows, or going shopping.If your time of difficulty is financially related, consider getting a part-time job or not indulging in costly activities.
 It is critical that you take care of yourself so that you can function at your maximum capacity. Take some time each day to engage with your spiritual side. Spend some time in prayer or meditation.You might meditate on words like “Peace” or “Strength” to help calm and strengthen you.
 Be sure that you are also attending to your physical needs. The average person needs around eight hours of sleep per night, but you might need a bit more if you are feeling mentally exhausted in the midst of your trauma. Get on a set sleep schedule and aim for nine hours when possible.Practice good sleep habits so that you will be able to go to sleep easier, like taking a hot bath or cutting out caffeine after noon.
 In addition to sleep, be sure that you are eating foods that will help keep you energized and healthy. Avoid foods high in fat or sugar, as they may make you feel sluggish and even more depressed. Opt instead for fruits, veggies, lean meats, and water., Exercise can be a wonderful stress relief in difficult times. Many doctors recommend this as a form of treatment to patients who are dealing with anxiety or depression. Take some time each day to visit your local gym, run around your block, or do some at home exercises with friends.Yoga is a great way to work out while incorporating meditation.
 Perhaps you have recently lost your mother and some coworkers have made some insensitive comments to you during this time. Avoid people who make you feel worse about your situation. If they are your coworkers report them to your boss, if necessary.Avoid any friends who have been selfish or unfeeling to you during this time, as well.
 Take care of yourself professionally and academically, as well. Though you should try to keep up with all of your responsibilities as much as it is possible for you, don’t take on any new work if you can help it.
 Though it is vital to cope with the issue and take care of yourself, at some point, you will have to begin addressing your feelings and creating some possible solutions to the stress. In creating these fixes, first consider what you would advise a friend if this were happening to them. Use these thoughts to guide you in developing your own response.For instance, perhaps you have recently lost your job. You may have had a friend lose their job a few months ago, who you told to update their resume, reach out to their contacts, and use those connections to find a new job. Work to apply these tips to your own life.
 Write a list of everything you can do to either fix the issue or provide some relief to yourself. For instance, if you have a child who has been diagnosed with a terminal illness, you might want to create a list of things that you can do to make their final months as wonderful as possible. You may also want to consider getting a second or third opinion., Once you have figured out everything that you need to do to move forward, put your plan into action. Having a plan can help you feel much more calm and assured than if you are without one.For instance, if you have recently lost your home due to flooding, you might contact your insurance company, FEMA, or any other agency tasked with assisting people in these kinds of emergencies.
 Remember that it is okay to seek help. Your friends and family will often be eager to help you. If you need a little money, help finding a job, help figuring out what to do, or just emotional support in general, reach out to them for this.You might say something like “Aunt Jenny, I know you know that I have recently fallen on tough times and I was wondering if you could give me a bit of money to tide me over until I get back on my feet. I can pay you back or work for you for free.”

, Sometimes, the issues you are facing may seem to heavy for you to deal with alone or even with the help of family and friends. Perhaps you don’t really have any family or friends to rely on. Though you should try to expand this network of support, it is important to take care of yourself in the moment. If you feel that you need a bit of professional help, don’t hesitate to find a therapist in your area. They will be able to help you talk through your problems and provide you with some coping strategies moving forward.

