 You may have had a tendency to tell stories about your past relationships and sexual encounters. Don't kiss and tell. Keep the intimacy between you and your partner. Discussing your relationships may give people the impression you are getting around. Talk about things other than sexual interests or details about your love life.


Imagine if someone were to talk about your intimate moments with strangers. Think about whether or not someone may feel uncomfortable or would like to keep matters of the bedroom private.;
, Even if you don't talk about your sex life, the other person might. If you want to keep your sex life private, you should date trustworthy characters or people your friends don't know.


Don't date your coworkers as you may break up and feel uncomfortable in the work place. They may also spread rumors to get back at you for their insecurity or loss.
 If your friends are also seen as easy or behave poorly, you may want to surround yourself with people who have less controversial reputations. Find people and befriend those you respect and admire. Surround yourself with positive people who want the best for you.
 Nothing is worse than having angry girlfriends spreading your business about. Be friendly and kind, and keep the flirting to single people who are looking for more than a one night stand.


Avoid initiating conversations with just the opposite gender. Wait to be approached by people, and play hard to get.
You do not have to be rude or mean to people. You can still be friendly in your interactions, but choose wisely.
 If you hear that someone is saying negative things about you or the things you've done, confront them. Ask them to stop, and let them know you're not that person anymore.


If they continue bothering you and being rude, take it to an authority like a teacher, counselor, or manager.
 Engage in sex only when you're in a committed relationship. Let your partner know of your intentions for the relationship, and be clear about how often or when you want to have sex. You'll know if they're committed if they don't have any conditions to be with you. Consider not being in any relationships at all. Try not to have sex for an extended length of time.
Don't appear needy or desperate in your relationships.

