 Start your Minecraft game as you normally would. You can potentially find desert temples in any map with large desert regions — it doesn't matter if you're playing by yourself or online with others.



However, in multiplayer games, there's always the risk that a temple you find may have been looted or vandalized by others before you get there, so if you want to find a desert temple that's guaranteed to be "pristine," play a single-player world.
If you don't want to go to the trouble of exploring for desert temples yourself, it's not hard to find world seeds online that make the task much easier. For instance, the following seed will create a world with a desert temple near to the spawn point (this seed should work in version 1.8):Seed: 8678942899319966093;
, Desert temples spawn randomly in desert biomes. There won't necessarily be one temple in each desert — there can be more than one or none at all. Thus, your best bet is to start searching in the largest desert you can find — the more space in the desert, the better chance that there is at least one temple in it.


There isn't really any single "right" way to find a desert, unfortunately. Deserts are generated from the world seed, so, unless you're already familiar with the world you're in, you may need to wander for quite some time (especially in the unlucky event that your world seed doesn't have many deserts.)There is a way to "cheat" outside of the game, however — see below.
 Once you're in a desert, you'll want to start looking for a large, blocky pyramid-shaped structure made from sandstone in the distance. There will be two large, square towers at the front of the temple with markings on them made from orange clay. Since there are few visual obstructions like mountains in the desert, you should be able to see it from a long ways away.


Desert temples always spawn with their floor at y = 64.000. In some cases, this can lead to them being partly buried.If you see what looks like a small pyramid with none of the rest of the temple, you may actually be looking at the very top of a buried temple!

, Having a map can make it a little easier to find temples (and to find your way back to one once you've discovered it.) Desert temples show up as gray on maps (just like plain stone), but have a characteristic boxy shape that's not normally seen for natural stone deposits.See our article on making a map in Minecraft if you're not sure how to get your hands on this useful tool.
 So you've tried finding a desert temple the old fashioned way and you've come up frustratingly empty-handed? There is still hope! Use the Desert Temple Finder online app from chunkbase.com to get the coordinates for all desert temples in a given map. Simply input your world seed (or select "random" to get a random one), click "Find Desert Temples", and zoom in and out on the map to see where the temples in your map are located.Note: By default, pressing F3 (or Function +F3 on Macs) in-game brings up a menu with your x/y/z coordinates.