 After setting your deadline, you should hold a meeting to inform all relevant employees of the project goals. By holding a meeting, you’ll make sure everyone is up to speed about the new deadline.


Email everyone. For instance, email everyone “Please attend the meeting at 9:30 on January 6th to discuss details, goals, and deadlines of the West Lake Project.”
Hold a video conference so that employees who cannot physically attend can join in the discussion. Use Skype or a similar program to facilitate your video conference.
Hold follow-up meetings weekly or biweekly to discuss the progress your workers are making toward the deadline.
Make sure all relevant parties attend the meeting or are made aware of the discussion at the meeting., During and after you hold a meeting, you must clearly explain the details of the deadline you are setting. Without proper explanation, your employees won’t have a definitive vision of what they need to do.


Never assume that your employees know what you’re saying.
Explain important concepts. For instance, if you’re implementing a new process or using a new database to meet the deadline, offer a workshop teaching employees about the new process.
Include a question and answer session in any meeting you have regarding the deadline.
Explain to your employees the importance of the deadline for the organization. For instance, if you’re trying to complete a project to show progress in advance of a merger, a loan application, or something similar, some employees should know., Make sure that you and your staff can see the specifics of the deadline daily. Without reminding and reinforcing the deadline, you and your staff may get lackadaisical and might not meet it.


Hang a flyer with information about the deadline in a central location, like a break room.
Include the date and relevant specific numbers, like performance numbers or growth targets, in any communication about the deadline.
Send emails to staff on a weekly or biweekly basis.
Word all reminders of the deadline in a friendly way. Consider framing it as a competition. For instance, if you post a flyer in the office, include language like “Win the challenge! The West Lake project is scheduled for completion on May 4th.”
Avoid publicizing the parameters of the deadline so that they seem nagging or oppressive to staff. For instance, don’t send daily email reminders or bother employees more than once or twice a week about the impending deadline., One of the hallmarks of successful small business people is a positive outlook. By being positive, you’ll not only inspire yourself, but you’ll help create a positive business style where people have a “can do” attitude.”


Talk in positive team terms and use phrases like “we can” or “we will.”
Commend your employees whenever they make progress toward your goal. For instance, say, “Good job, Joel. This will really help us make that deadline.”
Avoid presenting the deadline as something that will be difficult to achieve. Instead, present it as an effort that will demonstrate the abilities of your employees and your organization.
Avoid being too positive, and always temper a healthy positive attitude with business realities and realistic expectations., By encouraging your employees, you’ll motivate them to meet your deadlines. In addition, you’ll build a positive work culture and help create an environment that employees will enjoy and appreciate.


Tell your employees that you know they can do it. For instance, say, “John, I know this deadline might be close, but I’m really confident in your abilities.
Offer rewards or compensation for meeting or beating tough deadlines. For instance, offer an extra vacation day or monetary compensation for beating a deadline.
Never belittle or insult your employees. In addition, never tell your employees that their job depends on making a tough deadline.