 One of the most common reasons outside of committed personal training for which people seek to strengthen tendons is after a tendon injury. If you have an injury you suspect may be related to a tendon, first see your primary care physician for a diagnosis. If you are correct, your doctor will likely refer you to a physical therapist who can assign the proper exercises for rehabilitating the tendon.


Many tendon injuries can require several weeks of limited use rather than exercise to strengthen the tendon, so it is especially important that you consult with a professional.You may unwittingly exacerbate the problem by trying to strengthen a tendon that actually requires rest.
 Tendons receive the most work at the ends of their ranges of motion. For instance, you feel the most stretch in your Achilles tendon when you bend your ankle to full flex such as in a lunge exercise. To begin gently working tendons, do full extension exercises without any weight.








Vary the movements as well. If you are strengthening your wrist tendons, for example, make sure you’re not only full extending your wrist from side to side and up and down, but you should also turn your arm over and do the extensions in the reverse direction.You want to practice these exercises around the injured tendon for approximately ten minutes at a time as long as no pain is involved. If the movements begin producing pain, take a break from them for a day or two, and if the pain persists, contact your physical therapist.
Tendons receive the most work at full extension, so you can add to the exercise by pausing at the ends of your range of motion for ten seconds.
 Once you’ve rehabilitated the tendon to the degree that you can complete the full extension flexing exercises without pain or difficulty, try adding a light amount of weight to the exercise. The amount will depend upon the degree of injury and the tendon you want to strengthen. For wrist extensions, you want to begin with only one- or two-pound weights. For a more substantive tendon such as a quadricep tendon, you may start with a five-pound ankle weight.Your physical therapist will have additional recommendations about how much weight depending upon the specifics of your injury.
If you find the weights too difficult, you can always use less weight, no weight, or stagger the days between using the weights and not.
 Elastic exercise bands are great for aiding in the rehabilitation of injured tendons because they allow you to control the amount of tension on the area, and they also increase tension toward the end of the range of motion, which is where tendons receive the most work. Place the band with a moderate amount of tension on it at the beginning of your range of motion so that extending through it increases the stretch on the band and the workload on the tendon.


As the tendon gains strength, you can add time holding at full flexes to this routine. As with muscles, time under tension helps strengthen tendons, so pausing with the tendon at full extension—and therefore the band under the most tension—at the apex of the repetition for ten seconds will give the tendon additional exercise.
 The eccentric phase of a repetition refers to the moment at which a muscle contracts while lengthening. For example, the eccentric phase of a dumbbell curl comes as you slowly lower the dumbbell, simultaneously elongating the muscle by straightening your arm while still actively contracting it by resisting gravity to lower the weight slowly rather than letting it drop. Focus on the eccentric phase of an exercise is often recommended for tendinopathy.Though more difficult to do with bands, the use of even light dumbbells with focus on eccentrics can help to strengthen tendons.








