 You don't have to be very precise here, but aim to make the pieces between 8 and 10 inches (20.32 and 25.4 centimeters). It would be a good idea to have a few shorter ones and a few longer ones.For a 12-inch (30.48-centimeter) wreath, cut your boxwood into 4 to 6-inch (10.16 to 15.24-centimeter) sprigs.If the boxwood is dirty, rinse it with cool water first, then pat it dry with a paper towel.;
, Choose a place on the outermost edge to start. Insert the end of the boxwood cutting 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) into the wreath. Angle the cutting so that it is flush against the wreath.Your grapevine wreath can be any side you want. The bigger it is, the more boxwood sprigs you will have to use.
If your wreath is thin, make small bundles of 4 to 5 sprigs first. Tie the sprigs together with floral wire, then tie the bundles to the wreath with more floral wire., Fill the outermost edge first, then start on the next row directly above it. Insert each clipping 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters), and angle it so that it is resting against the wreath. Make sure that all of the clippings are pointed in the same direction. Do not cover the back of the wreath.Use the shorter clippings for the inside ring.
 Once you have completed your wreath, go back over it and look for any gaps. If you see any gaps, fill them in with shorter pieces of boxwood. Make sure that no grapevine (except for the back) is showing.If the sprigs won't stick, secure them with a drop of hot glue., Go back over your wreath once again. Adjust the clippings so that they lay nicely. Trim away any that are unruly or that are sticking out too much., Cut a long piece of wide ribbon and thread it through the center of your wreath. Tie the ends together into a tight knot to make a loop.For a nicer touch, consider tying the ends into a fancy bow instead.The hanging loop can be as long or as short as you want it to be.
 Boxwood is pretty durable and it can last a long time. You can help it last even longer by squirting it with water a few times each week.