 Before you steam clean your face, you need to clean it first. Otherwise, you might cause even more pimples. Wet your face with lukewarm water. With your fingertips, apply cleanser to your face.


Rinse your face with lukewarm water. Make sure to remove all the excess cleanser. Pat dry using a clean towel.
 You can add an acne-fighting essential oil to your steam. This can give your nose some extra cleansing. You can try tea tree oil, orange oil, lavender oil, rosemary oil, or peppermint oil.


You may want to use the same oil that is in your cleanser or try a different oil completely.
 Heat one quart of water until it boils. When the water starts to boil, remove it from the heat. Then, pour the water into a heat proof bowl and add a few drops of your chosen essential oil.If you don’t have any essential oils, you can substitute ½ teaspoon of the dried herb for each quart of water.
 Opening your pores using steam can help clear your skin and help the astringents effectively dry out the pimples on your nose To steam your face, begin by covering your head with a large towel. When the water has cooled a bit but is still steaming, hold your face over the steaming pot. Make sure to stay at least 12 inches above it.Close your eyes. Remain over the steam for 10 minutes with the towel over your head. This helps open your pores.
Never put your face too close to hot water. This can cause scalding and damage blood vessels.
 After 10 minutes, remove your face from the steam. Cover your face with a cold washcloth. After holding the cold cloth on your face for 30 seconds, return to the steam. Repeat this 3 times, ending with the cold treatment each time.


The idea is to contract and expand surface capillaries, which can tone your skin and improve circulation.
 When you are finished, rinse your face with lukewarm water. Gently pat your face dry without rubbing your skin. Then, apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer to your face.You can do this steam treatment twice a day, in the morning and in the evening, to try to get rid of the acne around your nose.

