 You need to make sure to factor in the adoption fee of your cat, if there is one. This is important, as fees could range from small to large. Make sure to talk to the shelter or breeder before finalizing your budget.


You may be able to adopt a cat for free from a local animal shelter.
Fees for purebreds, like Siamese cats, can top $300 to $500.;
, Perhaps the largest initial cost you’ll incur when getting a cat is medical bills. Regardless of whether you’re adopting a kitten or a mature cat, you’ll have to take your cat to the vet for an examination and for at least some vaccinations. Some costs include:


Spaying or neutering. This costs anywhere between $100 to $200.
First medical exam. This may run you between $40 and $80.
Initial vaccinations. They could cost between $50 and $100., A big part of your initial budget is going to be cat supplies. Before you even bring your cat home, you’ll have to have a wide variety of items. Some of the initial supplies you may need will include:


Toys for your cat or kitten.
A scratching post or something similar.
A water bowl, food bowl, and litter box.
Grooming accessories like nail clippers, a brush, and a toothbrush and toothpaste., Food costs are the one constant, major, weekly cost you’ll incur as a cat owner. Thus, you should spend some time pricing the cost of food so you can make an informed budget.


The cost of food may vary depending on whether you use wet food, dry food, or a mix of both. Average costs range from $100 to $200 per year.
Like regular food, treat costs vary. They may range from $5 to $40 per year., After your cat’s initial vet visit and vaccination, you’ll also have to pay for yearly exams, vaccinations, and more. Without regular care, your cat won’t be able to have the quality of life you want it to have. Some medical costs include:


Annual vaccinations. These could cost between $35 and $70.
Teeth cleaning. This may cost between $150 and $300.
Examinations. You’ll have to pay exam fees whenever you go to the vet. You should factor in 2 to 3 exams per year, at somewhere between $35 and $70., Your cat will quickly outgrow – or destroy – their initial toys. Thus, you’ll have to continue to buy toys throughout your cat’s life. This is important, as cats need constant stimulation to be properly socialized and fulfilled.


Buy toys they can play with on their own. For example, invest in some stuffed mice or similar toys.
Purchase a few toys you can play with them. A cat fishing pole, with a stuffed mouse or a feather on the end of it will likely entertain you and your friend for hours.
Your toy budget is somewhat discretionary. While you should make sure your cat always has toys, you can shop around for toys and spend as little or as much as you want., While most cat owners don’t want to think about it, you should budget for the eventuality that at some point in your pet’s life they will have a medical emergency. Some emergencies may include:


Broken bones after being hit by a car or falling from a tree.
Surgery to remove tumors.
Kidney stone removal., It is very likely that as your cat gets older, they will develop at least one chronic condition. This could wind up being a substantial cost for you in the future. Thus, you need to consider this when you budget.


The cost of chronic conditions may vary. They could include the cost of surgery and medicine. While surgery could be in the thousands of dollars, medicine costs could range from as little as $10 a month to over $200.
Some of the most common chronic conditions for cats include: periodontal disease, kidney failure, feline leukemia.
A great way to offset the budgetary impact of chronic conditions is to purchase pet insurance for your cat. Premiums and deductibles vary based on policy, but the cost should range between $10 to $30 a month (depending on breed and age)., From time to time you’ll have to travel and won’t be able to take your cat with you. Because of this, you should factor in the cost of boarding over the course of the cat’s life. If you don’t, you’ll budget won’t really be accurate.


If you’re someone who doesn’t really travel, you may want to factor in at least 2 to 3 days a year of boarding. This way, if something unexpected happens, like the death of a family member in another state, you’ll be prepared to board your cat.
If you’re someone who travels moderately, consider factoring in 5 to 7 days a year of boarding.
If you travel a lot, you should factor in substantial boarding costs for your cat.
Boarding costs for cats vary depending on the region. While it may only cost $10 to $15 a night in the American South, it could cost upwards of $30 in the Northeast., While some people might just board their cat, many cat owners prefer to hire a cat sitter to look after their cat when they are away. Thus, you should consider the cost involved.


Ask friends or family in your area if they know someone who cat sits. Inquire about what that person charges.
Look for a professional cat sitting service. These services will typically send someone to your home once or twice a day to check on your cat, refill their food, and refill their water.
Ask a family member or friend if they'd cat sit for you. They may do it for free or for a small cost.
The cost of a cat sitter could run from $15 to $45 a day, depending on who does it and where you live.