 To get the best results, you should iron your shirt to smooth out any wrinkles that could mess up the ink transfer.


Inkodye works best with cotton shirts so be sure to set your iron to the cotton setting.
Iron the shirt until you’ve removed all wrinkles, especially on and around the area you plan to print on.
Use a dry ironing method without steam.
 Place the cardboard inside your shirt and smooth out the area again.


Cardboard works well because it’s flat and won’t let the ink bleed through to the other side of the shirt. Plus, when you’re done, you can just throw it away.
 You can use a piece of cardboard or plastic frame that you’ve made or simply use blue painter’s tape to tape off the area.


The area inside your frame is where you’ll paint on the ink. The frame ensures that no ink gets outside of the area.
If you don’t want any extra inked area around your photo, use a frame that’s slightly smaller than your image. A smaller frame ensures that the ink won’t bleed out passed your photo.
Make sure not to tape the image down. It will get stuck. And run your fingernail along the taped edges if you used tape you ensure there are no gaps.



Make sure that your bowl isn’t absorbent, you don’t want the dye seeping into it.
Try to do this in a ventilated room that isn’t exposed to a lot of natural light.
About 2.5 tablespoons (40 ml) can coat an 11X11” cotton square.
 Coat your brush or roller with the dye. Use the edges of your bowl to get excess dye of your brush so there’s not dripping or blotting.


Evenly apply the dye to your desired area on your shirt. Don’t soak your shirt.
Inkodye is fairly colorless so pay close attention to how much you are applying.
After you’ve covered the desired area, grab a paper towel and blot the area to soak up any excess dye.
 Once you’ve covered the area you no longer need your frame.


You can keep the frame on if you used tape and you think some of the dye may have bled through.
 You can press down your negative onto your shirt to help it stick to the dyed area.


Smooth out the area with your hand. You want your negative to make good contact everywhere with the dye.
Use straight pins on the edges of your negative to keep it in place.
Alternatively, you can place a piece of acetate over the top of your negative.
 You now want to bring your shirt with the negative on it outside and let it soak up the sun to dry and transfer the image.


Expose your print to direct sunlight for 10-15 minutes.
It’s best to do this when the sun is strongest around 11:00 am to 3:00 pm.
You may have to expose your print for longer if it’s cloudy out.
After about five or so minutes you’ll begin to see the image darken.
 It’s best to remove the negative in a space that isn’t very bright.


Removing the negative in subdued lighting will help to keep the print intact.
 It’s best to wash your shirt in the washing machine, but you can hand wash it as well.


Washing will remove any extra Inkodye from your shirt and make your print look nice and fresh.
Use warm to hot water for best results.
You may want to wash it twice to remove all the residue.
After your shirt is clean, it’s ready to wear!

