 Classically, dips are between parallel bars, where you lower yourself down until your elbows are at 90-degrees, arms parallel to the bars. You then push your hold body back out until your arms are straight, then repeat. But you can still do these triceps crushers even if you're without bars:Find a sturdy table, ledge, chair, or stair step that comes up to roughly thigh level.
Facing away from the ledge, use your hands to lower yourself to a "seated" position, as if there was an invisible chair in front of your object.
Lower your but to the floor, keeping your elbows straight behind you.
Push back up to the "seated" position.
Repeat for 15-20 reps, doing three sets., The closer you move your arms together on a push-up, the more it will engage your triceps. The ultimate exercise, then, becomes diamond push-ups. To do them, simply use your thumbs and index fingers to form a diamond shape under your chest, entering otherwise normal push-up position:


Lower yourself slowly to the ground.
Spring back up to the point just before your elbows lock out.
Keep your neck and spine straight, not curved or hunched.
 This is a holding exercise, meaning you don't do reps, you simply hold the position, often timing out "sets" as 30-90 seconds of holding. L-sits are basically modified dips, but you can perform them on the floor or a set of parallel bars.


Pick yourself up by extending your arms straight down at your sides and pushing up.
Stick your legs in front of you, forming an enormous L with your body.
Keep your arms straight and strong as you hold your body above the ground of the bars.
If you're struggling, rest your legs on something to keep them up while you work out your arms.
 You'll need a bar at about stomach height, the lower it is, the harder the exercise will be. These exercises work best if you keep your elbows in towards your ears and focus on using your triceps:


Hold the bar with your hands 4-5 inches apart, palms down.
Place your feet together behind you, making a straight diagonal line from the bar to your toes.
Pull your head under the bar, bending your elbows in to do so.
Using your triceps, extend your arms straight back to "push" your body up and away from the bar., These take a ton of strength just to start, let alone complete, and are a great goal to set if you're just starting out. Even a few reps will seriously tire you out, and it supports a strong back and core as well. To perform them:


Crouch with your back against a sturdy wall, palms on the ground in front of you.
Use your feet to "walk" up the wall, entering a supported handstand.

You may need a spotter or assistant to help you gain your balance the first few times.


Lower yourself until the top of your head is almost touching the ground.
Push back up until your arms are almost completely extended, but your elbows aren't locked.
Repeat motion, walking your feet back to your hands to disembark.