 Sufficient light is one of the most important contributing factors when trying to get a Hoya to bloom.The ideal location indoors is right in front of a window facing east or west where it is exposed to two to four hours of direct sunlight.


Your plant should also be exposed to bright, indirect light during the rest of the day.;
, It can also be placed in front of a window that faces south, as long as there is a sheer curtain between the plant and the window to help diffuse the hot, direct sunlight.When the plant is left in a south window all day without a sheer curtain for shade, the leaves will scorch, becoming very pale or tan.
 If the Hoya plant is over three years old and is still not blooming, try giving it one or two more hours of direct sunlight each day.


Other signs that the Hoya is not getting enough light are new leaves that are small and pale green, long sections of bare stem, slow growth and dead mature leaves.
 Use water that has been left sitting in an open container for 24 hours or more.Leaving the water to sit allows the chlorine and fluorine, chemicals found in tap water that can harm a Hoya plant, to dissipate into the air naturally.The water will also be at room temperature which is better for Hoyas. Fresh tap water is very cold and could stress these tropical plants.
 This allows the plant to retain its moisture during the day. Distribute the water over the potting soil evenly until it begins to drain out of the drain holes in the bottom of the container.
 If left in the saucer, the excess water could wick up into the container and keep the soil too wet.


Wet soil deprives the Hoya roots of oxygen and encourages root rot.
 A winter rest period helps Hoyas bloom the following spring or summer.
 Hoya plant leaves will turn yellow and drop if it is being watered too much. Water it less often. If the leaves continue to turn yellow and drop, turn the container on its side and gently slide the Hoya out of the container. Shake the potting soil off the roots to get a good look at them.If they have black tips or the whole root is black or brown and mushy, the Hoya has root rot. If most of the roots are rotten, the plant should be thrown away.
If only a few are bad, repot it using peat-based potting soil that contains perlite or vermiculite for improved drainage. Be sure to use a container with drain holes. Water it immediately but then let the soil become completely dry before watering again.If the plant shrivels, it is not being watered often enough. Water it more often.

