 There are a few things you need to do before commencing:


Buy a half dozen to a dozen eggs at the grocery store, or collect them fresh from your hens.

Hard boil the eggs. Do this by placing the eggs into a saucepan with a pinch of salt and covering with water. Bring to the boil and then reduce to a simmer. Simmer for at least ten (10) minutes and then lift the eggs out carefully with a spoon or tongs. Place them under cold running water until they are cool enough to handle, at least a minute, and cool completely on a rack in the refrigerator before using.Buy an egg decorating kit! These usually consist of several dye pellets, colour coded cups, a special egg spoon, and, of course, directions to make the dye. Or buy a set of little bottles of food colouring, which you can use for all kinds of projects such as tie-dyed cake.
 In most cases, you drop the pellets into water or vinegar (about 1 tablespoon of vinegar). (Liquid food colouring usually requires vinegar). Make sure to have both nearby. You can use a glass, cup, or a bowl to pour the water into, just make sure the container has enough space for the egg. A disposable plastic cup (suitable for hot liquids, if you're using them) would be perfect because staining it won't matter and it may cushion eggs dropped in a little.









Set the containers of dye in a row. Place the hard boiled eggs in one spot for easy access. It's also a good idea to set up the work surface by covering it with newspaper (you can then rest the eggs on this as you add more dye effects, and it will also catch dye drips.) And add an egg carton or a wire rack for drying the eggs on after they are dyed.
 If wished, you can draw on the eggs with crayon, or place rubber bands or dot stickers on the egg. Covering parts of the egg with tape, stickers, crayon wax from drawing, or rubber bands will result in the covered parts of the egg not being coated in the dye you are about to dip the egg in but will create their own cool effects.


You could dye an egg a light colour, mask off parts, and dye the rest a darker colour.
Naturally, you can add decorative effects after dyeing as well. It's really up to you and a good way to find out what you prefer is to try decorating both before and after dyeing the eggs.
 You can either lower it in partway to dye only a certain segment of the egg, or lower it in all the way. Leave the egg in for at least 3 minutes before considering removing it.








The egg will soak up more colour the longer you wait, so if the colour isn't what you want just yet, leave it a little longer.
 At this point, you can place a different drop of colouring on the egg for added colour effects and then blow through a straw to disperse the drop of dye across the egg. This will make interesting new patterns. You can also use a paintbrush to move the dye around if you like.









To make an especially beautiful egg, repeat these steps as much as desired. Continuous re-dipping of the eggs will result in colours mixing together, multiple layers of patterns (some coloured), and varicolored stripes. You can take off the bands and stickers in between rinses or not; experiment with different methods, as explained in the next sections.
 Place each egg there as done, and get on with the next egg until you've finished with them all.

