 Electric, charcoal, gas and water are popular types of smokers that are used with everything from jerky to turkeys.


Electric and gas smokers will generally cook meat slightly faster than the other types.
Assemble your smoker if you have just purchased it. Pay careful attention to the fire box and the air vents. These are essential parts of the smoker, which can result in fire or ruined meat if broken.;
,


You will need to start a fire in the fire box. Get it up to a temperature of 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius) and then turn it down to 225 (107 degrees Celsius) to smoke for several hours. You will remove contaminants and have a layer of seasoning in the smoker.
 Wood chips are generally used with a smoker to create the smoke flavor, and they come in varieties like oak, alder, cherry, hickory and apple.


Make sure the wood you choose is free of any chemicals. This is true of charcoal smoking as well, since the fumes from the chemicals will go directly on your meat. It is a good idea to begin with pre-soaked chips, instead of making your own.
 You will want it to be outside away from strong winds.
 Mix it up a day before you plan to smoke.
, Store it in the refrigerator overnight or for up to 1 day.
 This can be charcoal, a propane gas tank or simply the electrical plug.
 Make sure that you have more nearby to restock the smoking chamber.


If you are using a gas smoker, you will want to place the chips inside a foil packet. Poke holes in the top of the packet 6 or more times. Place the packet very close to the heat so that it will produce smoke.
If you are using a water smoker, you can place fresh herbs in the water to give the meat extra flavor.
 You will need to ensure air can get around the wood or charcoal, so open up the air vents wide. Then, let it heat for at least 20 to 30 minutes.


While your fire will reach high temperatures of 400 degrees at the beginning, you will want it to cool down to a lower temperature. After 30 minutes, turn the air vents nearly closed to discourage fire and encourage smoldering coals or wood.
 The temperature should be adjusted according to the type of smoker, the type of meat and the size of the meat pieces.


For example, fish should be smoked at a lower heat than beef. A large pork shoulder can use a higher heat than small pieces of beef jerky.
Electric and gas smokers tend to cook hotter, so turn the heat down to a lower setting.
, You will need to check on the fuel and wood chips to replace them.


Remember that each time you open the smoker, you will let heat escape.
 (0.45kg) of meat.


If you believe your smoker cooks at a hotter temperature, you will want to aim for 1 hour per lb. You can also cook longer at a lower temperature.
,, It is better to under-cook than overcook, because you can always reinsert the meat into the smoker and cook it more.


Overcooking is common with small off-set home smokers.
 Remember that some woods can give meat a redder color, so it will be harder to tell when it is cooked.

