 It's likely he was born in either September or the Spring. However, that doesn't mean that you can't celebrate His birthday on December 25th. Just keep this in mind in case anyone tries to put you down for celebrating a religious Christmas.;
, Buy a wreath with only branches, and not decorations in it. Place inside the 4 corners of the wreath, 4 candles. 3 of them should be purple, and one of them pink. Light the first candle on the first Sunday of Advent; two candles on the second Sunday of Advent; etc. Light the pink candle on the third Sunday during Advent. This is all in anticipation of the Birth of the Messiah.,, You could read it once on Christmas Eve, by yourself or aloud to your family, once a week in December, or every day in December! Do whatever makes it feel right for you.
 Try to go to church on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day. If you have the time and ability, go both days! However, don't limit yourself to those days. Everyone's extra busy in December but try to make room at least twice more than usual to go to church. If you have children or are a child or teen yourself, also see if your church is doing a Christmas pageant!

, In the evenings, pray. If you're feeling stressed about gift buying or if the house will look perfect or if the food will be done on time, just take a few minutes. Breath, pray, and go back to what you were doing with a clear head.
 Set it up wherever you like. On the mantel is popular, because it's a very prominent place. You can set it up all at once, or you can add everyone but baby Jesus, and only add him on Christmas Eve. Some people even put baby Jesus on the other side of the room and move him closer to the Nativity every evening, like a countdown, until he's in the manger on Christmas Eve., Are you buying twelve presents for each of your children, plus $100 gifts for each aunt and uncle? Do you think this is showing the Christian's Christmas spirit? If not, try to tone it down. Let relatives know you won't be giving expensive gifts, or even any gifts if you chose, this year. Or you could suggest a drawing and everyone only buys one other person one present. For your children, perhaps include something religious in their gifts. Send a letter to Santa, suggesting that he leave a bible in each child's stockings.
 If you have older children or teens and haven't celebrated a very Christian Christmas before they aren't going to understand the change. Tell them and any other family members it may concern that you want to celebrate Christmas for Jesus. Explain why it's important to you in a calm fashion.,, Not just Christmas "songs" such as "Frosty the Snowman," and/or "Jingle Bells," but, actual carols, such as "Silent Night," "Joy to the World," "What Child is This?" etc.
 Remember, Christ always taught that we are to love our neighbours & help them whenever we can.

