 If you have been purchasing from a supplier for a while, you may reach a point when the supplier notifies you that the price for the product will be increasing with the next shipment, for example. The supplier may encourage you that this is just a fact of doing business and may recommend that you pass along the increase to your customers. Gauge the market and consider whether the price increase is reasonable, but do not feel that you must accept such a unilateral increase.This does not apply to an existing contract. If you have a contract in place, the supplier cannot unilaterally increase the price.
 One principle of successful negotiating is to “want it least.” That is, show the other party that you do not need to make this deal, and you are willing to walk away if you do not get the price or the terms that you are asking for.If you take this position, obviously, you may need to back it up and go with an alternate supplier. Be sure that you do have an alternative available before taking a hard line.
 If you have placed orders with the supplier that have not yet been filled as of the time of your negotiations, you can use those as leverage. The supplier will see them as sales that are disappearing, if you threaten to cancel them. This can be a very powerful tool.Have the data ready at hand when you begin negotiating. Hold it until you need to take a strong stand. Threatening to cancel orders is the kind of step that could end your business relationship together.
 Depending on the type of product or service involved, there may be regulations that limit price increases or market control. If you believe that such regulations may exist in your case, use that to your advantage. Let the supplier know that you are aware of the law and that you will take legal action if necessary to get the price or services that you require.For example, if there exists relatively little competition for the particular service or product in question, you might join with other customers and threaten an anti-monopoly suit in court. Before taking such a position, you should have legal counsel and be sure of the laws on the topic.

