 Localized muscle aches and pains can be the result of overuse injuries, overexertion during exercise or sports, poor posture or muscle use, stress or tension or from minor injuries. For the most part, localized muscle aches and pains can be treated using home care strategies to reduce the inflammation and promote healing.


In the early stages of muscle aches caused by injury remember to use PRICE: Protect, Rest, Ice, Compress, and Elevate.;
, It is important to protect the affected area from further injury or damage until you can be evaluated by a physician if necessary. This can include not using the affected muscles, using crutches to stay off an injured leg, or bracing or splinting the affected limb if you believe that you may have broken a bone., This may include changing your movements at work or taking a break from your usual recreational activities. If you feel any pain when you try to move the affected muscle, stop moving it and keep resting. If the pain is sharp, intense, or does not improve, then call your doctor right away., Immediately after an injury, applying ice will help the blood vessels to narrow and restrict bleeding. Icing the area will also reduce the amount of black and blue bruising that you will experience.Ice the area for 10 to 20 minutes several times a day.
Allow at least 60 minutes between icing to allow the skin and underlying tissues to return to a normal temperature.
Use a pack that conforms to your body, such as a chemical ice pack, bag of frozen peas or reusable ice pack from the pharmacy.
Wrap the ice pack in a towel before using it. Don’t apply the ice pack directly to your skin.
 It also helps to prevent excess accumulation of inflammatory fluid in the tissue, which results in painful swelling. Elastic bandages help to protect the affected muscle from further damage while also providing support to the area. Use an ACE wrap elastic bandage from the pharmacy.Do not wrap the affected area too tightly because it can restrict blood flow to the area, increase pain or discomfort, and increase healing time.
Wrap the painful area tightly enough so that the bandage supports the area while still allowing for movement.
Start by wrapping the area of the body that is furthest from the heart and wrapping in toward the body. For example, if you injured your forearm, then you would want to start wrapping near the wrist and then wrap towards your elbow.
Each time you wrap the bandage around, make sure that you overlap the ACE wrap by ½ of the previous layer. Don’t leave any gaps in the wrapping., It is also important to elevate your injured area to help the body reduce the swelling from the injury. Place the leg or arm that is injured on a pillow or other supported area that is above the level of your heart. Do this several times per day.If possible, elevate the area while you sleep as well by using pillows placed above the level of the heart.

