 When you experience pain due to inflammation, you may want to squeeze or pick at your sore. Touching your cold sore or making skin-to-skin contact with others can cause the viral infection to spread to your fingertips, known as herpes whitlow. Picking at the sore can also slow down the healing process, making it last longer and increasing the risk of the infection spreading to other parts of your body., When you have a cold sore, you should wash your hands carefully before touching your face and making contact with other people, especially babies, as herpes simplex can quickly spread this way.One option is to keep a hand sanitizer or moist wipes with you when heading out of your home or at work so you can keep your hands clean on the go.
 Avoid sharing items such as foods, utensils, towels, lip balm, toothbrushes, and other items that can spread the virus between people when blisters are present. Bacteria and viruses quickly bind to surfaces and are transferred to and from others this way, making your cold sore last longer or making the symptoms worse. Also avoid keeping your utensils and personal items in excessive humidity, as the moist environment allows bacteria to thrive., Use a tissue when you sneeze or cough to avoid spreading germs through the air and avoid letting other bacteria or viruses into your lungs when you inhale.If you don’t have a tissue on hand, sneeze or cough into your elbow rather than cupping your hands over your face, which only spreads germs to your hands.
 Wash your toothbrush before and after every use to keep bacteria from accumulating on the bristles. When you have a cold sore, keep your toothbrush in a separate container if you share your household with others.Never share your toothbrush with anyone as this can spread germs and disease-causing bacteria into your mouth and theirs.
Do not cover toothbrushes or store them in a closed container. Enclosure in a dark, damp environment can promote bacterial growth.
Replace your toothbrush every three to four months, and immediately after you recover from a cold sore, cold, cough or sore throat. For extra precaution, dip your toothbrush in one fluid oz. of hydrogen peroxide or alcohol-based mouth rinse for three to five minutes to kill any remaining bacteria on the bristles.

