 Be sure to stand straight up with your shoulders back and don’t be afraid to take up space. Don’t try to make yourself smaller to accommodate men. If you shrink around people, they won’t view you as strong or confident and men are more likely to treat women they view as weak with disrespect.Show men that you mean business by carrying yourself with great posture.
You can practice by standing with your back flat up against a wall. Both your shoulders should be touching the wall.
 Whenever you talk to people, make eye contact with them. If they don’t initially meet your gaze, make it clear that you expect them to. Move and tilt your head so that you’re looking into their eyes. Keep eye contact a little longer than feels comfortable. You might come off a bit intimidating to men but you’ll gain their respect.


If you demand eye contact from people, it will be very hard for them to stare at your chest.
People view easy eye contact as sign of confidence., Don’t try to appease men by acting subordinate to them. You may think that putting others above yourself will make them like you but in reality all it does is make them see you as weak. Whether you’re trying to appear strong at work or around your friends, let others know you’re an equal and that you don’t need to impress anyone.


Only smile when you genuinely want to. Disingenuous smiles can be seen as a sign that someone is trying too hard to seek approval.
Don’t nod too much while you’re talking to people. Nodding too much can make you look like you’re not strong enough to have your own opinions.
 Sometimes when women feel uncomfortable they fidget with their hair or body. These signals are also very similar to what women do when they’re attracted to someone so you should try to avoid doing them if you don’t want attention. Some men may feel like it’s ok to ogle you if they misread your body cues.Touching your hair or chest can release sex hormones.
Some people might misread you touching your hair as a sign that you want to be touched by them.

