 Look at your yard, and decide where you would like to put the garden. Your garden should be somewhere where you can easily see it and appreciate its beauty, preferably from both inside and outside your home.Also think about some of the following:

Does the area you have in mind get enough sunlight for the type of flowers you want?
Does the area have good soil drainage, or does it tend to accumulate a lot of standing water after rainstorms and snow thaws?
Is your potential gardening area on relatively flat or gently sloping ground? It is much more difficult to plant on steep slopes.;
, It’s easier to plan if you can visualize what you want. Make a quick sketch of your property, indicating any buildings, decks and patios, the driveway, fences, or any other major features. Also mark in any pre-existing gardens, shrubs, or trees.Once you’ve made your starting sketch, you can start roughing in your ideas for flower beds.
In addition to flowers, try sketching in other elements you’d like to add to your garden, like stone walkways and borders, fences, trellises, or garden sculptures.
 Once you’ve come up with a basic design for your garden, it’s time to decide on your flowers. The first step is to find out what kinds of flowers can thrive in your area.

If you live in the US, determine your plant hardiness zone by looking at the USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map: http://www.gardening.cornell.edu/homegardening/scene74a6.html

You can find information about plant hardiness zones in areas outside the US here: https://www.gardenia.net/guides/climate-zones

Once you know your hardiness zone, keep it on hand when you are researching potential plants for your garden. If you select plants that are outside your hardiness zone, they may not survive the temperature extremes of winter and summer.
 You will need to know what kind of soil you have before you start selecting and planting flowers. Good soil should be fluffy, dark, and rich in nutrients for your plants. It should also have good drainage, since most plants don’t thrive well in overly damp or boggy soil.Take a sample of your soil to a garden store in your area to have its pH and nutrient levels evaluated.
If necessary, you can modify the composition of your soil by adding fertilizer, pH-altering substances like lime or sulfur, or other components.
 After you’ve evaluated your space and the type of planting environment you have, it’s time for the fun part – choosing your flowers. First, narrow down your selection to plants that work with your hardiness zone, soil type, and the amount of available sunlight in your garden. Then, consider some of the following:

What sorts of colors do you want in your garden? Depending on your personal style, you might want a rainbow of colors, or a more limited palette (e.g., different shades of blue and yellow).
Are you interested in flowers that attract pollinating insects, like honey bees and butterflies?
Do you want tall, short, or medium-height flowers, or a mixture?

, While the types of flowers you select will be largely determined by your zone, some varieties may give your garden a more casual, rustic feel than others. A few good choices include:Hollyhocks. These tall, brightly-colored flowers are an excellent choice for planting along walls and fences. They are hardy in zones 3-9.
Hydrangeas. These are low, broad shrubs that produce massive, spherical clusters of delicate flowers, typically ranging in color from white to pastel blue, pink, or purple. They are hardy in zones 4-9.
Roses. These classic flowers make a gorgeous and fragrant addition to any garden. They come in a wide variety of colors and sizes, from big red “El Toro” roses to tiny pastel tea roses. Depending on the variety, they can thrive in a number of hardiness zones.
Coneflowers. These sturdy, daisy-like flowers come in a variety of colors, including white, pale purple, and crimson. They are also attractive to birds and butterflies. They are hardy in zones 3-9.
Catmint. This fragrant herb is easy to grow, produces delicate sprays of purple flowers with attractive silvery foliage, and has the added benefit of repelling mosquitoes. It is hardy in zones 4-8.
 While the term “rustic” tends to conjure up warm, muted, earthy tones, you need not feel limited to these kinds of colors in your garden. Think about how the colors of the flowers you pick might look together, and how they will complement the colors that already exist around your home and yard.

Cool, pale pastels can give your garden a dreamy, fairy-tale look.
Warm reds, oranges, and gold tones give a garden a homey, comforting feel, especially in the summer and autumn.
Bright, gem-like colors, like vibrant reds, yellows, blues, and purples, can create an attractive complement to dark or muted colors on your property.

