 The more time you have to practice your speech, the more prepared you'll feel, and as a result, the less nervous you'll feel. One guideline for the amount of time to spend on preparing a speech is one to two hours for every minute you'll be speaking. For example, you might want to devote 5 to 10 hours of prep time for a 5-minute speech. Of course, that includes ALL of your preparation from start to finish; your rehearsal would be just a portion of that time.


Leave yourself time to practice. If you're given to procrastinating, you could find yourself with very little or no time to practice before you deliver your speech, which could leave you feeling unprepared and anxious.
 Whenever possible, give your speech in front of family members and friends. If you want their feedback, give them specific guidelines for what you'd like them to comment on so that you don't feel overwhelmed by helpful notes.


Look at your audience. Almost nothing does more to keep an audience engaged than eye contact from a speaker. As you rehearse your speech, be sure to look at the family members or friends who've agreed to be your audience. It takes a bit of practice to be able to look at your outline, script or note cards, capture a thought or two and then come up and deliver that information while looking at your audience. It's yet another reason why rehearsal time is so important.
If you don't have the opportunity to practice in front of people, be sure that when you do rehearse, that you say your speech aloud. You don't want your speech day to be the first time you hear the words of your speech coming out of your mouth. Plus, speaking out loud gives you a chance to double-check and correct any mispronunciations, practice articulating your words clearly and confirm the timing of your speech (We speak more quickly when we simply recite a speech in our heads).
 One thing rehearing your speech allows you to do is to make any necessary changes. If it's running too long, you have to cut some material. If it's too short or some sections seem skimpy, you add more. Not only that, but each time you practice your speech aloud, it will come out a bit differently. That's perfectly fine. You're not a robot, you're a person. It's not necessary to get your speech word-for-word perfect, what matters is conveying the information in an engaging and memorable way.

