 Buy a potent chemical disinfectant to kill whatever bacteria might be clinging to the dirty item. If the item has a smooth, solid surface, scrub it down with a disinfectant wipe. If the item is porous or has a lot of irregular angles or protrusions, spritz it with a cleaning spray to ensure that the disinfectant is distributed over its entire surface area.Products like Lysol Disinfectant Foam Cleaner, Clorox Disinfecting Bathroom Spray and Scrubbing Bubbles Super Concentrated Bathroom Cleaner can be found in most stores and will get the job done without the risk of any damage to your belongings.Disinfecting wipes can be used to clean anything from toys to jewelry to sunglasses. Sprays will do a better job of cleaning things like hair brushes and non-machine-washable clothing items.
Try to find a disinfectant that doesn’t use bleach as an active ingredient. Bleach can discolor and even eat through some materials.
 While applying the disinfectant, make sure that you’re covering as much of the retrieved item as you can. Bacteria can linger in hard-to-access nooks and grooves, and if not eliminated entirely could continue to reproduce and possibly make you sick. Don’t take any chances. Go over the item as many times as you need to to make sure it’s been properly sanitized.Stay away from electronics with wet sprays and soggy wipes. These items are best restored using a small amount of rubbing alcohol.
The fumes from disinfectant cleaners can be overpowering. Always handle them in an open, well-ventilated area. Point the nozzle or hold the wipe away from your face as you work.
 Don’t rinse or towel off the item right away after you’ve treated it with disinfectant. Instead, set it aside and allow it to sit for a few minutes. The disinfectant will continue working on the bacteria resting on the surface. Afterwards, wipe the item down with a dry towel, being sure to remove all traces of the disinfectant chemicals.Rinse and dry the item once more after applying a disinfectant to make sure that it’s completely clean.

