 If your pet is new to you, get him settled into his new cage. Give him a few days to adjust to the household. When you are ready to introduce yourself, make sure to wash your hands. You want to make sure that your hands smell like you, rather than whatever you've just been touching or eating.;
, Use food to introduce yourself in a friendly manner to your chinchilla. Hold a chinchilla treat (timothy hay, greens or a piece of cactus fruit) in the palm of your hand, keeping your hand flat. Your chinchilla will come to investigate. Let him sniff your hand and pick up the treat on his own.Once he is comfortable eating food out of your hand, hold the food with your fingers. Hand feed your chinchilla once for a few days, until he is comfortable.
 Chinchillas can be rather skittish so make your approach as slow and stress-free as possible. They don't usually bite, but they can by shy.
 Chinchillas like to sleep most of the day and are more active in the evening. This is why they prefer a calm environment during the day.


Remember, a chinchilla is a rodent, a prey animal. This means it will run and hide to protect itself. If your chinchilla runs away from you, don't chase him.Chasing him will only make him more fearful.
 Consider using leather gloves or a towel when you first pick up your pet or if you have a wriggly chinchilla. This will protect your hands if he tries to bite. Keep holding the chinchilla in a towel in your lap and pet him for short periods of time. Short, successful restraint attempts will help the bonding process.Holding your chinchilla in a towel will also prevent scruffing or loss of fur. Make sure it's a lightweight blanket or towel. Don't leave it on too long or your chinchilla may overheat., You want to have your palms under his belly, with your fingers extending up towards his back. As you lift, shift one of your hands so that it is supporting his hind legs and hindquarters.If you have to, you can briefly pick up your chinchilla by the base of his tail where it meets the body. Do not dangle him. Immediately place him on your other forearm to avoid injury., Hold him secure between your chest and your hands. Make sure that one of your hands continues to support his feet and bottom. If you grab his fur, you may leave a bald patch that will take months to regrow.Some chinchillas like to have support under their front paws that allow them to sit upright.
 When you're done holding him, gently lower your body towards the opening of the cage. Make sure you don’t squish him in the process. Carefully extend him toward the cage door and place him inside. You should still support his rear and legs while you're doing this.

