 Cleaning the tools regularly is essential to their proper functioning. After a day of work, your tools will be covered with some amount of dirt. It’s important to clean them after you’re finished using them. Although a thorough cleaning is not required on a daily basis, make sure you clean your tools regularly. When cleaning your tools, don’t use chemicals that are extremely harsh. Follow the manufacturer’s guidelines for proper cleaning and maintenance.;
, Airlines and electrical cords are prone to heavy damage since they are generally in the way of construction vehicles, and foot traffic. Other machinery like forklifts, drills, etc. can easily cut through wires. To keep the wires and airlines from getting damaged, it is important to protect them. You can cover the electrical cords with industrial strength casings or purpose-built ramps.
 Whether you work with pneumatic or regular tools, it is important to lubricate them regularly. Lubricating tools helps them to perform better and reduces wear and tear of components.


Lubrication is even more important when working with air or pneumatic tools. Pneumatic tools need to be lubricated once a day before use. When moisture or condensation enters the interiors of pneumatic tools, it can cause corrosion. Corrosion can decrease the life of an instrument. Corroded parts are difficult to repair and replace. Hence, the internal components of pneumatic tools should be coated with special air-tool oil. This oil prevents corrosion by displacing any moisture that enters the interior of the equipment.
 Regularly inspect your tools for signs of damage and faulty functioning. Inspections should take place at the end of each construction job. Ensure that you repair them immediately if there is any damage. This will avoid any last minute hassle.
 Storing tools properly is of prime importance. Although tools are designed for rough use, it is important to store them properly. Cover up your tools to keep dirt and rain away from the machine. If the tools aren’t used for a long time, inspect them regularly for signs of damage, wear and tear, corrosion, etc.

