 You don't need to go crazy on the quality. Just make sure that it isn't so weak that the weight of the spikes will mess up the leather. You need a piece at least 12" by 18" (approx 30cm by 45cm).;
, Size is entirely up to you.
 Probably at the leather store is a good bet. This is a metal tube with a sharp end, that you hit with a hammer to make holes.
 Make this a little bit big, maybe an inch or so on each side, just to be on the safe side.
 This is a matter of personal taste. You can go with a square piece, or make it smaller at the wrist, and get bigger until your elbow. For the latter, you want to make it taper into a peak at the top, otherwise its uncomfortable to wear the thing.
 Use a carpet knife or exacto blade. Be very careful with these objects.
 Again, personal taste dictates how many you want. These are for the laces, which hold the thing on your arm. If you want to be fancy, get the little metal rings to put in there at the leather store. If you want straps, you're on your own.
 Or just go crazy and put them in random order. Make a grid on the leather, remembering not to put them too close together, especially if you have large spikes with large bases on them. Then, at all of the spots where the grid lines meet, make a hole. This will take a long time, and it will be loud. Make sure to do this on a work table, or at least on something you don't mind having tons of little round gouges in.
 Pound on spikes can't ever be moved once they're on there, and constantly recreating holes for screw-on spikes will damage your gauntlet - if not make it look tacky. To put on the spikes (for screw-on spikes), put the screw through the back, and put the spike on. Make sure to tighten with a screwdriver, otherwise they run the risk of coming off. Dab the tip with super glue if you're paranoid about them coming off, but be sure to use a little, otherwise it'll spill everywhere and the gauntlets will have off-white splotches on them - and act fast. Super glue can dry in seconds.
