 Since you filed a W-2 for each employer when you filed your taxes, the name and address of those employers will be included on the W-2s you submitted with your tax return each year, along with dates of employment.


If you've kept copies of your tax returns, you can pull them up to find names and address of employers and fill in gaps in your employment history.
If you use online tax preparation services, you can often review old tax returns by logging onto your account. Typically you'd only be able to view returns you prepared using that service, but if you can remember which services you used for which years, you may be able to get copies of all the tax returns you need free of charge., If you need names and addresses of employers to fill out your employment history, you can find them on your tax returns, which you need Form 4506 to request. The IRS makes the form available for download online at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f4506.pdf.
 You can download Form 4506, fill it out on your computer, and print it off, or you can print it and fill it out by hand.If you fill it out by hand, make sure you only write in pen using blue or black ink.
To complete the form, you will have to enter your name as it appeared on your tax return, along with your Social Security number. If you filed jointly, you also must include the name and Social Security number of your joint filer.You will need to enter your current address, plus the address on your previous return if it was different.
Enter the year or range of years for which you want copies of your tax returns., The IRS charges you $50 for each return you request, so add up the number of years you've requested returns and multiply that number by 50.You may pay the fee using either a check or money order made payable to the United States Treasury.For example, if you've requested five years of tax returns, you must pay the IRS $250 to get those copies.
 Find the state where you lived in the years when you filed the returns you're requesting on the chart included with the form and send the form to that address.


If you lived in two different states that show two different addresses, send your form to the address based on the state where you lived when you filed the most recent return., The IRS may take up to 75 days to process your request.