 Maroon is often a school color of universities and colleges. To keep your maroon pants looking casual and young, pair them with a black varsity-style jacket or a casual grey athletic T-shirt.A striped rugby-style shirt would also be a nice complement for an everyday look.
 The ubiquitous casual pant is the blue jean, so when choosing maroon pants, look for a similar 5-pocket style. This will instantly give your look the same relaxed vibe. If you don’t like that cut, you could opt for a trouser-cut pant but in a more casual fabric, such as linen.


Pair maroon linen pants with a breezy eyelet top in white.
Dress down your maroon 5-pocket pants with motorcycle boots.
 To keep your maroon pants from being too formal, try pairing them with linen, cotton or chambray fabrics on top. These fabrics are lightweight and good for everyday wear, which helps give your outfit a relaxed appearance.


A cotton button up is an easy pairing with maroon pants.
A chambray work shirt keeps your maroon pants from being too stuffy or serious.
 A boat shoe, flip flop or simple sneaker keeps your maroon pants looking casual. Go for shoes in flat fabrics rather than metallics in keeping with the casual vibe.


A topsider or simple ballet flat keeps your pants looking relaxed.
 Rolling your maroon pants is a trendy, casual look that can show off your cool summer shoes. To get a nice tight roll on your pants, cuff the bottom once, pinch an inch of your roll and push it towards the center to tighten the cuff, then roll again. Aim for a roll that exposes the ankle but not too much higher.Use this technique to show off wedges, loafers or other interesting shoes without socks.
 Bold patterns keep your pants looking young and fresh. Try tops with floral prints or geometric patterns to keep your pants looking dressed down for everyday wear.A floral blouse with a hint of maroon in the pattern would pair nicely with maroon pants.
Modern prints like chevron or polka dot in neutral colors could provide interest to your outfit.

