 Get in contact with a few different funeral homes in your area and let them know that you or a loved one plans to be cremated at the point of passing. If you discovered a deceased loved one and know that they wished to be cremated according to their will, go through some general price lists with a funeral director and compare prices, then select the one that best suits you or the families' needs.;
, Take the social security number and other details about the deceased to the funeral home for the arrangement conference where you discuss the funeral and cremation plans.


If the deceased wanted to have a viewing or you and the family agreed for a viewing, notify the funeral director about this in the arrangement conference so they can organize the cremation after the funeral or viewing service.
 Get the body of the deceased transported from the site of death or storage to the funeral home. The funeral provider shall also help you secure certified copies of the death certificate, arrange for a notice in the newspaper, and look after other necessary paperwork.
 Obtain a medical certificate by a doctor stating the cause of death or certificate by the coroner in case there has been coroner’s post-mortem examination.
 For a cremation to go further, there is usually a considerable amount of paperwork because of the nature of the process. Obtain the contract from the funeral director upon their prompting, you can request them to go through the fine print with you.


If you are planning to be cremated, you can sign the approval for cremation yourself. If you are the next-of-kin for a deceased loved one, you will have the responsibility to sign the contract.
 The cremation of the body is done with the remains in a container - the funeral home can help you with selecting the right size and fit. If you need a casket for the funeral or viewing service but do not want to purchase it, consider renting a casket.
 There are many different cremation urns that you can choose from if you wish to store the remains for memorial reasons. You can ask the funeral director what the most popular choice is, as that is usually the one that is most ecological.
 You may ask the funeral home for permission to be involved in a witnessing service so that you can witness the cremation if you want to. Some crematoriums, however, do not allow this.
 After the cremation has been performed, dispose of the cremated remains by burying in a burial plot, placing in a columbarium, or entombing in a mausoleum. You may also opt to scatter the ashes in a scattering garden, national park (if the local laws allow it), private property (with the owner’s consent), etc. The cremated remains can also be floated in water or scattered by plane.

