

Players are doing it for control and immediate gratification, because they do not feel worthy of anyone's love. They need to continuously boost their ego, which is done in many ways: getting your love, making you jealous of them, pointing out your flaws and etc. They have issues from previous bad relationships and take their anger out on their victims.;
,


These people live a sad lonely existence, never making meaningful emotional connections, because no one wants to be their friend after having been chewed and spat out. They may make small calls for help by complaining that they have no true friends, that they're distant from their family or via other means. Be gentle because they are humans too. No one is perfect.



Some players show psychopathic tendencies (a psychological condition where they cannot feel empathy and guilt). If you take revenge on these type of people, they will actually become better at bullying their next victim rather than make a Do not do unto others... realization.
 Do not give this person compliments or insults. Limit your expression of emotions. If they make you happy, accept it, return it in moderation but know they haven't changed! Avoid giving praise because you will only rub their ego.
 You are worthy of love because you have chosen it. Your self-esteem is more important than sex, there will be other relationships even if you don't think so now.
 If you are still around each other, then playing it cool will frustrate them. When they bully you (e.g. boasting about new partners or comparing you to them), be a bit cruel to discourage negative behaviour from them.


Be inventive but be truthful. You can wait a few times for the same negative behaviour before saying a witty remark, to avoid entering into a childish competition

If they boast new partners, you could casually remark that you feel sorry for them (You can feel sorry because they are with a player).
If they compare you to a partner, you could casually remark that the partner would be better off with yourself (You can believe this rather than they be with a player)
If you can find no remark, don't respond. Leave a 2 second gap and then remark about your love for a close friend. If they insult your friend, point out their jealousy. Feel free to do this as many times as needed



, We all deserve love, even if we don't believe it. It's better to cut this negative person out of your life. As you do so, tell them that they deserve love because they are a nice person at heart (which usually they are), but that love must given as well as taken. Remind them a few times of this, then make no further contact unless they chose to do so with you. You don't want to rub their ego, if they do contact you always maintain caution. Be prepared that they probably won't, in which case let them go.

