 Moving between the cat and cow poses is a good way to loosen up your spine and warm up your entire body as you start a yoga routine. It also stimulates your internal organs and increases circulation to your torso.Start on all fours with your knees directly under your hips and your wrists in line with your shoulders.
On an inhale, arch your back, pressing your tailbone into the air. Drop your shoulders down your back and cast your gaze forward. This is the cow pose.
As you exhale, round your back, curling your shoulders downward. Drop your gaze down to the floor. This is the cat pose.
Continue going back and forth between cat and cow, with a breath between each movement, for 10 to 20 deep breath cycles.
 The forearm wheel helps open your chest to help clear your lungs, and also helps activate your metabolism. Prep for the forearm roll by laying on your back on the floor.Bend your knees so your feet are flat on the floor, and slowly press your hips up into a backbend. Keep lifting until you can place the crown of your head gently on the floor, then place your forearms flat on the floor on either side of your head.
Hold the position for 5 to 10 breath cycles, breathing deeply, then slowly lower your hips to the floor and return to a reclined position.
 The seated forward fold stimulates your lower internal organs to improve digestion as well as providing some relief for high blood pressure, sinusitis, and sexual disfunction.Come to a comfortable seat on the floor. You may want to support yourself with a folded blanket so that you are sitting with correct posture. Extend your legs out in front of you, flexing your feet and pressing through your heels actively.
As you inhale, hinge forward from your hips, keeping your back long, and fold over the tops of your legs. Grab the sides of your feet with your hands. If you can't fold that far, you can grab your legs instead, or use a yoga strap to maintain the correct position.
Hold the pose for 10 to 10 deep breath cycles. With each inhale, think about lifting and lengthening your spine. With each exhale, try to sink a little deeper into the fold.
 The wind-relieving pose, as the name implies, can help relieve gas, bloating, and indigestion. You may want to make sure you have some privacy before you do this pose.Prepare for this pose by lying on your back on the floor. Keep your feet together and rest your arms by your side. As you exhale, grasp your right knee with your chest and press it toward your chest. Hold the pose as you take several deep breaths. Then release and repeat with the other leg.
You also can do this pose raising both legs at the same time. Press them to your chest. You can rock up and down or roll around to stimulate your spine and increase relaxation.
 The raised leg pose can stimulate your abdominal organs, particularly if you remember to engage the muscles in your core while holding this pose.Lie on your back on the floor with your legs extended out and pressed together. You can rest your arms at your sides, or place them under your buttocks, palms down, to help support your lower back.
On an inhale, slowly raise your feet until your legs are at a 90-degree angle from your body. Lower your legs to the floor as you exhale, but don't let them fall all the way to the ground. Remember to engage your core.
Repeat the cycle for 5 to 10 breath cycles.
 The corpse pose is the ultimate yoga pose for healing and relaxation. This pose helps increase your blood flow to all your organs. To get into corpse pose, simply recline on your back and extend your arms to your sides, palms up.Breathe deeply, relaxing all your muscles. It can help to think about your body sinking or melting into the floor. Press your lower back firmly to the floor and focus on your breath. You can stay in corpse pose as long as you feel comfortable.

