 One exercise, known as the Best Possible Self, has been shown to foster positive emotions about oneself, produce optimism, strengthen coping, and heighten one’s positive expectations about the future.Indulge yourself in a few moments of quiet time to try out this exercise, and get a deeper understanding of what it is you most want out of life.


Choose a date in the future; it could be 1 year or 5 years from now. Imagine that, at this time, you are the personification of your best possible self. You now have accomplished all the positive and attainable goals you set for yourself. Examine this version of yourself closely.
Now, write out the details – be as elaborative as you can. What important milestones have you crossed? What character strengths does your future self have? What strengths will you need to make this vision a reality?;
, Do you know what innate qualities you hold that make you special and capable of reaching your dreams? Everyone has redeeming qualities that contribute to their worth and value in this world. Acknowledging and applying your character strengths can do wonders for enhancing your personal well-being and satisfaction in life. What are yours?


Think about a few times when you felt accomplished or proud. These may have been times when you were recognized for doing a good job, or when you completed a task or goal. What personal attributes were put to use to get there? Identify and list them.
If you cannot think of a time when your character strengths were put on display, you can take an inventory to help you identify them. Set aside 15 minutes and take the VIA Institute on Character survey., After you have engaged in self-exploration to identify your best qualities, affirm them. Give yourself endless chances to foster growth and become your best possible self by building yourself up and believing in your abilities. An affirmation is a declaration about yourself focused on positively affecting your self-image and environment.Below are a few guidelines for creating your own positive affirmations:


Keep them positive. Avoid using any negative terms or phrases.
Use present or past tense, such as “I am capable of reaching my goals” or “I have the inner grace to accept and love my imperfections” as opposed to future tense or “I will” statements
Make your affirmations brief yet strong and specific.
Believe that what you are saying is true.
Post your affirmations around your home, on your bathroom mirror, or even in pockets or in between pages of notebooks to always give yourself a boost in positivity.
 On the other hand, when you examine someone else’s life and find that he is doing poorly, you may receive a false sense of superiority. No matter how you look at it, comparison results in negative and unhealthy behaviors. Drop the comparisons; you’ll have more time to focus on and affirm your own growth instead.
 This habit only serves to tear you down and make you feel bad about yourself. Sometimes, we are especially critical of ourselves when we need reassurance of our abilities and our worthiness.


Learn to stop self-criticism by completing a daily exercise targeted at your self-talk.Create column headings labeled Situation, Self-Critical Thoughts, Consequences, and Rational Responses. Examples for each column are as follows:

Situation: My boss called me out in front of the entire office after making a mistake with a report.

Self-Critical Thoughts: I'm such an idiot. I can't do anything right.

Consequences: I am embarrassed because I was made a fool of in front of the entire office, and angry at myself because I could have prevented it.

Rational Responses: It was only my first time doing this kind of report, so mistakes are expected. I am very good at coordinating projects and building rapport with clients. Doing those things makes me feel competent at my job.




