 Be careful not to damage any of the roots during the unpacking process. If you do damage a few, nip them off with a pair of sterilized pruners.;
, Allow the tree to soak for 4-6 hours prior to planting. This will allow the roots of the tree to soak up water and not dry out during the initial shock of planting.
 For example, if the tree roots and soil are 50 centimeter (19.7 in) /20" wide, dig a hole 60 centimeter (23.6 in) /2' wide to allow for maximum root spread.
 If these are left there, they will compete with the new tree and might restrict its growth. Add your organic material to the hold and mix well. This will get your young tree off to a good start.
 This is known as the "root collar" and it should be level with the ground. Placing dirt around the tree trunk above the root ball will cause the tree to grow in a way that will make it likely to fall over prematurely.
 Add more if necessary into the hole, taking care to pack the soil firmly around the tree.
 Give the tree plenty of water.
 Be sure not to let the mulch touch the tree itself. Leave an area approximately 10–20 centimeter (3.9–7.9 in) / 4-6" inches around the trunk of the tree. It allows the tree to breath and a space to check the base for any possible problems or insect damage.
 Water it every two weeks, throughout its first summer. If your area is experiencing a heavy long term drought, do take the time to water your young trees in the winter about every 2 weeks. Trees get very stressed under those type of weather conditions and need the additional moisture to help them survive and thrive.
 If the tree is fairly large, it will need to be staked for a year. Hammer a metre-long (39") stake into the ground before planting the tree, at a 45 degree angle and for three quarters of its length, in a position so that the top of the stake is above where the tree is being planted. Then tie the tree stem to the stake with a rubber tree tie.
 After one year, the tree should be securely rooted, and the stake will hinder the tree's future growth. Remove the rubber tree tie, and saw off the stake at soil level. Be careful not to injure the young tree accidentally with the saw.

