 What we think of as the brain’s processing speed is actually the ways in which electrical signals travel across axons, which are essentially the wiring connecting different parts of the brain.The white matter of the brain is made up of all of this wiring, and it is fed by blood vessels, meaning that vascular problems such as diabetes and high blood pressure can starve the axons of much-needed oxygen and glucose.Therefore, staying fit and getting plenty of aerobic exercise is the number one suggestion by most neurologists to sustain axons and even potentially improve processing speeds.A regular cardio routine has also been linked to an increase in the birth of new neurons in the hippocampus, which is a part of the brain important to learning and processing.;
, Physical health goes hand in hand with brain health. Along with the right amount of exercise, you should also maintain a balanced diet. You can additionally focus on specific foods linked to brain health, such as:Blueberries - Blueberries are packed with antioxidants, which means they protect the brain from oxidative stress and may reduce the effects of age-related conditions. Aim for one cup of blueberries per day. Other great antioxidant-rich foods include pomegranate juice and dark chocolate.
Wild salmon - Omega-3 essential fatty acids are essential for brain function, and deep-water fish such as salmon, sardines, and herring are full of them. Aim to eat a four-ounce serving two-to-three times per week.
Nuts and seeds - Nuts and seeds are a great source of vitamin E, which helps to fight cognitive decline as we age. Try to add one ounce a day.
Avocados - Avocados are great at assisting in the prevention of vascular conditions, such as high blood pressure, and healthy blood flow is essential for a healthy brain. Avocados are high in fat, though, so limit yourself to a quarter or half an avocado a day.
 The National Institutes of Health recommend that adults get approximately seven-to-eight hours of sleep every night and that teenagers get nine hours.The brain forms new pathways while you sleep, and studies have shown that getting the right amount of sleep helps with learning, problem-solving skills, and memory.Sleep also plays a role in the body’s repair of the heart and blood vessels, which fuel the white matter of the brain.Sleep deficiency—even losing just 1-2 hours across several nights—can have an effect on reaction time and processing time, with studies showing that people take longer to finish tasks.Long-term sleep deficiency has also been linked to vascular problems such as diabetes, heart disease, and high blood pressure, all of which can lead to depriving axons in the brain of oxygen and glucose., Well into adulthood, the brain continues making new connections. Learning a task builds new connections and mastering those tasks actually strengthens the connections in a way that makes the information travel across axons more quickly.More specifically, when you learn, types of brain cells called glial cells can form sheaths of protein and fatty substances (called myelin sheaths) around axons that insulate the axons and subsequently speed electrical signals down them.Learning new skills can both increase myelin sheaths as well as form sheaths around formerly bare axons.Thicker myelin sheaths can improve a number of brainy tasks from reading to creating memories to decision-making., Some studies have shown that taking up an instrument is another way of developing strong connections across different areas of the brain. The belief is that because musical training involves so many specific coordinations —visual to read music, auditory to listen to what you’re playing, and motor to finger the instrument—the connections between these brain areas become stronger and more tightly connected.The group showing the largest gains from musical training were children who began before the age of seven; however, even adult musicians showed some impact on executive functions, which are the high-level functions that allow people to process and retain information quickly, amongst other things., Not necessarily the online variety, but maintaining an active social life is actually good for your cognitive abilities.Lively discussion necessitates quick thinking and maintaining strong social networks is a great way to challenge yourself mentally and keep you on your toes.
 If you don’t smoke, then don’t start. If you currently smoke, then you should quit. Beyond what smoking means for your risks of cancer and emphysema, it has also shown in studies to decrease overall brain volume, especially in the hippocampus.Smokers lose brain volume faster than nonsmokers, which can have an effect on cognitive ability.