 Wurmple will randomly evolve into either Silcoon or Cascoon at level 7 depending on its hidden personality stats. These stats cannot be influenced.
 When Tyrogue hits level 20, it will evolve into Hitmonlee, Hitmonchan, or Hitmontop. The result depends on the Attack stat versus the Defense Stat. If Attack is higher than Defense, you get Hitmonlee. If Defense is higher than Attack, you get Hitmonchan. If they are equal, you get Hitmontop.
 In Generations 3 and 4, Feebas must have a high beauty stat in order to evolve. Accomplish this by feeding it the right PokéBlocks. In later generations, it can be traded holding a Prism Scale.
 Nincada needs to reach level 20, and you also need a Poke Ball in your inventory and an empty slot in your group. If you meet these conditions, you will get Shedinja and Ninjask.
 You will need a Remoraid in your party, and then you need to level Mantyke up (the level doesn't matter). This will reward you with Mantine.
 You must level Pancham to at least level 32, and also have a Dark-type Pokémon in your party. If you meet these conditions, you will receive Pangoro.
 In order to evolve Inkay into Malamar, level it up while holding the 3DS upside down. It must be at least level 30.
 You will need to get Tyrunt to at least level 39 and Yungoos to atleast level 20. After that, level it up during the day to trigger its evolution into Tyrantrum or Gumshoos.
 Like Tyrunt, you will need to get Amaura to at least level 39. After that, level it up during the night to trigger its evolution into Aurorus.
 Get Sliggoo up to at least level 50. Then, level it up during a rainstorm to evolve it into Goodra., Eevee is one of the more unique Pokémon, and can be evolved in multiple ways for different results. You can use Evolution Stones, raise its friendship, or evolve it in specific locations. Leveling up your Eevee near a Moss Rock will evolve it into Leafeon, and an Ice Rock will make it into a Glaceon. It evolves into Sylveon when leveled up with two affection hearts in Pokémon Amie and a Fairy type move.
 These include New Mauville in Hoenn (Gen 6), Mt. Coronet, Spear Pillar, and Hall of Origin in Sinnoh, Chargestone Cave in Unova, Route 13 in Kalos, and Vast Poni Canyon in Alola., Gligar evolves by holding Razor Fang at night, and Happiny evolves by holding Oval Stone during the day.