 If you experience a sudden shortness of breath during physical activity, the first thing you should do is temporarily discontinue that activity. Take a break from whatever you're doing and give yourself at least a few minutes to sit down and rest until you catch your breath.Sit down, relax your shoulders, and focus on your breath.
Do not attempt to resume any strenuous activities until you've caught your breath. Even then, you may want to talk to your doctor to determine the cause before resuming strenuous activities.;
, If you're feeling short of breath, your natural instinct may be to try and breathe as rapidly as possible. However, this can actually make your situation worse. The best way to catch your breath is by taking long, slow, deep breaths down into your diaphragm.Sit or lie down in a comfortable position. Try to relax your neck and shoulders.
Take a slow, deep breath into your diaphragm (below your ribs). Your inhalation should be slow and spread out over two to five seconds.
Feel your belly rise as you inhale, and hold the breath for two to five seconds.
Exhale slowly through your mouth. If you want, you can also press gently on your belly to put pressure on the diaphragm.
Repeat until you feel like your breath has stabilized.
 Some people find that lying on the floor can make breathing easier. It allows you to stretch out your body and facilitates an easier flow of air into your lungs without the pressure that may come with sitting or standing.Lie on a blanket or rug to make the floor a little more comfortable.
Keep your back and neck straight with your legs outstretched and just slightly apart. Your arms should be at your sides without touching your body, and your palms should be open and facing up.
Breathe through your nose, and keep your mouth closed. The hairs in your nostrils can help filter out dust and other irritants from the air.
Breathe deeply through the abdomen. You should feel your belly rising and falling with each breath.
Repeat until your normal breathing patterns resume.
 Breathing through pursed lips can help slow down your respiration rate and ensure that you get adequate air into your lungs. You should continue to inhale as you would for normal deep-breathing exercises, then exhale slowly by forcing the air out of your mouth.Breathe in slowly through your nostrils. Extend the inhalation over two to five seconds.
Purse your lips. Your mouth should look and feel as though you're about to blow out a candle.
Breathe out through your pursed lips. Your exhalation should be very slow and extended over two to five seconds.
Continue breathing through pursed lips until you feel like your respiration has returned to normal.

