 You don't just want to focus on yourself at work. Make an effort to motivate other employees. Most jobs involve a lot of teamwork, so boosting morale is vital in a good employee.


As stated, a positive attitude is contagious. If a co-worker seems down or off, try to put a positive spin on things. If everyone is stressed out because of a looming due date, say something like, "This is an opportunity to really test our dedication."
Be willing to help others out. If you see someone who looks confused and lost, politely ask if they need a helping hand. You can help others achieve their goals by offering them guidance with their own work., Remember, teamwork is important. It isn't all about you. Your boss will be impressed if you act on your company's best interest rather than your own personal ambitions. If you're on a short list to go to a conference, but know a co-worker is more knowledgable on the subject, mention this to your boss. Say something like, "I know you're deciding between me and Natalie for that conference this fall. I appreciate being considered for the opportunity, but I think Natalie would do better than me.", If you want to be an excellent employee, you need to be able to communicate effectively. When talking to your boss and co-workers, make sure you listen and are understood.


Practice active listening. Smile, nod, and offer other non-verbal cues to indicate you're paying attention to the speaker. When the speaker finishes talking, reiterate what they just said to make sure you understood completely. Do not think of your response while another person is talking. Simply listen and try to understand.
If you're having a conflict, think back to other times you had to navigate a difficult or awkward situation. How did you handle the situation? How did you help smooth out a conflict? Use the skills you learned from past personal or professional issues in the workplace., Gossiping says a lot more about you than it does about the other person. If you gossip about your boss or co-workers, people will view you as distrustful. There's also always a good chance what you say about someone in private can get back to that person. If you hear people gossiping, it's best to disengage. Offer non-committal responses like, "Sorry you feel that way" and simply move on., Once again, show your boss and co-workers that you're willing to share the spotlight. Instead of being jealous at another person's accomplishments, give them credit. Success is not finite. If someone achieves something, instead of being envious offer them a sincere congratulations.