 Make your portfolio as straightforward as possible. Divide it into clear sections for your background, skills, and examples of your work. Clearly label the different sections so your readers immediately understand what they are looking at. Make it easy to navigate to the different sections. Your readers might give up if it’s too hard to find or identify the contents.Use a website template suited to your field. Look at the websites of the types of places you’re applying to and use the same type of design that you see on their websites.;
, Say who you are in a simple sentence. Add your resume or CV for more context. This is also where you should state the type of work you do or your degree if you’re fresh out of school. Talk about yourself in the third person if you want a formal portfolio, which is appropriate for certain fields, like corporate law, higher ed, or government. Use the first person if you’re aiming for a more casual, friendly tone.For example, start with your name and identify the type of work you do: “My name is Bob Smith. I am a freelance translator in Greensboro and I enjoy translating technical documents from Japanese and Korean.”
If you just received your degree, you can say: “Nancy Cohen recently graduated the Columbia University Computer Science Masters Program.”

, Include all areas in your field where you’re seeking employment. Also list any areas where you’d like to develop more professional experience. Specify where you’d like to work or if you’re looking for freelance opportunities.For example, you can say, “I love designing websites and am looking for more opportunities to work in coding on a freelance basis.”
Briefly state any conditions you’re willing to accept, like a flextime schedule, part-time work, if you’re willing to relocate, or if you’re willing to intern.
 Stay focused and only list skills that are relevant to the work you are seeking through your portfolio. Use technical language if that’s relevant. Don’t downplay your skillset -- you’re trying to convince your reader to hire you.


For example, list computer skills you possess, any languages you know, knowledge of specialized equipment or techniques in your field.
 Provide your contact information. Include links to other areas where you are online, like LinkedIn or Twitter. Only give information you’re comfortable sharing through the internet. For example, don’t give out your home address.


Employers may check out your social media accounts, so delete any content you wouldn’t want employers to see on Facebook and the like.

