 It has to be a book or a movie that you think you will enjoy, or you already do enjoy. Look through your books or film collection and choose some ones that you enjoy and would like to learn more about. Decide which one you are going to learn more about.;
, If you wanted to, you could write your own review of the book or write a summary about it to help you understand it better. Think about the characters, the storyline, the good parts of the book and the parts that could be improved. Annotate as you read, marking specific reoccurring elements, motifs, metaphors, and anything relating to a theme that the author portrays.
 Make sure you understand the plot and what is happening. Think about the characters and how well they act. You could look up the actors and actresses on the Internet and see what films they have been in. Ask other people who have seen the film what they think and some things they liked and disliked, as people could have different thoughts about what happens.
 Think about other readers/viewers opinions and share your own. When you post your review, make sure it get across what you think about the book/film.
 Is it the actors that make it good? Is it the characters? Is it the special effects? Is it the opening? Really understand what you think about the film/book. Think about how it could be improved. Even the best of things can be improved. Could the ending have been better? Would a different actress have played the leading role better?

, There is probably a website for the film and you can find lots of information about the film or book. The writers of the article may have picked up on something that you didn't, so you can learn more about the film/book from another persons point of view. Try lots of different websites as they can offer a range of different information. Aim to find out as much as you can, from the publisher of the book to the director of the film, to the inspiration of the plot to the time it took to film.
 Go into detail about the book/film and all the points above.
, On line forums would also be a good place to go. There are websites for people who like films or books, and you could join one of these and share your opinions.

