 Talk to this character.;
, She'll give you a level up.
 in the bottom-right corner of your screen. This is your stat window. Here, you can spend 'stat points' in 6 different attributes: STR (strength), AGI (agility), VIT (vitality), INT (intelligence), DEX (dexterity), and LUK (luck). Each powers up something different about your character (see "Tips" section for some advice on stats).
 There should be a little bridge. Walk across and keep going until you get to a swirly light. This is a 'warp portal'. (Warp portals are how you travel from map to map on Ragnarok Online, which will hereafter be referred to as "RO" or "Ragnarok".) Click on the warp portal to walk into it.
 There will now be an NPC called "Receptionist". Talk to him. He should give you a few options-directly start RO, go to the training grounds, etc. If you're completely new to RO, you should probably chose the Training Grounds because here there will be many NPCs who will teach you the interface, basic gameplay, etc. These NPCs will also give you some level ups and items, which will help you start out Ragnarok. Because of this, you might want to go to the Training Grounds even if you already know how to play.
 (If not, skip ahead 3 steps.) You'll eventually notice that there are two warp portals-one to the far right and one to the far left. Once you've finished talking to all of the NPCs in the room you start in, go left. There's nothing (useful) in the room to the right.
 On it it will say your character name, base level, job class, and job level. Everybody starts as a level 1/1 novice.) is 10. This is the maximum your job level can be as a novice. Go to the very top of the Training Grounds field map, and there'll either be an NPC or a warp portal. If it's a warp, walk into it. If there's an NPC, talk to him. Both will lead you to another room.
 You might want to do this test b/c afterwards, you can 'chose what job you want to be'. Basically, this NPC will warp you to wherever you need to go to for your first job quest. (Job quests are quests that you need to complete in order to switch jobs. Be warned, though, that once you become a job you can't change to another job in that same level.)

, There'll be a swirly light. Click on it to walk into it, and then you'll be in Prontera fields-a map with fairly easy-to-kill monsters.), Geffen fields (go to the city of Geffen, walk east to the edge of the city and attack the monsters on the other side of the warp portal there), or really any other field to a main town.
, Once you've decided what class you want to be (the choices are archer, mage, acolyte, swordsman, thief, merchant, ninja, gunslinger and taekwondo), try going to Google to search for "RO _______ job change quest" or something and put whatever job class you want to be in the blank. Another good RO database is called ratemyserver.net

