 You make a chain by creating a slipknot (a type of knot shaped like a pretzel). Slip this knot onto your crochet hook's shaft and wrap the yarn around the hook, pulling it taut. Slip the hook with the wrapped yarn through the loop on your hook, leaving you with one chain stitch on your loop and one completed chain stitch.


This is the top, wide edge of the shawl. Because it's rectangular, not triangular, you will need to keep the same number of stitches the whole way down.
Should be long enough to wrap around yourself, or around whoever you’re planning on giving it to.
 You want to make sure that all your stitches are the same size as you're crocheting. Use whatever stitch is easiest for you or that you think looks the coolest with a rectangular shawl.The double stitch is a good basic stitch: find the fifth stitch of your foundation chain. Yarn over the hook from back to front. Slip your under the front and back loops of the fourth chain stitch. Yarn over the front of your hook and catch the yarn. Draw your hook through the two chain stitch loops. This will leave you with three loops on the hook. Yarn over again, back to front. Slip your hook through the first two loops on the hook, leaving you with two loops on the hook. Yarn over the hook back to front and draw your hook through both loops.
Crochet with the checkerboard stitch: begin with the typical chain. Doing the double crochet, start in the third stitch from the hook. Chain three stitches. Skip your next three stitches. Double crochet each of the next three stitches. Repeat chaining three stitches and skipping three stitches. Always end with the double crochet as your last stitch. Chain three and then turn. Continue doing the double crochet stitch, skipping three, and chaining three until you need to fasten off.
 You need to keep the same rectangular shape as you work. If you do skip a stitch then you'll need to either frog your stitches up to that point (undo them) or simply incorporate the skipped stitch into your design.The best thing to do is count out your stitches when you're making the chain and then count them as you're working, because this way you'll be able to keep track of whether you've skipped any stitches.
 When you've gotten the shawl as big as you want it to be it's time to secure the last stitch. This way the shawl won't come unraveled. Cut the yarn 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) from the loop on your hook. Slip your yarn over the hook, drawing your yarn end through the loop.


Pull the tail of the yarn (the yarn end) in order to tighten the yarn and secure your stitches.

