 Why not throw a bash and limit it to people without a significant other? You could also include couples who are sick of the holiday (but not if they will ruin it with cuddling and other romantic overtures).


Hand out black roses, play singles games, and have people exchange gag gifts. You may have heard of divorce parties, so why not borrow from the concept on Valentine’s Day? Alternatively, have a theme that is pointedly not about Valentine's Day. For instance, a party with a color theme, Country Western, Marshmallow Appreciation Day....whatever.
Order a Valentine’s Day piñata, and let everyone take turns smacking it a time or two. Make sure there’s something fun inside. Have fun with the drinks. How about a blood orange mojito?Spend some time developing fun anti-Valentine’s Day invitations. You don’t have to avoid red or pink or little hearts. You just have to have the right slogans on them. Custom-order candy hearts with sarcastic phrases about love and Cupid.;
, Or, if you prefer, you could order anti-Valentine’s Day cupcakes. Give them out at work, to friends, or at a party you throw.


You can find funny but sarcastic cupcake or cake toppers online and in some party stores. For example, a broken glitter heart would work.
It’s all in the slogan. Be funny, but not too mean. Cupid is stupid, love hurts, or other phrases are harmless fun. There are many anti-Valentine’s Day cupcake recipes online. For example, some recommend creating a red licorice X on top of the cupcake.You could top the cake with black hearts or black roses. The color black is a great way to turn a red Valentine’s Day cake or party into an anti-Valentine’s Day message.
 This could be another single friend, a parent, or even a casual acquaintance you’d like to get to know better.


You could enjoy a Valentine’s Day special with someone who is not a romantic partner. Or you could see if any restaurants (or taverns) offer anti-Valentine’s day events or dinners. Some do. There's no reason you can't spend Valentine's Day with someone you love in a family sense.
Reach out to someone you know is lonely. Send them a bouquet or invite them over for dinner. There's power in numbers!
Some more offbeat ideas include dressing up your pet for a dinner at home. You could even put a bow on the cat or dog., You may discover you’re not alone. Half the world seems on cloud nine on Valentine’s Day, but everyone else is down in the dumps or just hates the commercialism and expectations of the day.


Lift up someone else’s spirits with gifts for all your single friends. You can find anti-Valentine’s Day mugs and T-shirts online.Wear the anti-Valentine’s Day T-shirts out as a group, like you might at a bachelorette or bachelor’s day party. You can also purchase anti-Valentine’s Day cards online and in some stores.
You can find many customized anti-Valentine’s items online, and you can even find full relationship breakup kits for purchase., Don’t assume only singletons hate Valentine’s Day. Many people are sick of the holiday.


Maybe your significant other is one of those people. You could send him or her a sarcastic anti-Valentine’s Day card.Throw a couple’s anti-Valentine’s Day party for other couples and singles, who hate the holiday or are just sick of the glittery pink mush it conveys.
Be aware though that some people really do care about Valentine’s Day. If your partner is one of these people, why let your own sarcasm cause hurt feelings? Suck it up, and be nice. Appreciating other people’s feelings can go a long way, and a lot of people just want to be remembered on Valentine’s Day somehow.

