 Brushing your teeth twice a day helps to reduce plaque, prevent gingivitis and protect your gums from infections.


When brushing, the toothbrush should be placed against the teeth at a 45-degree angle from the gum line. Use a gentle circular motion as your brush, don't go back and forth, as this damages tooth enamel.
Do not use too much force or pressure. Allow the tips of the bristles to reach between the teeth. Cover all the inner, outer, chewing surfaces of all the teeth, making sure the grooves and crevices are cleaned well.
Take particular care to clean the inside of the lower, front teeth and the outer surfaces of the upper back teeth as these are the surfaces that tend to collect the maximum tartar.
Use toothpaste specially made for gum diseases and for gum protection. For example, Crest Pro-Health, Corsodyl daily toothpaste, Colgate pro gum health etc. You can also check for tooth pastes that contains fluoride and an antibiotic like triclosan.
Brush twice a day, for a full three minutes each time. Once you finish, rinse your mouth out with water or mouthwash.;
, Regular flossing reduces the risk of gum diseases and bad breath by removing food particles and plaque from between the teeth and around the gum lines.


Floss before bedtime and at least once during the day. To floss correctly, dispense around 18 inches (45.7 cm) of floss from the dispenser. Wind it around the middle fingers of each hand, keeping a 1-inch section open for flossing. Floss the upper teeth first, then the lower teeth.
Don't "snap" the floss between the teeth, as this can irritate sensitive gums. Instead, try to slide the floss gently down the side of each tooth.
Keep using a fresh section of floss as you move along from tooth to tooth. Also, floss the back of the last molar carefully.
Avoid using tooth picks to remove food particles between the teeth which will damage your gums and causes infection.
If your teeth are very close together and hard to floss between, try using an interdental brush.
 Mouthwash controls plaque formation on the gums and washes away any food particles/debris.


Use an alcohol-free mouthwash that contains chlorhexidine or hexidine - this will kill bacteria and heal infections without irritating the gums.
You can also use chlorhexidine digluconate mouthwashes for the treatment and prevention of gum disease. These include Corsodyl mouthwash, Colgate Pro-Gum Health mouthwash, etc.
Use mouthwash twice a day, according to the instructions on the packaging.
 It's very important to massage your gums daily to increase blood circulation, which strengthens the gums and prevents them from bleeding.


Massage also helps to remove foods/debris from between the teeth and around the gums. After brushing, use your fingertips to gently massage the gums, using small circular motions. Special gum massagers are also available in stores for easy use.
Massage for at least 30 seconds to 1 minute twice a day if you have gum disease, and at least once in a day if you have healthy gums.
 Salt water helps to control bacterial growth in your mouth. It also has astringent properties and aids in wound healing by reducing inflammation.


Take a glass of warm water and mix in a tablespoon of sea salt. Take a mouthful of the salt water, gargle for 30 seconds, then spit it out. Do not swallow.

Repeat this process twice a day until the gum disease is under control. After that, you can continue to rinse with salt water once a week.
The heat of salt water increases blood flow to the infected area and helps in faster healing.
 Special gum gels (such as Anabel) are available in drug stores. These help to stop bleeding and reduce inflammation, keeping gum disease under control.


You can apply the gel after your brushing/or after using mouthwash. Take a small amount of gel (approximately 25mm) on your finger tip and rub it onto the gum surface. Massage it smoothly into the gums with your finger tips for a minute
After applying the gel, you should not rinse your mouth or eat/drink for at least 30 minutes This prevents the gel from being properly absorbed by the gums.
Use the gum gel once or twice a day, as per the product advice and you should notice an improvement in the condition of your gums in about a week.
 Following a healthy diet can help to build up your body's immune system, allowing your body to fight the gum disease from the inside out. Some of the most important vitamins and minerals for healthy teeth and gums include:



Vitamin C: helps to keep your teeth firmly implanted in the gums. Vitamin C is found in citrus fruits, dark green vegetables, kiwi and broccoli.

Vitamin A: helps to fight gum infection and promotes healthy gums. Vitamin A rich foods that you can add to your diet are carrots, green leafy lettuce, sweet potatoes, fish, eggs, corn, banana etc.

Vitamin D: promotes your gum health by supporting the immune system and reducing inflammation. Sources of vitamin D include organ meats, fish, eggs and sun exposure.

Omega-3 fatty acids: help to reduce gum inflammation. Foods rich in omega-3s include fish (salmon, sardines), flaxseed and fish oil.

Folic acid: helps to keep your mouth healthy by promoting cell growth of the gums and all surface tissues in mouth. Leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, legumes are rich sources of folic acid.

Coenzyme Q10: reduces the gum disease symptoms like bleeding, inflammation and depth of gum pockets. The foods rich in COQ10 are beef, pork, chicken, fatty fish and organ meats.

