 Concentration meditation is the foundation of all the other types of meditation. Meditation works best when you strengthen your concentration to the point of cutting out all distractions, or intense focus on nothingness. Reaching this level allows your mind to be calm and to move beyond your sense of self. Once attained, you can use it for wellness and a positive outlook.One of the methods to practice this type of mediation is to concentrate on a single object like an image, sound, or even your own breath. By consistently returning to focus on the object, the mind develops the capacity to remain calm.
Different types of popular concentration meditations are transcendental, zen, om, shine or Samadhi, and chakra meditation.;
, Reflective meditation, or analytical meditation, stimulates the power of dramatic change by providing you with great conviction and strength to reorder your life ways. This type of meditation requires “disciplined thinking.” In this case, a question, theme, or topic is chosen to contemplate for analysis. It is okay to let your mind wander for a short time, but it is vital that you bring your thought back to the reflection to make your mind stronger.It would be a good idea to master concentration meditation first since this type requires a higher degree of concentration and contemplation.
Typical questions you can focus on are: “Who am I?” “What is the true purpose of my life?” “What is my role in the universe?” or “How can I help remove the suffering of others?”

, Mindfulness mediation is a combination of concentration and open awareness. It emphasizes the cultivation of highly receptive attention toward any object or action within your sphere of influence. It is simply being “mindful,” or “paying attention” to your surroundings. Practitioners claim the benefits provide pain relief and helps support sufferers of anxiety and depression.This is the most popular meditation type in the Western Hemisphere.
You practice this meditation type by concentrating on an object such as breath, thoughts, feelings, or sounds but not as narrow as in concentration meditation. Instead, there is allowance for simultaneous awareness of other phenomena in your surroundings.
This meditation practice can be adapted to daily routines such as eating, walking, driving, or performing household chores. This adaptation removes all rigorous contemplative training.
Mindful meditation is often associated with the Theravada Buddhist practice of vipassana, or “insight meditation,” but other techniques such as deep-breathing, body scan, visualization, mindful breathing, sitting meditation, and walking meditation now exist.
 Heart-centered meditation, or heat chakra meditation, is performed to remove negative energy and release your fears and sadness. As your heart heals, your mind will embrace loving kindness and compassion, and encourage you to help heal the hearts of others.Find a quiet place, set your posture, and focus on your heart while you calmly and slowly inhale and exhale. Concentrate on connecting your heart to the heart of another person you feel compassion for.
Try this type of meditation when grieving or when suffering from great personal loss. This will put your mind at ease and heal your heart.
 Guided, or sometimes called creative or visualization, meditation focuses on cultivating and strengthening various qualities of your mind. Qualities such as appreciation, joy, compassion, patience, empathy, love, gratitude, compassion, humility, fearlessness, and tenderness can be the areas of your concentration.Beginners start with a teacher who provide auditory guidance that encourages the elicitation of certain images, affirmations, states (such as peacefulness), or desired experiences.
This type of meditation is popular in western culture as a way to promote health, well-being, and as a visualization of a successful outcome to a surgery or competition.

