 The first thing to do if you are interested in becoming a repo man is to learn about what the reality of the job is. Being a repo man is hard work, which can be emotionally draining and potentially dangerous. Repo men may be employed to repossess property, such as a boat or car.

Given the nature of the job, repo men tend not to be too popular. If you decide to work towards becoming a repo man you will need thick skin.
Repo men do not typically work regular hours, so you must be prepared to work long and irregular hours, including evenings and weekends.;
, Salaries vary widely, but repo men are generally paid per repossession they complete. The value of the item repossessed will often be reflected in the amount agent is paid for the job. In vehicle repossession, a car will tend to bring in between $150 and $450, but much of this will go to business costs and expenses.


If the job pays $300, the repo man may get around $70 to $100 of that amount.The reported average salary for an agent is $32,480., Being a repo man is a tough job that requires you to have a range of skills and qualities to deal with the situations you may find yourself in. A good repo man must have excellent people skills. You will have to deal with angry and potentially aggressive people. You may have to repossess something from someone who is physically intimidating, so you need to be confident, but able to keep your cool in difficult moments.


It helps if you are a good problem solver, and can organise your work and time well.
Being a repo man also involves some investigative work to track down property and people.
As well as dealing with people whose property you are repossessing, you will also deal with attorneys, so it’s important to have a professional manner., On top of the basic personal requirements, you should find out about the specific repossession laws in your state or region. You will have to take account of all regulations and legal prerequisites for becoming a repo man before you go any further. Your state or region's financial department, secretary of state, supreme court, or judicial branch can inform you on applicable licensing requirements and other prerequisites for becoming a repo man.#*Some states require repo men to have a state licence to operate.In some states, including California, having a criminal conviction will make you ineligible for a licence.You can browse the relevant legislation and regulations by state online.These rules and regulations will change over time, so it’s important to seek out the most up-to-date information.
 There are many training programs and courses that will provide you with repossession certifications and other skills needed to perform the job duties. Having some certified training will improve your prospects in the job market, especially if you are new to repossession work. Search online for books and courses for repossession agents, and be sure they cover all the legal regulatory requirements for your state.

Check with your State Department to ensure you understand the requirements.
The training should cover practical issues, such as lock picking, vehicle alarm systems, and how to deal with your customers.
You should also receive training on repossession ethics and the legal and regulatory information that you will need to be aware of.
You may complete a comprehensive exam at the end of your course, before receiving your official certification., You can start looking for repo man work by contacting all the repossession companies in your area. Start as local as possible and then extend your search outwards. Say that you have recently become certified and are looking to develop a career in the industry.

You can find a list of companies in your state online.It is likely that you will start as a driver or a clerk, before moving on to repossessing vehicles or other property yourself.
This is all valuable experience if you want to learn how the business operates. You will be making contacts and learning from more experienced colleagues., You can contact the companies directly, but you can also browse online job databases where positions may be advertised. There are a large number of job database websites and classified ad websites for you to look through. Search for repossession jobs in your local area and see what comes up.

You will also find specialised job boards online which only advertise jobs in the repossession business., Once you have found a position to apply for, complete the required forms and paperwork and send in the application. Be sure that respond directly and specifically to all elements of the job specification to fully explain your suitability for the job. Check and proofread your application before you send it in.


Being a repo man involves its share of paperwork, and a poorly written application won’t help demonstrate your administrative and writing skills
Employers will be looking for someone with excellent people skills, who is able to stay calm in a fractious situation.
You should emphasize your communication skills, your organizational skills, and your ability to work under pressure.
Try to highlight your experiences in previous jobs to demonstrate that you have these skills, and have applied them in the past., You can work directly for a repossession company, but you can also consider working as an independent contractor. Working for a repossession company can provide you with consistent work and allow you to learn from other experienced repo men. The advantages to being an independent contractor are that you will be able to obtain your own clients and run your own business.

It can be difficult to break into the industry as an independent contractor, especially if you have little or no experience.
It’s advisable to get some experience and contacts working with a company before you consider becoming an independent contractor.