 If you feel like inventing your own salad, move on to the next step to begin the step-by-step instructions. If you're looking for something faster, here are a few well-tested ideas that can stand at the center of your meal:


Chef's salad: sliced ham, cheese, hard-boiled egg, cucumber, and tomato on a bed of lettuce. This can stand up to thicker, stronger-flavored dressings such as Caesar salad dressing, ranch, or Thousand Island.

Salad Nicoise: a French salad of potatoes, tomatoes, egg, olives, and fish (usually anchovies or tuna), among other ingredients.
Southwest salad: Combine cooked corn and black beans with red peppers, spring onions, and plenty of avocado and/or grilled chicken. Season with cilantro and lime.
 You can start with lettuce or mixed greens, if you're prepared to amp it up with plenty of protein and starchy ingredients. Another approach is to use a bed of grains, especially something with plenty of texture like brown rice or quinoa.


A bed of rice noodles works well for Asian salads.
 This isn't just for show; a variety of colours means a variety of vitamins. Strips of red, orange, or yellow bell pepper are a great choice. Also try shredded carrot; shredded beets (raw, pickled or cooked); or sliced tomatoes.


You can even add edible flowers.
 Add intensity with roasted garlic, pitted olives, or diced hot peppers. Use avocado for a creamy texture. Keep it tasty but more casual with chopped asparagus, any kind of onion, or flavorful mushrooms.
 These little nibbles make a salad much more interesting. There are all kinds of options:


Any nuts or seeds – walnuts, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, etc.
Breads or grains – croutons, tortilla chips, popcorn, cooked quinoa
Any type of fresh or dried fruit, especially berries
Snap peas, corn niblets, or other small veggies

, A salad requires protein to become an entreé. Choose just one or two of the following, chopped into bite-size pieces.


Cooked beans – chickpeas, lentils
Cheese – Parmesan Swiss, or feta for more subtle flavor; cheddar or blue cheese for strong flavor
Other vegetarian options – soft- or hard-boiled egg, tofu
Meat – tuna, chicken breast, ham, grilled fish or steak, shrimp, squid

, Salad dressing can be purchased or made at home. Whichever you choose, drizzle over the salad and toss until thoroughly coated. If you made the salad in advance, wait until just before serving to add the dressing.


Combine one part Balsamic vinegar with three parts olive oil and add salt & pepper for a classic dressing. This is best on lettuce or tomato salads. You can easily add crushed garlic or any savory herb.
Mix Greek yoghurt with lemon juice, garlic, oregano and hot sauce for a strong dressing, best on strong-flavored leaves such as arugula or radicchio.
Mix freshly squeezed fruit juice, olive oil, salt and pepper for a fresh fruity dressing

Check out this article for more ideas.
