 Past relationships are great for teaching you about yourself and your future relationships. To prepare yourself for the possibility of a new relationship, identify any areas of your past that may have contributed to your break up. Notice anything you may have done to push your partner away, or actions you may have done to be controlling or manipulative. Search for ways you can improve your behavior as a partner.Don’t be afraid to take some time to yourself. You don’t need to jump from one relationship to another. Enjoy the in-between times and give yourself time to heal.
 Take some time to reflect on your character, and notice any flaws you might have. Work on those to be a better partner and friend. This can be hard--no one wants to think about their flaws. But identifying and working on them will make you a better person, and will likely even increase your happiness.Perhaps jealousy is a flaw for you. Practice being grateful for what you have.
Maybe manipulation comes easy to you. While single, practice saying what you actually mean, and being honest with yourself and others.
 Many people forego their loves in favor of whatever their significant other likes. Take some time to evaluate your likes and dislikes, including your musical taste, your preferences regarding food, drink, and lifestyle, and even what you absolutely require from a relationship or partner. This will make you an invaluable partner, as you will know yourself well, and will not bow down to make other people happy.This is another great time to experiment. Try new foods, music, or movies. Do activities you’ve never done before. You may discover things you really love.
 If your aversion to your single life is insurmountable or feels too overwhelming to sort out by yourself, seek the help of a counselor or therapist. Although you might feel like you are alone in your struggle with being alone, plenty of people struggle to be both happy and single. A qualified professional can give you strategies to cope with your frustration, and may also be able to provide you with a fresh perspective on your situation., Finally, make some room for gratitude and mindfulness in your life. While single, notice the way food feels against your lips and tongue, notice the sounds you hear as you take your dog for a walk, or tune in to your feelings on a particularly stressful day. Mindfulness helps you know your body and mind thoroughly, so that you can make more concrete decisions, and develop confidence and ease.Mindfulness can be difficult when you are in a relationship, as a lot of your time and attention are diverted.

