 If you want to ask your parents something, the time and place matters. If you bombard your parents with a request when they're busy or stressed, they're more likely to say "No." Ask them when they're free.Pick a good time. Wait until both your parents are not busy with work or other activities. For example, a lazy Saturday afternoon can be a good time to talk.
You should also pick a place free of distractions. For example, ask in the dining room instead of the TV room, where electronic devices may be distracting.;
, Before going into the conversation, have a sense of your own feelings. Why is bringing your iPod on the bus so important? How can you convey this to your parents?Think about how you feel about the conversation itself. Are you nervous? Angry? Frustrated? Try to work on letting go of these feelings. Go into the conversation without expectations.
Identify why the issue is important. Maybe other classmates and friends bring their iPods on the bus, and you feel left out when you can't play the same games or listen to music. This is something you could address.
 It's a good idea to try to predict why your parents may refuse. That way, you can offer up counter arguments right away. Think about any questions or concerns your parents may have about you bringing your iPod on the bus.Your parents may worry about you getting too much screen time. They may also worry you will lose your iPod. They may want you socializing instead of tuning others out.
What counterarguments could you make to these complaints? Maybe you could promise to limit your screen time after school. You could agree to pay for the iPod with your allowance if you do lose it. You could also point out the iPod is a social tool, as your friends often talk about games that they're playing and music they're listening to.
 You do not need to write out a speech word-per-word. However, it's never a bad idea to have some idea of what you're going to say. Try to jot down your thoughts ahead of time and then read back what you wrote. How can you express these thoughts most effectively? Have a rough idea of how to begin the conversation going into it., Stop your parents and say something like, "Do you have a minute? I have something I want to ask you." Then, get right into the topic. Do not beat around the bush. Being as direct as possible can help the conversation run smoothly.For example, start off with something like, "This is about my iPod. I wanted to know if it would be okay for me to bring it on the bus."

, It's always a good idea to make your parents feel valued. You don't want to look entitled or demanding. If your parents feel you understand and respect their authority, they're more likely to give you permission.For example, say something like, "I really appreciate you guys buying me that iPod. I know it wasn't cheap and I know how hard you worked to earn the money for it."

, When your parents talk, pause and listen. They may have reasons for saying "No" and expressing hesitation. Understanding these reasons can help you guys reach a compromise if necessary.Once you've stated your case, pause and let your parents respond. Do not interrupt or talk over them while they're explaining their concerns to you.
Show you're listening by nodding and responding with things like "Yes" and "Uh-huh."

, You're unlikely to get your way if you complain, argue, or otherwise talk back. If you show maturity, your parents are more likely to say "Yes" to you. Instead of arguing with your parents, say things like, "Okay, I understand what you're saying, but I see it a different way.", If your parents flat out say no, it's okay to ask for an explanation. Do so politely and respectfully. Frame it as a way to understand their perspective more.For example, do not say, "That's not fair. Why won't you let me?"
Instead, say something like, "Okay, I understand you don't want me to take my iPod on the bus. Can you tell me why it's an issue?"

, If your parents express hesitation, you can always ask for a delayed response. If your parents see you're mature and willing to give them a chance to decide, they may be more wiling to say "Yes" later on. If your parents have reservations about letting you bring your iPod on the bus, say something like, "Okay, I get that you're unsure about this. Why don't you take a day to think about it and we can talk tomorrow?", Your parents may want to feel you're earning rewards via good behavior. Is there anything you can do to earn the right to bring your iPod on the bus? Try to offer positive behavior in return.For example, you could promise to bring your grades up if your parents allow you to bring your iPod on the bus.
 If your parents say "No" despite your best efforts, accept this for now. Ignoring their rules, or arguing with them, will make them more likely to enforce them strictly. However, if your parents see you're mature, they may change their minds later on. They may realize you're responsible enough to carry your iPod on the bus.If your parents continue to refuse, calmly say something like, "Okay. I understand. Thank you for listening."

