 Research and development of social media is the first tier of your social media strategy map. For start-ups and new businesses you will need to ask yourself some important questions to identify your strategy.


Decide your place in your market. Decide if you are a leader, innovator, follower, customer service leader, educational leader, non-profit or community-centered organization. You can be more than 1 thing, but you should decide on 1 or 2 goals within your market, because you cannot cover all areas.
Write down your value proposition to your customers. Ask what your customers achieve through buying your product. A business should look to increase the benefit to customers if they are not able to answer this important question.
Develop a message for your customers, based on value and your business strategy. Break this down into 7 to 10 smaller messages that you can communicate to your customers via technology, such as your website, email blasts and social media. A website, database and, possibly, lead capture software should be active before signing up for social media accounts.;
, Social media is only valuable if you are reaching your demographic of usual customers. For example, a demographic between the ages of 20 to 40 would mean you should develop a presence on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Pinterest and more.


If you identify your target demographic as above 65, then you are likely to have less success with social media. Social media is not a good idea for every business. An older demographic may respond better to direct mail, newspaper ads or email blasts.
 Make sure you have an administrator on each account that is given the company messages that should be delivered. Make sure to mix your content with educational, interesting and product/service messages.


The first few weeks of a social media account are critical in setting up your tone. While you have fewer followers you should fill in all the information boxes, add company pictures and post at least 20 times before looking for followers. Internet users are less responsive to a "hard sell;" they prefer community oriented pages.
 Cross-promote by posting links to your accounts on your website, e-mail blasts and printed materials.

