 You should usually include your first passport with your application, if you have one. Obviously, a lost or stolen passport cannot be included in an application. You should also refrain from sending in very damaged passports. These materials should either be mailed in, if you're using the DS-82 form, or presented to a local government agency or passport acceptance facility.Make sure your photo meets standards or your passport could be significantly delayed. Photos should be 2 by 2 inches and taken within the last six months. They should be printed in color, and on matte or glossy photo paper. They should include your full face with a plain background. You must have a neutral expression.
Most drugstores will do passport photos for a small fee, and you can probably find passport photo services in your area by doing a quick google search. These places will make sure your photo meets standards.
 There are always fees associated with applying for a passport. Fees vary from person-to-person, depending on things like age, the reasons for applying, and how quickly you need your passport. Review your application carefully to make sure you pay all necessary fees. A failure to pay certain fees can result in your passport getting delayed.An application fee is generally required, which comes out at around $165. You also have to pay a fee of $135 for a passport book, and a $35 fee for a card.
Fees are not always consistent. You may have to pay more or less depending on your specific circumstances. Review your materials carefully and, if you have any questions, ask at a passport agency.
As you generally mail in documents, send a check or money order. Check with the passport agency in regards to payment, however. Agencies will have different preferences in regards to payment. Some may even allow you to pay online with a card.
 You can find a list of passport agencies online. You will send your materials in to an agency. If there is an agency near you, you can also bring your materials to the agency in person.Mail or turn in all your documents in the same envelope. A Tyvek envelope is recommended.
It can take several weeks to receive your second passport. If you need your passport sooner, see if you can find an expedited passport courier service in your area. You may be able to receive your passport as soon as 24 to 48 hours after submitting materials.

