 Determining your sound can help you figure out how many members you need and what talents will be required. For example, a rock band will likely need a drummer, guitarist, and bassist, as well as a vocalist. A pop group may need fewer members and might not need as many people who can play instruments.


Determine what role you will fill in the band. Since you are putting together a group, you need to decide what your role will be. Perhaps you’ll sing or drum, for example. Be sure to stick with your talents. If you just started playing guitar, it may be better if a more experienced friend fills that role.;
, If your friends are musically talented, you won’t have to look far to put together your girl group. Ask friends to fill certain roles in the band, such as singer, percussionist, and guitarist, if these skills are necessary for your musical style.


Be sure everyone gets along. Drama can quickly interfere with your band. Make sure everyone will get along before getting started.
 If you don’t have enough musically inclined friends to form a girl band of people you know, you’ll need to reach outside of your social circle. Be specific about the kind of members you want. Include the style of music you are hoping to play and some of your musical influences.


Post online to find members. The Internet is a great way to seek out other musicians. Facebook and other social media platforms often have special interest groups you can join and then write a post. You can ask friends to share your post to give it a wider reach. In addition, you can make an ad or visit the music forum for your city on Craigslist. Make a flyer. Create a flyer with information about the types of members you are seeking and the kind of group you want to form. Include your contact information. Post the flyer around town. If you live near a college, put it on a bulletin in the student union. You may also be able to ask local businesses if they will display the flyer for you.
 After spreading the word about your intention to start a girl band, it’s time to conduct an audition and select the right members for your group.


Schedule a time and have potential members come in and perform. Find a space and let the girls who have expressed interest know the time and place. Schedule specific appointments for each person. Let them know what to bring. It may be helpful to decide on some specific songs to have them play. Write down criteria for yourself. Determine the skills you are looking for in potential band members. For example, how experienced do you want your guitarist to be? You can ask girls to try different notes or chords to gauge their talents. For singers, ask for songs from different genres to get an idea of range.
 Pick the girls you think will be the best fit for the type of music you want to play. You may want to consider personality types as well to ensure everyone gets along.


Politely thank the people you didn’t choose. If there are any applicants who aren't a good fit now but might be a good back-up, let them down gently by saying: "We have filled all the open spots right now, but it was a close call. We will let you know should a spot open up - we'd love for you to join."

, Make a list of your favorite bands and write down what you like about each. Divide them into different categories based on genre. If you have varied tastes in music, this may help you narrow the style you want to play down a bit.
 Don't pick a style too far outside the range of what you can play. Although there's always an opportunity to improve your skills over time, for the sake of starting a band, you don't want to go too far outside your current skill set.


Experiment with different styles. Play around with your instruments and voice and see what sounds best to you. This helps you pick a sound. Go with what feels comfortable to you.
 The group will be much more cohesive if everyone wants to play the same thing. You can combine genres for your own unique sound, but it may work best to find members who want to perform the same type of music.


Allow everyone to incorporate something. Sit down and discuss your favorite music and ask each member what they want to bring to the band.
 This can be a fun part of starting a band! Pick something catchy that will be easy to remember. Take input from other members of the band so no one feels excluded. It may be a good idea to make a list of possible names and vote.


Conduct a quick online search to make sure the name you choose isn’t already taken. It’s easier than ever to start a band, but this means someone else may have already snagged your ideal band name. Plug the potential name into a search engine to know if it’s available.
 Without a space you can use regularly, it will be difficult to have frequent practices. A practice space can be a member's garage or basement. Be sure you won't disturb neighbors or roommates when you practice.


Rent a space if necessary. If none of the band members have spaces available, you may need to rent a space. Check local publications and online forums for people listing practice spaces.
 As a group of musicians just beginning to work together, practicing is key to developing your sound. Pick times that work for everyone in the group and start playing together.


Practice other groups’ songs. At the start of the girl band, playing music from other groups can your band work together. You will get more used to playing together and have a better idea about timing and areas that may need some more work.
 As you get used to playing together, you can start writing your own songs and practicing them. Write Song Lyrics that speak to you. This is a great way to develop your own musical style. Collaborate with band members. Work together as a team to create solid songs. For example, if you’re a good lyricist, you may need some help composing, or if you’re the band’s singer, you may not know how to arrange the other instruments. Collaborating with the other members of the band ensures you’re on the right track. , Once you have a few covers and your own songs, you can record them. Recording equipment can be expensive, but you may be able to create tracks with your computer. Many laptops already have programs to help you record and mix songs, and you can purchase add-ons like USB microphones and mixers. Blank CDs can be purchased from an office supply store. Set up a time to record. Get your band together and play your songs. It may be a challenge to get the song right on the first try, so be patient. You may want to schedule multiple sessions. Design a cover. Make the CD look attractive and professional. You can use a photograph of the band for the cover or create your own art.
Start sharing the CD. Get your music out there! Give copies of the CD to friends and family. You can use CDs as a tool to promote your band by giving them out, or you can sell them for a small fee at shows.
 Trying to gain a following for a new band is much easier with social media. Facebook allows you to create fan pages. You can direct friends to follow it, and it also can help people contact you to schedule shows. Promote your band. Don’t just set up a social media page and leave it. To grow your audience, post updates regularly. You can also use these platforms to share new music. Post to interact with fans. Take photos at shows or while you're practicing and share them. Post new songs. This gives fans a place to comment and engage with you.
Hold contests. You can post questions to fans and offer prizes, such as a CD or tickets to an upcoming show.
 Whether it’s in a backyard, garage, local venue, college, or bar, playing shows helps your girl band attract more attention. In the beginning, they may be smaller, but your band can book larger venues as it gets more popular.


Research venues in your area. Looking up theaters and bars that host performances can be a good way to get gigs. Look online and see if the venue has contact information for the employee who books shows. Otherwise, you can personally go to the venue and ask for the contact.
 If you have serious musical ambitions, you will need to continue promoting your group and playing shows. This may help bring the attention of a label, which can fully launch your career.

