 The fall color season usually runs from late September to mid-October.


Fall foliage is determined by a number of factors, including shorter days, colder nights and the amount of moisture in the ground.
Foliage viewing in some parts of the country may extend into early November.;
,


Head to fall foliage locations during the middle of the week instead of weekends.
Book hotel or bed and breakfast rooms early. Accommodations can be booked up for a year in locations known for the changing autumn leaves.
 Experts can be the locals or forest rangers.


Some rangers function as "leaf spotters" or "leaf peepers" who send daily or weekly reports for foliage forecasts.
People who really know an area can recommend locations off the beaten path.



The U.S. Forest Service maintains a website of fall foliage hot spots in national forests.
Many state forestry and tourism groups also track fall color locations and changes, including those in Maine, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri and Arkansas.
Other foliage viewing reports are available through the Weather Channel and Yankee Foliage.



Early frosts can weaken the intensity of peak foliage.
Overcast days, on the other hand, often intensify the fall color.


Often the best views aren't by the side of the road.
Autumn also brings different smells and sensations experienced best outdoors.



Compose photos by focusing in on a single tree or part of a tree and contrasting it with other objects.
Polarizing filters can enhance color.
If your digital camera has an "auto white" balance, go with the daylight setting for exaggerated color.
Use slower film in film cameras for better enlargements. Slide film is best for fall color.
Shoot photos early or late in the day.



Early morning foliage viewing can offer vivid colors that contrast with morning mist.
The deep shadows of the late afternoon provide a different type of contrast with autumn leaves.
 Mountains aren't the only place with fall color.


The coast, marshes and valleys can also provide fall foliage viewing opportunities.

