 Tear or cut the meat up into pieces no bigger than an inch on any side.


Like shredding chicken with a stand mixer, other methods of shredding chicken require that they are free of bones.
 Both forks should have their prongs facing in a downward curve. Press the prongs of one fork into the center of the chicken and apply a firm downward pressure. With another fork, pierce the chicken near the place where the prongs of the first fork penetrated. Then, pull the second fork away from the first in a straight line.


Don’t simply remove it at the same angle you entered the chicken. Rather, pull straight away relative to the plane of the bowl or plate the chicken is on. By pulling the second fork away from the other fork, a significant portion of the chicken meat should come away with it.
You might notice the meat is stringy and breaks into thin strips. This is normal.
Pierce the chicken again with the second fork and continue to tear away chicken meat. When you’ve torn up most or all of one side of a piece of chicken, remove the first fork you’re using to anchor the chicken in place and pierce the new center of the piece of chicken you’re shredding.
Continue in this way until all the chicken is shredded.
 Place your chicken pieces into a sturdy pyrex or glass mixing bowl. Most mixing bowls can accommodate up to two chicken breasts or thighs.Place the prongs of your mixer into the bowl. Turn the mixer on a low setting. Use one hand to grip the bowl and one hand to move the mixer around. Move the mixer around the bowl until the chicken is fully shredded (usually about 60 seconds or less).


Keep the mixing paddles in the bowl while they’re moving, otherwise you’ll end up flinging chicken all over your kitchen.
When your chicken is shredded, turn the mixer off and remove it from the bowl.
If you have more than two pieces of chicken, shred them in batches. For instance, shred two piece of chicken, then remove them onto a plate or bowl. Then drop two more pieces of hand-torn chicken into the mixing bowl and shred again.

