 Deli meats and breads can both be high in sodium, and you may be eating up to a fifth of your daily sodium intake when you eat a sandwich.You can make low sodium sandwiches, however, by avoiding processed meats and using a low sodium bread.


You can make vegetarian sandwiches, such as egg salad, strawberry and cream cheese, or veggie and hummus.
If you do use meats, make sure that they are marked as low sodium options. Aim for white meat options, like turkey or chicken.
Avoid salty condiments, like relish or ketchup.
 Salads give you many different options. As long as you don’t add salted croutons or nuts, they are easy to make as a low sodium meal. Pack a salad in a plastic container, and use a smaller cup for a dressing. Add the dressing only when you are ready to eat. Make sure that your dressing is low sodium as well.



Apple and pecan salad: put lettuce, apple slices, and pecans in a bowl. To make the dressing, mix together in a separate bowl three teaspoons of orange zest, one teaspoon of Dijon mustard, one tablespoon of white wine vinegar, three tablespoons of olive oil, and the juice of one orange. Add to the salad.Citrus salad: prepare the dressing by juicing three oranges and mixing the juice with one tablespoon Dijon mustard, one tablespoon tarragon, and one-fourth of a cup olive oil. Toss the salad in the dressing, and add slices of grapefruit, clementine, and mandarin oranges. Sprinkle toasted coconut on top, if desired., Fruit salad is naturally low in sodium. Chop up your favorite fruits, and toss them together in a bowl. Try to use fresh fruit if possible. You can also buy fruit cups or canned fruit, as neither are packaged with extra salt.


For a basic fruit salad, chop cantaloupe, melon, and watermelon. Mix these in a bowl. Add blueberries or grapes if desired.
If you want something a little different, you can try a berry mint salad. In a bowl, combine blueberries, strawberries, blackberries, and raspberries. In a separate dish, mix equal amounts of mint, honey, and lemon juice. Pour the mint dressing over the berries., Instead of chips or pretzels, put some fresh, raw vegetables in a bag. These make a tasty and crunchy side dish. If desired, you may also want to pack a small cup of low-sodium hummus to dip the veggies in. Some good vegetables include:


Broccoli or cauliflower spears
Carrot sticks
Snow peas
Grape tomatoes, Yogurt is low in sodium. Yogurt cups are easy to throw into a lunchbox, and there are many different flavors that you can choose from. Make sure to bring a spoon so that you can eat it wherever you are.

