 It is likely that even if you are someone who is blessed with some natural ability, you still have room to grow and develop these talents.
 For example: if you are a classical portraitist who can not draw feet, then you probably need to draw as many feet as you can until you actually can draw feet.
 Even an imagined piece must be developed from observational memory and knowledge. A scientific and structural approach is key for creating a successful illusion.
 Before you set out to create a piece of art, make sure you understand which elements of style are being manipulated, and how. Everything you produce must appear intentional.
 There should be several drawings before a final, locked-down piece is created.
 Before you can produce a good piece of art, you have to warm up! Your first drawing can not be as good as your last one. You have to get into the zone!

, Make sure the edges of your image are not distracting, and be sure that the viewers eyes are going only where you want them to go.
 Learn about the nature of sight, and the science of light. Look at photos, but don't copy them. Understand color temperature and shadow coloring. Study color-theory!

, Despite the fact that a good artist can make any materials look good, you should give yourself the best and most comfortable (unfortunately, often the most expensive) art supplies. After all, you want to be a professional, right? Wouldn't a professional use the good stuff?

, Use differentiation in detail to add emphasis to your pieces.
, If it turns out bad, don't throw it away. The actual amount of good art that a professional produces is quite small next to the sheer bulk of bad stuff they have to go through in the process. Never throw old or bad art away, it's good motivation for the future. Keep everything neatly stored, so you can come back later and see how much you've improved. This really helps if you're feeling down in the dumps, and if you can't pull yourself out of a depressed mood (which inevitably, all artists go through- it's a complex we all have) then you'll never become a professional.
 An artist who sells a piece of art is ultimately selling a piece of him/her self. Let the paints blend, mix, and flow, if it feels good, and trust your talents and instincts.

