 Start your search for a reputable chiropractor by asking your primary care physician or your family doctor for a recommendation. Be direct and ask, “If someone in your family needed a chiropractor, who would you recommend?” You can also talk to your physical therapist or a spine specialist.Some primary care doctors will have several chiropractors that they believe are reputable and trustworthy. Finding a highly recommended chiropractor can increase your chances of getting a good adjustment during your chiropractic appointment.;
, You can also reach out to friends who have had good experiences with a certain chiropractor, especially if they have a spinal issue or physical issue that is similar to yours. You should ask friends or colleagues how the chiropractor helped them and how they felt their adjustments went with the chiropractor.Keep in mind that everyone’s definition of a "good" chiropractor experience can be different. You should talk to your friends specifically about your needs and ensure that their recommendation is relevant to your needs.
 You can vet the chiropractor recommended by your doctor or by friends by doing some research into her background. Your state’s Chiropractic Regulation & Licensing Board can provide background information on the chiropractor and let you know if there have been any disciplinary actions taken against the chiropractor.You should also confirm that the chiropractor’s college is accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, as this will confirm that the chiropractor is properly trained and certified.
 Most people will set up consultations with several chiropractors to get a better sense of each chiropractor before they book an appointment. You can arrange an in-person consultation at the chiropractor’s office or do the consultation over the phone. A good chiropractor will be willing to sit down with you and discuss his techniques and his clinic. He should also be interested in your needs as a patient.A good chiropractor will try to make you feel comfortable and positive, especially if he knows you are nervous about getting a chiropractic adjustment. He should be willing to have a private, one-on-one conversation with you about your needs before you book anything with him.
You should ask yourself several questions during the consultation, such as, does the chiropractor seem friendly and courteous? Do you feel comfortable talking about your needs with the chiropractor? Does the chiropractor appear to be a good listener and take the time to listen to your needs? Does the office appear clean and sanitary?

, You should use the consultation time to ask the chiropractor several questions. You should note if she answers your questions in depth and provides informed, clear answers. You may ask:What type of chiropractic techniques does the chiropractor use? There are several different chiropractic techniques, and most chiropractors have experience with four to five techniques. The chiropractor will then select the one that best suits the patient’s needs.
Does the chiropractor use her hands or an instrument to do chiropractic manipulations? Some chiropractors will use only their hands to do joint manipulations, and some chiropractors may use a small instrument to do adjustments. Chiropractors can also use a variation of techniques, from quick, firm movements to lighter movements. If you are uncomfortable with joint popping and quick movements, you may ask the chiropractor if she also knows how to do low-force techniques that are more gentle and gradual.
You may also ask the chiropractor how many years she has been in practice, and how much training and experience she has with specific techniques.
 In order to adjust you properly, chiropractors look for subluxations. A subluxation is a joint that has lost its full range of motion or is stuck. Stuck joints can cause stiffness, discomfort, inflammation, and an inability to move in certain ways. They can also lead to headaches and other issues related to irritated nerve tissue in your spine.Chiropractors use an adjustment, also called a manipulation, to release a subluxation.Chiropractors will make an adjustment to release pressure in the area and relieve any discomfort or pain. The technique used to make the adjustment will depend on the comfort level of the patient and the needs of the patient.
 It is important to remember that a chiropractic adjustment is not the act of cracking bones or resetting a bone. Instead, the purpose of an adjustment is to open up the joint, also known as gapping the joint. As the joint opens, there is an audible release of gas between your joints. The release of gas is due to the release of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide. This release can lead to a loud popping sound.If you are uncomfortable with the popping sound, remember that it is simply a sign that the adjustment has helped to open up the stiff joint.
 Prepare for the session by wearing clothing that is loose and breathable, such as a loose top and loose pants or stretchy workout pants and a breathable shirt. Avoid tight, restrictive clothing as this could make it more difficult for the chiropractor to make the necessary adjustments.
 To receive a good adjustment, you should try to approach the session in a relaxed, calm manner. The chiropractor will ask you to lie face down on a padded chiropractic table. You should let your arms hang towards the floor so your spine is relaxed. This will also help to fan out the vertebrae on your spine, which will make it easier to do the adjustment.During the session, you should keep your body relaxed. Avoid crossing your legs or bending your legs, as this can interfere with the adjustment., To make you feel more at ease and to prepare you for the adjustment, have the chiropractor talk you through everything he does during the session. He should instruct you to breath in and out deeply as she applies force to a joint. He may also warn you that you may hear a popping or cracking sound so you are not alarmed by the sound., You can do this by raising your hand if you start to feel any pain or raise yourself off the padded table and telling the chiropractor to use a lighter touch. Be communicative during the session so the chiropractor is aware of your comfort level as this will ensure you have a positive experience.


Often, chiropractors will make the adjustment quickly and with precise force. You may experience aching or soreness around the adjusted joint right after the adjustment. But this is normal. However, you should not experience any intense pain or discomfort due to the adjustment, as this may be an indication that it was not done properly.Once the session is over, you should rise up slowly on your side. Avoid sitting up from your back or straddling the bench, as these movements could destabilize your adjusted joint. You should also avoid rubbing or poking the adjusted area., These are typical side effects and may occur within 24 hours to several days after the adjustment. You may also experience soreness, stiffness, or aching around or radiating from the areas that were adjusted.You can apply an ice pack to the sore, adjusted area to ease any discomfort or swelling. The discomfort should fade within a few days.
 There are rare instances in which a symptom may be more severe. As with any health procedure, there are small risks. The majority of symptoms usually occur within hours of an adjustment. Contact your chiropractor, or if she is not available, seek immediate medical help if you experience any of the following:Increased pain that doesn’t reduce within 24 hours
Nausea, vomiting and slurred speech
Blurred vision
Onset of numbness or tingling into the upper and/or lower extremities
Difficulty controlling bowel and bladder function
Increased numbness or tingling if you already have a disc herniation

, You may consider booking another consultation with the chiropractor if your condition does not improve within two to four weeks. The chiropractor may try to treat a different area of your spine and ask you about any ergonomic stress that could be triggering the painful, tight area. She may suggest you change your habits so the adjusted area does not get irritated.If you experience intense pain around the adjusted area, you should let the chiropractor know. She should avoid using the same technique on the area and re evaluate your treatment plan to find the right adjustment technique for your needs.
 If you are still experiencing the same joint issues or if the adjusted areas do not improve after you have another session with the chiropractor, you may want to talk to your doctor about other types of treatment for your issue.You may also consider setting up a consultation with a different chiropractor to see if your issue can be resolved with a different chiropractic technique.


Some studies have shown that chiropractic can work moderately well on some individuals and may not be for everyone. You may want to talk to your primary care doctor about other options for addressing your joint issues.

