 Buy or download a CD with instrumental music, like classical, or light jazz. Or try a recording of nature sounds. Birds chirping, waves crashing on a beach, a babbling brook, etc. There are many options.Any type of music you enjoy will work, as long as it promotes peaceful feelings and happiness. If rock is your favorite genre, you might try slow ballads or some classic rock over more dissonant, heavy sounds.
 But don’t overdo it! Choose a comedy to get you laughing, which immediately promotes a relaxed attitude and body.Limit your TV and other screen time at night. Don’t watch 2-3 hours before bedtime because the bright light may activate, rather than relax, your brain.
Make it a treat by choosing what to watch carefully. The less often you watch TV, the better it makes you feel when you do it. Set aside 30 minutes or an hour to watch your favorite show at night, or save up time and watch a movie every Thursday evening, for example.
 Adult coloring books are a huge trend right now, and you can easily find one in most craft and office supply stores, shopping centers, or even online. They are more intricate than the coloring books you had as kids, and often printed on nice quality paper. Buy yourself some multicolored sharpies or nice art pencils for less than $20 to really make it a treat.
 It’s also a wonderful way to get ready for bed, since a book doesn’t require screen time. Pick a novel you want to read and set aside 30 minutes before bed to read a chapter, or save up your magazine subscriptions for this time of day.


Listen to an audio book if you prefer. Visualize the action and setting in your head while you sit or lay comfortably.
If you prefer using an e-reader or tablet, try to use it without backlighting, if possible. A simple kindle screen looks just like a page in a book, and many tablets have a setting where you can adjust the lighting to look more like paper than a screen.
Horror books or intense mysteries might not be the best thing to read before bed. Use your own judgment: if it will keep you up thinking about it all night, save this title for a day off and pick something light-hearted instead.
 Especially if you have been working inside all day.Sometimes called “ecotherapy,” spending time in nature helps reset your mental energy so you can be productive again tomorrow.It’s best to get a little exercise if you can, but even sitting outside in a lawn chair or on your porch will help you unwind. Bring a cup of herbal tea with you, and an ottoman to put your feet up.
Get a rocking chair for your porch or deck, if possible. Turn on a small fan if it’s a warm night with no breeze.
Use some citronella candles to keep bugs away in the summertime. Having a fan blowing on you will also help keep flying insects out of your personal space.
 Whatever you love to do, have a short and long task ready to do on any given night to make yourself more likely to engage in something fun after a long or difficult day. If your day has been mostly physical work, choose a mentally-related hobby, and vice versa.Start a new sport by joining a league or taking a class. Martial arts is both fun and helps train your mind to pay attention to the moment. If you like Frisbee, find an Ultimate Frisbee league near you that practices a few times a week.
If you spend most of your day being active, try something like painting or woodworking. Build a model ship, learn to cross stitch, or paint an abstract scene focusing on colors and textures.
 No doubt they missed you all day, so set aside some time to play with your dog or brush your cat.


Make this quality time both of you enjoy. Don’t try to give your dog a bath or clip your kitty’s nails now. That’s a chore, not a fun activity!
Do double duty by taking your dog for a walk. You’ll be spending time together and getting some exercise for both of you!

, If you have family at home, do something special together when you get home, especially if your time together is limited. If you live alone, set up a date or phone date with your BFF or mom or sibling just to check in and share some laughs.


Being in the same room with a family member does not mean you are spending time with them. Give them your attention and don’t stay glued to the TV or your iPad.