 This infection can be brought on by athlete’s foot (tinea pedis) or through other forms of contamination such as exposure in public places. The fungus also thrives in warm, moist environments and may enter your body through cuts or openings between the nail and skin.Don’t share shoes, socks, or towels with anyone.
Avoid walking barefoot in locker rooms, public swimming pools, communal showers, or gyms.
Discard old shoes that may still be infected with the fungus.
Wash your hands with soap after touching the infected toenail(s) to keep it from spreading to uninfected nails.
Keep your infected foot dry by wearing open-toed shoes or wearing dry, clean socks.
 This infection can begin mildly, but spread into a more uncomfortable condition. The fungus may cause your nail to change color, disintegrate at the edge, or become abnormally thick. If it becomes bothersome, the condition should be treated. Try a prescription medicated antifungal cream that’s rubbed into the nail after it’s soaked in warm water.
Ask your doctor for prescription oral medication that should be taken from six to 12 weeks, in combination with topical antifungal treatments. It may be necessary for your doctor to monitor your liver function while you are on these medications

, A few non-conventional treatments have been effective in treating nail fungus in some people.


Use tea tree oil, applied in a light coating to the affected nail(s) two to three times a day—use products that are 100% tea tree oil.
Apply snakeroot extract, a treatment that has often proven as effective as conventional antifungal cremes. Soak your infected nail(s) in white vinegar, which has natural antibacterial properties. After filing the nail (exposing a fresh surface), apply full-strength vinegar with a cloth, cotton ball, or cotton swab 1–2 times daily for several weeks. , This may be necessary if the infected nail becomes extremely painful. The procedure involves removing the infected nail completely. The removal is often done in combination with treatment using antifungal medication in the nailbed. Rest assured that a new nail will grow back, but it may take up to one year.

