 If you have actinomycosis in your face and neck, you will develop reddish or bluish colored lumps, which may initially be painful but later become painless. You may also run a high fever (100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or 38 degrees Celsius). You may also have small passages, known as sinus tracts, that open up on the surface of your skin that leak pus and contain a crusty yellow discharge.The development of facial lumps is where the disease gets its colloquial name of “lump jaw.”Facial lumps include symptoms due to abscess formation, drainage of sinus tracts, fistula formation, and fibrosis.
Do not confuse the sinus tracts that develop as a result of actinomycosis with the sinus cavities in your face and nose.
 Actinomycosis of the lungs and chest cavity will cause you to run a high fever (100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or 38 degrees Celsius), experience some chest pain and feel fatigued. The infection will also likely cause a decrease in appetite and, subsequently, result in weight loss. You may also develop a dry cough and experience some shortness of breath.You may also develop sinus tracts on your chest.
If you develop a cough, you may produce phlegm or even blood.
 Actinomycosis of the abdomen will result in a mild fever (less than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or 38 degrees Celsius), fatigue, abdominal pain, and weight loss. You will also likely experience digestive issues like nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation. These are nonspecific symptoms that may also be present in diseases such as malignancy, crohn's disease, and tuberculosis. Your doctor must have a high degree of suspicion has to make a diagnosis. You may also develop noticeable lumps and sinus tracts on your abdomen., Actinomycosis of the pelvis will result in a mild fever (less than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or 38 degrees Celsius), fatigue and a loss of appetite. You will also likely experience some lower abdominal pain and irregular or abnormal vaginal bleeding or discharge. You will also notice the development of lumps and sinus tracts in your pelvic area.Approximately 7% of women with IUDs have actinomyces present on their Pap Smear.