 Wear clothes that fit you and accentuate your best attributes. If you’ve got great legs, wear short shorts or a skirt. If you’ve got a nice body, wear tight clothes that show off your sexy figure. Above all, wear clothes that show off your own unique style. Your personal sense of fashion will help you stand out from all the other girls he’s chasing.


Don’t dress too provocatively. Leave something to the imagination or you’ll seem desperate.
Wear what makes you feel most attractive, not what you think he likes. You’ll have more confidence wearing clothes that make you feel great.
Jewelry can help accentuate and accessorize an outfit as well.;
, If you have full luscious lips, you can highlight them with your shade of lipstick. If you have gorgeous eyes, you can draw attention to them with the right eyeliner. Draw his attention to the most entrancing and beautiful parts of your face.


Don’t go overboard. Too much makeup can look trashy and hide your natural beauty.
If wearing bold makeup doesn’t feel natural to you, don’t. If you feel comfortable, you’ll come off sexy.
 Soft smooth skin is extremely attractive. Wash your face daily to prevent blemishes and dry it softly so it keeps its smoothness. Using moisturizer in the morning and other skin-care products can also help your skin radiate.


Always wear sunscreen. Too much exposure to the sun can cause unattractive skin damage.
Don’t smoke. Smoking gives you wrinkles and accelerates skin aging.
Eat healthy. Consuming lots of fruits and vegetables is thought to help clear up and improve skin. , Not only will exercise help you tone up, but it will also give you a magnetic energy. Men can’t resist a bubbly, confident attitude. It can even give you better posture which will make you appear classy and strong.


Keep weight training to a minimum. Most men are intimidated by over-muscular women.
 Marilyn Monroe would lift her eyebrows and lower her lashes around men to mimic the face women make when they experience pleasure. Learn how to attract men with your body language.


Look at men over your raised shoulder to highlight the roundness of your face.
Touch your neck to show your vulnerability.
Play with your hair to draw attention to its health and beauty.
Stand with your feet slightly further apart to show confidence.
 Meet his gaze just long enough to let him know you’re interested before breaking it. Try to be seem happy and inviting but not over eager to see him. Draw him in gently with your eyes.
 After you've gotten his attention, talk to him. Learn about his interests and share your own.


Give and take. Don't hog the conversation.
Keep small talk small. Don't bring up issues like politics and religion right away.
 Make him feel comfortable. Let him know your attracted to him without actually telling him you are.


Mimic his body language to show you like him.
Lean slightly towards him during the conversation.
Nod your head to show that you're listening.
 If you want to stand out from all the other girls, you have to show him what’s different about you. You may find common interests.


Share your unique hobbies.
Flaunt your quirky personality.
 Graze his shoulder lightly or gently touch his elbow as you talk to him. Physical contact will escalate his attraction to you. Be sure to do it naturally though, or it will feel forced and weird.


Don’t overdo it. If you seem to grabby you’ll either send the wrong message or freak him out.
A light hug is a great way to say hello and goodbye.
 Subtly show him your interested. Casually mention that you’re not doing anything on a particular night or invite him to hang out with you and your friends. You can even give him compliments about something you like about him.


Don’t be too forward. The goal is to get him to ask you out.
If he asks you to “come over,” or “hang out,” politely decline. Players suggest casual hangouts to try and seduce women without the pressure of going out on an actual date.
You want to make sure he puts thought into the date.
 Players have a set of routines they use to seduce as many women as they can. Recognize when he’s trying to manipulate you and let him know it's not going to work. Remember the reason men try to play women is to create a wall around their own insecurities. Tell him you’re mature enough to understand his need for approval but also independent enough to make your own choices.
 Do all the things that you enjoy. Don’t let him take up room in your life until he's ready to commit.


If he tries to get you to break plans to spend time with him, politely decline.
At this point, you’re setting the boundaries of the relationship.
 Until he commits to you, you’re completely free to talk to and flirt with whoever you want. Don’t shut yourself off. The pang of jealousy could be what finally drives him to commit to you exclusively.


Flirt a little with everyone, but don’t flirt too much with anyone. You don’t want to send the wrong message or completely deflate your crush.
 Give him long hugs. Kiss him on the cheek. Sit in his lap. Just be sure not to go too far. Drive him crazy with the implication of what he could have.


Be playful.
If he tries to make you go further, remind him of your terms.
If you become too attracted to resist, leave immediately.
 Don’t let him know how much you like him. Players are all about power dynamics and the second he feels like he has the power, he’ll stop chasing you.


Be mysterious.
Be the prize. Beat him at his own game.
 Even after he finally does commit to you, keep your boundaries in place. You may feel like it’s okay to let your guard down but you still need to hold your own in the relationship. Learn to say “no,” “I’m not ready,” and “you’re being a jerk.” Eventually, he’ll learn to see you as a human being and not a conquest.
You’re in control of your own body and feelings. Don’t let him take advantage of you. , Let him know that being with you doesn't mean he has to leave all his buddies behind. One reason players avoid commitment is that they fear they won't be able to go out with their friends anymore. Show him you like to have a good time too and can get a long with his group of friends.


Be outgoing and talkative. Put in an effort to show his friends you're fun to hang out with.
His friends may not open up right away. Give them some time to get used to you.
 The past is the past. He may have had a lot of flings with other girls, but he's with you now. You may think that expressing your jealousy will protect you from being hurt, but in reality, it will only drive you crazy with worry. Your jealousy may even make your partner feel trapped and start to resent you.


When you feel jealous, remind yourself that he has chosen to be with you.
If you do find evidence that he's being unfaithful, deal with it accordingly but don't go looking for it.
Never look through his phone. Even if you don't find anything, you'll still become more paranoid.
 Most players are insecure, so they seek validation from as many women as possible. Remember that he needs to feel powerful in a relationship. Tell him how great he is and let him know that you want him. When his confidence wanes, remind him of how cool and sexy you think he is.


Be sincere. Take the time to make him believe you think he's great.
Don't help him become an egomaniac. You want him to be confident not arrogant.
 He's not used to meeting the emotional needs of one girl. Let him know what you expect from the relationship. Don't expect him to read your mind. Ask him for exactly what you want from a boyfriend.


If you want a monogamous relationship. Explain this clearly.
Tell him what it takes for you to feel supported.

