 If the deceased had an attorney, contact him or her and ask about a will. Florida intestacy law will determine who receives the decedent’s assets in the absence of a will.


Also look through the decedent’s personal effects and papers. A will may be found there.
 With a will, the deceased person decides how to dispose of her property. Absent a will, the law steps in and decides how the property will be distributed:


If a spouse is living, the spouse will inherit the entire estate unless (1) the decedent has descendants who are not descendants of the surviving spouse or (2) the surviving spouse has descendants who did not descend from the deceased. In that case, the spouse takes one-half of the estate.The decedent’s children take the remainder.
If there is no spouse, then the estate passes “per stripes” to the descendants. This means that each branch of the family takes equally.
For example, if the descendant had three children, all of whom survive, then the children will each get a third. If one of the children has died before the decedent, then his or her heirs will divide his branch of the estate.
To clarify: if the decent had three children—A, B, and C—and all are living, then A, B, and C will each take one third of the estate. If, however, C has already died but left two children, then A and B will each take a third, and C’s third will be divided equally between her two children (i.e, they will take 1/6 each).
 Determine the value of probate property, including real estate, motor vehicles, and household items. Contact a licensed appraiser in your area to schedule an appraisal. Probate courts in Florida may need an official appraisal.


Contact the clerk of the court in your county to request a list of appraisers in your area.
You may want a rough idea of the value of the decedent’s real estate. Visit the website of the property tax office in the correct county. View estimated market values for similar properties nearby.
 After the appraisal, you can calculate the value. Add together the value of all property not exempt from probate. Exempt, “nonprobate” property includes:


Homestead exempt property - Real estate that served as the decedent’s primary residence is exempt.Include all other real property in the calculation.
Jointly held property - Jointly held property may pass to the surviving joint owner upon the decedent’s death.This would make it exempt.
Pay on death accounts - Checking and savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and certain security registrations, which list a pay on death or transfer on death beneficiary, are exempt property under Florida probate law.
Life insurance, annuities, and some retirement accounts - Accounts paid to a beneficiary upon the death of the owner, pursuant to a contract between the decedent and the account holder, are exempt from Florida probate., Typically, the will names the personal representative. Absent a will, the law provides a list of possible personal representatives, ordered by preference:


The surviving spouse
A person selected by a majority in interest of the heirs
The heir nearest in degree.The personal representative may not be a minor or a convicted felon.
 Florida law requires that an estate have an attorney in addition to a personal representative.If you cannot afford a lawyer, contact your local bar association and ask about reduced fee or pro bono assistance.
Attorneys are paid out of the estate, and state law provides a fee schedule based on the value of the estate.

