 Globalization encompasses so many aspects of our modern life, from communications to trade to culture to foreign policy, that it can be hard to pin down what precisely the term means. As Simon Reich argues, "Despite the breadth with which the term has been applied, the meaning of ‘globalization’ remains so elusive as to defy definition."There are five primary ways in which "globalization" can be understood:An historical period
An economic phenomenon
The triumph of American values
A social and technological revolution.
The annihilation of distance;
, Globalization can be understood as a period running from approximately 1970 to the present and which follows the era of the Cold War (1945-1989), which in turn followed what has often been dubbed the Age of Extremes (1870-1945). This periodization is defined by either:


Structural shifts – The fall or the Soviet Bloc and the end of the social contract that linked labor representation, productivity, and wages within a mass production system of manufacturing.
A conjunction of more temporary factors – The oil crisis of the late 1970s, a GNP decline and inflation in the 1980s, and the elections of Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, and Helmut Kohl.
 This definition sees globalization as the latest – and by far the most far-reaching and rapid – in a series of similar events that have created a greater worldwide spread of sales, production facilities, and manufacturing processes, and thus increased linkages between economies around the world. The characteristics of economic globalization include:


Liberalization and deregulation of markets
Privatization of assets
Retreat of state intervention in the economy (i.e. welfare)
Diffusion of technology
Spread of manufacturing across nations (e.g. the production of iPhones in China for sale in the US)
Integration of capital markets – settings where foreign currencies, stocks, bonds, and bank loans are traded (e.g. the New York Stock Exchange), This definition conceives of globalization as a global convergence of politics, economic practices, and culture around a specifically American version of democracy, capitalism, and "commercial secularism," in which consumption of goods and culture (film, music, restaurants, etc.) takes the place of religion or other cultural traditions.The result is a world that – at least in major cities – feels increasingly similar no matter where you are.
 This revolution is creating a new economy in which the globe is a single market and a new social order in which people take part in a global culture and economy that is more open and flexible. It is typified by:Globally integrated production
Specialized but interdependent labor markets
The privatization of state assets
New technological linkages (phones, the internet, online markets) that transcend national borders

, If you have ever boarded a plane (in say New York), landed hours later in foreign city (Hong Kong), and been disoriented by the sudden shift, then you have experienced this form of globalization. The experience of space, it is argued, is intimately tied to the time necessary to connect distinct locations. Planes, cell phones, and the internet have combined to dramatically shrink that time, resulting in a fundamentally different human experience of space typified by:Increased interconnectedness that lead distant events to have local impacts
The transcendence of local and national boundaries
The increased speed of social activity mediated by technology

, Globalization is a massive phenomenon that has spawned a large literature. To truly understand it, you'll need to hit the books. Some good places to start include:


Clive Crook's article "Globalisation and its critics: A Survey of Globalisation" in Economist 360, no. 8241 (2001)
Paul Hirst and Grahame Thompson's Globalization in Question (2001)
Joseph Stiglitz's Globalization and Its Discontents (2002)
Martin Wolf's Why Globalization Works (2005)
Thomas Friedman's The World is Flat (2005)
The David Deese edited collection Globalization: Causes and Effects (2012)

, There have been international market integration and widespread cultural exchange in the past – most notably at turn of the 20th century. Much of what is different about current globalization can be traced to technological changes.Most notably:The internet has internationalized capital markets.
Containerized shipping – the use of containers that are easily transferred from ship to truck or train – has dramatically reduced the cost of shipping goods.
Real-time communications (via phone and internet) have allowed for the export of service jobs (e.g. call centers), easier cultural diffusion, and social and economic connections across national boundaries.
Worldwide access to news via networks like CNN and the internet has spread both political ideas and increased consumer knowledge., While technology has clearly played a key role in increased government integration, it is not the sole factor. Governments have the ability to limit globalization by setting up tariffs, restricting direct foreign investment, and limiting the flow of workers between countries. The rapid pace of globalization is largely due to the general embrace of policies – aimed at achieving a macroeconomic benefit – that do just the opposite:Allowing more direct foreign investment
Lowering or removing tariffs
Allowing foreign access to capital markets

, Technological change, and even more so, economic liberalization have occurred against the backdrop of historical events that helped to open new borders to the flows of goods and information and to make politicians more open to reducing tariffs. These include:


The fall of the Soviet Bloc – The end of communism in eastern Europe at just the time that communications technology was really taking off allowed for the opening up and integration of many previously isolated markets. It also discredited the major ideological competitor to American liberal democracy and capitalism.
The 1973 oil embargo – In response to US aid for Israel during the Yom Kippur war, the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries imposed an oil embargo that caused prices to rocket and strained western economies.Stagflation – Declining GNP and rising inflation – partially related to the oil embargo – led to a desire for political solutions that took the form of market liberalization under Thatcher and Reagan, paving the way for globalization.
 At the level of global and national economics, globalization has produced significant changes that reflect a more integrated world economy.World trade rates (the ratio or world imports to gross world product) have grown from 7% in 1938, to 10% in 1970, to 18% in 1996, to almost 25% in 2013.Foreign direct investment in developing countries has gone from $2.2 billion in 1970 to $154 billion in 1997 to $778 billion in 2013.The foreign exchange market has grown from $1 trillion per day in 1992 to over $3.5 trillion per day in 2014., Globalization has been shown to increase income inequality in developed nations, where the owners of capital invested abroad take in huge profits, while workers find their wages depressed by competition with foreign workers. For instance, the owner of a call center might see huge profits by outsourcing to India, but workers in US call centers will lose jobs or see their wages depressed. On the other hand, globalization has decreased income inequality in the developing world, resulting in overall less inequality in the world., Many fear that globalization is causing the Americanization of the rest of the world through the spread of American brands (Nike, McDonalds, Gap) and culture (Hollywood films and American TV). However, recent studies indicate that American influence is actually on the wane. The internet has empowered localities to create distinct "civilization clusters," while emerging new media (the internet, satellite television) have fueled local media production more than they have borrowed from America., Globalization has accelerated environmental degradation by encouraging rapid industrialization and resource extraction in the developing world, as well as increasingly intensive energy use in the developed world.Major impacts include:Green house gas emissions rose 60% from 1970 to 2004.
The extinction or massive reduction of many animal and plant populations. 22% of the world's mammals are threatened with extinction, 31% of amphibians, and 35% of birds.
Deforestation has accelerated in order to create farmland used to grow export crops. Between 1990 and 2005, the world lost 3% of its forests.
 Globalization is partly defined by the interaction of people across the globe. How many people do you know that are from another country, or who have lived or traveled in one? How many people do you know who live in foreign countries now or frequently travel to one for work? How many of those people do you stay in touch with via email or the phone?

, Walk around your home, and everywhere you look you will likely see the result of the global flow of goods. Your IKEA couch might be designed in Sweden and produced in China.Your Samsung TV might have been designed in South Korea and assembled in Malaysia. Your clothes likely hail from all over the world: China, Sri Lanka, Mexico, India, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and a dozen other countries.Your refrigerator, which might be made in Hungary or China or South Africa, probably contains foods produced around the world.
 If you live outside the US, chances are you have watched Hollywood movies and seen TV shows popular in the States. But the flow goes the other way, too. Downton Abbey, one of the most popular shows in the US, is from England. The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo came from Sweden. Games from England's Premier League (their top football / soccer division) average over 400,000 viewers in the United States. Al-Jazeera and the BBC both have a strong presence in American news broadcasting.

