 Before you get a lash dip, learn the basics of what occurs during the procedure. You don't want to get a lash dip done unless you are well informed about what the procedure is.During a lash dip, a jelly-like product will be cured onto your lashes. This will make your lashes look longer and increase their volume.
A lash dip performs the same type of alterations typical of mascara. It lifts, separates, and enhances your lashes. However, the changes will be more dramatic with a lash dip and the procedure will last about six weeks.;
, A lash dip is costly and some people experience pain during the procedure. Think about you feel about your eyelashes. If you feel like they're weak and difficult to enhance, even with mascara, then a lash dip may be for you. However, if you can enhance your lashes suitably with mascara, a lash dip may be an unnecessarily timely and costly procedure.If you're considering a lash dip for a big event, like a wedding, it may be worth the money. Many people get lash dips for special occasions so they can look and feel confident.
 For the most part, the procedure is relatively painless. During the procedure, your lashes will be separated with tweezers and then longer lashes will be glued on. If you have sensitive eyes, this may be somewhat painful. The procedure can also take up to two and a half hours, and it may be uncomfortable to sit for that long.You can look up reviews for different beauty salons online. Some salons may have reputation for quicker, less painful procedures.
 Lash dips do not work for everyone. You will need to wait between 24 and 48 hours for the lashes to dry. Up until this point, you should not get your face wet. You have to be somewhat gentle with the lashes as well. You have to avoid rubbing your face too hard after a shower and exercise. Before getting a lash dip, make sure you can work around the lashes so they don't fall out right away., The prices of lash dips vary. Most salons charge between $150 to $300 for the initial dip. After that, you will have to pay for follow up treatments if you want to keep your lash extensions long term.Make sure to read reviews carefully before choosing a salon. A lower cost may mean a lesser quality lash dip. Do not simply pick the place that offers the lowest rates.
 Once you've found a few places, contact the technicians. You can let them know you're looking for a lash dip. See what appointments they have open and ask them any questions you have about the procedure.If you have any eye sensitivities, or wear contacts, mention this to the technician. Contact lenses are generally removed prior to the procedure. It's also safe to get a lash dip if you have sensitive eyes, but a technician may have some advice on how to manage discomfort.
 Once you've settled on a technician, you can attend your procedure. The lash dip should take around two hours. You may want to bring a friend along, as the procedure may be a little boring.Remember to tip. Lash dips are expensive, so the tip amount will be substantial. Keep this in mind when budgeting for a lash dip.
 Once the procedure is over, talk to the technician about follow up treatment. Usually, there is a follow up appointment about two to three weeks after the first treatment. Lash dips generally only last six weeks total, so you may need to replace your lashes completely after six weeks have passed.Follow up treatments are generally not as expensive as the initial cost of the lash dip.
 You should not get your lashes wet for the first 24 hours after a lash dip. Avoid vigorous exercise that causes sweating during this time. You should also not shower or swim while waiting for your lashes to dry.Check with your technician before you leave the salon. For some procedures, you may need to dry your lashes for as long as 48 hours.
 This will prevent your lashes from falling off prematurely when they rub against the pillow. If it's comfortable for you, sleep on your back in the weeks after your lash dip.If you can't comfortably sleep on your back, try to sleep without getting your eyelashes on your pillow. Do not, for example, sleep on your stomach with your face in the pillow.
 Things like waterproof mascara and other oily products may harm dipped lashes when used around the eyes. Moisturizers and makeup removers should also not be used around the eyes.Remember, it is unlikely if you will need much mascara, if any, after a lash dip.

