 Many people find journaling a helpful way to clarify and process tough emotions.Sometimes the difficulty of an emotion is simply feeling unable to express it. Write down what has happened, what you feel, and the duration and severity of the emotion. Even by organizing these thoughts into an entry, you often begin processing the emotion.
 Once you start journaling about your emotions, you may find patterns in the sources that weren’t as obvious beforehand. Try to locate the source that’s causing each emotion.If you recognize common causes, then ask yourself how you can make changes to either weed out the source or reduce its impact on you.
 People tend to despair over difficult emotions and immediately entertain negative thoughts around the emotion that simply aren’t true. By isolating and questioning these thoughts, you can separate out the negative thought reactions that often accompany tough emotions. The process of challenging and correcting your own thoughts can take time and patience. Begin by asking yourself:Is the thought true?
If you think it’s true, what’re the facts supporting it?
What are your reactions to the negative thought?
What effect on your actions or behaviors would you experience by not having the thought?

, Once you’re familiar with how to question your negative thoughts, you can also begin recognizing the patterns associated with them. This will allow you to simply interrupt the cycle of negative thinking and replace it with more positive or productive thinking.You can start with a verbal interruption (such as telling yourself to snap out of it) or even a physical cue (such as a rubber band on your wrist when you recognize the negative thought). This helps stop the thought by recognizing it is happening.
 Turn to your hobbies during times of difficult emotions. Using those feelings as a conduit for creative and artistic expression is a process called sublimation.A lot of energy goes into tough emotions, and funneling that energy into projects, skills, and other positive outlets can help you cope in a productive way.
 Don't try to take on the world by yourself. Talking with someone with whom you feel comfortable can help ease all manner of difficult emotions or negative thoughts you may have. They may also come up with a solution to your problem or a way for you to cope that didn’t occur to you. Hiding your problems will always create more problems than it solves. Seek support in good friends, loved ones, relatives, or even a professional therapist or counselor, if other methods haven’t helped.
 If the long-term stresses of coping with difficult emotions have left you feeling withdrawn or overwhelmed, then you may want to talk to a professional counselor or therapist.A professional also offers an alternative if your emotions stem from something you’d prefer not to share with friends and family members. Your therapist will provide an understanding ear, confidentiality, helpful suggestions, and additional tools and resources to help you cope.


If your counselor thinks that medication will help as you work through your emotions, then either he or she will be able to provide a prescription or refer you to someone who can.

