 Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Get out 1 head of cauliflower and wash it. Discard any leaves and use a sharp knife to cut the cauliflower into florets. You'll need about 2 cups (650 g). Put the cauliflower florets into a food processor that's fitted with a shredding blade attachment. Shred the cauliflower.To save time, you could purchase riced cauliflower in the produce department of your grocery store.
 Pour 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of extra virgin olive oil into a large skillet. Heat the oil over medium and add the shredded cauliflower. Chop 1 jalapeno and add it to the skillet along with 1/3 cup (50 g) of chopped, cooked bacon. Saute the mixture for about 7 minutes, so the cauliflower softens a little and looks a little clear. Season the mixture with:1/2 teaspoon of garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon of sea salt
1/2 teaspoon of black pepper

, Turn off the heat and transfer the sauteed mixture to a mixing bowl. Crack 2 eggs into the bowl and add 1/2 cup (48 g) of almond flour. Use a wooden spoon or rubber spatula to mix the ingredients until they're completely combined.Since there's no gluten in the dough, don't worry about over mixing it.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper on a baking sheet. Use a 1/4 cup measuring cup to scoop out a portion of biscuit dough onto the parchment paper. It should come out easily in a circular shape, although you may need to tap down hard to get the dough to fall out. Continue portioning out the dough into biscuits. You should end up with about 12 biscuits on the sheet.If the dough is sticking to the cup, you can dip the cup in some almond flour.
 Put the sheet of biscuits in the preheated oven and bake them for 35 to 40 minutes. They should turn golden brown and crispy around the edges. Remove the baking sheet once they've finished baking. Let them rest on the sheet for 5 minutes before you remove them to a cooling rack.Use oven mitts when handling the hot baking sheet.
You can store leftover biscuits in an airtight container in the refrigerator.

