 For some people, stress can be a contributing factor towards indigestion and stomach pain. Finding ways to manage stress or relieve stress can help you feel better and may reduce your digestive problems. Try stress-relieving techniques like exercise, meditation, deep breathing, and yoga to feel better, especially before you eat., A hot cup of tea can help settle the stomach, especially if the tea contains peppermint. Avoid caffeinated teas, as caffeine may further aggravate the symptoms of indigestion., Artichoke leaf extract is believed to help stimulate the movement of bile away from the liver, which can help improve digestion. This may induce flatulence, further relieving the symptoms of indigestion. Artichoke leaf extract is available as a supplement at many pharmacies and holistic treatment centers.Be aware that some individuals have been known to suffer from allergic reactions to artichoke leaf extract. If you believe you may be susceptible to this allergy, do not take this extract under any circumstances. Talk to your doctor about learning whether you are allergic to this and other supplements., Some experts believe that excess weight can put additional pressure on the abdomen, which may contribute to acid flowing into the esophagus. Eating healthy meals and getting regular exercise will not only help you lose weight, but you may also feel less stressed, which can further reduce the symptoms of indigestion in some people., Both alcohol and caffeine are known to aggravate the symptoms of indigestion. Try to limit your consumption of both beverages, as they may be contributing to your digestive issues., Cigarettes are a common cause of indigestion, as the smoke may affect your esophagus's ability to block the flow of stomach acid.Talk to your doctor about developing a plan to help you quit smoking.
 Many people experience indigestion as a result of stress or lifestyle influences. If you believe you may be experiencing indigestion due to stress, consider relaxation techniques like meditation, or treatment options like cognitive behavioral therapy.