 But don't overdo it, stay calm, cool, and collective. Start by asking her for something to play on, like if you're in her class, ask her for a pencil or eraser. Also, you don't want to rush it. If she's slightly interested, she might play about, teasing you for it. Don't worry, it's not that she doesn't like you.;
, Use your brain. You can compliment her on something you truly like about her. Don't just say something, just for the sake of saying it. Make her feel good about herself.
 No, not literally! Be a little far away and look at her, admire her. She'll catch your gaze and look at you. Look away suddenly but keep an eye out for her looking back at you. If she is, get up and walk past her, possibly giving her a little smile as you go.
 Ask her if she has any pets and find out some interesting things. Make sure she knows you inside out as well. But don't talk too much or about anything weird.
 If you try to be someone else and if there is some leak or you get busted, you will probably make her feel like you are fake.
 Look into her eyes, look lost in her world for a second. Make her get the idea that you like her. Then proceed to look dreamily into her pretty eyes and tell her what you love about her.
 When the time comes to ask her out, wait for the opportune moment. Trust your instincts; they will tell you when the time is right. It's probably best not to do it in front of her friends or in front of your friends. It's easier for both of you if you are alone. All you have to do is walk up, and ask her to go out with you in a confident manner. You get points for trying.


Ask her out directly, in person. Do not send someone else to do it, email/text her, or even do it over the phone. Asking someone on a date should be personal, you should do it yourself, in person. Doing it any other way will show that you lack confidence, and while she may still say yes, she'll be a lot less impressed.
 The difference is there, and very noticeable for girls. Make jokes and be self-confident; women love it when men make them laugh. Sometimes girls like boys who are kind of shy but be sure you don't act shy because girls also want you to  be honest and pretending to be somebody else isn't honest.
 If you see any facial expressions, like an eye raise, make sure you say, "it's okay if you say no."

, Just back off for awhile, leave her to cool down, but don't give up hope completely. Some girls like it if you try again.
 Don't bug her about it, let it go a few days - if she doesn't bring it up again, it's a no.
 This can really hurt a girl's feelings. Be sure that you are doing it because you want to, if you don't you could really become known as a jerk.
 Always remember to make a good impression on her when you ask her out. It's a major bonus point! Never stare at the ground either. Look her in the eye! If you're shy, whisper it in her ear–but never be too shy.

