 The first part is easy enough to look at, but the second part refers to kidnapping, imprisonment etc. For this precept the goal here is simply to avoid harming anything.


Think about this: The important thing to be aware of is choice. You have the ability to both kill it, do nothing, or let it go. Killing is really surprisingly easy, but not killing it means you have care and respect not only for the life of another but for yourself. You have to be aware of your intentions and let go of the ones that will cause you and others harm.;
, Not stealing is the first meaning, but also there are other aspects such as not taking advantage of other people, or manipulating people to get something etc.


Here there is something of a caveat. Traditionally thrown away items or cast-offs are allowed to be recycled so intention again - if you know it's stealing or that it might belong to someone, simply refrain from taking it without asking.
 This covers the obvious things like rape, or any form of abuse but also as any indulgent activity. It also covers looking for a relationship with those who are protected by their family, partner, religion or government and using sex or gender as a way to manipulate people, all are seen as misconduct.

In the first 5 precepts, it technically does not mean absolute celibacy, even though you can be celibate if you want (see the 8 precepts), it means that basically don't do anything that you would regret now or later, or do any actions that may cause others to regret knowing you. It is always best to discuss this with a learned person if you want an opinion in relation to the tradition you follow.
 This is about refraining from lying and even white lies. It's also expanded further to not giving biased or false information.


This is where it gets difficult if you are in a position where you lie by omission or tell white lies to protect someone (such as "So and so is in a meeting at the moment and can't take your call"). You should consider ways to re-phrase the message without being deceptive such as simply offering to take a message to pass on instead.
The simplest solution is if you want to say something but know it doesn't have any benefit and/or it's not the right time or place, then try to find a time when it is appropriate to say it or be discrete.
 Essentially this is anything that essentially makes you heedless or reckless. Simple examples are alcohol, drugs etc, but anything else that makes you lose control.

You can be the judge of this of how much is too much, but there are times going teetotal or detox is good for your health. There is apparently some argument to if this covers caffeine, but again you have the choice to have none, a harmless amount (illegal drugs aren't likely to fit in this however), or too much where you can do something you'll regret. You are your own criminal, judge and executioner. As alcohol is not always fully "cooked out" in food (such as adding wine to sauces), it is still seen as containing alcohol, it is wise to refrain from these foods as well.
 Remember that these are the five and are considered to be the basic starter-kit for avoiding things you'll regret. There is also a lot to be gained from this that you had the strength to do the right thing and know that you avoided doing something you'll be ashamed of at some stage.

