 If the interviewer keeps strong eye contact with you throughout the interview, you can take it as a sign that the interviewer respects and is interested in you.If your interviewer avoids eye contact, you're probably not the top candidate. This holds true even if the interviewer is looking at your resume. Referring to your resume during an interview rather than addressing you directly probably means your interviewer is just going through the motions and doesn’t expect anything earth-shattering from you.;
, If your interviewer is fiddling with a desk drawer, texting on his/her phone, or speaking to other people in the office, it probably means that your interviewer is not allotting full attention to your words.Your interviewer’s distraction isn’t necessarily personal. HR employees are notoriously overworked, so it can be tough to get them to grant you their undivided attention. Overcome this attention deficit by inserting talking points which you’ve already identified into your answers., These are two of the most positive gestures one can make, so, while they don’t necessarily indicate you’ve got the job, they are good indications that the interviewer likes you and, at the very least, that you haven’t bombed your interview.Make sure you mirror the interviewer's smiles and positive body language. This shows the interviewer that you're engaged in the interview and eagerly interested in the job.
 If an interviewer has been rubbed the wrong way by something you said, that person will likely display closed body language, such as folded arms or leaning backward. Taking offense does not bode well for your interview. Don’t throw yourself off a cliff just yet, though. The key to addressing such a scenario is directness. Ask your interviewer how you could answer the question more effectively, or if there was something you said which upset him/her.
 This is a positive gesture that denotes respect and interest, so it's a good sign if your interviewer closes your interview with a solid clasp of the hand., A compliment from your interviewer is usually a good sign, especially if it pertains to something specific about your career experience or cover letter.


Watch out for overly vague compliments like, “Well you’re very well qualified for this position.” While it's not likely to be fake or underhanded, this kind of praise is so general that it doesn't reflect much regarding the interviewer’s attitude toward you., If an interviewer finds your answers to the warm-up questions smoothly handled and intriguing, he or she might shift into more complicated and specific questions to see how you acquit yourself.When fielding a tough question, don’t rush to say the first thing you can think of. Instead, take a few moments to contemplate your answer before responding. Your interviewer will take this as a sign of sincerity and thoughtfulness, and your answer will benefit from the extra consideration.
 Although it can be tempting, try to not read too much into any single thing the interviewer says. Pay more attention to the overall flow and feel of the interview, and not just to one or two seemingly negative or obscure phrases.


For example, just because the interviewer says, “I’m eager to speak with you more,” or, “Let me show you the office you’ll be working in,” doesn’t mean you’re a shoo-in. Often times these phrases are merely polite platitudes which your interviewer repeats to all candidates.If the interviewer says something like, "Don't take it personally if you don't get this job," or, “We're interviewing many more candidates,” you should probably manage your expectations regarding this particular job. Don’t lose hope completely, but keep trudging along on the job trail and looking for more opportunities., Listen to the flow of conversation and watch how your interviewer responds to your answers. If the interviewer interrupts your replies, it probably denotes boredom or lack of interest.Try making your responses more concise and see if your interviewer stops interrupting. If that doesn’t work, focus on remembering the questions you’ve been asked so you can work to improve them later.
 Often times, an interviewer’s choice to guide the interview onto the personal plane indicates a strong interest. This is because an interviewer is unlikely to spend valuable time on chatting with someone who is not considered a serious candidate., On the one hand, if your interview runs short, you're probably getting passed over. On the other hand, if your interview goes long, it's a great sign that you've made a good impression and are a serious candidate for that prized position., If you can't read the interviewer at the end of the interview, work up your courage, smile, look him or her in the eye, and ask directly: "I appreciate your taking the time to interview me. How did I do?".


The interviewer will most likely be glad to discuss your performance candidly and give you some pointers. If not, though, don’t press your luck. Bid a gracious farewell, and think about what you can do better next time.
Take the time to ask some more general questions about the job and what makes a good candidate. Question the interviewer about what qualities they are seeking in a candidate, or what skills and values they most appreciated in the person who most recently filled the position.Thinking of your interviewer as a resource for future success will enhance your job prospects as well as make you less nervous during your interviews.
 Even if you’re pretty sure you’re not getting the job, remember that all interviews represent opportunities to practice your interview skills, responses, and poise.You’ll find that thinking about every interview as valuable practice will make you more open-minded about job listings and available opportunities. You’ll apply to a broader range of jobs and your chances of success will increase.
 Every time you come back from an interview, write down the questions you were asked and how you answered them. This will help you spot your weaknesses and prepare more effectively for the next interview.Take the time to jot down what you think you did well during the interview in addition to the stumbling blocks you encountered. This will ensure that you recognize your successes and keep thinking positively about your job hunt, rather than wallowing in your failures.

