 Asking the doctor’s office staff what you can expect in your upcoming appointment will help alleviate anxiety, because you will have a good idea what you’ll encounter during your visit. If you’re having a specific procedure done, watch some videos and read articles about how the procedure is conducted, why it’s done, and even potential complications.Your doctor’s Office Manager may be helpful in directing you to resources that are specific to your visit and your doctor’s specialty.
The doctor or nurse should have no issue explaining the process step-by-step to you.
Also, especially for younger patients, asking the doctor to explain every step of the appointment or procedure as its being done can significantly reduce anxiety and discomfort.;
, Consider bringing your partner, parent, or a close friend to the doctor’s appointment with you. Bringing a companion with you for emotional support can be just the boost of encouragement you need. Your companion will also help alleviate your anxiety by being a loving and familiar presence.Understand that you will likely have to expose yourself to this companion, so make sure that you’re comfortable with them seeing you in any state of undress.
 While it definitely isn’t necessary, you may be more comfortable with undressing at the doctor’s office if you take a shower or bath beforehand. Perhaps you want to shave your face, legs, or underarms as well.This is entirely to make yourself more comfortable. Your doctor is used to seeing all kinds of bodies and types and whether you shave or shower is of no importance to them.
 Under a Patient Bill of Rights, patients are guaranteed certain protections about receiving fair treatment, their personal information, input in making medical decisions, and more. In some states these are laws, and others they are signed proclamations by physicians. Knowing what protections you have can be empowering ease your anxieties about your doctor visit., Nowadays, who we choose for a doctor is largely determined by insurance, availability, and proximity. We often don’t even meet the doctor before our first appointment. It doesn’t have to be this way, though. You can call a prospective doctor’s office and ask to schedule an interview appointment as you’d like to make sure you and the doctor are a good fit for one another.If the office staff tell you that isn’t possible, thank them for their time and call another office.
You will likely have to pay the doctor for their time, so be prepared for a visit fee.
 You may be nervous about undressing at the doctor’s office because of your religious beliefs. When the appointment begins, simply tell the intake nurse that you are uncomfortable undressing for religious reasons. Medical personnel have been trained to sensitively and respectfully accommodate cultural and religious needs, and this should pose no issue.