 When washing the dishes, try to make up a song to accompany your work. Challenge yourself to make up a new dishwashing song each time the dishes need to be done.Don't worry if you're song isn't good or if it doesn't rhyme. Try to lower your inhibitions and simply strive to have some fun.
You can to pretend a little while you sing. Imagine you're in a musical, for example, and this is the opening scene where you introduce your character and life. You could pretend your character, say, works in a kitchen for a living and dreams of something more.;
, Throwing in a little competition can really make dishwashing seem less like a tedious chore and more like a game. You can race against yourself or another person.If you wash dishes with a roommate, sibling, or other household member, divide the dishes in two. Then, the two of you can race to see who gets the dishes done quickest.
You can also race against yourself. Set a timer and see how many dishes you can get done in 10 minutes. Then, try to break that record.
You could also listen to a short playlist and challenge yourself to finish your dishes before the playlist ends.
 You can, for example, challenge yourself to only wash dishes with your right hand. You could also wash dishes standing on one foot or with one eye closed.If you're washing dishes with another person, add a limitation as part of a game or competition. For example, you can wash dishes in rounds. The loser of the first round has to wash dishes while standing on one foot in the next round.
Limiting yourself can result in a lot of laughs, making the whole dishwashing process a lot more fun and carefree.
 Imagine you're washing dishes for a reason. Instead of washing dishes yourself, think of yourself as a character in a story washing dishes. This is sure to make the whole experience more enjoyable.There are many ways you can incorporate make believe into the dishwashing experience. Think of a scenario. For example, maybe you work in a castle and wash dishes for a king.
Try to invent a backstory for your character while you wash dishes. This can help remove you from the situation and make the whole experience more enjoyable.
 If there's a TV in your kitchen, wash dishes during your favorite show. You will come to look forward to washing dishes this way. Instead of viewing it as a monotonous task, you'll think of it as an opportunity to unwind with some television.If you don't have a TV in your kitchen, you could watch television using an electronic device. Prop your iPad up on the windowsill in front of the sink, for example, or set your laptop on the counter near the dishes.
 Listening to music, podcasts, or audiobooks can be a great way to make dishwashing more fun. When washing dishes, play something in the background. If it's noisy in your home, you can listen to something using headphones and a portable electronic device like an iPhone.You can try having a go-to dishes playlist saved on your laptop. This way, when the time comes to wash dishes, you'll be ready to go right away.
 Make up a story in your head, or tell a story to someone else. Storytelling is a fun way to unwind. As dishwashing is a fairly mindless task, telling a story while washing dishes is an easy, fun way to make the process more enjoyable.If you're washing alone, make up a story in your head. If you're struggling for inspiration, look around the kitchen. Try to tell a story using three objects in the kitchen.
If you're washing dishes with someone else, take turns telling stories. You could choose a theme. For example, you can tell stories centered around the topic of jealousy.
You don't have to solely tell fictional stories. You can take turns telling anecdotes while washing dishes as well.
 Try to view dishwashing as a calm, meditative activity that will remove you from the business of your day. If you're seeing dishes as a chore, this can affect your ability to have fun doing them. You don't have to see washing dishes as a chore. If you alter the way you look at dishwashing, dishwashing itself can become fun.Life can be busy and stressful. You're likely bombarded with obligations every day. Dishwashing is a simple task, and this simplicity can be an opportunity to meditate and unwind rather than a burden.
Many people eventually come to enjoy dishwashing, as a simple physical task allows them to turn their minds off.
 A nice smelling dish soap is a simple change, but it can definitely improve your attitude towards dishwashing. Spend a few extra dollars on a great smelling dish soap. You may have more fun washing dishes, as you'll be able to enjoy a nice smell., If you feel like you're working towards something, you will have more fun washing dishes. Give yourself some kind of reward. This can make dishwashing feel like a game, with fun treats at the end.You can have an easy reward system. For example, you get a piece of chocolate if you finish the dishes. However, you can also make your system more complex.
For example, you can earn a point every time you wash dishes. You can have different numbers of points translate to different rewards. If you earn 5 points, you get to watch an episode of your favorite TV show. If you earn 10 points, you get to order takeout. You can choose to cash in on your points early, or save them up.
 Washing dishes alone can be boring. Enlist the help of a sibling or friend, or simply have someone sit in the room with you while you wash.You can incorporate this into your schedule. For example, every weeknight when you wash dishes, have your spouse stay in the room. The two of you can talk and catch up while dish washing is happening.
If someone is willing to help, have someone wash dishes with you. The two of you can joke around and talk while washing the dishes.
 Dishwashing can be a reward in and of itself. Instead of thinking of it as a chore, think of it as a way to make life easier for yourself. Clean dishes can make navigating your kitchen less stressful. It can also help keep bugs away. Do not think of dishwashing as a chore. Think of it as doing yourself a favor.