 Several states offer job-protected unpaid leave programs that are similar to the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The state programs may be identical to the FMLA but will provide coverage to individuals who are otherwise ineligible for the FMLA because of the federal law’s requirements about employer size., Some states also offer paid leave for new parents.At present, only three states do: California, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. Washington passed a bill but has never implemented it.California became the first state to offer paid leave to both parents, when a 2002 state law provided up to six weeks paid leave. New Jersey offers six weeks as well, and Rhode Island provides four weeks., In some states you can use the state benefits in addition to federal or employer benefits, but in others paid state time replaces FMLA unpaid time.


In New Jersey, for example, paid leave runs concurrently with any FMLA time. Because the state offers up to six weeks of paid leave, you would be left with a maximum of six weeks of FMLA leave if you chose to take all six weeks of paid leave., Check the applicable law in your state to determine if any particular notice is required. Regardless, try to let your employer and coworkers know early so they have ample time to figure out how to cover for your absence.


It is always a good idea to notify your boss in writing. Keep a copy of the note or letter that you send.
 In states that offer paid benefits, you must submit a claim with the agency responsible for administering the benefits.


In California, you will file a claim by contacting the Employment Development Department. You can file a claim online or by downloading the form from the department website.
In New Jersey, you should contact the Division of Temporary Disability Insurance. You may get an application by calling (609) 292-7060 or by visiting this website.
In Rhode Island, you can apply for Temporary Caregiver Insurance by calling (401) 462-8420 or by downloading this form.
 Make sure you prepare all necessary information for your coworkers before you start your time off.


Inform clients or customers of your absence and, if necessary, provide them a way to get in touch with you in case of emergency.
Offer to help your boss select and train employees to take your place or absorb your duties while you’re away.

