 It is safest to keep your dog away from wooded areas and tick habitats, but if you do decide to take him for a hike, you can make him less appetizing to these bloodthirsty bugs.


Try applying a topical insecticide directly to your dog's skin for long-term protection. This may be the easiest solution. A one-time dose will protect your dog from fleas for anywhere from 30 to 90 days.
Try fitting your dog with a tick collar. Tick collars need to be changed every 3 to 4 months, but they are relatively non-intrusive and they will kill ticks. Many tick collars contain a dog-safe pesticide--an acaricide--that kills ticks without poisoning your dog. Some acaricides kill ticks on contact; others are absorbed into your dog's bloodstream, over time, and kill ticks that attach and feed.
Try using tick sprays. Tick-repellent sprays are typically designed for a one-time use, and they tend to wear off more quickly than the other options. Tick sprays are often made from natural ingredients, whereas many other tick repellents are based on pesticides and insecticides.
Be careful not to mix medications. Ask your veterinarian before starting your dog on a new anti-tick product, particularly if it's a pesticide.
 Apply these treatments to a small area on the back of the dog, between its shoulders; they may be the easiest product to use, and they typically last the longest.


These medications must be reapplied once a month, typically, although some products may last as long as 90 days. Avoid touching your dog's back for a few hours after you've applied the product to give it time to sink into the skin.
Some products kill fleas and ticks, and others just fleas, so check the label carefully. Active ingredients may include permethrin, pyrethrin, or fipronil. Do not use a product containing permethrin on cats: it can be deadly.
Visit a pet supply store or a veterinarian and explore the range of products available to you.
 These can be used instead of--or in conjunction with--topical flea medications, and they fit alongside most regular dog collars.


Check the package to see how long the collar will protect your dog. Many collars must be changed every 3 to 4 months for optimal protection.
Be aware that many collars lose their effectiveness when they get wet. If your dog spends a lot of time in the water, then this may not be the solution for you.
To get the right degree of snugness, you should just be able to get two fingers between the collar and the neck of your dog. Be sure to cut off any excess collar to prevent your dog from chewing on it.
 These products are primarily designed to rid your dog of the ticks that he already has on him, although some shampoos have a lingering anti-tick effect.


You can find medicated shampoos in your local grocery or pet store.
To properly use a flea and tick shampoo, you must be sure to work the shampoo in over your dog's entire body, and then leave it on for at least 10 minutes before you rinse it off. This is true of almost any medicated shampoo.
Remember to protect your dog's eyes and ears.
Consider placing a white towel beneath your dog while you bathe it. Ticks may fall off of your dog and onto the towel, making them easier to spot and kill., This may be a good solution if you don't normally have a problem with ticks, but you are taking your dog to an area that you know is heavily infested.


Tick sprays are usually designed for temporary, immediate use, but you can apply them as needed. Follow your veterinarian's and the manufacturer's directions on how often to spray, and spray in a well-ventilated area. Sprays often contain permethrin or pyrethrin.
Many tick sprays are made from natural ingredients. This is a good alternative if you worry about your dog being exposed to pesticides. Most other tick preventatives are based on insecticides or pesticides.
Flea and tick control sprays can come as aerosols or pump bottles. When using a spray, you do not have to soak your dog with the spray, but be sure to spray every inch of its body. Spray a small amount on a cotton ball to apply the product around the eyes and ears. Do not get any of these products in the eyes.