 A convincing sign that you are ill will put you in arm's distance of a thermometer, which is key to faking a fever. If you claim too many symptoms, like a headache, dizziness, and nausea, that is usually a dead giveaway you are faking. It's better to pick a single symptom, like a headache, and one feeling associated with that symptom.For example, you might say:


"I have a headache and every time I stand up I feel a little dizzy. This has never happened to me before. Is this normal? I don't feel good."
"My stomach's upset. I don't know why, it just started hurting last night and this morning I had to go to the bathroom real bad. Can I go lay down for a while?"

, Once you have gained access to the nurse's office of the waiting area of your school's office, you are in reaching distance of the school thermometer. The thermometer will be your key to getting sent home. Stick to your symptoms. Now that you're out of class, you should tell the adult watching you that you feel warm and ask for a thermometer.
 This will require some stealth or planning. You must be careful the adult in charge of taking your temperature doesn't even suspect that you are artificially raising your temperature. If he does, you're chances are getting sent home are next to nil. When faking out the thermometer, you'll have to be careful not to raise the temperature too high. The ideal fake-sick temperature is between 99.5째F (37.5째C) and 100째F (37.78째C). To fake out the thermometer, you might:


Do some light exercise on your way to the office/nurse's room. This can artificially raise your body temperature.
Drink hot water before going to the office or the nurse's room.
Hold the thermometer close to a heat source, like a desk lamp., Consistency is key; repeating a thing makes it more believable.By telling the nurse or a school office worker that the same thing, over and over again might get you sent home, even if your temperature is normal.
 When you hear those sweet words, "We're calling your parents," it's easy to lose perspective. If you tip your hand and reveal that you're not really sick by celebrating, you may never be able to use this trick again, or you may even get in trouble.

