 You should not attempt to form a diet plan on your own if you have PKU. The levels of phenylalanine and protein you can eat depend on your current health and symptoms, so consult a dietician to make a catered diet plan for you.You can ask your regular doctor for a referral to a dietician. You can also check your insurance plan to see what dietitians are covered.;
, Things like wheat products are often high in protein, making them unsafe if you have PKU. Luckily, there are many specialty wheat products that are lower protein and safer to eat. Look for specialty foods at the supermarket or order them online. Some of these products are specifically designed for people with Phenylketonuria and can be purchased with a prescription from your doctor.Things like breads and flours are often high in protein. Talk to your doctor about a prescription for things like special bread, flour, and pasta that is safe for you to eat.
 Even people without PKU benefit from eating plenty of fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables should be a dietary staple if you have PKU.Go for as many different varieties of fruits and vegetables as possible. The more color, the better for your overall health.
You can make filling meals using primarily fruits and veggies. Something like a hearty stir fry or large salad can serve as a full meal during the day.
 Eggs are usually off limits for those with PKU. Talk to your doctor about finding a suitable egg substitute. This can help you feel full and vary your meals without exposing you to dangerous levels of protein., Some flavorings, such as sauces or dip, may be high in protein. When choosing flavorings, be conscious of this fact. Make sure your flavoring options are low protein. The following are generally safe for people with PKU, but always consult a doctor or dietician first:Salt and peppers, as well as most herbs and spices
Tomato, barbecue, and Worcester sauce
Salad dressing
Mustard
Flavor essences (such as vanilla extract)
Coconut milk
Curry powder and pastes

