 Registration of a national historical landmark begins by working with your state's preservation office to get the research materials, forms, and other information necessary to complete the process.You can get the forms in person by stopping by the SHPO office. Most states and territories also have a website where application forms, other documents, and instructions are available.
Staff at your SHPO also are available to answer questions and assist you in filling out the forms you must complete to nominate a property for registration as a historical landmark.
If the property is located on federal or tribal land, you must work with the nearest Federal Preservation or Tribal Preservation Office.
 Properties generally must be of the required age and integrity, and have national historical significance. In most cases, the property must have had historical significance for at least 50 years.The property must be old enough to be considered historic, generally at least 50 years old, and it must look substantially the same way it looked when the historic events that give it significance occurred.
Properties that achieved historic significance within the past 50 years may be eligible for designation if they are considered to be of exceptional importance.
The property must be associated with people, activities, events, developments, or achievements that were important in the past.
Historical significance includes architectural, engineering, or landscaping achievements, such as if a house was designed by a famous architect or the building was the first to incorporate a major structural development.
Birthplaces of major historical figures typically have more significance if there is no other property associated with the person's productive life.
 The registration form for the National Register requires you to provide significant information about the property you want registered as a historical landmark and make a case for that property's historical significance.You must establish and present reasons for the property's historical significance. You may want to attach photos or documents to support your claims, such as newspaper clippings from the time of the historical event associated with the property.
Examples of completed nomination forms for approved applications are available on the National Park Service's website. You also may be able to see completed forms at your SHPO.
Completed forms can give you a good example of what the National Park Service is looking for and the information necessary to get an application approved.
National Register Bulletins also contain information and instructions for nominating a property for designation as a national historical landmark.
 To register a national historic landmark, you must first submit your forms to your state historic preservation office. The state office will review the application and send the proposed nomination to the state's National Register Review Board.After your forms are submitted, the SHPO will notify property owners and local governments and ask for public comment on the nomination.
Although anybody can nominate a property for designation as a historical landmark, the nomination won't proceed unless the property owner agrees to it.
The SHPO and your state's National Register Review Board will review your application materials and determine whether to recommend designation. This process takes a minimum of 90 days.
 After a review of your application is complete, the nomination will be sent to the Keeper of the National Record of Historic Places along with certifying recommendations for a final listing decision.The National Park Service will make a decision on whether to list the property in the National Register of Historic Places within 45 days after the complete nomination is received.
If your property is listed on the National Register, this doesn't restrict your ownership rights in any way. You still have the right to use, transfer, or dispose of the property however you see fit.
However, there may be restrictions if the property is subject to local zoning restrictions or state designation. Many cities have their own ordinances related to preservation of historic properties.

