 This can help you start understanding what your story will be about.


For example, an adventure story could feature trips across Guardian realms, with a romantic subplot of Elsa and Jack falling in love, and action in a fight with Pitch.
 Where will your story begin? What happens during the rising action? What about the climax? You don't need to have a perfect idea of what will happen in the story—you can work out the little details as you go—but it's good to have a general sense.
 Will it have chapters, and if so, approximately how many? What are the minimum and maximum word count lengths per chapter (for consistency)?


If you're releasing it one chapter at a time, have a buffer of at least two chapters ready to go.
 Most readers already know the characters—show them that something interesting is going on here. Some writers like to start en media res, or in the middle of the action. Others start with any sentences that poses an unusual scenario. Here are some sample first sentences.


Covered from head to toe in chocolate cream cheese frosting, it occurred to Anna that this was perhaps a bad idea.
No one understood the words Hiccup was mumbling, but his white face and shaking hands made it clear that something had happened.
Anna had tried spinning tops, fancy dresses, architecture diagrams, chocolate chip cookies, and silly songs, but nothing seemed to distract Elsa from the shadows she kept seeing in the hallways.
 The ending should show that the protagonist has undergone personal growth, and it should resolve major conflicts (or leave them open-ended for a sequel).
 What age range are you aiming for? What will they be expecting? What do they like?


Make sure that your language isn't too complex for your audience. When in doubt, use the simplest word.



For example, Rapunzel and Anna aren't afraid to dive into a situation, while Elsa's first tendency is usually to run away or negotiate. Thus it wouldn't make sense for Elsa to charge straight into battle while Rapunzel and Anna hang back.
Jack is very adventurous, while Rapunzel is open to adventure. Thus it would make sense for them to befriend each other and go on adventures together.

