 To start, use a credit card, utility knife, ruler, or plastic scraper to gently peel away large chunks of paper and glue that have been left on the surface.Hold the scraper at a 45-degree angle to the surface as you work.As you scrape and peel, stop intermittently to clean the edge of the scraper.;
, Take a strip of heavy-duty tape, such as duct tape, and wrap it around your index and middle fingers with the sticky side facing out (away from your fingers). Press the tape firmly against the adhesive, and then quickly pull your fingers away to rip the tape off.Repeat with different sections of the tape to remove as much leftover residue as possible.


Skip this step if you are trying to remove adhesive from a delicate surface like paper or books.
 To tackle any remaining sticky residue, you will need an oil-based substance, alcohol-based substance, or solvent. An oil-based product will help lubricate the surface of the adhesive and work to remove it, an alcohol-based product will dry out the adhesive, and a solvent will work to dissolve the glue.Alcohol and Goo Gone have had the most success removing adhesive residues, but if you try one product and it doesn’t work, don’t be afraid to try another.Other popular products include:Cleaning products, such as Windex, Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, furniture polish, vinegar, or PVC pipe cleaner
Beauty products, such as nail polish remover, toothpaste, hand lotion, hair spray, mineral oil, perfume, non-acetone nail polish,and aftershave
Oil-based foods, such as margarine, cooking spray, peanut butter, and mayonnaise
Eucalyptus oil, tea tree oil, and vegetable oil
Household products such as kerosene, paint thinner, petroleum jelly, and lighter fluid
For paper products and books, you will need a pencil or art gum eraser

, Using a clean cloth, cotton ball, or paper towel, apply your removal agent of choice to the affected area. Let the cloth and cleaning agent sit on the adhesive for five to ten minutes (or a couple hours if you're using vinegar or mayonnaise).


After the removal agent has had time to sit, use the cloth or a soft toothbrush to gently rub the area. As paper and glue are removed, use a clean towel to wipe them away.To remove adhesive residue from paper products or books, use the eraser to gently rub at the glue.
 Once the adhesive has been removed, you must clean away the excess cleaning product that you used. Use a clean cloth and hot, soapy water to wipe the area clean, and then rinse it with a clean cloth and plain water.
 If there is any paper or sticker left on the fabric, peel off as much as you can with your fingers, and then remove more with tape. For fabrics, don’t use duct tape; instead, try something less heavy duty, such as scotch tape.Duct tape could adhere to fabrics and cause pilling, warping, or pulls.
 You typically want an oil-based substance for fabrics, so it’s important that you only use this method on fabrics that can be laundered in the machine or by hand afterward. Perform a spot test on an inconspicuous area before trying the product on the adhesive. For clothing, popular removal agents include:Rubbing alcohol or Goo Gone
Dish soap
Peanut butter or vegetable oil
WD-40
Avon Skin-So-Soft
De-Solv-It, Crystal Wash, or Un-Du, Use your fingers to saturate the adhesive with the cleaning product. Massage for several minutes, until you feel the adhesive starting to loosen.For stubborn marks, use a soft toothbrush to work the cleaner into the adhesive. As the glue loosens, use a clean cloth to wipe it away, making sure not to spread the cleaner around too much.


For fabrics that can't be laundered (such as upholstery), saturate a clean, undyed cloth with nail polish removeror rubbing alcohol. Lay the cloth over the affected area and let it sit for several minutes. Gently rub the area with the cloth to loosen and remove the adhesive. Remove any excess cleaner and glue with a clean cloth and water.
 Be sure to use a grease fighting stain remover or laundry detergent to cut through the oil-based cleaning product.Let the stain remover or detergent sit for 10 minutes, or as directed by the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Either hand wash or machine wash the fabric as per the instructions on the care label. Do not put the garment in the dryer until you are sure the adhesive is completely gone.
 They say prevention is the best medicine, and this is also true of sticky adhesive residues: it’s better to get the sticker and glue off in one shot than it is to peel off the sticker first and tackle the glue later. If you're in the middle of peeling off a difficult sticker, stop and take a few extra precautions before proceeding.


Grab a blow dryer and set it to high.Hold it a safe distance from the surface (you don’t want to melt anything other than the glue) and apply a stream of hot air to the sticker for 45 seconds. Once the glue is nice and hot, try peeling a corner of the sticker. If there's any resistance, repeat the heating for another 45 seconds., Another method you can try is soaking a cloth with hot water and laying it over the sticker for 10 to 15 minutes. This will help loosen the glue and wet the paper, which should help lift the sticker right off., If you have a sticker that isn’t coming off nicely and is still leaving glue and paper bits behind after heating it and wetting it, pull out the scraper now while the adhesive is still attached to the paper, and while the glue is still hot and wet.


Scrape at the sticker at a 45-degree angle to remove whatever’s left of the paper and adhesive.

