 Although you may save your lives by hiding in some obscure spot on the map, you will never win a swords match or be a good swords teammate if it's a match of team swords. So find a prominent spot on the map where other players are and get into the fray, but be smart about it - don't just run in without checking who's behind you or stand in a spot where people can easily ambush you. Basically, don't just hide away but make sure that when you are in the open it's a secure location.;
, You'll be most effective in a swords match if you can surprise your opponents. This may include jumping down on others from higher ground or attacking from behind corners. This is particularly helpful if drawing everyone's attention and fending them off isn't working for you - although you may not get as many kills as simply using your skill with the energy sword in the open, attacking stealthily may suit you better.
 If an opponent is a certain length away, preferably with his back turned, using the Right Trigger is a better option, causing you to 'lunge' forward and kill him. However, if the opponent is closer or can see you, the sword's melee is a better option (press the B button on your Xbox 360 controller) as it is faster than the Right Trigger option, although it will not move you as far forward. Most players use the melee option in combat situations.
 Although other players may complain, grenades are invaluable in swords matches, especially if they are thrown from a distance. If you see several players in a sword dual, throw a few grenades and you will probably pick up a few kills. If enemies are close then grenades aren't the best option but if you think you're more likely to stick someone who is lunging at you than cancel him (done by using your sword at the same time he makes contact), then throw a grenade and hope to stick him. Spike and plasma grenades are more effective than frag grenades in swords matches.
 Being effective in a sword match depends on how good you are at judging your attack distance. Attack to soon and you'll have no effect and leave yourself open to a counter-attack. Attack too late and your opponent will have already killed you. You'll get used to it over time, but it'll take some practice.
 If you see several players fighting in amongst themselves, then consider attacking a few from behind. You will probably get a few kills, although they will probably dislike you for being sneaky.
 In team swords matches you need to utilize your team correctly to have any chance of winning. This may come in the form of having team mates grab an opponent's attention, then run away to get said opponent to follow them only to run into more enemy team mates. Or having someone help you if you're in a difficult sword duel. Generally, never leave your teammate's side. You are far likelier to win a game if you show good use of your team.

