 There are a variety of foods that offer a decent amount of fiber. Some of the highest fiber foods are 100% whole grains.


You want to choose whole grains over refined grains because these foods are minimally processed and leave all the fiber containing parts intact with the grain.Include a serving of whole grains at most meals and snacks to help increase your intake of fiber. Measure out 1 oz or 1/2 cup of whole grains.Whole grains to try include: whole wheat pasta, whole grain bread, brown rice, quinoa, whole wheat English muffins.;
, Another two food groups that offer a lot of fiber are fruits and vegetables. In addition to providing fiber, these foods are also high in vitamins and minerals.Make half of your plate a fruit or vegetable. This helps you get the recommended 5-9 servings in daily. Or you can count out and measure servings of 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens or 1/2 cup of cut up fruit.Specific fruits and vegetables that are very high in fiber include: raspberries, blueberries, blackberries, pears, apples, artichokes, peas, broccoli, turnip greens and brussels sprouts., You may be surprised to find out that there are some protein sources that are also high in fiber. Including these is another easy way to increase fiber each day.


Proteins like chicken, fish or beef do not contain fiber. However, protein sources like beans, lentils, nuts and seeds do contain fiber.
Swap out a serving of non-fibrous protein for one that's higher in fiber. For example, instead of serving grilled chicken over a salad, top your salad with beans.
Measure out 1/2 cup of beans or lentils and 1 ounce of nuts or seeds.Items that are particularly high in fiber include: all beans, lentils, pistachios, almonds, pecans, flaxseeds and chia seeds., In addition to eating more fiber-rich foods, you can also increase your daily fiber intake by taking a fiber supplement.


Fiber supplements are an extra way to sneak in more fiber to your diet. They can come in a variety of forms including tablets, capsules, powders and even gummies.
Although its best to get fiber from foods (because they also have vitamins and minerals) adding a fiber supplement daily shouldn't be harmful and can help you increase your daily intake.Always talk to your doctor before starting any over-the-counter supplements to make sure they are safe and effective for you.
 In addition to whole foods, like fruits or vegetables, food manufacturers are also trying to increase the fiber content of many processed food items.


Many foods like fruit juice, soy milks and yogurts now have added fiber to them. All of these have fiber added to them during processing.
Specific items to try to include are: OJ, yogurts, soy milk, breads, cereal, crackers and granola bars. Make sure the label says "with added fiber." Not all drinks for every brand will have added fiber.
 Whenever you're trying to change your diet or how you eat, it'll be beneficial to write yourself a meal to plan to help you plan for your changes.


Start by writing up all the meals you plan to eat during the week. Include breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks and beverages. This will help you visually see where you can add in more fiber-rich foods.Review your meal plan and see where there are areas that you can add in more fiber-rich foods. For example, if you're planning on making a chicken and vegetable stir-fry on Monday night, plan to serve it with brown rice instead of white rice.
Also use your meal plan to help build a grocery list for the week. You'll know exactly what fiber-rich foods you need to stock up on.
 Like a meal plan, a food journal is another great tool to use when you're trying to make and track changes in your diet.A food journal can be done with paper and pencil or using a food journal app. An app on your phone or computer will be beneficial as many of these apps automatically calculate your total fiber intake each day.
Track each meal that you eat on a daily basis, plus the serving sizes of foods. Ensure to track breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks and any beverages (especially those that you may mix with a powdered fiber supplement).
Track your total fiber intake (you may need to do this manually if not using an app) to see how much fiber you get in a typical day. Then, start adding in more fiber-rich foods and see how much you can increase your intake.
Use your food journal as a guide to whether or not you should continue trying to increase your fiber intake.
 If you are working on increasing your fiber intake (especially if you were eating a low-fiber diet previously), you'll also want to make sure you increase your water intake as well.


Dietary fiber or supplements work best when they are paired with adequate amounts of water. Fiber and water together help keep you GI system moving at a good pace.Ensure you're drinking the minimum of amount of water daily. If you're not, work on increasing your fluid intake as well as your fiber intake.
Most people need about 8-13 glasses of hydrating fluids daily.Aim for fluids like: water, flavored water, sparkling water or decaf coffee and tea.
 It's a great goal to try to reduce breast cancer risk by increasing your fiber intake. However, you need to be careful about how you go about increasing your fiber to make sure you stay healthy overall.


Although fiber is a great nutrient to prevent cancer and even many GI issues, too much fiber or increasing your fiber too quickly can cause other issues.If you increase your fiber too much or too quickly you can experience some mild, but frustrating side effects like: gas, bloating and cramping.Slowly increase your fiber intake by a few grams each week. This allows your body, specifically your GI system, get used to your new diet.
 If you're worried about your risk of breast cancer and are thinking of ways to reduce your risk, it's important to speak with your physician.


Your doctor will be able to review your family and personal medical history thoroughly with you and explain what risks you may have from genetics and/or other medical issues (like radiation therapy or previous changes in your breast tissue).Speak specifically about your desire to increase your fiber intake. Although increasing your fiber intake is most likely not harmful, its still something to be discussed with your physician.
Also talk with your doctor about your diet and lifestyle and ask what other changes you can make in addition to increasing fiber to reduce your breast cancer risk.
 One important factor to consider when trying to reduce your risk of breast cancer is your weight. Studies have shown that women who are overweight or obese have an increased risk of developing breast cancer.Fat cells produce estrogen in your body. With an increased amount of fat cells, your body produces more estrogen which can support the growth of breast cancer cells.If your BMI is 25.0-29.9 you're considered over weight. A BMI of 30.0 or greater is considered obese.If your BMI falls into these ranges, consider losing weight to help reduce your risk of developing breast cancer.
In the Nurses’ Health Study, women who gain 10 lbs or more since menopause had a higher risk of cancer than those who maintained their weight., Studies have consistently shown that both alcohol and smoking have shown a positive correlation with increased risk for developing breast cancer.Discontinue these habits to help reduce your risk.


Studies have shown that women who drink 3 or more drinks per week have a 15% higher risk of developing breast cancer.
Although its considered safe for women to have 1 drink daily, consider decreasing your consumption to just a glass occasionally or stopping altogether.
More recent studies have confirmed that smoking also increases a woman's risk for developing breast cancer.Since smoking is always considered to be an unhealthy behavior, stop smoking immediately.
 Participating in regular amounts of physical activity has also been shown to reduce your risk of developing breast cancer. Start or increase your exercise amounts.


Physical activity is known to help manage and control weight. Exercising for at least 2 1/2 hours weekly has been shown to help manage your weight - another important risk factor.Exercise also helps your body use blood sugar (blood glucose) and insulin more effectively. Studies have shown that when you have more insulin growth factor, you have a higher risk of developing breast cancer.
Although the CDC recommends only 2 1/2 hours of moderate-intensity physical activity, up to 4 hours has been recommended to decrease your risk of breast cancer.