 As hard as it is to consider, it’s possible that your parents are actually treating your fairly and with the right amount of caution.


Do you have a trusted aunt, uncle or grandparent with whom you could discuss your situation? Do you think your high school guidance counselor could offer you some advice? If you don’t feel like you could talk to other adults because you’re afraid they’d end up siding with your parents and agreeing that you currently have the correct limits placed on you, that might indicate that your parents actually are being fair. If that’s the case, you need to be honest with yourself.
 You’ll feel better after writing down your thoughts without fear of offending anyone, and you’ll be able to reread your journal over time to see how well you are following your parents’ rules and behaving in a mature manner.


Your journal will provide a written history of how you and your parents are negotiating your rules. If you are truly following their guidelines and behaving as they want you to, you will be able to show them that you've kept your word. This will allow you to produce evidence for your argument and help you prove that they can trust you with more freedom.
 Consider why the rules are in place and what your parents believe those rules are accomplishing.If you had a teenaged daughter, would you allow her to go to a party at a friend’s house with no adults around? Would you allow your 14-year-old daughter to go on dates with no adult supervision? Your parents were once the age you are now, and it’s very possible that they got away with behavior that they don’t want you to repeat.
If you can’t see any reason for the rules, ask your parents to explain them. For instance, you could say, "I know you want to keep me safe, but I was wondering why you think allowing me to go to a movie on a Friday night would be putting me in a dangerous situation." They might have reasons that they’ve never mentioned to you or that you haven’t considered, and you might be able to ease some of their fears.
For example, if you want to attend a movie with a group of friends but your parents are afraid someone might pose a threat to you, you could say "I understand your fears, but I would be with a group of girls my age, and we'd be in public the whole time. If anyone was threatening us, we'd call for help and leave that situation."
Remember that your parents have a reason for their rules. Even if their rules seem unreasonable, your parents put them in place because they want to protect you, and the reason they want to protect you is because they love you. Someday you might thank them for it.
 You’ll be out on your own someday, and you’ll be free to make your own rules. Even if your parents’ are placing ridiculous limitations on your behavior, you will be an adult soon. If you have no choice but to suffer through this period of your life, you can use this time as an opportunity to learn discipline and patience.

