 You will see that the blood trail leads out a large door. Ignore it for now, and just head right towards the patient bound to the bed., As soon as the aforementioned patient starts to go crazy, head towards the bed in front of him, and hide under it., Trager will enter the room to kill the patient, after which Trager will go to check on you. Of course, once he realizes you’ve escaped, he will go ballistic., A good time to leave is when he says, “You can figure this out, let’s solve this.”, However, don't go through it yet or Trager will surely catch you., Trager will be checking under the beds. Luckily, he will only check the first two beds near the large door before moving on to the beds near the now-dead patient., Leave quickly as soon as Trager goes beyond the barricade that leads back to the dead patient., For as long as Trager doesn’t catch you leaving the room, you're perfectly safe at the moment. Don’t worry., Doing so will lead you to the elevator., You’ll need a key to use it. Instead, climb onto the bed, and go inside the vent., Afterwards, look to your left and move the metal cabinet, but don’t go through the door yet. This will be your escape route later., Make your way to the other end of the room where there will be an open door with light shining through it. Go through this door., He will be moving in and out of the room, as well as back and forth in the hallway from where you dropped down., He will be going towards the metal cabinet you moved after falling from the vent., There you will see another metal cabinet which you have to move to go through the door. Remember to close the door after you., You will see a bed at the end of the hallway. Climb onto it, and enter the vent., When you find a hole to go down through, let yourself fall and you will find yourself inside a restroom., The room is quite dark so you may want to use your camera., This will be directly northeast of where the door is., Once there, hide under a bed to avoid from Trager., Head out the large door, and remember to close it behind you., This is the window from where you got the key. Head out the door that is now open, the door next to where the key was hanging., Don’t forget to lock it behind you., You will see the metal door that leads to the elevator, the same door blocked by the metal cabinet you moved earlier., Close it behind you in case Trager comes searching for you., You did it! You’ve managed to escape almost intact from the lunatic surgeon-wannabe.