 See your doctor right away if you have new, unexplained chest pain or pressure. You should call 911 if your chest pain does not go away five minutes after taking medication, increases in severity or if a person with angina loses consciousness. , ,Other situations in which you should call your doctor are:


You experience new or recurrent angina symptoms more often.
You experience angina pain while sitting or resting.
You have trouble taking your heart medication
You feel tired, faint or lightheaded more often.
You experience an irregular heartbeat, low (below 60 beats per minute) or high (above 120 beats per minute) blood pressure.
You experience any other unusual symptoms that may be related to angina.
 Angioplasty is a non-surgical, minimally invasive procedure used to open blocked or narrowed arteries, improving blood flow to the heart. Angioplasty can be performed by a licensed cardiologist to help treat moderate to severe angina pain caused by plaque build-up in the arteries.,During an angioplasty, a small balloon is expanded inside the coronary artery to help compress the blockage and expand the artery wall. A wire mesh tube called a stent is sometimes implanted to keep the artery wall expanded. The procedure can last for two to three hours.
Ask your doctor if an angioplasty may help your condition.
 Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) therapy is a non-invasive procedure helpful for some people who have persistent angina. Large cuffs, similar to blood pressure cuffs, are put on your legs. The cuffs are inflated and deflated in sync with your heartbeat. EECP therapy improves the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle and helps relieve angina.You typically receive 35 one-hour treatments over a period of seven weeks. EECP therapy can be performed by a licensed therapist or physician.
 Talk with your doctor if you have any questions or concerns about taking your angina medicines. You should know what medicines you're taking, the purpose of each, how and when to take them, possible side effects and if they are safe to take with other medicines, herbs or foods.If you have side effects from your medication, let your doctor know. You should never stop taking your medication without your doctor's approval. Your doctor may prescribe medicine to treat CHD, high blood pressure, diabetes, or high cholesterol levels. These may include:


Anti-platelet drugs, also called blood-thinners, such as aspirin. Take the baby strength (81 mg) aspirin or cut the regular strength (325mg) aspirin in half. Take one pill once a day with food. Studies have shown that taking aspirin decreases your risk of a cardiovascular disease.ACE inhibitors to treat hypertension and high blood pressure
Beta-blockers to treat hypertension, irregular heartbeat, angina pain and to prevent a heart attack.
Calcium channel blockers for angina pain and hypertension
Diuretics (water pills) to flush out excess sodium
Statins to lower cholesterol
Nitroglycerin pills or nitrates to stop an angina attack

, Angina increases your risk for a heart attack. It’s important that you and your family know how and when to seek medical attention. Talk with your doctor about making an emergency action plan. Discuss your emergency plan with your family members. Take action quickly if your chest pain becomes severe, lasts longer than a few minutes, or isn't relieved by rest or medicine.The plan should include making sure you and your family members know:


The signs and symptoms of a heart attack
How to use medications when needed, such as nitroglycerin
How to access emergency medical services in your community
The location of the nearest hospital that offers 24-hour emergency heart care.
Call 911 if you experience unstable angina, a heart attack, or loss of consciousness. You should also call 911 if the pain lasts longer than usual or if the pain returns a few minutes after taking medication.
 Nitroglycerin is used to prevent chronic or stable angina. This medicine works by relaxing the blood vessels and increasing the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart. This medicine is also used to relieve an angina attack that is already occurring. When used regularly on a long-term basis, or just before exercise or a stressful event, this helps prevent angina attacks from occurring. Your doctor may prescribe nitroglycerin as a tablet, capsule or spray to help relieve angina pain. This medicine should be used exactly as directed by your doctor. Do not take more than the prescribed dose, do not take it more frequently, and do not take it for a longer time than your doctor ordered.
If you miss a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule. Do not take double doses.
When you begin to feel an attack of angina starting such as chest pains, tightness or squeezing in the chest, sit down. Use a nitroglycerin tablet or spray as directed by your doctor. You may become dizzy, lightheaded, or faint soon after using a tablet or spray, so it is safer to sit rather than stand while the medicine is working. If you become dizzy or faint while sitting, take several deep breaths and bend forward with your head between your knees. Remain calm and you should feel better in a few minutes.
Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets usually give relief in one to five minutes. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets should not be chewed, crushed, or swallowed. They work much faster when absorbed through the lining of the mouth. Place the tablet under the tongue or between the cheek and gum, and let it dissolve. Do not eat, drink, smoke, or use chewing tobacco while a tablet is dissolving. If the pain is not relieved, you may use a second tablet five minutes after you take the first tablet. If the pain continues for another five minutes, a third tablet may be used.
Ask your doctor or nurse how to properly use a nitroglycerin oral spray if prescribed. You may administer one or two sprays of nitroglycerin oral spray at the onset of chest pain. If the pain continues after five minutes, a third spray may be used. You must wait five minutes after the first one or two sprays before using a third spray.
If you still have chest pain after a total of three tablets or three sprays, contact your doctor or go to a hospital emergency room right away. Do not drive yourself and call 911 if necessary.
Tell your doctor if you have any other respiratory or heart conditions. Also alert your doctor if you are using any other medications, supplements, herbal or home remedies, or if you experience an allergic reaction to nitroglycerin.
Nitroglycerin should not be used for severe or unstable angina, during a heart attack, to treat low blood pressure or for people with anemia. Call 911 if you or someone with angina experiences a heart attack.
Consult your doctor and see if nitroglycerin interacts with any of you current medication.

