 Community involvement is incredibly important in the medical field. There are a lot of volunteer opportunities that you can do to prepare yourself for your future career. Consider options like:


Retirement/Senior homes. You can visit with the residents or even help with activities.
Group homes. You can volunteer and work with children at orphanages, foster homes, or group homes.
Libraries. Often libraries have programs in which you can read or work with general patrons. This will help you work with your community.
 Ask someone in your future career if you can spend the day watching what they do on a day-to-day basis. This will give you a specific look into what you may want to do in the future.Be aware that job shadowing in the medical field may be difficult because of laws and regulations regarding patient's privacy.


Your school may offer a course with a name like "health science careers" in which your school works with local healthcare facilities to help students obtain job shadowing experience.
Your school counselor may be a good connection you can talk to help set up a job shadow.
Use this opportunity to ask questions about the career like: “What do you like best about what you do,” or “What is the toughest part of the job?"

, Because any career in the medical field will require education after high school, you should be researching where you might want to go.


Some colleges have open college fairs that are specifically designed for high school students. You can find more information about these through a high school guidance counselor or through college websites.
 During high school, you want to do activities that will help distinguish you as someone who is serious about her education and career. You can do this by joining clubs or activities that build useful career skills. These might include:


Speech and debate
Tutoring services
Chess club
Math club
Trivia clubs
Athletics clubs or sports

, Dr. Christopher Arbelaez recommends the best way to prepare for medical school is to get good grades as well as involve yourself with the community.Getting good grades in high school will make you a competitive candidate for undergraduate schools.
 Medical associations, like the AAMC, hold medical fairs for future doctors or medical personnel. While these may be more useful to attend in undergraduate, they may provide helpful information on how to better prepare for medical school.