 Conditioning may be the most important thing you can do for curly hair. Curly hair is already more prone to dryness and damage/breakage than other types. So keeping it moisturized with conditioner is essential for healthy curly hair.You can condition your hair while in the shower, or try some leave-in conditioner.;
, These products will likely contain the same ingredients as products designated for curly hair. They’ll target the dryness and breakages, and that’s what matters.
 These ingredients will dry your hair out even more and lead to more damage. Many hair products are alcohol and silicone free; you just have to look at the labels to figure out which ones are., Many experts swear by the dry/no shampoo method. This is when you wash your hair with just water, or you only use conditioner in the shower (but no shampoo). This is meant to help your hair combat dryness and breakage. , Put products on your sopping wet hair, even before you pat it dry with a towel. This will help your hair maintain as much of the moisture as possible from the water. , When it comes to styling products, less is more. The less you put in your hair, the less greasy/oily buildup you’ll have to work against later. For styling serums, use a quarter-sized amount; for mousse, use a golf ball-sized amount., Simply comb out your dry hair and spray it with a mixture that is half water and half leave-in conditioner. Comb the product into your hair, from the roots down, and then let your hair air dry. This will keep your curls looking fresh. , Products like hairdryers and hair straighteners are great for people with curly hair who want to switch their style up, but they are terrible at damaging and drying out hair. If you use these heat-based products on a regular basis, you will get more split ends and damaged hair. Try to avoid drying and straightening your hair as much as possible.


Using a diffuser to dry your hair is better because it will not damage your hair as badly as a hairdryer.
 Don't towel dry your hair; only dab the towel over your hair to soak up water. This prevents tangles and breaks. You can then brush your hair out with a wide-tooth comb.
 Brushing curly hair is a bad idea because it can break the strands and further damage your hair. Try to use a wide-toothed comb to gently detangle your hair instead of ripping through tangles with a brush., Swimming is a fun summertime activity, but if you have curly hair the chlorine can be very harmful. If you go swimming, make sure you use a shampoo and conditioner that helps against chlorine damage to your hair.
 Curly hair can lose a lot of its length from the curl itself. So make sure your stylist cuts your hair when it is fully dry so you know that you’re getting the style you want., Cotton pillowcases soak up moisture from your (already dry) curly hair, so try using a satin or silk pillowcase instead. This will also prevent friction and breakage while you sleep.