 You already have the vocation director on your side -- all you have to do is express your serious interest and they'll take it away from there. You'll discuss logistics, concrete when, where, and hows, and meet the vocation board. It's all downhill from here!


The pre-candicacy process (where both parties are interested and you're working together) can take 1 to 3 years.This is a serious time commitment and should be taken seriously. If you're unsure, bow out now.
 This may be called the pre-novitiate or postulancy.You will live on the campus, work with the other sisters, but still manage your own expenses (this is part of why you had to be in good financial standing initially).


To get the ball rolling, you write a letter of interest stating your desire to join their community. The candidacy process usually lasts 6 months to 2 years, though will end (and move on) when both parties see fit.
 At this point you will be a member of the community, but still not be permanently committed. You are deemed a "Novice" at this juncture. Church law requires this to be a one-year period, though many communities take 2. Part of the reason for the time requirement is to make sure you're doing the right thing for you.


The second year is for generally reserved for education and working in the community. At the end of this phase, you are allowed to rejoin the lay community or proceed onto taking your vows.Some congregations of sisters ask a Novice to choose a Saint's name, upon taking your public vows, but not all. You may also keep your Baptismal name.
 A Religious sister takes only temporary vows that are renewed each year until final profession; this can be done for 5 to 9 years (depending on the organization), though many don't use the maximum period of time.


This is the point where you may have your hair cut. If you weren't dedicated before, you sure are now! You'll receive a black veil, a new name, and a full-length scapular once you've pledged your obedience and fidelity to the Lord.
 If you're ready to make your permanent vow to the church, it's time. A wonderfully elaborate process will be held where you receive a ring and other adornments to show the world your promise. Congratulations! Your life awaits.


There are a couple of exceptions to this rule. The Jesuits' first vows are their final vows and the Sisters of Charity only ever taken ever-renewable vows.