 Like most other prey animals that are hunted in the wild, rabbits are good at concealing pain and injury (so as to not attract predators).Sometimes it is obvious to the eye that a rabbit has teeth that are too long, but more often you will need to watch carefully for signs of trouble. A mouth infection or even just 24 hours without eating can be potentially fatal to a rabbit.A rabbit with teeth that are too long will have to change its eating habits. It may stop eating a favorite food, have trouble chewing and swallowing, show changes in feces production, or simply not eat anymore.
Overly-long teeth frequently cause mouth pain. Watch closely for your rabbit pawing at its mouth, which is a common indicator of pain.
Long teeth cause more cuts and scrapes in the mouth, and are harder to keep clean because of the crowding and irregular shapes. All of these can lead to infections. Keep an eye out for mouth swelling, excessive drooling (especially if bloody), and a new foul mouth odor.;
, If you suspect that your rabbit has long teeth that are causing problems, do not hesitate to call your veterinarian. Even one day can be too long to wait when dealing with a rabbit infection or lack of eating.The vet can give your rabbit’s mouth a thorough examination, likely under anesthesia. Depending on what he or she finds, treatments can range from cleanings to tooth-trimmings (by cutting or filing) to tooth removal in severe cases.
 First and foremost, follow the veterinarian’s advice when your rabbit has trouble feeding due to elongated teeth. Generally speaking, though, the feeding advice will probably be similar both before and after action is taken to repair (or remove) the teeth.When your rabbit has trouble feeding, expect to use a food processor and feeding syringe. Ask your vet’s advice, but consider the following recipe:

Blend together feeding pellets and water into a smoothie-like consistency. You may want to add some cooked oatmeal to help make it smoother. You can also add some banana or papaya to enhance the flavor. Feed small amounts regularly by placing the feeding syringe carefully into the rabbit’s mouth and dispensing the mixture slowly.


Make sure the rabbit is still drinking plenty of water. This ability should be unaffected by tooth troubles, but your bunny may be lethargic or disinterested. Make fresh water readily available at all times.
 Rabbits are not known for their ability to handle stress — some have been known to drop dead simply from being startled. Mouth pain and/or an inability to eat properly can certainly be a traumatic experience, so be sure to show your love and concern for your furry friend.Make yourself available for extra nuzzling, cuddling, etc., but also follow the rabbit’s lead. Some may be more eager for such contact when stressed, while others may experience additional stress from increased contact.
Check up on your rabbit more often than normal, and do so in a calm, reassuring manner. Rabbits seem to be good at sensing anxiety in other animals, so try not to show any.

