 Some stores carry nontraditional pasta made from mung beans. Noodles made from mung beans are very high in fiber and protein and tend to fill you up faster than traditional noodles. , Soba noodles are made from buckwheat and can be a healthier alternative to traditional pasta. Buckwheat noodles are not actually made from wheat, but rather a seed. These nontraditional noodles originated in Japan, are gluten-free, and contain fiber and magnesium that aid in controlling your blood sugar and can even improve blood flow.


Buckwheat noodles are a good alternative for diabetics.
Not all soba noodles are made entirely from buckwheat, so be sure to check the labels to ensure you are purchasing a product made from solely from buckwheat.
 Semolina noodles are a whole wheat pasta made from durum wheat. It is the hard part of this particular grain and can be used to make pasta. Semolina is a coarser type of grain than is used for traditional flour. Semolina can be made from a variety of different ingredients including rice, wheat and corn.
Check the labels to be sure they contain whole grains.
Whole grain semolina contains fiber which helps with digestion and lowers your risk for heart disease.
Fiber also aids your immune system in the development and maintenance of healthy cells.
 Egg noodles are made from more eggs than regular pasta, as you might have guessed from their name. Eating egg noodles is nutritionally beneficial because they contain more protein and amino acids than traditional noodles. Additionally, egg noodles are a good choice for diabetics because they are low on the glycemic index.


Egg noodles don’t cause the same fluctuation in blood sugar levels as traditional pasta, giving you more sustained energy.
 Udon noodles are a Japanese style noodle that is fairy thick and resembles linguine or fettucine. Udon noodles are quite low in calories and therefore make them a healthier pasta option. , A big trend within the food world is items that are gluten-free. This is especially the case because many people require a diet that is gluten-free due to conditions like celiac disease, wheat allergies and irritable bowel syndrome. Rice pasta is not only a wonderful option for people negatively affected by wheat and gluten but a great option for those that are health conscious., Quinoa is a type of grain that has become extremely popular among those looking to eat healthier. Quinoa contain high levels of beneficial ingredients such as protein and amino acids, iron, magnesium, riboflavin, calcium, and B and E vitamins. Any pasta made from one hundred percent quinoa flour contains these nutritional ingredients. 