 This card features a print of your hand holding a bouquet of flowers cut out of paper. It's the perfect card for anyone who will be cheered up by the sight of pretty flowers. To make this card, you'll need the following:


A piece of construction paper in any color, to use as the base of the card.
Construction paper in at least two colors you can use to create the flowers.
Paint in a color that contrasts the with the color of your base paper. This will be used to make a print of your hand, so choose a color that matches your skin if you want.
A tray or dish to hold the paint.
Markers in any colors you like.
A pair of scissors.
A glue stick or white school glue.;
, This is the base of your card, so choose your favorite color, or the favorite color of the person you're making the card for! Line up the short edges of the construction paper and crease the fold with your finger.
 You only need enough to make one hand print, so just pour in a few tablespoons of paint. Swirl it around so it coats the bottom of the tray evenly.
 Try to get an even coating of paint on your entire hand (except the back).
 Spread your fingers slightly and tilt your hand so that your fingers point off the to side of the card. The space between your thumb and forefinger should make a "v" shape. Place the heel of your hand a few inches from the bottom of the card and press your hand on the card to make your print. Carefully lift away your hand to avoid smearing the paint.


The print you leave behind will look like a hand positioned to hold a bouquet of flowers.
If you don't like with the way it looks on the first try, try again on a second card.
When you're done, wash your hand.
 Set the card aside to dry while you create pretty flowers for your bouquet. You can make any type of flowers you like for your bouquet! Cut out five to ten flowers to make a full bouquet. Here are a few ideas:Make daisies by cutting out yellow circles for the centers and white half-circles for the petals.
Make violets by cutting out small purple petals and blue centers.
 After the handprint is completely dry, use either a glue stick or school glue to attach your flowers near the top of your card, so that the bouquet takes up the top half. Leave a few inches between the flowers and the hand print.
 Use a marker in any color (green is a great choice) to draw a stem from each flower down to the hand print, stopping when you reach the top edge of the hand. Try to make it look as though the hand is holding the bunch of stems. Draw the tips of the stems in a bunch jutting out from the bottom of the hand.
 Use pretty handwriting to write these words across the bottom of the card, under the bouquet. You can write the words in all caps, use cursive, or simply write the words neatly in your regular handwriting.
 A signed message is the cherry on top, so don't forget to write it. A simple note will go a long way! Start by writing the person's name, then write a sentence or two saying you hope the person feels better soon. Sign your name at the end, and you're finished.

