 Most iPads' storage ranges from 16 gigabytes to 128 gigabytes (though some models, such as the iPad Pro, support up to 256 gigabytes). Similarly, most iPads on the market will support cellular data, meaning you can add the iPad to your cellphone plan and use the data from the pertinent account to access the internet in areas without wi-fi. Other aspects you'll want to consider include the following:



Size - iPad screens vary from 7.9 inches across to a whopping 12.9 inches across.

Performance - Smaller iPads, such as the iPad Mini, won't be able to process large amounts of data the same way a heftier iPad Air or iPad Pro can.

Price - iPads aren't cheap. If you're on a budget, you'll probably want to opt for an older model (e.g., one of the original iPads). Alternatively, you can buy a newer iPad Mini and sacrifice some of the performance of a larger iPad.;
, With your ideal criteria in mind, consider the aspects of the following tablets:iPads 1, 2, 3, and 4 - The original iPads (commonly referred to as the "iPad 1/2/3/4") are no longer in factory production as of January 2017, but you can usually find them for a discounted price on Amazon, eBay, and Craigslist.iPad Minis 1, 2, 3, and 4 - The iPad Mini line of tablets have a smaller, 7.9 inch display (as opposed to the traditional 9.7 inch display). The iPad Minis 2, 3, and 4 come equipped with high-definition Retina displays.

iPad Air 1 and 2 - The Air series of iPads is a continuation of the original iPad line. They have 9.7 inch Retina displays as well as upgraded processors from the iPad Mini series.

iPad Pro (9.7 inch and 12.9 inch) - The iPad Pro line is geared towards optimal performance, making them both the fastest-operating and the most expensive iPads on the market. Both the 9.7 inch and the 12.9 inch models have Retina displays, though the 9.7 inch model is the only iPad that can record video in 4K definition.
 The iPad 3 and all subsequent models of iPad have cellular counterparts, though they tend to be slightly more expensive. Cellular service means that you will be able to connect to the internet as long as you have a cellular signal. If you want cellular service, you will need to sign up for a data plan with a carrier that supports the iPad.All iPads have wi-fi capabilities, which allow you to connect to any wireless network that you have the password for. Purchasing an iPad with cellular capabilities does not mean you'll lose wi-fi capabilities.
 Most models have several different storage options available, which is the main feature that dictates the prices of the iPad. Most iPads released up until late 2012 (iPad 3 and iPad Mini) come in 16, 32, and 64 gigabyte varieties. iPads released since then come in 16, 32, 64, and 128 gigabyte varieties.


The iPad Pro comes in 32, 64, 128, and 256 gigabyte varieties.
 If you intend to run a lot of high-end apps (e.g., photo-editing software), you'll want to stay away from the original generation of iPads and the iPad Mini series--while the processors in these models aren't subpar by any means, the iPad Air and iPad Pro lines are built specifically for performance.
 Most iPads are available in Silver/White or Gray/Black.


If you don't like your iPad's color, you can always purchase a case for it.
 To do this, visit your local Apple Store or electronics retailer to give a few different iPads a quick spin. This will give you an idea about things like the screen size difference between the iPad and the iPad Mini, the speed and size difference between the iPad Mini and iPad Air, and the graphical rendering differences between iPad Pro models.
 Brand-new iPads are prohibitively expensive, but you can check places like Craigslist or eBay for used tablets.


Make sure you check out the iPad in person if at all possible before committing to the sale.
 Online retailers may be able to offer a better deal than physical retailers, though you may have to do some digging. Ensure that the retailer is legitimate and that you are actually purchasing a new iPad. Some online retailers don't make it obvious that you are buying a used product.


Amazon is a good place to search for a new iPad, but make sure you verify the dealer before purchasing. If they have negative reviews or little history on the site, you may end up not getting what you paid for.
 Once you've settled on a model, all that's left to do is make the payment!

