 Wash your face with a gentle cleanser and pat it dry. You can also use a cleanser with exfoliating micro-beads or buff your skin with an exfoliating face pad.









Try wiping your face with a cotton ball soaked in toner. This will help tighten your pores.
Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
If you use a cleanser with an exfoliator, you should rinse your face before patting it dry with a towel.;
, Chose a moisturizer that is appropriate for your skin type and apply it to your face. Gently dot it along your nose, cheekbones, and forehead, and blend it in using circular motions.









If you dislike wearing too much on your face, you can purchase a tinted moisturizer that matches your skin tone. This way, you won't have to apply primer or foundation.
To determine which moisturizer is right for a certain skin tone, check the labels for products specific to your issue (oily skin, dry skin, sensitive skin, etc.).
 While applying face primer is not necessary, it can help you achieve that smooth, air-brushed finish by filling in any gaping pores. Most primers also act as a binding solution to help makeup stay on your skin longer. You can use a basic face primer, or you can use one with special qualities, such as a matte finish or a redness reducer. You can purchase them in a beauty shop or boutique.
 Concealer is great for hiding discolorations, blemishes, and those dreaded under-eye circles. Choose a concealer that is the same color as your foundation, but one or two shades lighter. Gently apply the concealer over the blemish, discoloration, or under-eye circle using a tapping motion. You can use your finger, a makeup sponge, or even a small brush. There are different types of concealer, the under-eye area needs a thinner formula than what you would cover blemishes in other areas with, or it will crack. Be sure to blend the edges of the concealer into your skin.To make sure concealer doesn't crack or wrinkle, quickly pat some powder over the concealer, powders that are translucent or your skin tone blend best. You can also use a color-correcting concealer to cover up some problem areas. Here are some tips:








If you have red areas or pimples, use green concealer. The green will conceal out the redness.
If you have dark circles under your eyes, use orange or yellow-tinted concealer.
If you have a yellowish skin tone, use some lilac-tinted concealer. The lilac pigment will help cancel out the yellow.
 You can do this by placing a small amount along your jaw. Some companies sell foundations for cool, neutral, and warm undertones. If you are purchasing a foundation from such a company, make sure that you purchase the right skin tone and undertone. Getting foundation in the wrong skin tone and undertone can make your face look orangey, yellowish, or ashy. Yikes! Here are some quick tips for determining your skin undertone:








If your veins look purple or blue, you have a cool undertone. If your veins look green, you have a warm undertone. If you cannot tell, you most likely have a neutral undertone.
If you look best in cool colors, such as bright greens, blues, and purples, you have a cool undertone. If you look best in warmer colors, such as reds, oranges, yellows, and olive-greens, then you have a warm undertone. If you look good in all colors, then you have a neutral undertone.
If you look best in silver jewelry, you have a cool undertone. If you look best in gold jewelry, you have a warm undertone. If you look good in both gold and silver, then you have a neutral undertone.
 When selecting your foundation, it is also important to decide how much coverage you want. There are different types of foundations available, and each will give you different results. Here are some tips:








Cream foundation is thick, but it will give you the most coverage. You may not even need concealer for this foundation. It can feel heavy on your face, however. This type of foundation is suitable for normal and dry skin types.
Liquid foundation can give you a sheer coverage to a medium coverage. It will look more natural the sheerer it is, and will help even out your skin tone. Some blemishes may still show through, however, and you may need to use concealer. This type of foundation is suitable for dry and combination skin types.
Powder foundation will give you the lightest coverage, and will look the most natural. It is the best for evening out your skin tone and giving you the no-makeup look. This type of foundation is suitable for oily skin types.
 There are many different ways you can apply your foundation. Coverage also depends on what you use to put the foundation on your skin. Generally beauty blenders give the most coverage, then foundation brushes, and then fingers or sponges. You can use your fingers, a makeup sponge, or even a foundation brush, depending on the type of foundation you have. Start applying your foundation to your nose, and work your way outward along your chin, cheeks, and nose bridge. Blend the foundation outward, and be sure to get your jaw line, sides of face, forehead, and neck.








If you are using powder foundation, you can apply the makeup using a makeup sponge or a powder brush.
If you are using liquid foundation, you can use a makeup sponge, a makeup brush, or your fingers. If you choose to use a makeup sponge, consider dampening it in water first. This will prevent the sponge from soaking up too much foundation, and thus wasting it.
If you are using cream foundation, you can use a makeup sponge, a makeup brush, or your fingers.
 Choose a powder that matches your skin tone and swirl your powder brush in it. Lightly tap or blow the excess powder off, then brush it onto your face. Focus on the nose, forehead, and cheekbones. The powder will help set the foundation and reduce shine. It will also further smooth your face in preparation for other powder makeup, such as blush and eye shadow. Be sure to dust any excess powder off your face.








