 This should be someone you who you know will be honest with you. They should also be someone who you know has your best interests at heart. You’ll need to trust their opinion, and to be willing to hear them, even if it’s hard. they could be a sibling, aunt, close friend, or coworker.Choose someone whom you see or interact with regularly. That way, they’ll be able to notice your behaviors on a more regular basis.
Make sure the person will be willing to tell you things that you might not want to hear.
Make sure the person is able to be kind and compassionate, even when sharing things that may sound critical.
 Let them know the kinds of behaviors that you’re concerned about. Ask them to keep an eye out for those. They can also tell you if they think your emotional reactions to situations are dramatic or overblown.If you don’t know which behaviors to look for, you can simply tell the person that you’re worried that you’re an attention seeker. Ask them to point out any behaviors that reflect that.
You can also ask the person if they’ve already noticed anything you do that seems like attention seeking.
Say something like, "I'm trying to work on my attention-seeking behaviors. Have you noticed any of them? Would you be willing to keep an eye out and let me know if you notice me doing things for attention?"

, Attention seeking behavior is often associated with addictive behavior and personality types. If you don’t struggle with any kind of addiction, it may not make sense to join a group. However, if you are aware of other addictions or compulsive behaviors in yourself, consider joining a support group.Common addictions that are often paired with attention seeking are alcoholism, drug abuse, and compulsive eating.
Being an attention seeker does not necessarily mean you’re at higher risk for addiction.
Seeking help from a group can be useful whether or not you have one other person whom you’ve asked for help.
You can find listings for local support groups online. If there is not a group in your area, there may be online groups that can provide support.
 If you don’t have an individual person or a group to help you, you may want to find a therapist. Therapists can help you work through your attention seeking behaviors, as well as the underlying issues that have led to them.You can seek out a therapist for individual sessions, or see if they have a therapy group that would make sense for you.
You can find listings for local therapists online. Many sites will have profiles of each therapist. You can see if they have a specific focus, or have experience dealing with your particular problems.
Some therapists may accept health insurance or offer sliding scale payment plans.

