 Fatigue itself can be a symptom of a number of medical conditions.While fatigue as a symptom is not particularly serious, it can indicate a serious health problem. If you experience serious, long-term fatigue, see your doctor. Some conditions that may cause you to feel fatigued include:


Diabetes.
Heart, liver, or kidney disease.Anemia or sleep apnea.
Obesity.
Thyroid disease.
Autoimmune diseases or fibromyalgia.;
, If you have one of the listed medical conditions—or suspect that you might—and treat fatigue as the root problem, you will be curing the symptom instead of the disease. See your doctor to rule out health problems as a possible cause for your fatigue.


If you have a medically induced fatigue, getting more sleep or changing your diet are unlikely to provide long-term help.
 Some medications can also cause you to feel fatigued, so it is a good idea to check the side effects of any medications you are taking. You should also talk to your doctor about any side-effects you are having from a medication, including fatigue.Over-the-counter medications can cause fatigue as well, such as antihistamines and cough medicines., Once you are in communication with your doctor about your fatigue, it can still be difficult to arrive at a correct diagnoses. Fatigue can be a result of medical, psychological, or physiological causes, and it can often be a time-intensive process to diagnose a medical cause. Work closely with your doctor to speed up the diagnostic process., Any individual who has suffered from fatigue for over 6 months is likely to be diagnosed as suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS).CFS is often accompanied by other symptoms, such as muscular or joint pains, poor concentration, and poor sleep patterns.Treatment of CFS focuses on managing the problematic symptoms, and improving the patient’s sleep and diet.
Statistically, certain groups of individuals have a higher probability of being diagnosed with fatigue. These include:
Women.
People who live in poverty.
People who suffer from physical or mental illness.

