 Regular whole wheat flour is arguably the most widely available whole grain flour, and perhaps the most often cited in recipes. However, be aware that it has a nutty and tannic flavor that may not always lend itself well to your baked goods. As an alternative, consider using white whole wheat instead, which has a milder flavor and can be used in direct ratios when substituting regular whole wheat or white flour in recipes.The difference between the two is which type of wheat berry is used to make them. Regular whole wheat flour comes from red wheat berries, while white whole wheat comes from white wheat berries.;
, Both regular and white whole wheat flours tend to result in heavier finished products. If the baked good you’re making is supposed to be light and crumbly, but the only whole grain available is whole wheat, go with whole wheat pastry flour. Expect pastry flour to have less protein than regular flour, and therefore less gluten when baked, which is what weighs down the texture of baked goods., If you’re looking to use flours other than whole wheat, begin with spelt. Utilize its sweet but mild flavor to avoid overpowering your baked goods, which is a risk with stronger grains that have bolder flavors. At the same time, eliminate the need to convert measurements in recipes, since spelt can be substituted in direct ratio to whole wheat flour., If you want a baked good that melts in your mouth, go with barley. However, be aware that it’s texture is very soft, so don’t ditch the whole wheat or all-purpose flour entirely. Instead, use half of the original amount that the recipe calls for (or, if you’re using spelt, an equal measurement of that), and then substitute the other half with barley., Whole wheat flour usually results in a heavier baked good, which you often need to support the weight of solid add-ins (like chunks or whole pieces of chocolate, fruits, and nuts). However, if you want your baked good to be less dense while still mixing in these ingredients, substitute half of the whole wheat or all-purpose flour in your recipe with oat flour. This will result in a lighter bake that’s still sturdy enough to keep those ingredients from sinking to the bottom as it bakes., Obviously, “multigrain” means that it is a combination of multiple grains, including whole grains. However, expect to find white flour listed as one of the flours mixed into many varieties of this product.