 Our bodies need to program down, in a sense. The rush of the day has us into human-sized Energizer bunnies and we can't just go from 60 to 0 in a heartbeat. Your routine should be whatever appeals to you, but it should be daily (to serve as a cue to your body) and take at least 15 minutes.


The routine can consist of showering, drinking warm milk, listening to classical music, or doing relaxing exercises such as yoga or Pilates. If you read, make sure to read without any bright lights (more on that later). Designate your bedroom for sleeping only. Refrain from any strenuous activities right before, as this will inhibit comfortable sleep time.
 Bright lights can suppress the hormone melatonin, which can lead to sleeplessness and suppress the "tired" feeling.Try to turn off TV screens, laptop monitors and the like an hour before you want to go to sleep.


The science behind it is that all these bright lights are messing with our body's internal clocks. When you're sitting in front of a computer, TV, and phone until 2 AM, your body has zero ideas as to what's going on; it could be 2 AM or 2 PM for all it knows. Turning off the lights lets your body realize, "Ahh, it's bedtime. Shutting down!"

, It's a simple truth, but that doesn't mean it's any less important: sleeping enough will help you wake up earlier. What are yours?


It's easier to wake up early if you've have the recommended amount of sleep during the night. Plan on getting:

7 to 9 hours of sleep for men.8 to 9 hours of sleep for women.9 to 10 hours of sleep for pregnant women.10 to 12 hours of sleep for children and the elderly., Sleeping with the curtains half-open could help your body to stop producing melatonin while simultaneously ramping up production of adrenaline.This could help your body be ready to embrace the day by the time your alarm clock goes off.


You know how we just said light keeps you awake? Well, if you're asleep it awakens you. Crazy stuff, huh? The natural sunlight will be perceived by your body, even when you're asleep.
Sunlight can also warm your bed, letting the temperature tell you to get up, too. If that's possible, consider placing your bed in the right position in your room to utilize this effect.
 Remain in bed to avoid awakening your body should you move around. However, if you're tossing and turning for over 20 minutes, get up. Do a relaxing activity (like reading or stretching) until you feel you can go back.


Getting up in the middle of the night could be the symptom of a larger problem. Evaluate your habits and your environment. If you're doing everything right (you'll know by the end of this page), consider seeing a doctor. You may have a sleep condition that he/she can help with.
 Most doctors will tell you to keep the room somewhere between 65 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit (18 to 22°C).However, what's comfortable for one person may not be comfortable for another. If you have any trouble sleeping, consider messing with the temperature. You may find your sleeping woes to vanish at the click of a button.


If you're not sleeping alone, utilize layers or the lack thereof. Try to find a common ground where you're both negotiating. Worst comes to worst, there's always heating blankets!

