 Daily exercise is essential to keeping your rabbit slim. Your rabbit should have about 2 hours of exercise outside of his cage each day (less if you keep him in a large, spacious cage). If you exercise him indoors, ‘bunny proof’ the area—remove any electrical cables, houseplants, or other hazards your rabbit could chew on. For an outdoor exercise area, block any potential escape routes, and keep your rabbit away from areas with pesticides or fertilizers.Place your rabbit in a large exercise pen outside so he will be safe from predators.;
, Fortunately, there are many ways to keep your rabbit physically active. For example, rabbits love to dig, so give your rabbit a chance to burrow into something. Fill a sturdy, relatively shallow box with dirt or sand. Make sure the dirt or sand is not so deep that your rabbit cannot climb out. Keep a close watch on your rabbit as he digs in the box.If you do not have cardboard boxes at home, you can purchase some at a home improvement store.
 Rabbits also enjoy running, so allow your rabbit to chase you. Give him something to chase, such as a towel or a favorite toy that is attached to a plastic wand. It is important that he chases you —if you chase him, he will think you’re a predator., Rabbits have a strong sense of curiosity. Foster this curiosity by giving him something new to investigate. If you are playing with your rabbit inside, rearrange the furniture in the play area. Also, consider hiding tasty food slices throughout the area so he can use his nose to sniff around and find the food., Whether you play with your rabbit inside or outside, make an obstacle course out of various household items (e.g., cardboard boxes and different pieces of furniture). Place these items throughout the play area for him to run around. On the boxes, remove the flaps and cut out large holes to give your rabbit something to run through.Consider placing a treat at the end of course so he can reward himself at the end.
Make yourself a part of the obstacle course by temporarily blocking your rabbit’s forward movement and making him run around you.
 Toys are an important component of your rabbit’s daily exercise needs. There are many toy options for rabbits, including unfinished wood chew toys, rope toys, and unfinished wicker baskets and tunnels. Keep in mind that not all rabbits like the same kinds of toys, so you may go through some trial and error to figure out what your rabbit likes to play with. Whichever toys you choose, make sure they do not contain any small parts your rabbit could swallow.Choose toys that encourage pushing or tossing.Look for small toys made of sisal or cane that your rabbit could easily toss around with his mouth (but not swallow).Also, your rabbit could push plastic bowling pins with his nose.
You can also make your own toys for your rabbit. Empty toilet paper or paper towel rolls make excellent toys: stuff the empty tubes with hay or grass, or cut the tubes into rings. Old bath towels are also good toys.Rotate the toys out frequently to keep your rabbit interested in what he’s playing with.
 Let your rabbit have fun with interior designing! Build him a cardboard castle by taking a large cardboard box and cutting a few openings in it through which your rabbit could easily fit. When your rabbit goes inside the box, he can have fun chewing the box and creating new openings.Consider adding ramps and tunnels in the castle to give your rabbit something to encourage jumping.Remodeling is another way to satisfy your rabbit’s natural tendency to chew.
 Feeding your rabbit unlimited amounts of high-quality hay is one of the best dietary ways to keep him slim. Not only does hay satisfy your rabbit’s urge to graze and chew, it also is low in calories. Not all types of hay are good for your rabbit, though—wheat and oat hays may contain high-calorie seed heads.Meadow hay is good for rabbits.Timothy and mixed grass hay are also good choices. Alfalfa hay is not a good choice for adult rabbits, since it is high in minerals and proteins and can cause health problems., Fresh vegetables can also help keep your rabbit slim and trim. There are many vegetables you can feed your rabbit, including broccoli, collard greens, green peppers, and mustard greens.Do not feed your rabbit starchy, calorie-rich vegetables (e.g., peas, corn, potatoes).Rinse the vegetables thoroughly to remove the pesticides.
Per day, feed your rabbit about 1 cup of green vegetables per 2 pounds of his body weight.For example, if your rabbit weighs 8 pounds, feed him 4 cups of vegetables per day.
 In general, pet rabbits do not need to eat pellets. They are typically high in calories and low in fiber. Those extra calories can lead to obesity, which is an extremely common problem in pet rabbits.If you have already made pellets a part of your rabbit’s diet, make sure the pellets are plain (e.g., no seeds, nuts, extra coloring), high in fiber, and low in protein.Your rabbit’s daily pellet portion depends on his weight. For example, a 7 to 10 pound rabbit should eat 0.5 to 0.75 cups of pellets per day. Measure the amount with a dry measuring cup., Your rabbit would probably love to eat sweet treats to his heart’s content. However, those treats contain extra calories and sugar that would make it hard to keep him slim. Rather than completely depriving your rabbit of treats, feed him occasional healthy treats, such as slices of flavorful fruits and vegetables. Avoid sticky treats (e.g., raisins) that can cause cavities, as well as starchy treats (e.g., oatmeal, crackers).Examples of fruit treats are papaya, cherries, peaches, and berries., An important part of keeping your rabbit slim is knowing his ideal weight. Knowing the average weight of your rabbit’s breed is a good starting point. However, you should take your rabbit to your veterinarian so he or she can determine a good weight for your individual rabbit.Weight ranges for specific breeds can be wide. In addition, pet rabbits can sometimes be mixes of different breeds. For these reasons, using the average weight of a particular breed is not the most accurate way to determine how much your individual rabbit should weigh., Use a scale to weigh your rabbit at home. If he will not sit still on the scale, weigh his carrier on the scale, then put him in the carrier. Subtract the weight of the carrier from the weight of your rabbit plus the carrier.For example, if the carrier weighs 2 pounds, and putting your rabbit in the carrier takes the weight up to 10 pounds, then your rabbit weighs 8 pounds.


Monitor your rabbit’s weight regularly (preferably a few times a month). Compare his current weight to his normal weight to see if he has gained weight., Looking at your rabbit’s body as a whole is a helpful way of determining if he is slim or overweight. A slim rabbit should have a curve from neck to tail and hip to hip. If you have a female rabbit, her dewlap (fold of fur below the chin) should feel like a fold of skin, rather than a roll of fat, when pinched. From the top looking down, a slim rabbit should have a visible waist.When you touch your rabbit, you should be able to easily feel his spine and hips, but their edges should not feel sharp. Rather, the edges should feel round, indicating a sufficient, but not excessive, fat covering.An overweight body condition consists of a fatty dewlap for female rabbits, the presence of a dewlap for male rabbits (male rabbits shouldn’t have a dewlap), and fatty pads around the shoulders, legs, and genital area.Be aware that rabbits have a lot of fur, which can make it difficult to determine body condition.
If you are unsure about your rabbit’s body condition, ask your veterinarian how to do a proper body condition examination.

