 If you have a shaving brush, apply your shaving cream to the end of the bristles of the brush and circular motions to apply the cream to your face, ending the motion in an upward direction.This can also be accomplished with your hands. Massage the cream with your fingers into the shaving area, again using circular motions that end in an upward direction.Shaving cream creates a lather that helps your razor to glide with little resistance while preserving the moisture locked in the hair you are trying to shave.This will make the hair easier to shave and result in the best shave possible.
Soap should be worked into as thick a lather as possible and then can be applied in the same fashion as shaving cream.
 The direction in which your hair grows is also referred to as the "grain" of your hair.By shaving with the grain you lower the chances of cutting yourself, causing irritation, or getting razor bumps.


If you are shaving your face, being with the sides, as these are generally the easiest part of the face to shave. After you've finished with the sides of your face, you can move to the mustache area and finish at the chin.Use a light touch and short strokes.Pressing too hard with your razor can cause razor bumps and razor burn. Long strokes can build up hair, shaving cream, and skin, causing your long stroke to end in a less than perfect shave., You should avoid shaving too much or using too many strokes when shaving as this can cause razor burn, irritation, or razor bumps. However, if the hair you are shaving is particularly thick or has an irregular grain, applying another layer of shaving cream and shaving your face one more time might be necessary.
 Due to that fact that over the course of your shaving you have removed the top layer of dead skin from your face, your skin will be more vulnerable to bacteria and clogged pores.Rinse your face with warm water to remove any excess shaving cream, and then use a cleansing facial wash with antiseptic properties.


You should consider using a solution that has tea tree oil and witch hazel. Both of these natural ingredients have antiseptic, astringent, and soothing properties, which will help defend your freshly shaved skin.
 Up to two layers of skin can be removed by your razor over the course of your shaving.A moisturizing lotion will help keep the skin you are shaving healthy so you can show off your perfect shave.

