 Let your child know when he or she is displaying a great attitude. Praise your child's behavior; rather than saying "good boy," for example, compliment him on the great way he played with his younger brother. No one can be "good" all the time, but praise for a specific action helps your child recognize that you're noticing his efforts.


Vary your praise. Consider leaving your child a note, or complimenting her on different aspects of her behavior.
Don't overdo it. Offer praise for genuine effort and respond to your child's cues -- if she is excited about her hard work or success, reinforce that sense of self-worth with words of praise.
Teach your child to be comfortable giving and receiving compliments.
Avoid using words of praise to promote a hidden agenda. Children are smart. "I like your new wardrobe" will easily be re-interpreted as "thank goodness you've moved on from that style I didn't care for.", When you see evidence of poor attitudes -- or good attitudes -- in everyday life, point these out to your child. They'll absorb the lessons of seeing someone throw a fit (and look ridiculous!) or politely serve a table (and perhaps receive a tip for their efforts).Children's books can be a great way to provide younger children with examples of how (and how not) to behave., Compensating for your child's poor attitude by taking on tasks she should be doing does her no favors. Children develop a sense of self-worth through learning responsibility for their actions and becoming competent at the basic tasks of life. Use praise and other motivators to provide your child with positive reinforcement when he takes on responsibility., Younger children may benefit from a rewards chart. Connect rewards to the behavior itself. A child working on not throwing a fit when asked to take a bath, for example, might earn a fluffy new towel set in his favorite color.


Beware of excessive rewards. Your ultimate goal is to instill self-discipline. Use praise and encouragement to help your child understand that rewards are short-term ways to instill positive behavior., Sometimes parents worry that if they compromise at all, they will lose authority. While you should hold firm on expectations and consequences once rules are set, engaging your child in the rule-making process teaches them valuable decision-making skills. Setting rules together also helps older children feel respected as they start to assert their independence. You may, for example, negotiate a slightly later bedtime -- with the proviso that your child spends the extra half-hour in bed, reading. , Be sure you work opportunities for simple fun and enjoyment into your routine. If your relationship with your child is on firm footing, he's much more likely to respond well to gentle, kind-hearted comments that shed light on the sillier elements of a poor attitude.

