 The plank is one of the best exercises you can do to build strength in your core, but just doing a regular plank can get boring after awhile. Side and reverse planks can add some variety to your workout as well as giving you a more well-rounded abdominal workout.For a side plank, you want to raise up on one side, stacking your ankles one on top of the other. This exercise is a tough workout for your obliques, the muscles running along the sides of your core. Make sure you do the side plank on both sides.
A reverse plank is just like a regular plank, only you're facing the ceiling rather than facing the floor. Make sure your wrists are directly under your shoulders, with your fingertips pointed toward your feet.
You also can experiment with spreading your feet, balancing your hands or feet on a stability ball, or gripping dumbbells. These variations allow you to add other exercises, such as rows or curls, into your plank.
 If a simple reverse plank is too easy (or too boring), you can increase the difficulty of the exercise by raising first one leg and then the other. Your core gets a workout stabilizing your body, and the leg lifts crunch your lower abdominals.When doing leg lifts, make sure your hips remain raised at the same height throughout the duration of the exercise.
 Burpees are a classic bodyweight exercise that works really well with ski abs. Although burpees do work your core, they are a whole body exercise that also works your chest, arms, and legs.To do a burpee, stand with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Lower into a squat, then place your hands directly in front of your feet. Jump your feet back into a plank, then back forward to your hands. Explode into the air, hands over your head, then land and immediately come back into a squat for your next repetition.
Try doing a 30-second interval of burpees, followed by a 30-second interval of ski abs.
 The boat crunch is another exercise to build strength in your core. This exercise is inspired by the boat pose in yoga, and brings your entire core into play to help balance and stabilize your body.From a seated position (on the floor), bend your knees and then raise your legs until your knees are over your hips and your shins are roughly parallel with the floor. Lean back, keeping your spine straight and your shoulders and neck neutral, until your torso and your legs create a "V" shape. Extend your arms out in front of you for balance.
As you inhale, extend your legs out straight and lower your upper body until you are almost parallel with the floor. Don't lower all the way to the floor.
Come back up into a "V" shape to repeat the exercise. Do a 30-second interval of boat crunches, then move on to something else.
 The Russian twist is a classic abdominal exercise that targets your obliques as well as your lower abs. This exercise is done from a seated position (on the floor), knees bent so that your feet are flat on the floor.Clasp your hands together and lean back, keeping your back straight. Twist side to side, keeping your arms extended. Your hands should come to the outside of either thigh as you twist.
The further you lean back, the more of a challenge this exercise will be for your lower abs. You also can lift your legs to make it more difficult. Then it also will test your balance, much like boat crunches.

