 You may have many things in your life you want to change, or have difficulty thinking of just one to focus on. Whatever the case, focus on just one ritual that you want to implement into your life at a time. This reduces confusion and ensures that you are not taking on too much too quickly.


There's a common myth that it only take 21 days to form a new habit. However, researchers often argue that it takes longer--approximately 66 days to establish a new behavior into your life.So, at the very least, you should practice one ritual for two months straight. Then, you may add another ritual if you desire.
 When you're starting a new practice, it's easy to let it fall to the wayside if you are not making it one of your top priorities. You can ensure that you complete your practice daily, and take advantage of the many benefits of your practice, by doing it first thing in the morning.


When you have a morning ritual that you look forward to you are more likely to get out of bed on time. Plus, doing an activity that pours into you mentally, physically, or spiritually is a great way to set a benchmark for the day. Start on a good note; finish on a good note., If you are worried that you just won't have the time to incorporate a new practice into your busy week, find creative ways to complete your practice while you're also doing something else.


For example, if you want to meditate for 20 minutes but you need to get dinner in the oven, prep the food, place it in the oven and set the timer. When the timer goes off, let that signal the end of your practice.
Another possibility is exercising with your kids. You could go on a walk around the neighborhood with your toddler in a stroller and your dog on a leash. You can repeat affirmations to yourself each day as you're driving to work. Use your creativity to find ways to squeeze life-affirming practices into your busy day.
 You don’t want to overwhelm yourself when beginning a new ritual. Saying that you will commit to 30 minutes or an hour may lead to you pushing back your practice or not doing it at all because you don't think you have the time. The best way to make your new practice stick is by starting out slowly.Dedicate just five minutes of the day to your practice. Then proceed to 10 minutes or more depending on what you feel comfortable with.

