 This may be difficult if you have just started dating each other, but if you have been seeing each other for a while, then you may already be comfortable with them. Keeping in touch with his family gives you another source of information, but more importantly, it gives you access to a support system of people who understand how you feel.They might be hurting just like you or could be struggling with similar feelings. You all may benefit from relying on each other a little and supporting each other during this difficult time.
You may encounter some difficulty in getting information about your sailor from the Navy, if you are not married. Therefore, sticking close to his family can be a good source of information that you may not have easy access to yet.
 The group of people who are most likely to really understand what you are going though are other Navy girlfriends. Find an online community or a local community; if it is available where you live. As you make contacts and make friends, utilize these new friends for support. They may have some advice, or are having the same worries and fears you are. You'll find that these friends will be your greatest asset.


If you don't know where to start, try social media such as the US Navy's Loved Ones Facebook page.
There are also nonprofit groups such as Give an Hour.Connect to other girlfriends or significant others through your sailor's shipmates.
 As much as your sailor will be on your mind, you want to make sure you continue to live your life as well.Try not to sit around waiting for a call or email. Keeping busy by finding a hobby, sport, or work task will help you to do something active to ease your stress and anxiety instead.Learn something new, like a language or a musical instrument.
Pick up a new sport or fitness activity, like running or rock climbing.
Spend some time with friends, playing games, going to the movies, or just hanging out.
 It may feel like there is a whole lot of "hurry up and wait" happening with your sailor and his schedule. Try and be patient with the Navy as well as your sailor because he is probably feeling frustrated by the same things you are. Exercising patience will help with your relationship as well as increase your happiness.Be particularly patient with the following:


Leave. Taking leave is a process that takes time and takes getting approval. So if you are some of the lucky few that can plan a vacation or a trip, it may take a little longer than you'd like to get everything planned and everyone on board.
Mail may take longer to get to your sailor than you would like. Especially if he is on a ship, as you can imagine getting mail to him takes longer than regular mail. If they are overseas it could take up to a few months. Keep this in mind with care packages or mail.
 Remember that there are going to be times when you are frustrated and sad. Avoid the impulse to hide that from your sailor. It is important for your relationship that you are both open and honest with each other. It can be scary to discuss things like doubts and fears, but maybe they are feeling it too, and you'll feel better for talking about it. There are good ways to communicate how you feel and not so great ways, use these suggestions to help you.Try to avoid blaming him. Instead of saying, “I'm mad because you never write me back!” try saying, “I'm really frustrated with our situation and schedules. I just wish I could talk to you or hear from you more.”
Use “I” statements when you are talking about how you feel. “I feel like we are drifting apart, or we are not as connected as before.”
Acknowledge the difficulty of the situation. “I know this sucks for the both of us, and there's probably nothing we can do about it. I just think it is important you know how I'm feeling.”

, It can be hard when you are working on a relationship long distance. Issues of jealousy, trust, and commitment may pop up on both sides. Avoid this potential negative long distance relationship downfall by discussing your feelings with your sailor, and talking about your commitment to each other and the relationship regularly.
 You might feel really lonely sometimes while your significant other is away. This is a normal reaction to your situation, but it is important to find ways to ease your loneliness.


Make sure that you spend time with friends and family. Do not isolate yourself from people. Try to plan some regular outings with people every week to keep yourself connected.
If you are invited to an event where a lot of couples will be present, then you might consider bringing a friend along as a “date” to help you feel less lonely. For example, you could ask another Navy girlfriend to be your plus on at a wedding.

