 The cold and caffeine in tea will bring down any redness, and there are great plant compounds in tea that naturally remove eye puffiness too. Green, black, and chamomile teas are best for their anti-inflammatory properties like caffeine.Brew the tea by steaming water and putting the tea bags in to steep. After a couple minutes, drain the water and pop them in the fridge. Once they have cooled off, place them on your eyelids for twenty minutes.;
, When you first wake up, get your heart pumping with a thirty minute workout. Certain yoga positions that require you to hang upside down, like the downward dog, help to reverse the blood flow which diminishes dark circles that develop under the eyes. It also helps circulation throughout the whole body, adding a healthy color to the face.









Exercise boosts energy which will help you look, and feel more awake.
 Foods made up of white flour or sugar will drag you down and make your skin appear dull. Citrus fruits however, will pick you up because they are packed with vitamin C and can increase energy and alertness.


If you don’t want to eat these citrusy fruits, you can get a similar by using lemon-scented body wash.
 Avoid the freezer because if it gets too cold it could pop blood vessels on your face once it’s applied. To prevent this, only put it in the refrigerator for about five minutes. After you take it out, apply it on your face and leave it on for twenty minutes.


Another method for a cooling, de-puffing fix is by using cold spoons. Put two spoons in the fridge before bed and in the morning, lay them over your eyes for about ten minutes.
 This will not only physically perk you up, but it will give your face and hair an extra shine because the cold water will close your pores and hair cuticles. Also, try letting the water run down directly on your face to boost circulation and restore color to your cheeks., If your eyes are red from allergies, sleepiness, or what have you, a few drops of eye moisturizer in each eye can remove redness. Eye drops should not be used everyday, but on those mornings that you’re seriously in need, a few drops will help restore the white of your eyes.







