 If you are the administrator if the decedent's estate and his or her property is passed on by a will, the property will be owned by the estate at the point the decedent passes away. Once property is a part of the decedent's estate, it can only be transferred to beneficiaries after all estate debts have been settled. One of your first tasks as an administrator will be to open an estate bank account, which will be used to keep estate assets separate from your personal assets. Any earnings or income from estate property will be placed in the account. Any debts and taxes owed by the estate will be paid out of the estate bank account. Any cash distributions to beneficiaries will be paid out of the estate bank account.


To set up an estate bank account, visit your local bank and present them with a copy of the death certificate, letters of administration from the probate court (letters proving you are the administrator), and a TIN. Ask the bank to set up an estate account for you. They will use the documents you provide to set up the account and get things started.You can obtain a TIN by contacting the IRS. The IRS will ask you for your personal information as well as your reason for needing a TIN. Once you complete the application you will receive a TIN., As the administrator of the decedent's estate, you cannot make distributions to beneficiaries until allowances and creditor claims have been paid in full. If there is not enough money in the estate to pay all of these expenses, no distributions can be made.


However if you are sure the estate has enough funds to pay creditors and allowances, you can choose to transfer property to beneficiaries at any time. If you are not sure, wait until debts have been paid., Before you distribute any property, you might choose to send a proposal for distribution to all the beneficiaries. While it is not usually required, a proposal is a good idea if probate has been contested. Probate can be contested in many ways, one of which is by a beneficiary who believes they are not getting what they deserve. Probate courts might have a proposal form you can use. If so, simply fill the form out. However, if you need to create your own, the proposal should include the following information:How you intend to distribute the property
The names of everyone who will receive property
The property each beneficiary will receive
The value of the property each person will receive
That each beneficiary can object to the proposal if they send a written objection to you within a certain period of time prescribed by law (usually around 30 days)

, Once every beneficiary agrees to the distributions you plan on making, you can start transferring the assets. Each type of property will require different transfer processes. If you are unsure about how to make a particular distribution, you can ask for help from an attorney or other professional. Most assets can be distributed by preparing a new deed, changing the account title, or by giving the person a deed of distribution.For example:To transfer a bank account to a beneficiary, you will need to provide the bank with a death certificate and letters of administration. When you do this, the bank will transfer ownership to the beneficiary.
To transfer real property, you will prepare a new deed with the beneficiary's name on it. You will give that deed to the beneficiary and make sure it gets recorded. To record a deed, take the deed document to the county recorder's office where the property is located. Hand the document to the administrator and ask that it be recorded with the rest of that property's information.
To transfer personal property you might have to complete a deed of distribution, which is a document you can give the beneficiary evidencing their ownership interest in the distributed asset. Deed of distribution forms can usually be found at the probate court.
 Upon distributing each asset to a beneficiary, you should require that the beneficiary fill out and give you a receipt and release. These forms can usually be found at the probate court. They are used to evidence the distribution. Within the form, the beneficiary will confirm that they did in fact receive the property and that they are accepting it.