 Rabbits aren’t picky. Your rabbit will likely chew on anything and everything it comes across. Some common garden species can cause sickness, long-term health problems, or even death when ingested, so it’s important that you ensure there are no poisonous plants within your pet’s reach.It’s always best to keep your rabbit away from evergreen trees, evergreen shrubs, and flowers grown from bulbs.
Flowers that are toxic to bunnies include azaleas, bluebells, buttercups, clematis, columbine, dahlias, foxglove, ivy, hellebore, hemlock, lupin, mistletoe, poppy, primrose, rhododendron, and wisteria.
When in doubt, look up if a particular plant is toxic to rabbits. Medirabbit offers an extensive list of poisonous species that’s available here: http://www.medirabbit.com/EN/GI_diseases/Food/Toxic_plants_en.pdf


, Rabbits are herbivores who are famous for nibbling on (or even decimating) garden crops. This means that you can grow much of their food yourself if you want to. Dedicate one bed or more to plants your rabbit loves to eat.The staple of a rabbit’s diet is grass hay, but they will be thrilled if you supplement it with fresh fruit and vegetables.
Greens, like kale, dark-leaf lettuces, radish tops, and spring greens, are a safe staple for bunnies. They’ll also go for broccoli, sprouts, carrots, green beans, pea pods, and peppers.Rabbits love garden fruit, but they should only be fed about two tablespoons a day since it is high in sugar. Try apples, peaches, pears, blackberries, blueberries, raspberries, and/or strawberries.Herbs and flowers can also whet your rabbit’s appetite. Basil, coriander, dill, parsley, rosemary, borage, chamomile, comfrey, clover, lavender, nasturtiums, dandelions, and yarrow are all good options to feed your rabbit in moderation., Do not use any weed killers, insecticides, or synthetic fertilizers on areas where you allow your rabbit to roam. Your rabbit can absorb these harmful chemicals through playing in the grass and ingesting plants.Instead, opt for organic gardening practices in those places where you keep your rabbit. For example, use natural, non-toxic alternatives to synthetic fertilizers, such as nutrient-rich soils that are suited to each plant, crop rotation, and organic fertilizers.
Your rabbit’s droppings actually offer an excellent organic alternative to synthetic fertilizer. Sprinkle them over the top of your beds, or work them just under the surface of the soil with a rake or trowel to give your plants a slow-release dose of nutrients and nitrogen.You can also mix rabbit manure into your compost pile to enrich your compost.

