 Ponytails will never go out of style and can be worn for formal or casual events. They are also functional as they will keep your hair away from your face, and stay in all day long. All you need is a brush, hair-tie, and a few minutes., You want your ponytail to be smooth and free of any knots or bumps. Always brush your hair from tip to root to prevent damage.
 You can wear your ponytail high, low, or right in the middle. The decision is based on your preference.Make a low to mid level ponytail by brushing all of your hair straight back and holding it in one hand. A fine tooth comb works great for smoothing out your hair once you already have it brushed back.
Make a high ponytail by flipping your head upside down, and gathering your hair in your hands. Use a brush to smooth your hair out on your head, and flatten any bumps. When you have it at the right height, pick your head back up, and check it for bumps. If you do have uneven hair, use a comb to smooth it out., Flip your hair through the hair-tie, and tie it around your hair two to three times. The amount you wrap the tie around will depend on your hair type as well as the thickness of the elastic tie. Just be sure that your ponytail is tightly secured.


Use hairspray to help hold your hair in place, and prevent any split ends from sticking up.
Try using an elastic hair tie that advertises as being damage-free. This will help protect your hair from breakage.
 Once your ponytail is tight and secure, add a few curls to the end. Simply divide your hair into three to four sections, and create big curls with a 3" curling iron barrel. Finish with hairspray., Braiding your ponytail is simple and can make your hair look extra stylish. All you need is a brush, some hair-ties, and the know-how.Section your ponytail into three even sections. Wrap your left piece down and under the middle piece, and then wrap the right piece down and under the middle piece. The exchange of pieces from left to right will create a braid. Once you reach the bottom, tie it off.