 Copyright grants you certain exclusive rights in the work you create. You can license other people to do those things for you, but generally others cannot copy or distribute your work without your knowledge.You have copyright in your work the moment you set it down so that other people can see, read, or hear it. You don’t have to mail a copy to yourself or anything like that. All you have to do is take it out of your head and put it into the world, in such a way that it exists on a permanent or semi-permanent basis.For example, if you are a writer and you write a story on a mirror with lipstick, you have copyright protection in that story from the moment you write it down, because it can be read on the mirror. If you take a photo of your story and post it online, you also have copyright protection in the photo. So in this situation, you actually would have three potential copyrights: one in the story, another in your artistic presentation of the story (lipstick on a mirror), and a third in the photograph.
Even without going through formal copyright registration, you have the exclusive right to do things with your work such as distribute it, make copies of it, perform it or display it publicly, and use it to make other derivative works based on it.Digital work -- whether music, text, graphics, or video -- meets the standard for copyright protection because other people can see or hear it online. If someone else copies it and puts it on their own website without you knowing about it and agreeing to it, that may constitute infringement.Ignorance does not excuse copyright infringement, and intent is not an element of infringement. In other words, someone saying “I don’t know who made this so I assume it’s in the public domain,” doesn’t save them from getting sued for infringement; nor does a statement such as “I didn’t make this and it doesn’t belong to me! No copyright infringement intended!” If they copied and distributed your work without your permission, they infringed your copyright.;
, Some uses are authorized in certain circumstances. For example, U.S. copyright law grants a major exemption for fair use.Fair use includes satire, commentary or critique, and some educational uses. Someone can use your work, or part of your work, without your permission in these situations. Fair use exists because of free speech concerns. For example, a copyright owner would be unlikely to approve of someone using parts of their work to write a scathing critique. However, that use has value to society and should be encouraged.
Fair use is a defense to an infringement claim. Even if you think the site owner who used your work without your permission has a solid fair use argument, don’t hesitate to stand up for your rights. It’s not your job to teach him copyright law, and it’s not your job to make his arguments for him.
 You can still sue someone for copyright infringement if they remove your work from their site, although as a practical matter it might not be beneficial for you to do so.


Screen captures serve as permanent evidence of the infringement, even if the infringer later moves the work to a different place on his website or removes it entirely.
Because screen captures can be manipulated, take care not to do anything to change the screen capture image your computer takes. If your computer defaults to a filename with the date and time, leave that default filename. Don’t enlarge or otherwise alter the image.
 If the website is a blog that has a direct URL for each post, copy that URL. If your work is a hosted file, such as a photo or audio file, right-click to get the direct link to that file.
 You must sue for copyright infringement within three years of the date of the infringement.The post date shown on the website may not be accurate, since posts can be scheduled, back-dated, reposted, and otherwise moved around.
Even if the statute of limitations has run, you can still attempt to get the site owner to remove your work or pay you for using it.
 The directory will tell you who has registered that domain, and provide you with their address, phone number, email address, and IP address.The domain owner may have signed up for a security or identity-blocking service when he registered his domain. If he did, the information listed will be for the domain registrar, not the individual owner.
If you are able to find the site owner’s address, this will tell you where you need to file suit for infringement. Federal law requires you to file suit at the federal district court closest to the defendant’s residence., This tells you how much exposure your work is getting, and how much the infringer potentially owes you for the infringement.


Use the website’s main URL to find the Google Page Rank and Alexa Rank. These tell you how much traffic the site gets and how high its pages appear in search results.
Use the command “site:” in all major search engines to find out how many pages are cached. This also gives you a clue as to how visible the site is on the internet.
Look up the site on the Internet Archive to find out how long it’s been around and the types of things posted on it, as well as whether the owner changes the look of the site or the information on it very often. You might also look at the site itself. Sometimes a site will talk about the number of viewers it gets or its daily traffic on its “about” page. Some websites also have counters that display the number of visitors.
 Make a list of any advertising that appears on the site, as well as any display ads of the site itself, such as those that might appear in search results.


You can search the sponsored ads of some companies such as Google and Overture.Learning the promotional techniques of the infringing website helps you understand how the owner is driving traffic to his site, as well as how much he’s investing into increasing the number of visitors to his website.
 Send a polite, informal note to the site owner explaining the situation and asking that your work be removed or that you be paid for it. Often owners are unaware -- or at least pretend they’re unaware -- that they’ve done anything wrong, and have no problem quickly removing your work.


Take the tone that you believe the website owner was unaware of what he was doing, and will want to rectify the situation as much as you do. Don’t accuse him of stealing your work or threaten him with a lawsuit or other action.
Include a direct link to your work on their site, as well as a direct link to your work on your own website, or wherever it was originally posted online, if applicable. You should also describe the work and when you created it. If you included any security codes, meta data, or other identifying marks in the digital file of your work, note those as well.
If the website is a fairly large or popular site, you might want to offer the owner an opportunity to license your work. This would turn an infringer into a client, and get your work more exposure.
If it’s a small website without much traffic, such as a personal blog, the owner may be unable to pay licensing fees for your work. In that case, you might offer to allow them to leave your work on their site with attribution to you and perhaps a link to your own website or a shop where your work can be purchased, if applicable.
Give the site owner a deadline to reply back to you, but remain polite and informal. For example, you might say something like “Please get back to me within a week and let me know your plans so we can put this matter to rest.”
In most cases, if the owner promises to remove your work, and follows through with that promise, you won’t have any reason to sue him. The lawsuit would likely cost more than it was worth, and any damages you might have suffered have ended., If the site owner fails to respond by your deadline, or if he refuses your request and becomes angry or belligerent, do not respond in kind or engage in any arguments. Instead, hire an attorney to send a formal letter outlining your rights.


Even a cease-and-desist letter can be expensive. Additionally, depending on where you live, you may have a hard time finding an attorney who specializes in copyright law.
If you know other musicians, photographers, or writers in your area, ask who they might recommend.
If you’re tight on funds, consider searching for local legal services such as Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts. These attorneys are dedicated to providing free or reduced-cost legal services to assist creative artists.
You can also contact your local bar association, or your local or state arts council, to find copyright attorneys who might be willing to help you.
You might also try the art department of a local university, or a nearby law school.
 The Digital Millennium Copyright Act requires all web hosts to have an agent who will remove content proven to infringe copyright. Providing this service enables the host to claim an exemption from liability for digital infringement under the DMCA.


If the website is a blog or other page hosted by a blogging service such as WordPress or Tumblr, that service will provide a form you can fill out that requires you to identify yourself and provide links to the infringing content and your original content. Look on the bottom of the page for a "legal" or "copyright" link.
Note that you must have made your work available online before the infringing post was made to avail yourself of this option. Otherwise you cannot prove they copied it from you, and not the other way around.
You have to include your name, address, and phone number on the notice. This information may be shared with the infringer. If you have privacy concerns, you may not want to go this route -- although understand that if you sue the person, they'll have access to all of this information and more.
Additionally, many blogging services also request that you make at least one attempt to contact the blog owner yourself before sending them a DMCA notice.
If you submit this form, the service’s DMCA agent will review your request. If they find in your favor they will remove the post, usually within 24 hours., You can contact the website’s ISP to take down the content or block the entire website. If the infringing website is an independent site rather than a blog, you need to notify the internet service provider that hosts it to get the content removed.


Many ISPs may have a form as well, or you can send them a notice containing your identity, the identity and location of your work, and the identity and location of the infringer and the infringing work.
As with sending a DMCA notice to a blogging service, be aware that any information you include in your notice may be disclosed to the offender. However, understand that if you’re planning on suing them, it shouldn’t matter to you whether they know your name and address. You also may want to send DMCA or cease-and-desist notices to search engines or advertising services that promote the infringing website., If you still want to file an infringement suit, you must first have your copyright officially registered at the U.S. Copyright Office.


Although you don’t have to register to have copyright protection, you do have to register to file suit in federal court and to be eligible for certain damages and remedies.
Applications are available at the Copyright Office website. You can either apply online, or print the appropriate form and mail it.Registering online gives you the ability to check the status of your application at any time., If you register online, the filing fee is $35 for a single work by a single author who is also the claimant. Otherwise the fee is $55.


If you register online, you can pay using a credit or debit card, or an electronic check.If you mail in a paper application, the fee is $85., When you apply for copyright registration, you must include copies to be deposited at the U.S. Copyright Office and the Library of Congress.


If you’re mailing in a print form, you would need to include hard copies of your work.If you’re filing electronically, make sure your file is attached in one of the file types accepted by the U.S. Copyright Office.
 It takes about eight months to process an application if it is electronically filed, and up to 13 months for a mailed print application.Expedited processing is available in anticipation of litigation, but the availability is extremely limited and only available in certain circumstances.
If you think your situation requires expedited processing, contact the Copyright Office and explain why you need your registration processed more quickly. For example, the statute of limitations may be about to run on your claim.
If the Office grants expedited processing, your application will be processed within 5-10 business days.The Office charges an additional fee of $800 per claim for special handling of your application., If you haven’t already, find an attorney as soon as possible once you’ve decided you want to go ahead with a lawsuit.You shouldn’t attempt to file a copyright infringement lawsuit on your own. Copyright law itself is tremendously complex, and federal court procedures can be complicated and difficult to navigate. An experienced attorney will have the skills to properly navigate the federal court procedures.
Try to find a licensed attorney in the area where you need to file the lawsuit, which typically would be the federal district court closest to the defendant., Make sure your attorney has all the information you gathered at the start about the infringing website, as well as any correspondence you’ve had with the website owner. Ask the attorney whether you have a strong case and what other information may be helpful.


Get your attorney’s honest assessment of damages you may be able to win, as well as his projected timeline of the lawsuit, how long it will take, and how much it will cost.
With all this information in mind, your attorney may wish to send a final letter to the infringing website offering to settle your claim before the complaint is filed. This should be done as soon as possible after your copyright registration is complete.
 A lawsuit is initiated by filing a formal complaint in court. The complaint will allege the circumstances surrounding the lawsuit as well as the cause of action. In an intellectual property lawsuit, you will allege that defendant has infringed your copyright.


You will also need to file a Certificate of Interested Persons along with a cover sheet. An example of the Certificate is here. The cover sheet provides a brief summary of the case, while the Certificate of Interested Persons lists everyone who might have an interest in or stake in the outcome of your case. This enables judges or other court employees working on your case to recuse themselves if they have bias towards one of those people.
 Your attorney should do this for you. You must pay a filing fee and have your attorney serve a copy of the complaint along with a summons on all defendants. In federal court, the filing fee is $400.Fill out a summons. The court should have a form, which can be found here. Your attorney will serve the summons along with a copy of the complaint.
Notice can be served by any person at least 18 years old who is not a party to the suit. Also, a marshal or someone else appointed by the court may serve notice.If someone other than a marshal makes service, then proof of service must be made to the court by affidavit.In some courts, you also have to file form to be sent to U.S. Copyright Office reporting the lawsuit has been filed. In others, the clerk prepares the form for you., The defendant has 21 days to answer the allegations in your complaint.When your attorney gets the answer, you should ask for a copy.


The defendant may also challenge the pleadings by claiming that they are insufficient in some way.If this happens, your attorney may have to respond. In any event, there will probably be a court hearing on the issue.
 In federal court, you will be required to attend one or more conferences with the judge or magistrate to discuss how the lawsuit will proceed and come up with a schedule. The purpose of these conferences is to streamline the litigation. To prepare for the conferences, you must first confer with the other party at least 21 days before the first scheduling conference.As you confer with the other party, you must discuss how the litigation will proceed. You must also discuss potential settlement and any issues surrounding preservation of evidence.
Both you and the defendant must also come up with a discovery plan. Among other things, this plan will detail the following:when initial disclosures should be made
the subject and focus of any discovery needed, including when it should be completed
any issues surrounding electronically stored information, such as emails
issues surrounding privileged material, such as information shared with an attorney



, You will then need to make initial disclosures within 14 days of the first conference. These initial disclosures should contain the following information: the name and contact information of anyone who has discoverable information, including the subjects of that information, that you may use to support your claims
a copy or description of all documents, electronically stored information, and tangible objects that you have in your possession, custody, or control that may be used to support your claims
a computation of your damages and materials related to the nature and extent of your injuries
any relevant insurance agreement

, After a lawsuit has been filed, each party is able to request information from the other party in a process called “discovery.” With discovery, you can request any document related to the dispute in the possession or control of the other party. This is called a Request for Production.You can also ask the other party to answer questions in writing or orally. Written questions will be served as Interrogatories or Requests for Admission. Oral questions will be asked in a deposition.The defendant is also able to request documents from you. You must be sure to comply with any “litigation hold” and preserve all documents requested.If you negligently (or deliberately) destroy evidence, the court could sanction you.
 The purpose of the deposition is to gather evidence from potential witnesses. As the plaintiff, you should expect to be deposed.


Depositions are typically held at a law office and are either videotaped or transcribed by a court reporter. You will answer questions under oath.
You may wish to prepare for the deposition with your attorney. Statements made at a deposition can be introduced at trial, so you will want to go over possible questions the defendant may ask you as well as your responses to those questions.
As the plaintiff, you should expect questions about how you came up with your work, who influenced you, and when you created it. One defense to a copyright infringement claim is that the work was not copyrightable in the first place.In particular, the defendant may claim you did not independently create the work.
 Depending on the facts of your case, you or the defendant may file a motion for summary judgment. If the defendant files, he will argue that there are no issues of material fact, and that he is entitled to a favorable judgment as a matter of law.Specifically, the defendant may argue that the works are not objectively “substantially similar.” The defendant may also argue that similar elements between your material are so common across the web that the similarities could have arisen independently.Often, the issue of similarity is one for the jury.You can defeat the defendant’s motion for summary judgment by arguing that only the jury can decide whether the works are subjectively similar in look and feel.
 The defendant may wish to settle at any time. You will discuss settlement at your pre-conference meeting, so try to sound out how interested the defendant is in settlement at that time. Settlement would help both parties avoid trial and craft a resolution that suits both of them. Settlement would help you reduce the costs of your litigation.


Plaintiffs are often pleasantly surprised by settlement negotiations. The other party is frequently more flexible than you may imagine.Before settlement negotiations, you should talk with your attorney about how much your lawsuit is worth. Be prepared for the defendant to “low ball” you by offering a low amount initially. You do not have to accept it, and your attorney can counter with a higher amount.
Your attorney has an ethical duty to notify you of any settlement offer. Ultimately, whether to settle or not is up to you.
 If settlement fails, you might also consider mediation as an option. In mediation, a third-party acts as a neutral mediator and helps the parties work toward a mutually-beneficial resolution.The mediator does not decide the case. Instead, mediators listen to both sides and identifies the strengths and weaknesses in each party’s case. The mediator also proposes areas of agreement between the parties.


The mediation process is more informal than trial, and may make you feel more comfortable. You control the mediation process, and any recommendation from the mediator is non-binding.
You can also resolve the dispute quicker with mediation than by going through with a lawsuit., You have a right to a jury trial in a copyright infringement case.The process of selecting a jury is called “voir dire.” During this process, your lawyer will ask potential jurors questions about whether they can be fair and impartial.Your attorney will be able to challenge prospective jurors for cause, such as bias against you or your case. Also, your attorney will have a limited number of “peremptory” challenges, which can be used without having to give a reason for excluding the juror.Jurors may be biased against your case depending on the material you created that was copied. For example, if you wrote about politics, then those who disagree with your political positions may be offended.
 In the opening statement, your attorney provides a sneak peek of the evidence you will present to support your case. An opening statement is not evidence, and your lawyer shouldn’t say that evidence will be presented if you, in fact, cannot produce it.


An effective opening statement will be short (less than 15 minutes or so), but it will also tell a narrative.Your attorney may also alert the jury to “bad facts” in the opening statement.A bad fact is anything the defense will raise to the jury to strengthen its case or weaken yours. For example, you may have waited a couple of months from the moment you discovered the infringement to contacting a lawyer. The defense could raise this fact to argue that you really don’t think the work infringed on yours.
 As the plaintiff, you will go first. You will call and examine witnesses and get documents or records introduced into evidence.


Your attorney will want to introduce into evidence examples of your digital work and the defendant’s work. This will be necessary so that the jury can compare them side-by-side.
You will probably be called as a witness, to testify to the creation of your work and to describe the events that led to your discovery that the defendant was infringing on your work.
 Your attorney will have the opportunity to cross-examine the defense’s witnesses, just as the defense was able to cross-examine you. Your attorney’s strategy will depend on the witness.


For example, your attorney will try to get the defendant to admit that he or she had access to your work.
 The closing argument is your lawyer’s chance to explain how the evidence presented should command a result in your favor.


An effective closing argument will use visuals and other graphics.You should expect your attorney to show the jury one more time your digital work and the defendant’s.
An effective closing argument should also be brief.Jurors no longer have the patience for lengthy hour-long closing arguments.
 In a jury trial, the jury will retire for deliberations. In federal court, jury verdicts must still be unanimous (unless you and the defendant agreed otherwise).If you are unhappy with the verdict, you should talk with your attorney about next steps. You may seek a new trial or an appeal, or you may choose not to pursue the suit any longer.

