 When you post a picture online, you are agreeing to the policies that the host website has asserted. Some websites may claim ownership over all photos that you post to their platform. This will include photos of your baby. To ensure that you understand the website’s policies, read through its terms of use and privacy policies carefully.


Many social media sites retain the right to “sub-license” your photos. This means that they can sell them to a third-party. The terms and conditions may state that they can do this “royalty-free”—in other words, without paying you., On most social media sites, you have the power to limit who can and cannot see your images. Go to your account settings, and select the privacy option.You may have the option to:


Only allow specific users to see your photos of your baby
Refuse other social media users the right to share your photograph
Deny friends of your friends the ability to see the picture
Refuse other people the ability to tag your image (thus preventing it from appearing on feeds and profiles of strangers)

, If the risk of a social media site is too high for you, you can also upload your baby’s pictures to a photo-sharing website. These websites, which include Flickr and Photobucket, offer you the ability to make private albums. You can then send the link to the album to particular family members and friends. They will not be able to share or send these photos as they might be on other sites.You can also upload the photos to a file sharing platform like Google Drive or Dropbox. Create a file for the pictures, and share that file with family and friends by typing in their emails.
 Most websites use a form of location services that can potentially identify your exact location at any time. If you are worried about people finding out where you and your baby live, you should turn off all location services on your social media websites.Geotagging is disabled by default on Facebook and Twitter, but you will still have the option to manually “pin” your location. Avoid using this feature when posting baby pictures.If you take pictures on your phone, make sure that your phone is not recording where the image is taken. You can do this by going to settings, and hitting the option for location services. Turn it off for the phone’s camera.
 In addition to policing your own profile, you will need to make sure that all family members and friends understand these rules, as they may want to post their own pictures of your baby. Decide if you are comfortable with them posting pictures. If you are, let them know how private you want the pictures to be.


If you don’t want them posting at all, you can say, “I’m very worried about my baby’s privacy online, and I would appreciate it if you didn’t post any pictures of them on social media or other websites.
If you’re fine with them posting, you can say, “If you don’t mind, I’d appreciate it if you only shared that picture within our family or friend group. I don’t want strangers to potentially see pictures of my baby.”

