 You don’t have to go to the gym every day to get the benefits of exercise on your oxytocin level (though regular cardio exercise helps your body in many other ways). Even walking daily boosts your oxytocin level, along with other “feel good” hormones like dopamine, endorphins, and serotonin.Try to walk 10,000 steps every day. That’s the equivalent of about 5 miles, but many people get half that from day-to-day activities. Boost your steps by mowing the lawn, walking your dog, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, and running errands by foot. Get a pedometer to help you keep track and stay motivated.
 Meditation calms your body and your mind, and decreases your stress level. It boosts oxytocin, too – oxytocin and the stress hormone cortisol have an inverse relationship; when one goes up, the other goes down. Pump up your calming hormones with daily meditation that focuses on what you’re grateful for – even 5 minutes a day can help.Prayer and yoga work similarly – anything that connects your body and your breathing, slows your down, and helps you focus on positive things and gratitude.
 Volunteer your time, give old clothes or goods to those in need, and spend some time giving thanks for what you have. Charity and gratitude boost your good hormones, help you feel better, and of course help others.Even giving someone a small gift – with no expectation of something in return – raises oxytocin., Don’t suppress your troubling emotions – this decreases your oxytocin level. Staying calm in the moment is always important, but then take time to process and express your difficult feelings. Cry if you need to. Punch your pillow. Yell at the wall. Write a scathing letter that you don’t send. Let your feelings out in a non-aggressive way for an oxytocin boost., Whether it’s with music, art, writing, or whatever your unique form of expression is, creative expression boosts your mood and positive hormones., All of your senses, when stimulated positively, can pump up your oxytocin level. Take some time to relax and listen to some calming music of your choice. Boost the experience with scented candles, or do it while soaking in a warm bath.