 This red blemish may have a “head” like a pimple, and can range in size from 2 to 6 centimeter (0.79 to 2.4 in) or larger. It can appear anywhere on the body, and will be extremely tender. For example, if it's on the buttocks, you likely won't be able to sit from the pain.


A skin infection without a boil is less likely to be MRSA, but should still be checked by a doctor. More likely, you need to be treated for a Streptococcus infection or susceptible staph aureus.;
, One study showed that 30% of Americans who reported a spider bite were found to actually have MRSA.Especially if you're aware of a MRSA outbreak in your area, err on the side of caution and get tested by a medical professional.


In Los Angeles, MRSA outbreaks were so high the public health department raised billboards showing a picture of a MRSA abscess with the text “This is not a spider bite.”
Patients didn’t take their antibiotics, believing their doctors were wrong and had misdiagnosed spider bites.
Be vigilant for MRSA, and always follow medical advice.
 This can be accompanied by chills and nausea.
 "Systemic toxicity" is rare, but possible if the MRSA infection is in the skin and soft tissue. While in most cases, patients can bide their time and wait for test results to confirm MRSA, sepsis is life threatening and needs immediate treatment. Symptoms include:Body temperature over 101.3°F (38.5°C) or below 95°F (35°C)
Heart rate faster than 90 beats per minute
Rapid breathing
Swelling (edema) anywhere on the body
Altered mental state (disorientation or unconsciousness, for example)

, In some cases, MRSA might resolve on its own without treatment.The boil may burst on its own, and your immune system may fight off the infection; however, MRSA can be more serious in people with weak immune systems.If the infection worsens, bacteria could make their way into the bloodstream, causing potentially fatal septic shock. Furthermore, the infection is highly contagious, and you could get a lot of other people sick if you neglect your own treatment.

