 The 50's were a big time for dresses. Somewhat traditional, ladylike dresses in bright colors and floral patterns were popular. Stop by a local thrift shop and try to find some dresses that reflect the 50's style.Necklines in 50's dresses were usually a swoop, v-neck, or collar. As the time was more conservative, do not opt for anything too revealing. Dresses during the era also usually tended to fall past the knees.
Shirtwaist dresses were very popular in the '50's. These were dresses with buttons running from the neck to the torso with a full skirt at the bottom.;
, Skirts worn with blouses were a big hit in the '50's. If you want to capture the style of the era, go for pencil skirts or full skirts. Shorter skirts, like miniskirts, don't generally fit with 1950's style.Go for patterns popular in the era, such as tropical patterns, polkadots, and brighter colors.
 Tight, fitted sweaters, especially for women, were popular in the 1950's. If you're looking to embrace the '50's style, invest in a couple of fitted sweaters. These can make a great addition to your wardrobe if you want to adopt the '50's look.Such sweaters pair well when worn with a bullet bra.
 Cardigans were popular in the '50's and were often worn over shirts and sweaters. As cardigans are still popular today, you can find a wide variety of cardigans at most clothing and department stores.Opt for cardigans that look somewhat old fashioned. Purchase something that you could picture one of your grandparents wearing.
 Double-breasted suits were a staple in the '50's. If you want to adopt the '50's style, try wearing a double-breasted suit to formal occasions. You can also wear a double-breasted suit to work if you work in a more formal office setting.Make sure you get the right fit. A double-breasted suit can look awkward if it's too big or too small. Get formally fitted at a department store when selecting a double-breasted suit.
 When investing in the '50's style, do not forget about your feet. Nothing will throw off you look more than modern shoes with '50's era clothing. You can find shoes at a local vintage store, but many shoe stores sell shoes that resemble shoes popular in the '50's.


Loafers were a staple in the '50's, so make sure to have a few pairs in your wardrobe. Loafers are great because they can be worn at a variety of occasions.High heels, stilettos, and feminine flats were also popular in the '50's., Hats were big in the '50's. Add a cute hat to your outfit that matches your clothing to solidify the '50's look. A wide variety of types of hats were popular, so feel free to invest in hats of many shapes, sizes, and colors.Knitted hats and pillbox hats were particularly popular in the mid-50's.
 Many women wore gloves to formal occasions in the '50's. Gloves were worn in many colors and usually reached the elbow. Cotton or leather gloves can be a great addition to a 1950's outfit., Even if you don't need glasses, stop by a costume shop and pick up a novelty pair of glasses. In the 1950's, glasses were a popular accessory that many men and women wore. Glasses often had large wings at the corner. A small pair of spectacles with wings can make you look like you're from the '50's., Leather jackets were a popular accessory in the '50's. Stop by a local thrift or clothing store and pick up a leather jacket if you want to achieve the right look. You can wear a leather jacket over your regular clothing. Choose a black leather jacket if possible, as this was the style of the time., Makeup was big in the '50's, and shades like pale pinks were very in. If you want your makeup to resemble someone from the '50's, go for pale pink lipstick that has a slight shimmer. You should also add a touch of bright blush to your cheeks, making yourself look slightly flushed., Painted nails were big in the '50's. Colors such as pale pink and peach were popular in the early '50's. In the later '50's, after 1955, the popular color was red.If it's within your budget, try springing for a manicure. You can tell the nail artist you want '50's style nails.
 The bob was the major look of the 1950's. Stop by a salon and get your hair trimmed into a short, stylish bob to encapsulate the look of the '50's.Hair could either be capped or curled outward slightly. Capped-styled bobs had all the hair pointing inward towards the head. Curled hair had wavy curls pointed away from the head.
If you don't want to cut your hair short, pull your hair into a loose rolled bun near the nape of your neck. This style was called the "chignon" and was popular at the time.
 The '50's were a more conservative time, so men's hair was generally shorter and more conservative. Go for a classic short hairstyle with a somewhat conservative flare.You can wear your hair in a side part, a combover, or slick it back.
If you're unsure what style would work for you, talk to your stylist. They can recommend a look for you based on 1950's hair.

