 A good length/height is 6 inches (15 cm), but you can make the rocket longer or shorter if you wish.


A good diameter is 1.5 inches (3.75 cm), but the actual diameter will be determined by the diameter of the rocket’s combustion chamber.
 The canister will serve as the combustion chamber for your rocket. You can obtain one from a photography studio that still uses film.


Look for a film canister whose lid has a stopper-like projection that goes inside the mouth of the canister instead of being held in place by a lip on the outside of the canister mouth.
If you can’t find a film canister, you can use an empty prescription medicine bottle with a snap-on lid. If you can’t find a bottle with a snap-on lid, you can whittle a cork stopper that will fit tightly into the bottle mouth.
 The easiest way to make the rocket body is to wrap a strip of paper around the film canister as with the pencil or dowel when making the drinking straw-launched rocket. Because the canister will launch the rocket, you may wish to tape or glue the paper onto the canister before wrapping it around the container.Be sure to have the mouth of the canister or pill bottle pointing out when you attach the rocket frame to it.The mouth will serve as the rocket nozzle.
Instead of folding the end of the rocket body away from the canister into a nose cone, you can make a separate nose cone by cutting a paper circle, cutting from the edge just to the center, and folding the cut circle into a cone. You can affix the cone with either tape or glue.
Add fins. Because this rocket is thicker in diameter than the paper rocket you launch with a drinking straw, you may want to cut individual fins to attach. You may also want to have three fins instead of four.
 An open, outdoor location is recommended, as the rocket can reach a considerable height when launched.
 If your water source isn’t near your launching pad, you may have to carry the rocket upside down or carry the water separately and fill the canister at the launch site.
,, As it dissolves, the tablet will release carbon dioxide. The pressure will build until it pops the lid off the canister, launching the rocket.


Instead of using water, you can instead fill the canister about half full of vinegar. In place of the effervescent tablet, you can use 1 teaspoon (0.18 ounce or 5 g) of baking soda. Vinegar, an acid (acetic acid), reacts with baking soda, a base, to produce water and carbon dioxide. Vinegar and baking soda are more volatile than water and effervescent tablets, however, so you need to get out of the rocket’s way a lot faster – and using too much of either chemical may rupture the canister.