 Much of your everyday brain function is unconscious, so you typically do not utilize your brain’s full capacity. By becoming more conscious of your actions and thoughts, you can maximize your brain’s function. To help do this, you can:

Go out of your way to learn new things each day. Look up the definitions of new words, complete a new DIY project, or try cooking a new dish.
Practice mental exercises, such as writing with your non-dominant hand, that challenge and rewire your brain.
Incorporate brain-boosting foods into your diet such as: wheat germ, black currents, acorn squash, amalaki, and sage, most of which contain antioxidants and/or high amounts of Vitamin B and Vitamin C.;
, Incorporating daily practices of meditation will help your entire mind and body relax, decreasing any stress built up, and improving your overall body functioning and health. Every time you have a chance to quiet down your environment, close your eyes, and bring your mind inward without external distractions, your brain gets a chance to rest and reset itself. Try practicing the following meditative steps for at least 15 to 20 minutes each day:

Go to a quiet space in your home without any distractions. Dim the lights and use soothing scented candles to help set the relaxing mood.
Find a comfortable place to sit, close your eyes, take a few deep breaths, and focus on your breathing as you inhale and exhale slowly.
Allow any internal dialogue or thoughts to come and go. Try not to linger on any thought, but don’t try to force it away. Acknowledge it, and just let it go.
Recite a positive and empowering mantra 3-5 times to help improve your perception.
 Nature offers a wonderful outlet to beat stress that may arise from a mental block. Plus, a bit of time outdoors can improve cognitive functioning. Take five and walk around your neighborhood or a nearby park. Or, lace up your trainers and go for a longer hike. You just might have figured out a solution to your problem when you return., If you’re experiencing a mental block, you may have been sitting at a desk or computer for a while. Get up and move your body. Complete 50 jumping jacks. Hit up the local pool for a swim. Or, go for a short run.


Research reveals that aerobic exercises like those mentioned above improve resourcefulness and task performance., Mental blocks can tire you out both mentally and physically. Rejuvenate with a quick nap, and you might experience a major boost in cognitive performance. What’s more, you can experience positive effects from both long (e.g. two hour) and short (e.g. 45 minute) naps., Whether you’re bowling over at a wisecrack comedian or watching cute animal or baby videos, laughter simply feels good. Adding some humor to your day will provide a temporary and stress-relieving distraction from your mental block. Watch a short video or call up your funny friend to reset your mind., Writing about your thoughts and feeling may not sound like a way to improve your mental block. But studies show that cognitive and emotional processing can help you view stressors in a more positive light.Grab a pen and pad and write earnestly about what you’re thinking and feeling. The process just might help you arrive at a solution, too.