 As with many careers, a formal education will greatly benefit you. Many courses of study can help you become a talent agent, including English, business, marketing, film, communication, law, and public relations. You may be able to find specific talent agent courses at some institutions.These degrees do not automatically qualify you for the career, but they will give you a lot of the knowledge you need to succeed as an agent.
If you can pair any of these studies with minors such as theater, production, or acting, you’ll have a well-rounded starting place.
If you know of a specific talent agency that you want to work for, find out what college requirements they have when they hire.;
, Many talent agency jobs will not be advertised, so you may need to call and ask directly. If you know anyone in the industry, never be afraid to ask for a referral. Agencies look for people who are highly motivated, so calling shows that you take initiative.You may have to take an unpaid or part-time position to start with, but don’t let this deter you. It’s an industry where you usually start at the bottom and work your way up.
If you call once and are turned down, wait a week or two and call again. You never know when a position is going to open up and you don’t want to miss it.
 After earning a degree, an internship is the most important building block of a talent agent career. Find websites that are devoted to internships. Apply for as many as you can. Call specific talent agencies directly to ask them what internships they offer.As an intern you will most likely not work with talent or clients. You’ll more likely answer phones, file paperwork, fetch coffee, and generally do whatever your superiors ask.
Be willing to do whatever you are asked so you appear passionate. Showing that you can follow a task through to the end is what will impress the agency and afford you more opportunities.
Many talent agents start out as interns at agencies. If you show you can do the work, you may be offered a permanent position after some time.

