 Before you start taking nutritional supplements, it is important that you consider how supplements will help you achieve your health goals and needs. Taking supplements to target a specific health need, such as an iron deficiency, will ensure the supplements are being taken consciously and on a need by need basis. The supplement is likely to be more effective if it is for a specific issue, rather than a broad or general issue. You may ask yourself several questions about taking nutritional supplements, including:What am I trying to accomplish for my health? For example, maybe you are trying to increase your vitamin D levels because you are experiencing low energy, depression, and fatigue.
How will this supplement improve my health or my condition? For example, you may reason that taking vitamin D supplements will increase your vitamin D levels, thereby giving you more energy and making you feel less depressed.
How will it help prevent or treat a specific condition or issue? For example, you may take vitamin D supplements to increase your vitamin D levels. But vitamin D supplements won't work as treatment for an iron deficiency, for example. An iron deficiency would likely require a different supplement.;
, It is also important that you discuss taking nutritional supplements with your doctor before taking them. Your doctor should give you the specific names of any medical conditions you may have and recommend supplements that would work best for your conditions, or which supplements might aggravate your condition. You can also talk to your pharmacist about any recommended supplements for your condition. Ask your doctor several questions about the recommended supplements, including:How will these supplements improve my health? How long before I notice any benefits from the supplements?
How much research has been done on this supplement and is it safe to use?
What are the side effects of the supplements?
Will the supplements interfere with any other medications I am taking?
Can I take this supplement if I am pregnant or nursing?

, A naturopath is a physician who is trained in the use of botanical medicine and supplements. A registered dietitian is an expert in the use of food and nutrition to promote health.Both of these health experts can advise you on supplements you should take based on your condition. They can also help you determine if there is enough clinical evidence to support the use of a certain supplement.


You should ask the naturopath and the dietitian similar questions based on the questions you asked your doctor. Getting a well rounded and well informed take on supplements based on your health will increase the likelihood that the supplements are useful and effective for you.
 Because supplements are not regulated by the FDA, reputable supplement manufacturers will have independent labs test their supplements to ensure the supplements contain the ingredients stated on the label. The independent labs will then give the supplements their seals of approval.Supplements with a “USP Verified” label have been inspected by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention, which is the main, most trustworthy organization involved in certifying supplements.


Other companies that perform this testing include Consumer Labs, the Natural Products Association (NPA), and LabDoor.
You can also look on the manufacturer’s website to check that they have the seals of approval. Call the manufacturer for more information on their quality controls. Reputable manufacturers will have consumer information readily available and independent verification that the ingredients stated on the label are in fact in the supplement.

It is extremely important you look for supplements that have been verified by an outside company; otherwise, there is no way of knowing whether or not the supplement is free of harmful ingredients and contains what it advertises.
 Natural, non-synthetic supplements are derived from whole foods and natural ingredients. Many professionals believe that these forms of supplements have greater benefits because our bodies can better process and use them.However, supplements made with natural, non-synthetic ingredients can be very expensive so you may need to budget for them or select supplements you can afford. This may mean going for natural, non-synthetic versions for some of your supplements, or as many supplements as your budget allows.
Again, if the supplement is unverified by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention or similar reputable company, there is no way to be sure non-synthetic supplements are truly non-synthetic.
 Reading the ingredients list on the supplements is key to choosing effective supplements for your health needs. Note if the supplement contains mostly natural products that are safe to consume and has only one to four listed ingredients.Remember that if the supplement has not been tested by an outside company, you cannot trust that the ingredient list is accurate.
Avoid supplements that have a very long list of ingredients. Unless the supplement is a multi-vitamin or multi-mineral, you should look for supplements with less than four ingredients.
You should also avoid supplements that contain additives or preservatives, such as added sugar or added coloring. Consumer Reports lists the following 15 ingredients to always avoid in supplements:aconite, caffeine powder, chaparral, coltsfoot, comfrey, germander, greater celandine, green tea extract powder, kava, lobelia, methylsynephrine, pennyroyal oil, red yeast rice, usnic acid, and yohimbe. These ingredients may have different names as well (usnic acid, for instance, is also called beard moss, tree moss, usnea).
 Some forms of supplements are better absorbed than others. Mineral supplements come in two parts: mineral and non-mineral. Depending on what the mineral is linked to will impact how your body absorbs it.


For example, calcium citrate is absorbed better than calcium carbonate; however, if you take it with a meal they are absorbed the same.Another example is magnesium. Your body will absorb magnesium citrate better than magnesium oxide.It is best to talk to your doctor, dietitian, or pharmacist about which form will be best for you.
Once again, if the supplement has not been tested and verified by an outside company, then there is no way to know if this information is accurate.
 You should also check the label for information about the amount of “elemental” minerals in the supplement. This will help you determine if the supplement contains full doses of the mineral or vitamin, or if it is mixed with other ingredients.


For example, if the label reads “10 mg of elemental Magnesium”, this means you are getting 10 mg of Magnesium for every dose. But if the label reads “10 mg of Magnesium citrate”, this means the actual amount of Magnesium is less than 10 mg, as the 10mg refers to the entire supplement and not just the Magnesium content.
This is another area where verification is important — it is impossible to know if an unverified supplement actually contains the dosage promised on the package.
 A more expensive supplement does not always guarantee it will be of a higher quality. As well, a cheaper supplement does not mean it will be of a lesser quality. Try to invest in a supplement that contains quality ingredients, as they will be more effective in the long term.Compare prices between several different suppliers. Focus on supplements that have a higher quality and look at how their quality levels match their price. You may end up paying more for a quality supplement but this could also mean you get better results from the supplement.
 There are many supplements on the market and it can be difficult to identify supplements that are too good to be true. But you should avoid any supplements that claim to cure anything and everything. There is no one mineral or vitamin that can solve all your health issues. You should be wary of supplements that promise fast results and the solution to all your health problems.The only instances a single supplement can cure a disorder if you have a deficiency of a particular substance, such as taking iron supplements to treat your iron-deficiency. More often than not, you may need to take several supplements to address your health needs.
It can also take time for supplements to work effectively, usually more than days or weeks. If the supplement’s promises seem too good to be true, they likely do not have much merit or value.
 Supplements can come in several different forms. Some supplements are better absorbed in liquid form, such as vitamin B, and other supplements are better absorbed in capsule form, such as vitamin D. Talk to your doctor about the best form of the supplement for you, based on your health needs.You may prefer a certain form based on comfort or accessibility. For example, if you do not like swallowing capsules or tablets, you may go for the liquid form of the supplements.
Depending on which supplements you are taking, you may want to start with the powder form of the supplement. This will make it easier to adjust the dosage based on your current health needs.
 There should be recommended dosage levels listed on the label of the supplement. The recommended dosage is usually appropriate for most people. You can double check your required dosage with your doctor, pharmacist, naturopath, or dietitian to ensure you are taking the correct amount of the supplement.Remember that you can experience adverse effects from taking too many supplements so you should avoid taking more than the recommended dosage. The mindset of “if one is good, two must be better” can actually do more harm than good.
If you take too much of your iron supplement, for example, you may develop negative side effects like constipation. Taking too many fat-soluable vitamins like vitamin D, E, and A can lead to high toxicity levels in your body. This can then lead to serious health issues and may cause issues such as calcium deposits in your organs, blurred vision, nausea, or other organ damage., To get the most benefits from the supplements, you should store them properly. The instructions for storing the supplements should be listed on the label. For example, some supplements do better if they are kept away from light and are stored in a cool, dark place. Others should be kept refrigerated.You should also check the expiry date of the supplements. Never consume supplements that have expired as they can lead to negative side effects and health issues., Supplements are only one element of improving your health. Often, they work better if you also maintain a healthy diet and maintain a healthy, active lifestyle. Exercise and a healthy diet, combined with carefully chosen supplements, can lead to better health overall., To get a good indicator of how useful and effective the supplements are, you should set a follow up appointment with your doctor. See your doctor several months after you have started taking the supplements to determine how your health has improved. You should also take into account the positive effects of maintaining a healthy diet and an active lifestyle, in addition to taking the supplements.Your doctor should be able to help you determine if the supplements are effective. They may also adjust your dosage if the supplements are not working or suggest a different type of supplement for your health issues.

