 Dressing your child when she is still sleepy and unaware of the world can help to reduce the chances of a tantrum.However, once your child recognizes this routine, its less likely that she will be fooled by it in the future.
 Sometimes distracting your child with a toy can help to fend off a tantrum. Consider designating a particular toy as the changing toy—your child only gets to play with that particular toy while you are changing her.


You could also allow your child to bring her favorite toy with her when she changes clothes.
Keep in mind that you should change out the toy when it stops being a distraction for your child.
 Another way to distract your child is to talk to her or tell her a story while you change her clothes. You could engage her in the plans for the day (thereby giving her something to get excited about while you change her).


You could also ask her questions about the day. Ask questions like, “What do you plan to do at Ms. Sally’s house today?” or “We are going to the zoo today. What animal do you want to see?” If children are talking, they sometimes forget what is going on around them.
 When you make changing fun, your child is much less likely to resist it. This is particularly true if you are in a rush and need the child to change quickly. In these instances, challenge your child to a clothing race. You can either make the race be against yourself, or against the clock.


However, if your toddler does not have a grasp on time, use your child’s favorite song. Tell your child that if she can get dressed before the song ends, she wins the game.
 Another way to get your child to put on her clothes is to act like you are confused about where each article of clothing goes. Hand your child a shirt and tell her “here are your pants!”. Your child will most likely laugh and correct you. When she does, ask to be shown how to properly wear a shirt.


Your child will most likely be eager to show you what to do because this allows her to show her independence.

