 Generally, a rubber band is stretched from a fixed hook or notch at the front end of the gun (where an actual gun's muzzle would be) to a moving mechanism at the back of the gun (where an actual gun's hammer would be.) When you pull the trigger, the mechanism shifts, allowing the rubber band to snap forward, sending it flying in the direction that the gun's "barrel" is pointing.


Many Lego rubber band gun possibilities exist, as do many variations on the firing mechanism. The general principle behind most Lego guns, however - a stretched rubber band released at its back end - rarely changes.;
, The size and strength of your rubber bands should affect the length of the gun's barrel. If you're using big rubber bands, you'll want a much longer barrel than if you're using tiny orthodontic bands from your braces. The beam should be sturdily-constructed - it will need to bear the tension of one or more rubber bands.


A good basic "barrel" setup is one centered around of two long, thin pieces with holes in them. These pieces are separated by a space of one block - this gives room for the firing mechanism, which can be easily set up to rotate in one of the holes in the long thin pieces.Include a small notch or bump at the end of the barrel for the rubber band to catch on when it's stretched out. Make sure this is sturdy enough to hold the tension in the rubber band without falling off!

, A basic firing mechanism is simply a notch for the rubber band to catch on which is attached to an axle between the two pieces in the gun's beam. The axle should be kept from rotating freely by mechanism which releases when you press it - the gun's "trigger." When you press the trigger, the firing mechanism is allowed to turn freely. The tension in the rubber band causes it to turn forward, releasing the rubber band into your bratty cousin's ear.


Though they almost all follow the same basic principle, a variety of firing and trigger mechanisms exist for your Lego gun. The simplest incorporate a few simple L-shaped and straight Technic™ pieces rotating on separate axles to great effect., A handle can be as simple as a squarish "chimney" style pillar of blocks stuck on the bottom of the gun, or it can incorporate rounded pieces to form a custom grip for your hand. It's up to you - just make sure it's sturdy enough to support the weight of your gun and the tension in the rubber band, or you'll shoot yourself in the foot!

, Now that you've created a stripped-down but functional Lego gun, you have the opportunity to customize it. You can try adding parts to the gun to simulate the look of a real gun, like the fearsome Desert Eagle pistol.You might also want to try for a less-realistic look, like a futuristic rail gun or a rocket launcher. It's up to you - go wild and shoot in style.
 Catch your rubber band in the notch at the front of the gun, then stretch it back and catch it on the firing mechanism.


If your gun's construction is sturdy enough, experiment with loading multiple rubber bands at once. You may be able to get a "shotgun" effect with multiple bands.
 Look down your gun's beam, lining up the notch at the end of your gun with your target.


Never aim at someone, including the face, arms, chest, etc.

