 Before school starts for the year, your teacher should give you a list of anything you’ll need to buy. Make sure that you get everything on this list, and keep all of the necessary supplies with you at school. This can include things like:


Notebooks
Binders
Pens
Pencils
Colored pencils

, As mentioned above, 8th grade is geared toward preparing you for high school, and learning strong organization skills is a big part of that. Different people have organizational different methods that work for them, so you will need to try different things that work for you. Additionally, make sure you clean out your school desk, home desk, locker, and backpack once a week to keep things tidy and organized.


For example, you may want to have one folder and one notebook dedicated to each class.
You may want to create folders on your computer at home where you can save schoolwork.
You may want to use a color system. If you use a blue folder and notebook for math, you can also use blue post-its for math reminders, and highlight math assignments in your planner with a blue highlighter.
 In 8th grade, teachers will expect more from you. You will be expected to remember what readings or assignments are due without your teacher reminding you. You will need to anticipate big assignments or tests and start working on them a while before they’re due. In order to do this, you are going to need a good daily planner. Write everything down in this planner as soon as you can, and check in with your planner every single day.


Write down the dates of exams, quizzes, and tests.
Write down major assignments.
Write down daily homework assignments and/or reading.
 In order to earn an A in each class, you will need to earn 90% or more of the points (on a typical grade-scale). Your teachers can give you a breakdown of how these points are distributed between classwork, homework, tests, and other categories (like participation). Begin a chart (or spreadsheet) for each class. Each time you get an assignment back, mark the points on your sheet. This will allow you to know what marks you need on further assignments to stay at the “A” level.