 The most important part of this game is being a team player. Work together and be strategic. This will help you almost more than anything else. If you want to play like a real pro, each player on a team should have a specific role. See the section below for more information on roles.;
, The purpose of ground-vehicles is to destroy everything in sight. MBT (Main Battle Tanks), should be used aggressively, you should always push towards the objective and makes sure the path is clear for your team-mates. LAV (Light Armoured Vehicles) and IFV (Infantry Fighting Vehicles) should be used primarily to disperse of enemy infantry and blow up the occasional building. Transport Vehicles, as the name suggests, should be used to drop off troops to certain destinations. This is also the case for the RIB (Rigid Inflatable Boat), although being easy to destroy, they are the fastest thing for water travel.
 Your main purpose is to help the troops on the ground. Unless you are in a Jet, your main priority is to clear the air, and once that is done you must focus on helping your team on the ground. Attack Heli's, are capable of destroying nearly everything (With a Gunner). It is vital to make use of it. Scout Helis have 4 seats, and only the pilot gets to use the turret. Then you have the 5 seat Transport Helis, which the pilot can only fly, there are 2 gunner seats and 3 extra seats for passengers.
 Don't forget that you have the option to use your enemy's weapons after you've killed them. This can be very important, strategically, if your weapons are inadequate or your enemy just had something really awesome. Stand over their bodies and press the activation button, whatever that is for your system, to take their weapon.
 You will not be good with every gun. It's all about finding the right gun for you. There is so much variation in Battlefield, there is definitely a gun that is right for you. You will just have to vary up the guns that you use to find the perfect one. Even if you find the right gun, you may not be comfortable with the sights. You should consider using different sights/scopes to see what you are most comfortable with.
 Kill Death Ratio (K/D) means nothing in Battlefield, this is a team-orientated game. You should be worried about Score Per Minute (SPM) and Win Loss ratio W/L. Although Win/Loss is sometimes determined on how good your team are, you aren't always fortunate to get into a good team.
 The best thing to do when you come under enemy fire is to find cover as soon as possible, judge where the fire is coming from and get to the closest object to you. Crouch or go prone, also working in teams with microphones helps a lot as you can ask for support if needed.
 You will always start off Bad. Personally, I had just come from playing Halo: Reach, Battlefield: Bad Company 2 and Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. And with the changes to the Battlefield engine (Frostbite 1.5 to Frostbite 2.0) The game was a lot harder to play for me at start. But with time, you will get better and you will learn how to play the game.
 If you are playing Assault, make sure you have a perfect set-up for what you are good at. For instance, some people are better at killing so they should equip the M320 to break through enemy lines giving the team the opportunity to push towards the objective.


Some are better at supporting the team's needs, so the better choice would be to use Health/M320 Smoke: health, obviously, to heal wounded team-mates and M320 smoke, to prevent the enemies see you running over to revive a fallen team-mate or get closer to the objective.
 If you are playing Engineer, your only purpose is to repair friendly vehicles and destroy enemy vehicles. It seems quite simple, but can be very difficult if the enemies are more alert with their vehicle.


Mines, can be very useful, but again, a clever opponent will always check the floor for mines. Your best chances are, to flank the vehicle.
Tanks and LAVs are weakest at the back, only 2 rockets are required to destroy them.
Air vehicles can be destroyed if one of your team-mates plays recon with a Soflam, designates the target for you and you then use a Javelin to destroy it.
 Main duty: suppressing fire and give a ton of ammo to friendlies in need. This should generally be played by someone who won't run in guns blazing and attract attention. The Support role is very much behind the scenes. They are often a target for enemies, so be careful.


You can use Supporter to strap C4 to friendly cars, drive up to enemy vehicles jump out and detonate the C4, killing the vehicle and destroying the car. You can simply plant it on an enemy vehicle, or blow up buildings where enemies are hiding.
Claymores are most effective when you are trying to hold off a position you can't always be at. For instance, protecting Site A with claymores, whilst you are protecting Site B.
Mortars are very rarely useful unless the enemy team are camping in close-quarters areas.
 This role should always spot enemies, even if you can't kill them (This will be handy for friendlies approaching their position). Give covering fire for your friendlies as you can see a lot more than they can.


Do NOT use the MAV unless you will be targeting enemies. Using the MAV to get kills is becoming increasingly frowned upon, not to mention it lacks skill.
Soflam should be used if your team are trying to take down vehicles (A lock from a SOFLAM does not last long, but it increases the damage of the heat-seeking rocket that is fired towards the locked vehicle).
The TUG-S is useful when you first start using recon, just to make you aware of your surroundings.

