 Though looking through your husband's things is a quick way to break his trust, if you are sure he is cheating and want concrete evidence, you can try this maneuver. If you really want to know if he's cheating, here are some places to look:


His phone. If he's savvy, you won't be able to find evidence of him cheating on your phone. But if he's not, you can look for an exchange with a woman you've never heard of. He may even not have plugged his mistress' number in his phone -- look for texts and calls to unidentified numbers.
Search his computer. If you really want to know if he is cheating, check out his email or Facebook messages. You can wait for him to step away from his computer when he is logged into email. If he also has started meticulously deleting his emails, that can be a sign that he is hiding something from you.
Search through his stuff. Go through his suitcase, desk, wallet, or even the pockets of his pants for clues.
Check his bank statements. Look out for any time he has spent large sums of money at a restaurant you have never heard of. Check out the dates and think about where he said he was; if he said he was working late one night but spent a lot of money on a fancy dinner right then, which is a reason to worry.
 If you are afraid to ask if he is cheating or have not found enough evidence, you can try following him to see where he really goes. Again, this is another way to lose his trust very quickly. Here are some ways to pull this off:


Don't follow him in your own car. Borrow a friend's car so he does not notice that you are behind him.
Keep a safe distance. Whether you are on foot or in a vehicle, don't get too close, or he'll spot you.
Check in on him when he is not expecting it. If he says he's working overtime or watching the game at a friend's house, "drop in" unexpectedly and see if he's really there. Just make sure you have a good excuse for why you just showed up.
 After you have seen enough signs that he is not being faithful, it will be time to talk to your husband about it. Though the conversation will be painful, it's better not to delay it if you really want to have the truth. Here's how you can find a way to ask your husband if he's being unfaithful:


Ask him when he's not expecting it. As long as you are in a private place, you can have the conversation. Don't tell him you want to have a big talk, or he may know exactly what you have in mind and will already be prepared to make excuses.
Tell him that you want the truth. Remind him that he is not doing you any favors by being dishonest.
Show him that he is really hurting you. Let him see how upset the idea of him being unfaithful makes you.

