 Leaves are by far the best type of mulch for organic gardens, by virtue of the fact that they improve soil health as they compost into your garden soil, allow water to get through, and prevent weeds from popping up. They are also freely available if you have deciduous trees in your backyard. If you do not have any deciduous trees in your yard, you can always ask your neighbor for a bag of fallen leaves in the fall., If you are making a pathway in your garden and want to prevent weed growth, you can try wood chips or shredded wood. These mulch types will do a pretty good job stopping weeds and are quite cheap or even freely available. They decompose more slowly than other types of organic mulch, so you don’t need to replace the mulch as frequently. The downside is that they may compact the soil, since they are a little heavier.Bark and wood chips are typically low in nitrogen, which can result in a nitrogen deficiency in your garden. As a result, you may have to add more fertilizer to your garden, which could be costly.Bark tends to be low in nutrients and high in toxins, so it is not a great choice for improving soil quality.Wood chips are somewhat superior to bark in terms of improving soil quality., Grass clippings tend to get clumped together quite tightly, which will reduce air circulation to your garden soil. Also, they provide benefits to your lawn soil, so it is best to leave them where they are., If you are doing xeriscaping to conserve water in your backyard or making a rock garden, crushed stones are a great option. They let water into your soil and reduce the amount of grass in your backyard, which will reduce your overall water consumption., If you live in an especially windy area that is prone to forest fires, river rock is a great option. It does not blow away and is a good home landscaping strategy in these kinds of regions., If you need to cover your backyard playground area, rubber mulch offers the advantage of softening falls. It is typically made from recycled tires. The disadvantage is that it may smell a bit on hot summer days and could get tracked into the house. Choose a reputable manufacturer to avoid overly smelly or even toxic products.