 If you have a bicycle and an arm, you're good to go. All you have to do in the morning is get up, grab the papers dropped off to you, and get on your bike and go!


Sometimes the ones close by are already taken. Contact your local paper and ask them for details -- they may have other things you can do or keep you in mind when yours opens up.
 If you're really good at math, science, English, history, or any subject, why not tutor? Almost everyone wants good grades. Get the word out that you'll offer tutoring for a minimal fee -- and that you have the good grades to prove that you can help. Talk to parents or teachers or your local tutoring facility to get started.


This can help you get smarter, too! Teaching things to others solidifies concepts in our brains. If you can get in on this, it can be something you do for years to come.
 You probably have something that others can't do, or at least can't do well. What are they? They may seem pretty normal to you -- but maybe you could make some money off these skills! Here's a few ideas to get your brain cooking:


Can you sew? Consider making clothes (or accessories -- think belts, pins, lanyards, hair ties, clips, etc.) for kids or adults. Remember, you might have to buy things to craft with. If you have to spend more than $10 to make items to sell, you might as well not bother and add your money toward you $100 goal. Of course you could ask someone to give you money to buy craft supplies, but if they are prepared to give you the money for craft items, they may be happy to give you the money for whatever you need the $100 for. Also, if you asked for money to make things, you may struggle to get the same people that gave you the money to make things with, to give you more when you're selling your crafts to them. In effect, they'll be paying twice!
Are you super tech-savvy? Offer your computer skills to those adults that are still clueless in 2017.
How about art? Think small -- Christmas ornaments or holiday pieces are a good place to start.
Do you play music or sing? You may be able to play at small parties, church gatherings, or community events. Especially if your rates are cheap!
Do you have stuff laying around the house that you don't need? If so, then maybe you should start a yard sale.

