 These tend to get dirty and dusty, and you don't really notice it until you are trying to watch a show. It's a lot easier to see the dusty and dirty spots if you turn the TV off first. You might want to wipe off remotes and game controllers, while you are at it.Remove the dust with a used dryer sheet – it will attract dust and keep it from returning to the areas you've already cleaned. If you don't have any dryer sheets, a dry paper towel works, too.
Try to remove any smudges or spots on the screen by gently rubbing with the dry cloth.
If there are spots that won't budge, use a lightly dampened paper towel or clean soft rag. Mix warm water in a bowl with a tiny squeeze of dishwashing soap.
Never use windex or other household cleaners, and resist the urge to scrape a spot with your fingernail. This will damage the screen.;
, These tend to get pretty dirty, pretty quick. This only takes a minute, and your mom or dad will certainly notice that it's clean the next time they come through the door.


Shake all the dust and dirt off the mat into the yard, or onto the sidewalk.
Take a broom, and quickly sweep the area under and around the mat.
Replace the rug.
 Ask your mom or dad if they will teach you how and when to water the plants, and then try to take care of this yourself. It only takes a couple of minutes, and your parents will appreciate not having to think about it.Always ask a parent to show you which plants to water, how often, and how much water they need. Every plant is different.
You'll need to go through the house once or twice per week and do several plants at once. If you agree to take on this task, be sure not to forget or your plants will die.
 Your house probably has little wastepaper baskets in every room – bedrooms, bathrooms, den. Carry a garbage bag with you, and empty the contents of each trashcan into the bag. Then take the bag outside to the trash can. If you do this every couple of days, your parents will definitely notice that the trashcans are always nice and clean., Hand towels often get overlooked on laundry day, and can wind up hanging in the bathroom for long periods of time. Collect all the dirty hand towels in your bathrooms, and replace them with clean ones. The room will look fresher, instantly., These can get dirty very quickly, especially when you heat something without covering it with a paper towel. Take a few paper towels and some all-purpose spray cleaner, and clean the microwave. Carefully remove the glass tray, then wipe down all inner surfaces – including the top, where splatters often collect. Then replace the glass tray, and wipe down the door and front of the machine.
 Everyone uses the toaster, and those crumbs collect pretty fast. Be sure to unplug the toaster before you mess with it. Then find the crumb collecting tray, remove it and empty it into the trash. Wipe it clean and return it to the toaster., When these are freshly cleaned, it is very noticeable. Your mom will love you for thinking to do this. It only takes a few minutes to do each, so you can run around the whole house and do them at once. All you do it wipe the glass thoroughly with a paper towel and spray glass cleaner.