 With a family, it’s often best to do a vacation rental instead of a hotel room so that kids and adults can sleep comfortably and on different schedules.If you are traveling with one or more families, decide what arrangements would be best for everyone. You may want accommodations that include a kitchen and a washer/dryer. This can help keep expenses lower and provide some space when needed. Decide if it’s best for everyone to stay in one place or whether it’s better to get multiple arrangements.


Decide if the kids will sleep together and what sleeping and living arrangements make the most sense.;
, Prior to your travels, decide what kind of budget you need to live within and make sure it is compatible with other families. For example, if you want to stay in budget hotels but others want to stay in all-inclusive resorts, this may pose a problem. Decide on how you will eat out together: will each family have separate checks or will you take turns paying? How will you divide groceries and other necessities while traveling?Find a way so that everyone’s needs are fulfilled. If budgets differ significantly, consider staying in different accommodations or having days where families split up and do different activities.
 Think about all the things you can do without or share with other families. For example, instead of bringing three strollers for three babies, talk about bringing one or two strollers altogether and bringing a baby carrier instead. You may be able to rent child or baby items like strollers or bed items. You might buy items or have them mailed or delivered to you once you arrive.Minimizing your stuff means less risk of things getting lost.


Remember essential items important to you and your family, like a nightlight or a bedtime playlist for your kids. These small elements can help your child feel safe and comfortable.
 Agree on as much as you can prior to the trip. Having several people involved can make decision-making difficult, especially if it’s a decision you need to make right now. To avoid the pressure and potential disagreements, decide on major decisions ahead of time. Choose your lodging, food preparation, and activities well in advance to avoid feeling on-the-spot or in the middle of problems.Have everyone throw out ideas well in advance, then come together as a group to decide what to pursue.
Consider making lists of potential activities that are distributed to all the families in advance. Then the lists can be shortened later.
 Discuss ground rules with the other families ahead of time. For example, for the children, ground rules may have to do with behaviors that are expected and encouraged, as well as specific behaviors that will not be tolerated. This will also help minimize the appearance of taking sides or playing favorites. It introduces fairness and objectivity into a potentially conflictual situation. For adults, clear spending limits and clearly labeled blocks of unstructured time could also add to harmony.


The more clarity there is in the planning phase, the greater the likelihood of consensus. And add as much concreteness as possible in the form of lists, behaviors, etc. This will decrease the possibility of remembering differently.
Review these at the start of the trip to ensure everyone understands the rules.

