 Long used in the fight against colds and infections, echinacea is a natural herbal  remedy that has gained in popularity over the recent years. Echinacea may be ingested as pressed juice, as a tincture, or as an extract (i.e. tea). Although many people have taken to using echinacea in order to treat herpes, no scientific basis exists for saying that echinacea helps treat herpes., Baking soda is another time-tested substance for anything from smelly fridges to smelly underarms, as well as a toothpaste and acne treatment. Baking soda can help dry out moist or oozing lesions, thereby helping them disappear faster. As a dry agent, baking soda is clean and absorbent, though still not a doctor-recommended treatment option.
 Lysine is an essential amino acid that does a number of things for the human body (absorb calcium, form collagen, and produce carnitine, among others). In the case of herpes, lysine may help to prevent an outbreak by blocking arginine, which helps in herpes replication.Still, the clinical trials using lysine have been mixed, and scientists believe that lysine is better at preventing an outbreak than treating one.
 Some people think that the tannins found in tea help treat outbreaks when they do happen. To use:


Heat up water just enough to steep the teabag in.
Cool the teabag under cold water, until it is no longer warm. Remove most of the moisture from the tea bag.
Apply the teabag to the lesions. Let stay for several minutes.
Discard the teabag and dry the area off immediately with a clean towel or a hair drier.
 Aloe vera may be beneficial in healing herpes lesions, especially among men.Applying the aloe vera cream to the lesions, and drying thoroughly afterward, may reduce the duration of the outbreak.


Consider Bio-energetic homeopathic herpes nosodes such as 2lherp, HRPZ3 and Bio 88. They benefited 82% of trial participants for 5 years after 6 months of treatment
Look into Hypericum, Ayurvedic Doctors swear by it as the best natural treatment for herpes

, Monolaurin consists of glycerol and lauric acid, which together make up coconut oil. Coconut oil is known to have anti-viral and anti-bacterial properties. Cooking with it and drinking coconut water increases the immune support. Apply oil directly to sores it will clear them up very quickly


Look for tablet Monolaurin (if in gelatin form, crack open capsule, pour into almond milk or coconut water). Note: check to determine if supplement contraindicates any medications you are taking.
 You may wish to consult a herbalist about the possibility of finding an herbal solution to herpes. Herpes ulcers are usually very sore and excruciatingly painful. Many herbs mentioned in Ayurveda, have been used for thousands of years to soothe the burning, itching and the tingling sensation. Herbs such as Chandana (Santalum album), Devadaru (Cedrus devdar), Nagarmotha (Cyperus rotundus), Guduchi (Tinospora cordifolia), Ficus group plants like Ficus bengalenis and sacred fig (Ficus religiosa), Sariva (Hemidesmus Indicus), Utpala (lotus), Yesthimadu (Glycirhiza glabra), are well known for their cooling powers on the skin. A mixture of the aforementioned herbs in equal proportions can be prepared and used in the following manner to help soothe Herpes ulcers and blisters. Talk to your herbalist about the following two possible forms of using herbs:


Decoction: Boil 1 tsp. of powder (on a low flame) with 16 ounces of water. Boil it till 4 ounces is obtained. Use this decoction to wash the infected area.
Paste: Mix the powder with milk, rose water or plain water. Apply this paste to the affected area. Paste is to be used when there is severe pain and burning.
Direct application is advised when the affected area is moist.

