 Your hair doesn't need to be freshly washed for this method, but it should be damp. If you're starting with dry hair, use a spray bottle to dampen your hair. If you decide to wash your hair, let it dry a bit before putting your hair in buns., To get big, messy Beyoncé waves, you need to give your hair some body. Whether you use a cream, gel, or spray, be sure to apply a light coat to all of your hair.If your hair tends to get frizzy, apply a lightweight leave-in conditioner or oil as well.
If you plan on blowdrying your hair, apply heat protectant to your hair.
 How much hair you have will determine how many buns you'll need. If you have thicker hair, you will most likely need 2-3 buns. If you have finer hair, you can get away with 1-2 buns. Hold each section in place with a hair tie until it is time to put it in a bun.The way you divide your hair is completely up to you. For example, you can part your hair down the middle so that you have one bun on each side of your head, or you can place the top half of your hair in one bun, and the bottom half of your hair in another bun.
This method works best on longer hair styles. If you have shorter hair, you may need to add an extra bun or two to ensure that no pieces of hair are left out of a bun.
 Take the first section of your hair out of it's hair tie. Twirl your hair and twist it into a bun – think of tight Princess Leia buns, or the swirl of a cinnamon roll to give you an idea of what these buns should look like. Don't worry about the buns looking perfect, but make sure all of your hair is twisted tightly.Secure the bun with a hair tie, a hair clip, or bobby pins. Make sure the ends of your hair are tucked into your bun.
Repeat this process with each section of hair.
 Ideally, you should sleep in your buns overnight to set the waves into your hair. If you're able to sleep in your buns overnight, tie a scarf around your head to prevent your hair from frizzing.If you don't have all night to let your hair dry, it's time to blow dry those buns! To ensure your buns are thoroughly dried, blow dry each bun for at least 10 minutes. (Remember, if you plan on blowdrying your hair, use a heat protectant on your hair before you put it in buns).
 Unwrap each bun and gently loosen each twist with your fingers. Once you've taken all of your buns down, style your hair. If you like the messy waves, only use your fingers to comb through your hair. If you want a smoother look, brush your hair. Finish your Beyoncé look with hairspray.