 Once your account is open, and your investments are selected, it is time to make a purchase. This typically varies between brokerages, but the main principles remain the same.


You can begin by opening a new order. At this point you will need to enter the symbol for the investment you want. If you want to buy the SPDR S & P 500 Index ETF, for example, the symbol is SPY. You can locate the symbol by Googling the name of the ETF.
After you enter the symbol, you will need to enter the amount of shares or units you would like to buy. If the share price is $10 for example, and you have $100 to invest, you can afford to purchase 10 shares or units.
At this point, simply press the buy button, and you will now own the investment you purchased.
 There are two basic types of orders that can be used to purchase and sell assets in financial markets. The first is a market order, which specifies that an asset be purchased or sold as soon as possible at the market price; however, time delays mean that the purchase or sale price of the asset when the order is filled might be different from the price when the order is placed. The solution to the this is the other type of order, a limit order. This order is one to sell at a price at or above a chosen limit price or to buy at a price at or below the limit price; however, a limit order will not be filled if the chosen limit price is not reached., Once you make your purchase, the wisest course of action is simply to do nothing. You can expect your investment to fluctuate in value over time, and it is important not to sell simply because an investment moves downward. Remember, just as you did not predict the downward movement, you will also not be able to predict a rebound.
 If you chose your asset allocation to be 60% stocks, and 40% bonds, you will occasionally need to "re-balance" to ensure your percentages remain the same. This is typically done annually.For example, if your stocks do well and at the end of the year represent 80% of your portfolio, leaving only 20% bonds, you would need to sell some to bring allocation back down to 60% stocks and 40% bonds.
If you choose not to re-balance, keep in mind that you are taking on additional risk by having a portfolio dominated by stocks.

