 Serotonin agonists are used to treat aggression, urine spraying, fear, and other abnormal behaviors.However, each of these can result from an underlying medical condition, so the vet should give your cat a full examination to rule out other potential issues.


Aggression can be related to hyperthyroidism, central nervous system issues, arthritis, or dental disease.Elimination problems (improper urinating and defecating) can be caused by urinary tract inflammation, kidney disease, thyroid problems, or diabetes., Serotonin agonists are processed by a cat’s liver and kidneys, so the vet should screen for kidney and liver disease and overall metabolic function. You shouldn’t give a cat a 5-HT agonist or most other antidepressants if these organs aren’t in good health or if your cat has a history of kidney or liver disease.Serotonin (5-HT) agonists are usually used for less than six to twelve months.However, if your cat takes one for a longer duration or for the rest of its life, you should have its kidneys and liver tested at least once a year., Medication costs will depend on the brand, dosage strength, and dosage form. If cost is an issue, ask the vet about more affordable treatment options.


If they prescribe a buspirone brand, ask for a less costly generic option.Ask if a more affordable antidepressant or antianxiety medication, like a TCA or SSRI, might be an effective option.
 The most common side effects of the 5-HT agonist buspirone are increased affection and playfulness. However, it can also cause dizziness, decreased appetite, stomach upset, and agitation. Some cats are hypersensitive to buspirone, and may exhibit hyperactivity, increased aggression, or seizure.Adverse side effects like drowsiness and restlessness seem to be less common in buspirone than in other medications.Schedule a vet appointment if you notice any side effects.
 Because of buspirone’s effects on brain chemistry, stopping treatment abruptly can be dangerous. Unless you observe any serious side effects or are directed by the vet, you should wait at least three weeks after starting treatment before you consider stopping treatment. Talk to the vet about gradually lowering dosages to wean your cat off of buspirone and other antidepressant or antianxiety drugs.