 A standard tuxedo jacket is a single breasted dinner jacket without tails. Browse online catalogs or visit a local menswear retailer to view the different styles.Double breasted jackets are popular to present a fuller look.
Jackets with tails are elaborate styles of coats that are typically reserved for “white tie” events.;
, Classic black is a good choice for a versatile tuxedo that can be adapted to fit most formal events. A tuxedo is typically made from piqued wool with satin trim on the pants and lapels.Dark blue and sometimes tan or white are common colors for tuxedos as well. You can choose virtually any color, but colored tuxedos do not present the same formal presence as a standard black tux.
A grosgrain ribbed silk fabric is sometimes used for the lapel and pant legs trim. This fabric provides an elegant touch without as much flashy reflectiveness as satin trimmings.
Velour or all silk jackets are also available from some retailers. Like colors, these non traditional fabrics often appear less formal than the standard piqued wool., The collar, or lapel, around edge of the tuxedo jacket is an important element to the look of the tux. Not only is the sheen of the fabric essential to creating the formal look of the tuxedo, the way the lapels are cut contribute to the look immensely.A shawl collar is the traditional choice for a tuxedo. Shawl collars are rounded and provide an elegant minimalist look. People with round faces or figures may want to avoid the shawl collar as it may over accentuate these features.
A peak lapel has pointed corners that provide a flashy trim to your jacket. Peak lapels are good for men with a smaller frames to help the shoulders appear broader.
 When wearing a tuxedo, a man should also wear a bowtie, cummerbund or vest, and cufflinks and studs.The sheen of the bow tie’s fabric should match that of the jacket lapels. Shiny satin lapels should be accompanied by shiny satin bowties.
Cummerbunds or vests depend on the occasion or personal preference. A cummerbund often provides a more formal look while a vest can allow for more personal expression of style. When purchasing accessories, keep your color choices conservative to maximize the appropriateness and level of formality of your outfit. Black is always a safe choice.
Cufflinks and studs help complete the formal look of the tuxedo. Gold or silver cufflinks should match the metal trim of studs for a complete look.
 Tuxedo shirts vary from traditional dress shirts with the frill on breast and a different style of collar. A small tight frill with a wing collar is the best bet for a traditional look., Department stores or specialty men's clothing stores are the best bet for tuxedos. Most department stores have a men’s department and sell formalwear. Other retailers specialize in men's clothing and sell only menswear. High end stores will typically have a larger selection of tuxedos and formal wear. Ask to speak with a fitting specialist to help decide on the right size jacket and pants for your body size.
Ask about tailoring services at the time of purchase to see get the fit just right.
 You can often find tuxedo jackets and pants at highly discounted prices at local thrift stores. Because most thrift stores sell items separately, it may be difficult to find exact matches of brands or designers. If you are on a budget, this can be a good alternative to visiting an expensive men’s clothing retailer. You won’t be able to get any specialized fitting assistance or tailoring from a thrift store., Purchasing a used tuxedo can be a budget friendly option if you are concerned about getting a matching set from a particular designer. Some consignment shops perform in house tailoring for a fee when you purchase an item. Before to ask about these services before purchasing so that you can get a tuxedo that fits your body well.
 A formal look requires the clothing to fit just right. The jacket should fit snugly, but not so tight that it is stretched. Pants should be worn around the waist and come to just above the heel without bunching around the shoe.Measure around your neck. The fit of your shirt will depend on the diameter around your neck. Make sure that your collar is not too tight around the neck or your formalwear will quickly become uncomfortable.
Measure the length from the shoulder to the wrist. This measurement is important for your shirt size and in tailoring the jacket for the perfect fit.
Get the measurement of your chest. Measure under your armpits fully around your body. This measurement will determine your jacket size.
Measure around your waist. Remember your waist measurement is higher than your hips just under your navel. This measurement determines half of your pants size.
Measure your inseam. The inseam is taken from the crotch to the ankle. This determines the length of your pants.
Take your overall height and weight. These measurements will help a tailor determine the length of your jacket and any additional considerations when tailoring your tuxedo.
 Many retailers provide tailoring services in house or contract with a local tailor for fittings. Tailoring the tuxedo is an important part for getting the perfect fit.Many local dry cleaners also offer tailoring services. Research local vendors to find a tailor near to you.
Ask friends or family for recommendations on tailors to find quality and trusted service.
 After tailoring is complete make sure to try on the tuxedo to determine if any final adjustments need to be made. If the tuxedo does not fit right, the formal look of the outfit may be compromised.