 Help the child pinpoint what is causing them to feel frustrated. It may be helpful for you to break down the frustrating activity step-by-step in order to focus the frustration to its smallest possible point. For example, your child came home frustrated after a day of school, announcing “I hate school!” After talking to your child, you find out that they had a difficult time with math today. Your child just started learning about fractions and was confused. “Hating school” narrows down to “confused about fractions,” which is a much more manageable problem to solve.
 Have your child come up with a few ways to deal with the frustrating issue. Some of the solutions to the problem could also be ways for the child to remain calm. Praise your child for their suggestions and their willingness to try solving the problem rather than giving up.


For example, if your child is having trouble with a certain subject in school, you might ask them to brainstorm some ways to improve their study skills, pay attention in class, and calm down if they are feeling overwhelmed by the material.
You could ask, “How do you calm yourself down? Do you have any good ways to do it that always work for you? What are a few that you could choose from the next time you are in a situation like this?”

, Have the child imagine what would happen if they implemented one of their ideas. You could even role-play the suggestion to help the child practice and gain confidence.For example, you could say, “I’m going to pretend that I’m you. I’m practicing the piano and I can’t get a part right. I’m getting really mad at myself. Now I’m going to try your suggestion of slowing down the tempo and playing very slowly. Oh, look! It’s easier for me to to find the right notes when I am slowing down. I am going to repeat this over and over again until my fingers know where they need to go.”
You could ask, “What do you think it will be like if you try asking your teacher for help tomorrow? What do you think he will say?”

, In some cases, children aren’t equipped to handle problems on their own, or they may be too emotional to effectively deal with it. Sometimes it may be best for you to “fix” the problem.Step in if a child is becoming aggressive towards someone else. You could say, “I’m sorry you’re frustrated, but that does not give you an excuse to hit. You need to come into the other room with me now.”
Step in if the behavior is escalating. For example, if a child is becoming frustrated while trying to build something, and begins throwing the blocks out, step in and have the child take a break to cool down.
If you do need to step in, explain to your child why you did it and why you made the choices that you did. Make sure that they know that you will not always be there to step in. This will help your child understand how they can solve their problems in the future.
 If the frequency of your child's frustration is increasing or often requires intervention, you may need to take them in to be evaluated by a mental health professional to make sure that there are no underlying issues that are contributing to the problem. While you may be hesitant to seek professional care, it's very important that your child get the help they need.