 When planning a trip abroad, it’s usually best to make your arrangements at least a month or two ahead of time. This will get you a better price for your fare and give you plenty of time to plan your adventure. Search around for the best rates on websites like kayak.com that compare flights from many different sources.


You can also reach Scotland by train, bus, car, or ferry, depending on your departure destination.
If you don’t feel like making all of the arrangements yourself, you can always purchase a group package online or pay a travel agent to book all of your travel and lodgings for you.
 Search various sites online for places to stay in each location you’ll be visiting. You can check hotels, hostels, bed and breakfasts, or more modern home-away sharing sites like AirBnb. Remember to consider the location of each prospective place; for example, you might want to consider staying in the city center if you won’t have a car or don’t want to deal with the hassle of public transportation.If you’re on a budget, hostels or AirBnb might be the way to go.
If you have some extra money to spend, consider hotels in the city center, bed and breakfasts in the country, or even some more exotic accommodations like castles, lighthouses, or brochs., If you want to really see the country, you should try to visit more than just one location in Scotland. This means that you’ll need to get from place to place. In some cases, it might be easier to take a train (like if you are going from one city to another, Aberdeen to Edinburgh, for example). But much of Scotland consists of small towns separated by long stretches of beautiful countryside that trains don’t necessarily reach. You can research bus routes or consider renting a car for the duration of your stay in Scotland., As long as you have a valid driver’s license in your own country, you’ll be able to rent a car and drive in Scotland. There are no restrictions on licenses for people who have a valid driver’s license from a country in the European Union. For drivers from all other countries, you can drive in Scotland for up to 12 months with a valid driver’s license from your own country.Remember that in Scotland they drive on the left side of the road. This will take a bit of adjusting initially if you’ve never done this before.

