 If you were contemplating starting a business but feared that your personal credit history would make it impossible, there are ways to structure your business so that your business credit file and personal credit file are treated separately.


By creating a business credit file, an individual can legally create an alternate credit file.
By having a separate business credit file, you can minimize the effect that your personal credit file has on your ability to conduct business. For example, if you establish a healthy credit report for your business, the business will be able to take out loans, buy goods and services on credit, and establish a separate bank account and credit card.;
, When choosing a corporate structure for your small business, you need to choose a structure that creates a separate business entity. Generally, this means that you need to form either a corporation or a limited liability company. Both of these business structures legally separate the business from any one individual that works at or runs the company., Every corporation or LLC must obtain an EIN. This number is like a social security number for your business and is used to file your federal business taxes, open a bank account in the name of your business, and may even be required by vendors in order for you to pay them for their services.You can apply for your EIN online at the IRS’ website., In addition to obtaining an EIN, your business must also acquire a DUNS Number. A DUNS number is a nine-digit business identifying number. By registering for a DUNS number, you establish a business credit file and your business will be listed in Dun & Bradstreet’s business information directory.You can register for a DUNS number online.When registering for your number, you will have to provide the following information: your legal name; the name and address of your business headquarters; any other organization names used by your business; the mailing address if different from the physical or business address; and a business telephone number, contact name and title. You may also need to provide the number of employees at your organization., It is important that you set up a business telephone number that is separate from your personal phone number. The phone number can be linked to a landline or a cell phone. By setting up a separate number, you are demonstrating that the business is a separate entity, and helping to establish business credit, since you will pay for the phone bill with your business checking account., Once you have created your business entity and filed all necessary paperwork with the state, you should open a checking account in the legal name of the business. Once the account is open and you have deposited funds for the start-up costs of your business, you should use this bank account for any financial transactions related to the business. This includes paying the balance of your business credit card (discussed below). By establishing a business credit account, you have begun creating transactions that can be tracked by a credit-reporting agency., Once you have established a separate legal entity, set up a checking account and a phone line, you should apply for a business credit card. By establishing a line of credit, you are creating another entry on your business credit file. Additionally, by paying your bills in a timely manner, you are creating a positive credit report.


When selecting a business credit card, make sure to ask the credit card company whether they report to the credit reporting agencies. If they do not, choose a credit card company that does.., Once your business is underway, you want to try and establish a line of credit with your vendors or suppliers. Many suppliers extend lines of credit in order to give businesses the opportunity to finance purchases in order to preserve the company’s cash flow. You can obtain items such as office supplies, computers or even marketing materials that are financed over a period of 30 to 60 days.You should try to establish lines of credit with at least five vendors.
When asking a supplier to extend you a line of credit, you should also ask the supplier to report your payment history to the credit-reporting agencies., While it may seem obvious, you must pay your bills on time in order to maintain a healthy credit file. Late payments are recorded in your file, just as they are with personal credit. Late payments can negatively impact your credit rating., Your business credit report is how many businesses, lenders, and insurance companies will judge whether to conduct business with you. It is important that you regularly review your business credit report to make sure that there are no mistakes listed that could negatively impact your rating. If you find a mistake, you should immediately contact the credit reporting agency and have the issue resolved., While most people hear about personal identity theft, American businesses suffer billions of dollars annually from fraud. By regularly checking your business credit report, being careful with your company’s financial information, and checking the credit report of the companies you do business with, you can reduce your company’s risk of becoming a victim of fraud., By paying your bills on time, showing your company’s ability to successfully work with a number of vendors, and manage its credit lines, your business is building a healthy credit file. Your credit report is one of the most important ways to grow your business as it tells other companies and customers that your business is financially stable and fiscally responsible. By continuing to expand your business, where feasible, and successfully managing your credit, your newly created credit file will allow your business to access new lenders, better insurance rates, and additional customers. 