 Turn the trout so that its head is pointed upwards, belly facing you. Insert one finger into the mouth and down through the jaw flap you just opened. Pinch the jawbone between your thumb and forefinger.Watch out for any sharp, pointy teeth you might encounter inside the mouth of the trout.
 Grip the jawbone firmly with your finger, then pull down as you hold the fish securely with your other hand. The entire lower jaw and abdomen should come free in one piece, taking the intestines with it.Remove the intestines carefully to avoid tearing them or damaging the rest of the fish.
Using the jawbone method can save you the trouble of having to dig out the entrails by hand., Spread the belly of the trout open. Inside, you should see a dark red line sitting in the groove behind the backbone. Drag the tip of your finger along this groove to clear out the black gunk inside. You may need to pull the connective tissue free in places where it's more firmly attached.You can also use an old toothbrush or similar utensil to break up the membrane holding the blood line in place.Don’t neglect to remove the blood line. Most fishing experts agree that leaving it in negatively affects the flavor of the cooked fish.
 Proceed to cut off the head just behind the gill vent and the tail around where you made the initial incision at the exit hole. Rake the outside of the fish from head to tail with the edge of a knife or spoon to scrape off the scales, then peel away the skin starting at one corner.Alternatively, you can cook the trout whole, then deal with the inedible parts once it’s soft and pliable.You should always remove the scales, even if you’re planning on cooking and eating the fish with the skin on., Run a stream of cool water into the body cavity to flush away any remaining blood, tissue and other material. Set the trout aside on a layer of folded paper towels to absorb excess water until you’re ready to cook it or put it away.To really sanitize the fish, scrub it inside and out with distilled white vinegar, using a small soft-bristled brush.