 (It should be called the same thing in every version.);
, It should sound similar in every version of Windows. Click once on this option.
 (In this case, simply go back and unlock it.) What is here depends on the version of Windows you hold, and each is at least slightly different. As an example, XP has five different options while Vista has only two. What you should look for should have the word “Language” in it.

In Windows 95, 2000, and etc., it is very similar to Windows XP, though certain things many be entitled different things.
In XP, simply go to “Add Other Languages” once you arrive at “Pick a Task.” This should be the third option with a green arrow to the left. Click on this. A box should appear that titles itself “Regional and Language Option,” as you could guess. You should be on the tab that says “Languages.” There are two different boxes (that are more than likely unchecked); the first one says “Install files for complex script and right-to-left languages (including Thai),” and the second one says “Install files for East Asian languages.” For the best results, check both boxes. Read what the boxes that pop up have to say.






Unfortunately, in Windows Vista, it is more difficult to access this than any other version of Windows. However, if you fish around after these, it becomes easier to understand. Click on “Regional and Language Options.” A box should pop up, and in this box, click on what should be the third tab, “Keyboards and Languages.” At the very bottom of this, click on the “link” (blue, underlined text) that asks, “How can I install additional languages?” Two boxes should pop up. Depending on how much time and/or space you have, read this first one and click either “Yes” or “No.” Go to the box that has appeared on the very right of your screen. It should be titled “Help and Support.” After you read this information, go back to the second paragraph and click the “link” at the very end that says, “How do I get additional language files?” Read this, and once you understand, you should be able to get the languages you desire.
 Then, sit back and let it load. This should take 5-10 minutes (Sometimes 15-20 minutes if your computer's memory is low) to do this. After this, simply restart your computer, and you will now be able to see (and maybe read) other languages!

