 Personal shopping websites are a great way to find good deals on the brands you love. On these websites, you enter your favorite brands, and the website will search for the best deals on the brands of your choice. This is a good way to save money because you aren’t physically in a store, so you can shop for exactly what you need.Shop It to Me and Shopstyle are two personal shopping websites.
The websites will also send you an email when a sale is going on once you enter your email.
Filter the results by Price Low to High to view the lowest priced items first.;
, Sample sales are more common in a bigger city. A sample sale will usually have cheap designer clothes and accessories. A sidewalk sale is more common in a smaller town. Boutiques and malls will put out clothing that they may need to get rid of, or whatever is going out of season.You can find sample and sidewalk sale dates in your local newspaper and by checking online.
 Factory outlets can seem like a great deal because signs say that designer labels are 50% off. Often in factory outlets the clothes that are on display are the ones that didn’t sell well or not at all in the actual store. Despite the sales tag, you are typically paying the full price. Plus, the quality of the clothing is usually not very good.Instead, look for good sales on deals from the main store of a brand you like.
 The idea of secondhand clothing may make you nervous, but it shouldn’t. Most thrift shops won’t accept clothes that are not in good condition, and you can and should always wash the clothing you purchase before wearing it. You won’t always find a great deal, but sometimes you can find an amazing piece of clothing. Search carefully, as if you are on a treasure hunt. You can often find designer clothing for very low prices if you look hard enough.Pass over any clothing that has deep set stains or any odor.
Ask the thrift shop if you can exchange some of your unwanted clothing for store credit.
 Stores such as TJ Maxx, Marshalls, and Kohl’s will often have a great inventory that changes all the time. Some of the brands are smaller at these types of stores, but you can also find big name brands for smaller prices. Shop during sales for even better prices.Target and Ross are two other department stores to check out.
 It is possible to rent clothes for occasions that requires a certain type of dress code. The occasion might be for prom, a wedding, a ball, or formal dinner. The amount of time you borrow, the price, and the choice of clothes depends on the website you borrow from. A few websites you can rent clothes from are Rent the Runway, Bag, Borrow, or Steal, and Gwynnie Bee.You can also find websites where you can swap clothes instead of renting, like Swapdom.

