 If your stirrups are too long, maintaining the 2-point position will be exhausting. Since 2-point is used primarily for jumping and the hand gallop, you'll want a slightly shorter stirrup. Shorten the reins as well to retain contact with the horse's mouth.;
, This is your "normal" riding position, with both legs and seat fully on the horse. Sink as much weight into your heels as possible. Do not continue until you feel stable and comfortable.
 Take a handful of mane in one hand, about a handspan in front of the pommel (5–6 inches / 13–15cm).


This step helps you balance. It is not preferred to hold onto any parts of the tack because if the tack falls off you will probably fall off too.
 Push your rear and hips upward, slightly above the saddle. This motion will also help you straighten your back, aligning your heels, hips, and shoulders. Your center of balance should be slightly forward of where it was in 3-point. Steady yourself on the horse's neck until you find your balance point.


Resist the impulse to squeeze your knees as you lift yourself up.
 Your ankles should be under your hips. If your feet are too far back, you may fall forward. If your feet are too far forward, you may fall back.

Do not straighten your legs. Your knees should be bent forward, so they can flex along with the horse's motion.
 When you feel comfortably balanced, squeeze your horse forward with your legs. Congratulations! You are now riding in a correct, clean 2-point position.
 If you want to go left, press against the horse with your right leg and "open the door" with your left hand, loosening the reins on that side and pulling outward. To direct the horse right, use the mirror image of these motions.


Do not steer with the reins except for the motion described. Pulling against the reins too hard may cause you to lose your balance. Use your leg to guide the horse.
 You'll probably start feeling uncomfortable or sore quickly the first few times you try this. If you ever feel like you're about to lose your balance, or if you're having trouble directing the horse, return to three-point position. Once you've readjusted your seating or handled a difficult situation, you can return to the two-point position.