 Organize them in the order you will be performing them. This will help you keep in mind a system and you will be able to transition easier from dance to dance.

If your dance teacher or studio gives you a schedule, then you can simply highlight the dance or dances that you will be in, and keep that with you.;
, If you have a list of things you'll need, then you'll be a lot less likely to forget any costumes or props. If you made a list for your dances, then you can include this on your list of dances and write the costumes needed for each out to the side, or create an entirely separate list for this. Make sure to include all costumes including shoes and accessories and any make up changes. List each dance and the things needed for that dance separately instead of all your materials needed for the entire show in one general list.
 Put the costumes in your bag according to the order in which you will be performing the dance, making sure the first dance’s costumes are on top. You may also use the zip-lock bag method and divide your costumes into zip-lock bags and label them according to which dance they correspond to. Separate accessories into smaller zip-lock bags and keep them with the costumes they belong to.
 Being organized is just a way to help you focus on the bigger picture of what the show is all about, your dancing. Make sure you feel prepared and ready for every dance you’ll be performing, and you'll likely be a lot less nervous (if you are), because you'll already have your dances memorized in your head.
 Don’t wait until the last minute to get organized or practice your routines. Get all your costumes together a day ahead so that you aren’t stressed out when the day of your performance comes.
 Some of the best foods are oatmeal, a high fiber cereal, strawberries and bananas. One way to combine all of these is to make a strawberry and banana smoothie, and eat a bowl of the cereal or oatmeal. If the performance is after lunch and/or dinner, you should make healthy choices in those meals as well.

