 If you have not yet had children, do not have any. (If you have had children, don't have any more.) Do not allow yourself to procreate, either deliberately or “by accident.” Take complete responsibility for contraception, remain celibate, or seek an early abortion so that you do not bring another being into existence. Just as they say to “let sleeping dogs lie,” allow the uncreated to remain in their undifferentiated, painless state.;
, Read the book Better Never to Have Been - The Harm of Coming into Existence by David Benatar. This book will explain the logic behind the philosophy of antinatalism. Continue to read other online articles and book reviews about antinatalism.
 Be forewarned that this is a misunderstood and unpopular philosophy, calling into question as it does the very meaning of human existence. Be discreet, and consider the potential social, familial, employment, and religious ramifications in your life. To whom will you talk about antinatalism? How can you explore or discuss the philosophy without having friends and family worry that you’re depressed? A gradual, “theoretical” approach may help you test the conversational waters, such as making a general comment like, “I recently learned about an interesting philosophy, antinatalism, which suggests that being born is actually harmful to humans.”

, Once you feel confident and conversant with the antinatalist philosophy, as a person who was born yourself, stick up for the moral right of those who would not want to be born.
 Learn what each religion professes about the meaning of life and death; pain and pleasure; procreation and suicide. Buddhists may be influenced by the concept of “avoiding rebirth. Christians may be swayed by the idea that their children could end up suffering eternally in Hell. However, keep in mind that many people object to antinatalism on religious grounds, and you are unlikely to leverage someone off of a position which is based in faith -- particularly with a philosophical discussion -- no matter how logical or rational your arguments.
 Extend your antinatalist philosophy to non-human sentient beings, and work to minimize their suffering as well. Treat animals compassionately. This may include eating a vegan or vegetarian diet, not owning pets (or only keeping rescue pets), or taking care that animal products you consume are from animals who were treated humanely while alive.
 Once a person is born, they are no longer in the category of the “never born” and thus should not be denied human compassion, love, and medical intervention when needed. You can live a long and productive life as an antinatalist. Murder and suicide cause pain to victims and survivors and thus should not be indulged. If you are depressed or suicidal, you may benefit from professional medical or psychological intervention.
 Don’t restrict your social life to fellow antinatalists – the pool is too small, and you won’t be able to entice others to dive in and openly consider your philosophy. If you are in danger of social isolation, consider becoming active with a philosophically non-dogmatic religious group such as Unitarian Universalism or Zen Buddhism.
 Tell others about your personal experience with life, without minimizing problems or overstating pleasures.
 Get sufficient sleep, good nutrition, and regular exercise. Don’t invite suffering by ignoring your physical health.
 While the antinatalist philosophy is often considered to be against sentient human life, recognition of the misfortune of having been born does not relegate you to dourness, suffering, complaining, or misery. Antinatalists can be as happy as the next person, yet still recognize that everyone’s suffering could be obviated if those people had never been born in the first place. Still, once a person has been born, they may as well make the best of a bad situation. Pursue pleasure for yourself and others, and avoid contributing to suffering.

