 The best conditions to sleep are when you are:


Cooler than room temperature, a little below 72 degrees Fahrenheit (or 22 degrees Celsius).
In soft, breathable clothing. You want room between your skin and the fabric.
In the dark. You should turn off all lights and keep nightlights at a distance.;
, Once you've laid down and are ready to sleep, it's time to think about anything but sleep. Use the following techniques to distract your mind. Remember, stressing or thinking about falling asleep is the quickest way to stay awake.



Contract and relax your muscles. Tense, then release each and every muscle in your body slowly. Focus on "moving" from your toes to your neck, then back again.

Count your breaths. Focus on deep, regular breaths. Inhale for four seconds, hold your breath for seven seconds, then exhale for eight seconds.

Visualize something repetitive. Watch yourself shoot free throws, water your garden, or count sheep. Pick an activity you know and drift into it, counting each one.
 Constant sounds, unlike those coming from a window or snoring partner, make for great sleep. Even more importantly, they make the odd noises in the night -- like a barking dog-- seem less loud by comparison, soothing you to sleep.


Try a classical music station on Pandora, Spotify, or any music player that you know.
Listen to waves, raindrops, wind noises, or other calm, consistent sounds. You can find them on many white noise and music apps.
Make use of a meditation app like Slumber, Calm, or Headspace.
Try dimming the lights 30 minutes to an hour before bed. Research shows this to be helpful falling asleep.
 Reach down and gently touch your toes. Pull your foot back to your bum to stretch your thighs. Slowly reach your arms up and stretch to the sky.


Do the stretches that you love, holding them gently and without pain.
A little basic yoga is often used to go to sleep. Try out yoga for meditation.
 A warm bath, especially with a little lavender oil, will slow down your body's activity and make it easier to fall asleep. A light snack will do the same thing, creating a pleasant sense of drowsiness.


Good snacks include bananas, dairy, avocados, lean proteins like poultry or fish, and also nuts. Anything that isn't sugary or fatty will generally feel best.
Lavender oil, or lavender essence, is a great way to get the drowsy benefits of a bath without actually taking a bath.
 The time for screens and work is over. Computer screens actually trigger your brain to stay awake, as the blue light subconsciously tricks you into thinking that it's daytime.


Once work is over, there is nothing you're going to fix or make better by continuing to think about it. If you're really struggling to turn off work mode, try writing your thoughts or plans by hand in a journal.
Reading, talking to a partner, and preparing lunch, clothes, etc. for the next day are great ways to get off the screens and start the process of relaxing.
Sleep is not a switch you just turn on. The earlier you start relaxing, the easier it will be to sleep.
If you feel that using your phone before you go to bed is a way for you to relax make sure to use apps like Twilight that reduces the blue light and don't do anything engaging or stressful. That means, stay away from email, social media, heavy reading, and movies. Instead, engage in things that make you more relaxed like meditation videos, playing sleep games, or light reading.
 Bright light after sundown tells your brain that the sun is coming back up, and it's time to sleep. Use your dimmers, adjust the brightness on computers and TV, and aim for soft, yellow-orange lights. Yellow light can signal sunset, and the need to sleep.


Try a computer program like Flux that automatically lowers your screen brightness as the sun goes down, helping your brain adapt.
You may not feel like the light is keeping you up, but it actually prevents the creation of melatonin, a neurochemical essential for sleep.
 Both of these chemicals will keep you up and lead to uneven, difficult nights in bed. Instead, try exercising in the afternoon, which will give you a boost in metabolism and energy in the short term and make it easier to sleep when night approaches.


Switch to decaf after 12:00, as caffeine will stick in your system hours after you've felt the effects.
While some people think alcohol makes you drowsy, it leads to uneven, restless sleep in the long run.

