 When you use a deductive argument, you are trying to prove an argument is valid by showing that the argument’s assumptions are true. The premise of the argument needs to seem strong enough to support a specific conclusion. If the premise of the argument rings true, the argument can be proven as sound or logically correct.For example, you may notice that it’s sunny outside when you wake up. You may then deduce that your husband left the house without an umbrella and not wearing a raincoat. You can then make a deductive argument that your husband will come home without an umbrella and in a sports coat, not a raincoat. Based on an analysis of the premise, you can form a deductive argument and make an assumption that has a high likelihood of being correct.
A deductive argument focuses on making a guaranteed conclusion, where the truth of the conclusion is highly probable. The argument should contain a truth that is implied by the premise. You can conclude your husband is not carrying an umbrella when he gets home, for example, because the premise (sunny skies) implies the truth of your argument or conclusion.;
, There are numerous situations with your spouse or partner where you can use deductive reasoning to validate an assumption. This can vary from smaller assumptions to larger assumptions.For example, your partner may complain that he is always late for work in the morning. He may then make the assumption that he will get to work on time if he leaves the house earlier in the morning. You may then point out that it takes your partner about thirty minutes to get to work every day, regardless of traffic. You can then make a deductive argument: if your partner leaves the house no later than 8:15 am, he can get to work by 8:45 am and not be late for his 9 am day.You have deduced that his thirty minute commute means he must leave by 8:15 am to arrive at work on time. In this way, you are using deductive reasoning to support his assumption.
You may also be in a situation that may have more serious consequences if the deductive argument is not followed. For example, your partner may be allergic to nuts. You can then deduce that he should not eat ice cream that contains nuts, as this could lead to an allergic reaction and serious health issues. The premise, that your partner is allergic to nuts, proves your deductive argument, that your partner should not eat the ice cream that contains nuts.
 Deductive reasoning can also be useful for solving an issue or problem. Often, deductive reasoning comes into play when someone has lost an item or a problem needs to be solved.For example, your sister may tell you she lost her phone charger. Rather than search aimlessly around the house for the charger, you can use deductive reasoning to make an argument for where the charger may be found.
Start by gathering information from your sister in the form of a question and answer. You may ask her, “Who last used the charger?” “When was the last time you used the charger?” “Where do you usually plug in the charger in the house?”
Based on her answers to your questions, you can use deductive reasoning to make an assumption about where the charger can be found. For example, she may answer, “Mom used it yesterday to charge her phone” or “I usually plug it into the bedroom outlet”. If she provides the first answer, you can deduce that your mother may know where the charger is located. If she provides the second answer, you can deduce that the charger is likely in the bedroom outlet.
In both instances, you can use deductive reasoning to reach a conclusion that could be valid and true. It can then lead to recovery of a lost item or the solution to an issue or problem.

