 This will launch a video chat in a new window. Don't worry — you won't be talking to anyone yet and no one will be able to see you until you're ready. If your computer asks you for permission to use your camera, click "Yes" or "OK."


You'll need a computer with a camera installed in the monitor (or a separate webcam peripheral) to have a video chat. Most laptops sold today come with a webcam pre-installed in the monitor.
 In the new window, you'll see a white box with several options for getting people to video chat with you. You may also see live footage of yourself behind this. Don't worry — no one can see you until you're ready. To invite people to your video chat, use the following options:


Copy the link in the "Share the permanent link" box (Ctrl+C on Windows, Command+C on Macs). Send this link to the people you want to video chat with any way you want (Ctrl+V to paste on Windows, Command+V on Macs). For instance, you can send them an email with the link, send it in a Skype conversation, or even use Gmail text chat to send it. When they click on the link, they'll join the call.
Alternatively, type in the names or email addresses of people you want to join the call in the lower box. If they're in your contacts, Gmail will automatically display them. If not, you can still send a video chat invite by typing their entire name or email address and clicking the name when you're done.
 When you've prepared all your invitations, click this button to send them. You don't need to do this if you shared the permanent link, which lets people join automatically. When you send your invitations, you can also use the check boxes in the menu to do the following:


Require your guests to be over 18 before joining the call.
Offer a "silent invitation" — this will make the recipient's computer not make an audible ring with the notification.
 As people receive your invitations, they will join your video call. When you're ready to join yourself, click the green "join" button at the bottom of the window.


You should be able to speak with your friends and see their faces in the bottom right corner. Click on a person's face to switch the larger video feed to that person.
 Another way to start a video chat in Gmail is via the normal text chat. First, start a text chat with one of your contacts (see section above) and then click the video camera button in the top left of the chat box. This will call the person immediately, so be ready to chat right away.

