 The removal of fresh feces is crucial to preventing infection. Fresh feces are not infectious because the eggs are not at the right stage to infect a host. Removing them immediately removes the potential source of infection before the eggs can embryonate. If left, eggs can shed from the feces and get into the soil or water, where they may pose an infection risk for years to come.Feces left on the ground may dissolve over time, but the whipworm eggs will be washed into the soil where they remain for years to come. If all dog owners acted in a responsible manner and cleared up after their dogs, this would go a long way to reducing the risks for the future.
You should remove feces from your own yard and when you take your dog walking. When you take your dog walking, remove feces as soon as your dog goes to the bathroom. This prevents any spread of infected eggs if your dog passes them.;
, Dogs become infected when they swallow embryonated eggs. They most commonly pick these up when they eat infected feces. When you take your dog walking, do not let him eat or get into another dog’s feces.If you take your dog to a dog park or other area where a lot of dogs may go, then don’t let your dog eat the soil. Dog’s can get whipworms by eating soil containing embryonated eggs.
You should also prevent your dog from drinking contaminated water.
Once whipworm gets into the soil, it is very difficult to remove it. The only solutions to get rid of them are to completely avoid the area or to remove that layer of soil and replace with new.
 A dog can have whipworm, yet even screening fecal tests aren't guaranteed to pick up infection. While a positive screen confirms a whipworm infection, a negative cannot rule it out. Routine deworming is advisable for all dogs. A minimum of once yearly worming against whipworm is advised, but giving your dog deworming medication every three months to prevent active infections from occurring is recommended.Many products that are effective against other parasites, such as heartworms, may also be effective against whipworm.
The products effective against whipworms need to be prescribed by your vet, so if you are using an over-the-counter dewormer, it is unlikely to be effective against whipworm. The product needs to contain one of these active ingredients in order to work: Milbemycin, moxidectin, praziquantel, or fenbendazole. Products that are effective against whipworm include Drontal Plus, Panacur, Interceptor, Sentinel, Sentinel Spectrum, Advantage Multi, Trifexis.
A false negative could occur if the dog was infected less than 90 days ago and the larvae have not yet matured into adults or the adult worms are not excreting eggs on the day the sample was taken.

