 There are several types of fiction, including, but are not limited to:


Realistic fiction
Fantasy fiction
Horror fiction
Mystery fiction
Romance
Science fiction
Thriller
Tragedy
Adventure fiction
Fictional autobiography


However, the best genres to write about in sixth grade are realistic fiction, fantasy fiction, adventure fiction, and fictional autobiography.;
, An in-school is a project that students work on at school, and an at-home project is basically homework, but due in a week or so (or less than a week, if it's a short project).
 First person is good for fictional autobiography, as well as romance, adventure (like The Hunger Games or Divergent) and fantasy fiction. Third person is good for realistic fiction, tragedy and mystery fiction( like"Harry Potter")

,


Present tense uses words like stumble, kick, and dance. They work well for first person stories. "I run to my mother and embrace her. I smell her vanilla perfume, and I hug harder" is an example of present tense.
Past tense uses words like stumbled, kicked and danced. They work well for third person. "Sophie ran to her mother and embraced her. She smelled the vanilla perfume, and hugged harder" is an example of past tense.
 In fictional writing, the characters are almost always based on real life characters. Here are a few examples:

Ebenezer Scrooge was based on a man named John Elwes. Professor Snape was in fact based on a real person named John Nettleship, J.K. Rowling's teacher (in chemistry).
Sherlock Holmes was based on Dr. Joseph Bell, a lecturer at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland in the nineteenth century. You don't have to use real life characters, though. You can help make the students make characters up. A good sheet to come up with characters is located in the introduction.
 This is a simple idea of what happens in the story. For example, if a student was writing Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, the student could write:


"A boy finds out he's a wizard (and a famous wizard). He is sent to a wizarding school. He tries to keep a treasure from being stolen."
Do not write a sypnosis (a long summary of the book, including a long summary of every chapter).
 A plot diagram is a diagram shaped like a mountain. You put the introduction at the beginning of the mountain. The "rising action" (anything that leads up to the climax) goes on the upslope of the mountain.

The climax occurs at the very top of the mountain, while the "falling action" (anything that happens after the climax, but before the resolution) occurs on the down slope and the resolution (happy or sad ending) takes place at the bottom. This is a very good way to organize writing, and works especially well in the classroom.
 This is best done after the student creates the plot diagram. Have the student write out the basic action for each chapter. This can be done by writing a scribble version. Repeat that 200 times until you're sure about what you will be writing.
 "Setting the stage" refers to the first scene in the book, usually the first chapter. Using the Harry Potter example, the author sets the stage in the second chapter by giving the readers a view of his life at the Dursley's.

Make sure the students give a clear description of the character's life, covering the character's thoughts, feelings, and experiences.
 In short, make the reader want to read the next chapter. It is good to have a short sentence. Some examples are:


And I just sit there, crying.
I shriek as I see the bomb crashing through the city.
I can never be happier than I am now.
I can't believe what I have done.
She looked unbelievably at the state of her city.
He dropped to his knees as a stab of guilt hits his chest.
 It improves the quality of the story and keeps readers hooked.
 Don't just end it with "And then they were happy" or something simplistic like that. Make a conclusion that makes you glad you read the story.

One of the best endings you can make is to end the book with a starting to a new story., Don't stretch out moments so much the story gets dreary and you never finish it. Longer is not always better. Fill the pages with quality writing, not just words.
 Have the students hand in a rough draft, and you can make comments. The students will then be required to make corrections.
 This shows an example of what the story should look like.
 An in-school project is a project that is worked on at school, and a home project is basically homework, but due in a week or so (or less, if it's short).
 You can assign each student a topic, or let them choose their own. If they choose their own, make sure you approve each student's topic before they start writing, in case they want to write about things like the invention of Ninjago, etc.
 If you assigned a town for a topic, for instance, these could be the requirements:


Founder
When it was founded
Where it was founded
Number of people living/who lived there
Important events in its history
Major trade (works better for old towns like Quebec).
 These include:


How to use Google, Bing, Yahoo or AOL
How to avoid plagiarism

How to use reliable websites.
 This helps organize big ideas and facts about that idea Here is an example: (Birds=Bun-->Bird beaks = Meat--> Eagle's beak, sparrow's beak, uses of beak=lettuce and tomato).
 Try requiring the paper be typed, have images and be well thought out and thorough. Here are some suggestions for grading:


Give an A for no typos, proper grammar, well-fitting images and good formatting.
Give a B for one to three typos, one to two mistakes in grammar, images that could be better chosen and good formatting.
Give a C for four or more typos, three or more mistakes in grammar, badly chosen images, and okay formatting.
Give a D for four or more typos, three or more mistakes in grammar, no images, and no formatting.
Give an F if the paper was not turned in.
 You can assign each student a topic, or let them choose their own. If they choose their own, make sure you check over the topics before they write (just in case a student wishes to write about a topic like "Should kids be allowed to drive," for example).
 This, also known as an opinion, is what they will be trying to find evidence to support. It will also be in their topic sentence. If you give them a list of topics, make sure you explain what the possible claims are. Most often, it is just "Yes" or "No," but sometimes the claim can be "In possible situations".
 This will help them find evidence to support their claim.
 This stands for Opening Statement, Reason, Evidence to support that reason, and then repeating your Opening Statement. You usually have three RE's, but for the sake of a name, it only includes one RE. The RE, if the opening statement is "Students should wear uniforms," should be something like this:


Reason: Kids learn better without distractions.
Evidence: A study in ___________ showed that ____________ happened when students wore uniforms, but __________ happened when they didn't.
 Have them give it to you, then make corrections and comments.
 Consider whether each student's paper was compelling (whether or not he or she convinced you). Here are some grading suggestions:


Give an A if the student thoroughly convinced you, had proper grammar, cited all evidence used, and included all parts (OREREREO).
Give a B if the student partially convinced you, had proper grammar, cited most evidence used, and included all parts (OREREREO).
Give a C if the student partially convinced you, had one to three grammar mistakes, didn't cite two or more pieces of evidence and included most parts (Ex: ORERERO, OREREO, ORERERE, etc.).
Give a D if the student didn't convince you, had four or more grammar mistakes, didn't cite any evidence, and didn't include many parts (Ex: ORRRO, OREO, ORERE, etc.).
Give an F if the paper was not turned in.
 There are several types of poetry, including:


Acrostic
Cinquain
Concrete
Couplet
Diamante
Limericks
Haiku

Epic.
 Show them the type of poem they will be writing. Research famous poets online.
 Choose a topic, then have each student add something to the poem. If you have a large class, split them up into groups to contribute a single line.
 For instance, if you're writing haiku's, choose something about nature, not school. If you want, you can make a list of possible topics.
 You can write it in class or home. Usually, unless you are writing an epic, you can finish the rough draft in under a day.
 Change any rhymes, or things that don't make sense. Check the length of the poem.
 Here are some suggestions:


A if the poem meets all the requirements, works with the rhyming scheme, and makes sense.
B if the poem meets most requirements, has little to no rhyming mistakes, and makes sense.
C if the poem meets some requirements, two to three rhyming mistakes, and there are a few things that don't make sense.
D if the poem meets none of the requirements, four or more rhyming mistakes, and doesn't make sense.
 They are somewhat similar; however, they are different in some ways.



Similarities:


Use of language
Realistic!
Can be read in one sitting
Based on real events (sometimes for fiction)



Differences:


Fiction isn't completely or fully true
Fiction doesn't always have real characters
Fiction can be in first, second or third person, where personal narratives can only be first.
The author can be more creative because he or she is not limited to just one experience.
 For instance, you could say, "Write about a time you were excited," or "Write about a time you were sad."

, Similar to fiction, making a plot diagram is beneficial to a narrative.
 If you are writing about the time you went on a roller coaster, for instance, you wouldn't start the story with the day before, when you did your homework. That would make a run-on story. Imply this to your students.
 Make sure they add their thoughts.
 If you're waiting to ride on a roller coaster, for instance, don't end it right before you go on! Help the students find a good time to end. Make sure that the ending is not too far after the climax or too soon.

