 Do this by swiping down from the top of the device.;
, Just tap on the Settings icon at the upper right corner of the panel, and scroll down to tap the Motion button to get the Motion options for the phone.
 You have several choices on the list, all of which can be disabled or enabled by tapping the On/Off switch to the right of each feature. To turn on Motion Gestures, tap the tick box opposite “Motion activation.”

, You can turn these features on or off.



Direct Call allows you, when you have a contact displayed on your screen, to simply put the phone against your ear as if to call someone, and the device will dial automatically. You can use this with Messaging and Call Logs.

Smart Alert notifies you via vibration of missed calls and alerts as soon as you pick the device up after setting it down.

Tap to Top, when enabled, lets you scroll back up to the top of a list you’re scrolling down from, by tapping on the top of the device itself (not the screen). This always works for the native applications, but may not work on some third-party apps.

Tilt to Zoom replaces the traditional pinch-to-zoom control on the screen. Tap and hold the screen at two separate points with your thumbs, and then tilt it away from you to zoom out and towards you to zoom in.

Pan to Move Icon allows you to pan the screen while still touching and holding the icon, instead of tapping and dragging an icon to move it to a different home screen. When you tap the feature, it will bring up another menu, allowing you to set the panning sensitivity.

Pan to Browse Images lets you move the page or image in which you are zoomed, by touching and holding the screen, and then moving up, down, left or right to pan. You can also adjust the sensitivity like you would with Pan to Move Icon.

Shake to Update means to simply shake the phone to update any information you have on the screen, such as searching for bluetooth devices, or updating the weather widget.

Turn Over to Mute/Pause allows you, if your speakers are not muted, to simply put the phone face down when you wish to silence it when an alert or call comes up. This works with Samsung applications only.
 You can turn these on or off.



Palm Swipe lets you swipe your palm across the screen to take a screenshot.

Palm Touch to Mute/Pause functions similarly to Turn Over to Mute/Pause, but instead of flipping the phone over, you cover it with your palm to mute it. It will only work with native Samsung applications, however.

