 Place the milk in a saucepan. Heat over medium to medium-high heat until it simmers, then mix in the butter and sugar. Keeping stirring it. The butter needs to melt into the mixture., In a large bowl, add the milk. Pour in the water (at room temperature). Let it cool until it reaches about 95 °F (35 °C)., When the mixture is lukewarm, mix in the yeast.If the liquid is too hot, it will kill the yeast. Warm liquid, on the other hand, encourages the yeast to flourish.
Remember to pick the correct yeast for the time you are making it. If you are making the bread a day or two before you want to bake it, use the active dry yeast. If you plan to bake the bread the day you make it, use the quick-rising dry yeast.
 Mix in the olives, thyme, and salt, followed by a cup of flour. Mix it until the flour disappears., Separating each cup, add in the flour cup by cup. Between additions, stir until the flour disappears. You can add more flour if the dough is too sticky. The dough should start pulling away from the sides of the bowl., Dump the dough into it to cover it in oil. Place the dough in the fridge if you are making it ahead. If not, leave it to rise in a warm area of the room. When it's ready, the dough will be doubled., Let the oven preheat for 10 to 15 minutes., Using your hands or a spoon, thoroughly coat a sheet with olive oil. The olive oil helps create a crispy crust on the bottom., Turn the dough out on the surface, making sure not to knead it. Cut it in half., They should be 15 inches (38.1 cm) long and a couple of inches wide. Place them on the sheet., In a warm area, leave the dough to rise for about 15 minutes (30 if using the dough from the refrigerator). Leave plastic wrap over it while it's rising., Using a pastry brush, coat the top of each loaf with egg white., Water helps create a crusty loaf. Use a spray bottle to spray tap water into the oven, about 8 times., Begin baking the bread at 500 °F (260 °C) for 10 minutes., Finish baking the bread for 35 minutes., Let it cool before serving.