 Attach 5 foot metal or wooden poles to a mesh net every three to four feet. You will need a section of net that is 6 feet wide by 30 feet long.A funnel trap works by allowing the ducks to squeeze into a narrow opening that is tapered inward making it easy to get in but hard to get out.
Hammer the posts into the ground in a circular shape with the ends of the net extending inward to the middle of the circle.
Drape a piece of netting over the top of your trap to keep the ducks from flying out.
 Observe the behavior of the ducks you are attempting to catch for a few days to get a good idea of where to place the trap.


Traps can be placed on dry land or in shallow water.
The best time to catch ducks is after they have mated and molted their flight feathers which leaves them grounded.
 In order for your trap to be effective you will need to get the duck to be comfortable coming to the area where the trap is located.


Spread bait in and around the trap. Keep the majority of the bait inside the trap to encourage the duck to enter the trap. You don’t want them to feed outside of the trap, but it is necessary to place a small amount of bait such as corn outside the trap to attract them to the area initially.
Place a decoy duck in the trap. When ducks see another duck in an area they are more likely to investigate and approach the area. Placing a mounted duck inside the trap is the most realistic decoy, however wooden or plastic decoys can also be effective.
Use a duck call to attract ducks to the area where your trap is located. Be sure that you stay hidden in blind or under cover to avoid spooking the ducks.
 Remove the ducks from the trap one by one by scooping them up with a net or bag.


If you must grab the duck with your hands, grab it by the neck rather than the wings to prevent injury to the duck.
 After transporting your ducks to their new location, gently lay the bag on the ground. Open the end of the bag and grasp the duck firmly, yet gently, around the neck. Pull the ducks from the ground and hug them towards your body with your other arm to prevent them from flapping their wings. Release the duck onto the ground to waddle away.

