 You should start with the hair in front/above your ear on the right side of your head. Spraying water on your roots will make it easier for you to part your hair into clean sections. You don’t have to spray water on the strand of hair, just at the root., Once again, start with the hair in front/above your ear on your right side. Use your sectioning tool at the end of your comb or a bobby pin to make a square that is even on both sides., Use the front part of your comb to gently detangle your hair so that it smooth and ready to be braided. Put a small amount of hair gel on the midsection and tips of your hair. The gel is going to help keep your hair smooth inside of the braid. , Pick off a piece and divide the piece of synthetic hair into two pieces. You should make one piece a third of the thickness of the strand and the other piece should then be two thirds of the thickness of the strand., Then bring the the ⅓ piece around together so that you have three equal parts of synthetic hair that are the same length and thickness.

To make your micro-braids longer, take the two strands of hair, the ⅓ and ⅔ strands, and hold them both at the ⅓ mark, instead of at the half, so that the hair will hang down longer. Then wrap the ⅓ thickness strand of synthetic hair around the ⅔ strand of hair at the same ⅓ point on both strands. This will make your strands longer.
 You should have three strands of hair, and you should put your left index finger in between the two strands of hair that was the ⅔ piece, and make a fist with that hand. A V of the synthetic hair should be between your index finger and the point where the two strands are wrapped around each other. Then with your three fingers, thumb, forefinger, and middle fingers, of your right hand, hold the remaining strand of hair that was wrapped around the ⅔ strand so that it is secure., Twirl your right hand so that your hand is under the V. Going underneath the V, you should put your right index finger into the space where your left index finger is. With your right hand, pinch the strand of hair farthest from you in the V with your thumb and forefinger. Your left hand is now free.

Keep the hair strands that are now correctly positioned in your right hand secure.
 Put your right hand holding the synthetic hair up as close to the root of your head as you can. With your left hand, pull the real hair for the section you are braiding so that it is taught but not tense. Then with your right hand, pinch the real hair with your index finger and thumb, and add it to the synthetic strand., This position will help you work with both of your hands at the root of your braid., With your left hand, take the strand of the hair extension on the outside of your hand, and move it over your right hand so that it is close to the side of you head. Then rotate your right hand with your two strands of hair so that they cross and create a V. At the tip of the V, with your left hand, grab the bottom strand, and add it to your left hand, but keep the pieces separate.

If you are braiding your hair and it hurts, loosen your grip. If you braid your hair too tight it can cause hair damage and hair loss., Every time you have two pieces of hair in one hand, you will rotate your hand in the direction of the hand they are in (right hand rotates right and left rotates left), crossing the hair so that it creates the V. Then you will insert your index finger of your other hand in the middle of the V and grab the bottom piece.

Once you have braided the hair enough times in this way and your braid is secure, you can move your left arm from behind your head. Keep braiding you hair normally all the way down to the bottom of your hair.
To braid it normally, move the right strand over center then left over center all the way down the hair to the end.
When passing the strands between your hands, make sure to keep the strands separate unless you are adding hair to make one strand thicker.
 If you notice you are coming to the end of the braid and one strand of the braid becomes shorter than the others, pinch off a few pieces of hair from another strand, and add it to the short strand. Keep braiding it all the way down., If you want to secure the end of your hair, you can make a slipknot. When you get to the end of your braid, make sure you have a good hold on the end of the hair with the index and thumb of your right hand.

Grab a few of the synthetic hairs with your left hand to make a tie out of. Get enough to make a thin tie but not so few hairs that they could easily break.
Loop the tiny strand over the inside of your right index finger that is holding the braid secure on the right side of the braid so that it comes all away around the finger. Then put your thumb inside the loop with your index finger.
Bring the hair around the other side of the braid so that it wraps around the braid like a tie, and pinch the small section hair with your thumb and index finger, and bring the piece of hair through the inside of the loop to secure it in a knot.
Repeat this process with that strand of hair 3-4 times. Then you can take half of the tiny strand that makes the knot, and make the slipknot 1-2 more times using the same process so that the braid is secure. If the braid becomes less straight due to tying the knot, gently pull down on the braid to straighten it out.
 Snip off the remaining hairs that are sticking out of the braid at the sides. Use your scissors and clean up the edges of the braid where there are stray pieces of hair sticking out.

If you still have hairs sticking out, you can use hair gel to the ends of the braids to make the hairs slick to the braids.
 While you are sectioning your hair, make a pattern so that after your first row you stagger the sections like bricks. So that above each parted section of hair there are two parted sections above/below on either side. This will help your hair look more full because you won’t be able to see as much of your scalp when the braids are laying flat on your head. Make braids around your whole head using the brick pattern. This process could take several hours if you are new to micro braiding.Ask someone to help you with the braids at the back of your head.
Practice makes perfect. These braids can be difficult to get the hang of at first, but be persistent because the experience and effort will pay off if you keep practicing.

