 You must have a 64-bit iPhone (iPhone 5S, 6, 6 Plus, 6S, 6S Plus, or SE) for jailbreak versions 9.1 and up, though anything below iOS 9.1 can use any iPhone.

Your iPhone must also be running iOS 9, 9.3.3, or somewhere in this middle.
 Do so by opening iTunes, clicking the Help tab in the upper-left corner, clicking Check for Updates, and clicking Download iTunes if prompted.

You'll have to restart your computer after updating iTunes for the changes to take effect.
 Do so by plugging the charger end of the charger cable into the bottom of the iPhone, then plugging the USB end into the USB port on your computer., While optional, backing up your iPhone will ensure that you can restore any corrupted or missing information if you ever decide to get rid of the jailbreak.

Your iPhone will automatically back up by default when you connect it to iTunes.
 You can set it back up once the jailbreak is complete. To remove your iPhone's passcode:

Open Settings.
Scroll down and tap Touch ID & Passcode (or simply Passcode).
Enter your passcode.
Scroll down and tap Turn Passcode Off.
Enter your passcode again.
 You'll be able to re-enable it after the jailbreak finishes. To disable Find My iPhone:

Scroll down and tap iCloud.
Scroll down and tap Find My iPhone

Slide Find My iPhone left to the "Off" position. You may need to enter your Apple ID password to do so.
 The Airplane Mode switch is at the top of the "Settings" page; simply scroll up and slide Airplane Mode right to the "On" position. Doing so will prevent your iPhone from updating "Over the Air", which would render the jailbreak impossible., Use the link provided here to avoid accidentally visiting a fraudulent site., It's in the middle of the page., You'll find this option at the top of the page., Doing so will launch Pangu; it will need a little bit of time to detect your iPhone., You'll be asked to confirm that you have created a backup., Doing so will confirm that you've created a backup in iTunes., Your iPhone will reboot when the setup is about halfway done, and you'll be prompted to re-enable Airplane Mode at around the 65 percent mark.

You can monitor the percentage of progress that has taken place by watching the bar on your computer's screen.
 You'll see this prompt at 75 percent in the Pangu window. The Pangu app will be on one of the Home Screens., Pangu will prompt you for access to your photos. This lets Pangu access your iPhone's DCIM folder, which is required to run the exploit that allows the jailbreak to work.Since your iPhone is in Airplane Mode, you don't need to worry about your photos being transferred, and the Pangu app will be removed after the jailbreak is complete.
 Once Pangu has access to your photos, the jailbreak will proceed. The Pangu window on your computer will display "Already Jailbroken" when the jailbreak is finished, and you'll see Cydia on one of your Home screens., Cydia will begin its initial setup, which may take a few minutes. Once it's finished, your iPhone will reboot. Once your iPhone has rebooted, your jailbreak is complete., Future updates will likely terminate your jailbreak and prevent you from being able to jailbreak again.