 Ionic or tourmaline hair dryers give off negative ions that help break up the water droplets on your hair for faster drying. As a result, your hair is less likely to be frizzy after you dry it. If you have thick, frizz-prone hair, shop for a dryer that has an ionic or tourmaline interior for the best results.Tourmaline is a semi-precious metal that provides the most intense ionic action. A tourmaline dryer is likely to be more expensive than a regular ionic dryer. However, if you have extremely thick or frizzy hair, it may be a good investment.
An ionic or tourmaline dryer is also good for any type of hair that’s difficult to dry.
If you have fine or thin hair, avoid ionic dryers. They aren’t as effective in building volume as other types of blow dryers.;
, Blow dryers that feature plastic or metal housing that’s coated in ceramic or porcelain provide heat that’s less harsh and more consistent, so they’re a good choice for fine or dry hair that dehydrates easily. If you’re not sure what type of dryer to purchase, a ceramic or porcelain model is actually good for all hair types.Ceramic or porcelain dryers also use negative ions to prevent frizz and allow you to dry your hair more quickly.
Some ceramic or porcelain dryers feature infrared technology. That means they use longer energy waves that penetrate the hair so it’s dried from the inside out.
 A titanium blow dryer provides heat at a steady, even temperature. It tends to get very hot, though, so it’s not a good choice for fine or damaged hair. However, if you have extremely thick hair or lots of hair, a titanium blow dryer can drastically help reduce your drying time.Titanium weighs less than ceramic or porcelain, so the dryer is usually lightweight. That makes it more comfortable to hold when you have a lot of hair to dry.
 A blow dryer’s wattage measures how hard and fast its motor works. The higher its wattage, the faster you’ll be able to dry your hair. Dryers with a low wattage are usually cheaper, but you’ll need to replace them more often than those with a higher wattage. For at-home use, look for a dryer whose wattage is at least 1350.If you have extremely thick, difficult to dry hair, opt for a dryer with a wattage between 1800 to 2000. That will help you dry your hair more quickly.
 It may seem like a minor detail, but it’s important to consider the weight of a blow dryer. You want a lightweight model that will be more comfortable to hold while you’re drying your hair. That makes your blowout easier.For the most comfortable drying experience, look for a blow dryer that’s approximately 1 pound (454 g) in weight.
 While it helps to have a dryer that’s made with the right material and proper wattage, you also want a model that allows you to adjust the heat level. Search for a dryer that provides low, medium, and high heat settings so you can use the precise amount of heat that your hair requires.For fine, thin, or dry hair, the low heat setting is usually enough to effectively dry your hair.
For normal hair, the medium setting is usually enough to effectively dry your hair.
For coarse, thick hair, the high heat setting is usually enough to effectively dry your hair.
 If you want shiny, sleek hair, choose a blow dryer that features a cool shot setting. That allows you to blast your hair with cool air when you’re nearly finished drying your hair to seal the cuticle for smooth, shiny hair.Switch from the heat setting to the cool setting when your hair is approximately 80% dry. It will finish drying your hair with overheating it.
 A diffuser is an attachment that distributes the hot air in a larger area without blowing your hair all over the place. It’s particularly helpful if you have curly or wavy hair because it helps keep the texture intact while still adding volume.A diffuser typically snaps onto the end of the blow dryer. It is removable so you can only use it when you want to.
 Like a diffuser, a concentrator nozzle snaps onto the end of a blow dryer. However, it emits the air in a concentrated stream so it’s a handy tool if you regularly straighten your hair your hair with your dryer. It can also help cut down on frizz.When you use the concentrator nozzle, always keep it pointed downward and never allow it to come into contact with your hair.Run a brush through your hair as you’re drying it, and follow the path of the brush with the concentrator nozzle for super straight, sleek hair.

