 You will often sound more sassy if you can inject a joke into the situation. A witty comeback can go a long way towards easing any tension that occurs in social situations, at school, or at work. Using humor shows that you are able to deflect rude comments in a playful and carefree way.Humor can defuse a tense situation, and make a bully reconsider picking on you. Try making a joke or witty comment that turns the conversation in your favor.
For example, if someone teases you about your outfit, try saying, "Wow, I'm flattered you noticed what I'm wearing!" Or you could try, "Oh, I'm always too busy hanging out with friends to pay much attention to clothes!"
Even simply saying, "Awkward!" can ease tension and make the awkward situation an encounter everyone can laugh off.;
, Sometimes the best comeback is to simply tell the person bothering you to stop. Although it can be hard, look him in the eye and make your feelings clear. Speak firmly and maintain eye contact.For example, if someone is teasing you about a presentation you recently made, say "I'm not participating in this conversation." Then walk away.
You can show that you are sassy by portraying a confident attitude, and using assertive words is one of the best ways you can do that.
 Sometimes it can be hard to think on your feet. Especially if someone is teasing you, it is normal to get flustered and not be able to find the right words. Try having some standard comebacks ready for when you find yourself in such a situation.It's a good idea to think of some good lines to use in any situation. For example, you could try saying something like, "I heard you and I don't care" or "I don't let people like you bother me."
There are lots of other ideas you could try, such as "I wish you would stop wasting my time." You could also simply say, "Are you done yet?"
Pick some standard things to say that make you sound sure of yourself, yet do not hurt anyone's feelings. Remember, it won't make you feel better to put someone else down.
 It's difficult to be sassy if you are feeling bogged down with negative thoughts. In order to deliver a good comeback, you need to try to have an upbeat attitude. It can be hard to focus on the positive if you're in a tense situation, but if you consciously try to change your attitude you will see the impact that comes from positive thinking.Every minute of school and work won't be fun, but you can train your mind to focus on the good things that are going on in your life.
For example, if a coworker or classmate is teasing you about being awkward, take a deep breath and think, "I'm looking forward to hanging out with my friends tonight and watching a funny movie."
Make a list of all of the good things you have going on in your life. This will make it easier to recall them when you need to.
Try working some of these positive thoughts into your comebacks. You could say, "Whatever, at least I've got awesome plans for this weekend" if someone is making fun of you for being boring.

