 Decide whether you want to go left or right and then turn your body in this direction.

If you’re not sure what direction is best, try one out. If it doesn’t feel right, try the other way next time.
 To get into a lunge, place your strongest leg in front of you in the direction you intend to cartwheel. Bend your strongest leg slightly and keep your back leg straight. Raise your arms straight above your head.Place your strongest foot in front, usually the one with which you would kick a ball. This will help you propel yourself., You’ll want to perform the cartwheel along a straight line, so imagining this line will help guide your hands and feet.
 Bend over and shift your weight onto the strongest leg. Then place your strongest hand, on the same side of your body as the strongest leg, on the ground along your imaginary line. Your back leg should rise into the air as your hand hits the ground.Your first hand placed on the ground should be the one that matches your strongest leg. For example, if you put your left leg forward in your lunge, your left hand should first land on the ground., Your other hand should come down to the ground at the same as time you kick up your leg that remains on the ground.


Your hands will now be side by side and spread about shoulder width apart.
You can think about this as if you’re going into a handstand., Once both hands are planted, you'll be balancing your weight on your arms, using your shoulders and core for support, and your legs will be in the air in a v-shape.Remember that you won't actually have to hold this position. This is the form your legs should take while in the air as you’re fluidly performing the cartwheel.
 To get out of the cartwheel, bring down your feet in a split leg method. Your strongest leg lands on the ground first at the same time as your strongest hand., Your back leg lands after the strongest leg. Your other hand lands at the same time as this leg., You’ll land as you begun, just facing in the other direction. Now your back leg will be forward and slightly bent with your strongest leg behind and straight.