 When your interviewer asks you why you left your last job, the best thing you can do is be honest. Making up stories will only make you seem irresponsible and untrustworthy.Think about what your employer might say if the interviewer calls to follow up on your story. It's very important that you don't say anything that will be contradicted by your former employer's story. This means if you were fired for misconduct, you need to own up to it instead of saying you resigned.
It's also important to address the question at hand. Trying to dodge it by changing the subject will only make you seem suspicious.;
, Try to avoid getting emotional when explaining why you were fired, even if you feel strongly about it. Instead, offer a very brief description of the events that resulted in your termination.Sticking to the facts will help you avoid coming across as overly apologetic. While you should take responsibility for the termination to a reasonable extent, apologizing for your actions during an interview will only make you seem desperate.
For example, instead of saying, "My boss was really mean to me and I couldn't handle the pressure, so I made some dumb mistakes, which I know was really bad," try saying something like, "The way I work is very different from the way my former boss works. He thrives on the pressure of last-minute deadlines, while I prefer to prepare for projects well in advance. Because of this I was not always able to get the results he was looking for."

, A prospective employer is not likely to believe you if you blame your termination solely on your former employer and don't accept any personal responsibility. Be sure to comment at least somewhat on your own role, even if you just say that you were not the right fit for the company's culture or the specific job.Don't say "Everybody in that organization violated company policies now and then but never got caught. I am just unlucky for getting caught." Blaming others for your own mistakes only shows that you are self-righteous and irresponsible.
Don't dwell on your wrongdoings either! Keep this very brief and then move on to more positive comments.
 It's never a good idea to say anything negative about your former employer during an interview, no matter what the circumstances.Do your best to stay calm and collected, even if you're still angry about being terminated. You do not want to look like a person who holds a grudge.
 Even if you feel you were discriminated against, it's usually best not to let your interviewer know that you are pursuing or are considering pursuing legal action against your former employer. While it is technically illegal to not hire you because of this, the interviewer may see it as a red flag nonetheless. You don't want to give your prospective employer any reason to believe that you will cause legal problems for them in he future., Once you acknowledge what went wrong at your last job, it's important to communicate what lessons you've taken away from that experience. Talk about how you have grown and how you would confront the same situation if it happened today.If you were fired for violating company policy, try saying something like, "I didn’t realize that violating the policy would be taken seriously. But this incident helped me become more responsible and respectful of rules. I understand the gravity of what I did, and as a result have more respect for the company, the position, and the responsibility that came with it."
Make it very clear that you will not repeat the same mistake again.
Do not be overly critical of yourself, or you may come off as lacking in confidence and desperate for the job. Just talk about the lessons you have learned in a subtle and positive manner, never berating yourself to show false modesty. You should be selling yourself, not selling yourself short.
 If you need to say something a little bit negative in order to explain your termination, make sure to surround the statement with positive remarks to avoid sounding overly negative.If, for example, you were fired because you had a difficult time getting along with your coworkers, try sandwiching this information between statements about your enthusiasm for doing a good job and the lessons you've learned about teamwork.
 If you have only been fired once and have an otherwise good record, focus on your past achievements, emphasizing that being fired was an anomaly for you.