 Take advantage of anything that can hone your acting skills. Look into community theater, low-budget projects, student films at local colleges, commercials, or indie films. On top of acting experience, find work behind the scenes of a TV, movie, or commercial set to help you learn as much about the job as possible.


Art colleges that have film programs allow students to post jobs at the school when they need actors for a school project. Try working on these roles for experience.
Actors that are just starting out should not turn there noses away from small roles, or roles that they do not believe suit them well. Any job is a chance for you to practice your acting range and build skill and experience.
You never know when one acting role may lead to another role for you.
 Whether you have decided to devote all of your free time to pursuing acting, or you are trying to fit it in around your full-time job at the office, try to dedicate at least one hour a day toward your acting goal. You can learn about new auditions, attend acting classes, see a play, study a movie, or update your resume. There is always a lot to do, so try to accomplish something each day., No matter how many years you have been acting, or how many acting classes you have taken, learning the craft of acting never ends. There is always something you can improve on, grow from, or challenge yourself with. Always be open to suggestions, and be willing to change.When a casting director or acting instructor has advice for you, do not block out their suggestions and get offended. Truly listen to their critique, and ask them for advice on how to improve.
 You may go on a dozen auditions and not get a single call-back. This can be hard on the ego and spirit. Try to remember that this is part of the business. There is going to be a lot of competition, and you are not going to get many parts that you go out for. Sometimes, your acting agent will tell you what the casting agents did not like about you or your audition, and you have to be emotionally ready to hear that. Instead of letting it crush your self-confidence, think about how you can grow from any of the criticism for future auditions.


Realize that there may not have been anything wrong with your audition, but the casting directors may have had a very specific idea in mind, and you were not it. Just be patient, and keep auditioning.
Acting is not for the faint of heart. When you feel overwhelmed, remind yourself that this is what most actors go through before they find work.
Find emotional support by talking with fellow actors about their struggles and fears.

