 If your child is on fire, cover him with a blanket or jacket, and help him roll on the ground to extinguish the flame. Remove any smoldering clothing. Stay calm; panic can be contagious.


If you are dealing with an electric burn, establish that your child is not in contact with the electric source when you touch him.
In cases of chemical burns, run water over the burn for at least five minutes. If the burns are large, try soaking in a tub, or shower. Do not remove clothes until after the area has been cleaned. If clothes are stuck to burn site, do not try to peel them away; this might cause additional damage. Cut the cloth to remove the article of clothing, leaving the piece that is stuck to the wound.;
, You should call emergency services if the burn is larger than three inches (77 mm) or if it is charred and white.You should also call a doctor, 911, or go to the nearest emergency room if the burn is from a fire, electrical source, or chemicals. If the burn shows signs of infection, including swelling, pus, or increasing redness, you should call a doctor. Finally, call a doctor if the burn is in a sensitive location, like the face, scalp, hands, joints, or genitals.Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department if your child has any trouble breathing or is very lethargic after suffering a burn.
Once you have contacted emergency services, you can begin treatment while you wait for medical professionals to arrive.
 Use cool but not cold water. Run it over the burn for approximately 15 minutes to cool it down. Do not use ice or apply any gels except for aloe gel. Do not burst blisters. For large burns, lay the child flat and raise the burned areas above the chest. Rub a cool washcloth over the area for 10 to 20 minutes. Do not put large parts of his body under cold water because it could cause shock.Ice will damage the skin. There are also a number of home remedies that are thought to be effective but will actually make the wound worse. These include butter, grease, and powder. Refrain from using these., After washing the burn and before covering it, you can apply Aloe gel to encourage healing. If you loosen the wrap, you can reapply it several times throughout the course of the day.
 Pat the burn site dry. To protect the site from further injury, wrap the burn in gauze. To avoid aggravating the burn, use non-stick gauze and wrap it loosely around the site of the burn.If you do not have sterile gauze, a clean sheet or towel might work., Give the kid a child or infant strength dose of acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin). Follow the instructions on the bottle and consider calling a doctor if the child has never tried the medication before.Refrain from giving Ibuprofen to babies under six months.It is difficult to tell if a baby is in pain. A good sign though is that his cries are louder, more high pitched, and longer than usual. He might also grimace, wrinkle their brow, or squeeze his eyes shut. He may not be willing to eat or sleep at regularly scheduled times.