 It's always a good idea to pre-register for the job fair. The main idea behind this is that employers get a chance to pre-screen potential applicants and note those specific people they want to meet at the fair.;
, Don't waste your time researching companies that you have zero interest in.
 If you have multiple interests or job objectives, make very sure you bring enough of each version of your resume. If you want to know how to write a resume see the wikiHow article on How to write a resume.
 When you create your portfolio, include copies of your resume, a catalog of your references, and replicas of your best work.
 It is always better to be overdressed, then underdressed.
 It's always best to survey the layouts of the fair and determine the order of interviewing. It is always suggested that you interview with your top choices, then you interview with your other choices and lastly, returning to your top choices and thank them for their time. But remember, always stay flexible as your top choices can be the choice of many other citizens, creating long lineups that you could avoid.
 You should also practice answers to interview questions as you would any other job interview. Avoid all bad communication habits such as rocking, chewing gum, fidgeting and so on.
 If you didn't prepare for an interview with a specific company, it's always a good idea to listen in on several interviews so you can better prepare yourself.
 You can network with fellow job seekers in terms of sharing job leads, companies and their recruiting styles and strategies. One good networking source are employment agencies, there are always at least one who attends job fairs.
 When you do actually follow-up on your job apps, you will get an advantage over many others who do not. You can follow up by calling the actual recruiter and thanking them for his or her time or writing a thank you letter, in the letter, thank the recruiter for his or her time and restate you interest and qualifications for the interview, reiterate your interest with a second interview and make a promise to follow up even further with a telephone call. Enclose another copy of your resume just to be very sure.

