 If you are starting at the beginning of the school year, this means that you absolutely must do your summer reading. Even if you could get by without doing it at your old school, your new school might test you on it right away. Although summer reading isn't always the most fun thing in the world, it's much easier to tackle that summer reading assignment if you do your reading ahead of time. At the very least, you won't have a clueless look on your face when your teacher asks about the summer reading or math assignments.;
, If you have to attend a new student orientation where teachers are present, be sure to ask about what's expected from you academically.
 Even if you are an A+ student, neglecting your studies result in that horrible 64, or D- on that reading assignment you could've easily avoided had you studied. Try to study in a quiet area where you can concentrate and can't be disturbed.
 It may take more work to get an A at your new school than it did at your old one. Take their feedback seriously and use it to improve your work.
 Some schools expect you to be a more active participant and encourage students to ask more questions. In that case, try to match the participation level of your classmates. Even if it is uncomfortable at first, your teachers will respect you for making an effort. At the very least, try to raise your hand for something other than asking to go to the bathroom.
 Some schools, especially smaller private ones, have teachers who will grade you on your homework. You don't want to lose points for not doing homework or doing it poorly. At the very least, doing your homework will give you a better understanding of the material, it will give you a sense of what you need to improve on and you won't get in trouble.
 Some teachers are big fans of pop quizzes and as the new student, you won't have a sense of who they are. It helps to do as much preparation as you can.
 Behave well toward everyone -- even to that jerk who tripped you and made you land flat on your plate of beans at lunchtime. Do as Hiawatha did in the Native American days and be nice to everyone, even your enemies. Doing this will make you new friends, which means more fun for you!

, It can make you look like an idiot in front of your friends, crush, or teacher. It can also get you in big trouble.
 This is easier to do if you avoid hanging out with people who make you feel uncomfortable or who just don't like. Give yourself some leeway to make mistakes, but be sure to learn from each and every one.

