 Generally, both parties must agree to submit a dispute to arbitration. If your dispute isn't related to a contract that contains an arbitration clause, you'll need to get the other party's permission before you start looking for private arbitrators.If there is an arbitration clause in a contract that governs your dispute, both parties already have agreed to arbitration by signing the contract.
However, many disputes have nothing to do with a contract. For example, you can finalize your divorce through arbitration. Both you and your spouse must agree to submit the matter to arbitration.
You also must decide whether to use binding or non-binding arbitration. With binding arbitration, you typically have no recourse if you don't like the arbitrator's decision. Non-binding arbitration, however, permits you to file a lawsuit in court if you don't agree with the arbitrator's decision.
You also may need to discuss who will pay for the arbitration. Arbitration costs vary widely depending on the type of dispute, as well as the part of the country and the specific arbitrator's experience.
In most cases, the costs of arbitration are split between the parties. In some disputes, the winning party may be responsible for the full costs.;
, Local court systems typically have information about private arbitrators in the general area. One benefit of selecting an arbitrator from this list is that they are located nearby and have already been vetted by the courts.Some courts actually require certain civil suits, such as those filed in small claims, to attempt mediation or arbitration before they can be tried in front of a judge.
Other legal disputes, such as divorces, can be resolved through arbitration. However, the arbitrator must follow specific procedural rules outlined by the courts for the decision to be valid.
Even if you aren't involved in a dispute where the court controls your choice of arbitration in any way, you still can take advantage of court-approved arbitrators to resolve your dispute.
 Attorneys licensed to practice law are members of their state or local bar association. Most bar associations keep listings of private arbitrators and can provide you some referrals to get you started.Many arbitrators are retired judges or lawyers, and may still be actively licensed to practice law.
Bar associations typically have an arbitration or alternate dispute resolution (ADR) section. Looking through this section on the bar association's website may provide you with links to private arbitrators or other information.
If you know or have already hired an attorney in connection to your dispute, talk to them about helping you choose an arbitrator.
Attorneys typically are familiar with a number of arbitrators working in your area and are able to recommend someone well-qualified to hear your dispute.
 If your dispute concerns a particular industry, there may be a government agency that regulates that industry. The regulatory agency typically will have the names of private arbitrators they recommend.


One benefit of going through a government agency that regulates your industry is that you can be assured the arbitrators recommended have experience and knowledge of your industry and its particular issues.
Even if you aren't in business yourself, you still may be able to get assistance from a government agency.
For example, suppose your dispute concerns a product you purchased from a local family-owned business. Your state may have a consumer protection agency that can point you toward private arbitrators with knowledge and experience in commercial law and consumer rights.
 Most arbitrators have their own websites, so you may be able to find private arbitrators in your area by doing a basic internet search for "private arbitrator" followed by the name of your city and state.


Even if you have names of arbitrators or arbitration services from other sources, it's generally a good idea to see if they have a website you can access.
An arbitrator's website typically provides more in-depth information about their background and experience, as well as their areas of expertise.
You can use this information to compare the arbitrators you've located and find the best possible provider to resolve your dispute.
 If your dispute arose from a contractual relationship, that contract may have a clause that states how disputes should be resolved, and which arbitration providers should be used.Some arbitration clauses are more general, leaving the choice of private arbitrator up to the parties.
Others specify an agency you must use to find an arbitrator, or list specific credentials any chosen arbitrator must have.
Even if your dispute is not governed by a contract, you might find it useful to look at arbitration clauses in contracts for similar situations.
For example, if your dispute involves the sale of furniture you built to a retail furniture store, you might look at other contracts between manufacturers and retail stores.
You typically can find sample contracts on the internet that you can evaluate. The wording in their arbitration clauses may give you some ideas on which private arbitrator to choose.
 Particular fields often have preferred arbitration providers that they recommend for resolving disputes in that industry. Arbitrators who work for these providers have familiarity with industry issues and experience working in that field.For example, if you work in the construction industry, you want an arbitration provider who has experience reading and understanding construction contracts.
Your arbitrator also needs a working understanding of issues that commonly arise in the construction industry.
An industry association can be a quick way to find a well-qualified arbitrator. If the association recommends a particular arbitrator and you trust the association's judgement, you won't have to go through a long list of arbitrators trying to decide whether they have the background and experience necessary.
An arbitrator with extensive familiarity with your industry will put both parties at ease. This also can be a benefit of arbitration over a trial. With a trial, you can't be certain that the judge assigned to your case has any knowledge whatsoever of your field.
 Many states do not require arbitrators to be certified, or have any specific requirements for someone to call themselves an arbitrator. For this reason, you must look closely at any private arbitrator you're thinking about using and make sure they're qualified to resolve your dispute.Generally, you want to look for an arbitrator who has at least five years experience as either a judge or an attorney in the law that governs your legal dispute.
For example, if you are an employee who has a dispute with your employer, you want someone who has experience as a judge or attorney handling labor or employment law cases.
This experience ensures the arbitrator has the legal knowledge to understand the law that applies to your dispute.
Awards or certifications from arbitration associations or legal organizations also can help you find a good arbitrator. However, if you see an arbitrator advertising a particular award or certification, you should look it up and find out what the criteria are for receiving that particular designation.
For example, some bar associations offer additional training for attorneys who want to indicate they specialize in arbitration or are certified as an arbitrator.
Since certification or specialization isn't required by the state to identify as an arbitrator, make sure additional education or experience is required, rather than just payment of a fee to be a member of that particular association or group section.
 You want to avoid having to explain basic technology or industry standards to your arbitrator. If this type of knowledge is essential to understanding your dispute, make sure you choose an arbitration provider that is familiar with your industry.For example, if you have a construction dispute, you want to make sure your arbitrator has knowledge of building codes and standards that are applicable to your dispute.
If you're dealing with a highly technical issue, or a dispute that involves intellectual property rights, make sure your arbitrator has knowledge and experience in the respected field.
For example, if you believe the developer of a mobile app has infringed the intellectual property you have in a similar mobile app, you need an arbitrator who understands patent or copyright law as applied to computer programs. Ideally, that arbitrator also should be familiar with the coding language you used to develop your mobile app.
 Depending on the nature of your dispute and the people involved, you may have other factors that are important to you in making your selection of an arbitration provider. Other factors may include the location of the arbitration provider or their arbitration rules and procedures.For example, if you or the other party is disabled or otherwise has difficulty traveling long distances, you may need to find an arbitrator located nearby.
Some arbitrators also may allow parties to appear over a distance using teleconferencing or video-conferencing.
You also want to look at the timeline and rules governing the arbitration proceedings. If you're not planning to hire an attorney, you should look for arbitrators that have simpler, more casual rules for procedure and evidence than might be required in a court setting.
In some cases, the courts may have specific requirements if you want the arbitration decision to be legally binding. Check these requirements before you hire an arbitrator.
 You typically have the choice of choosing only one arbitrator, or having your dispute resolved by a panel of three or more arbitrators. If your dispute is particularly complex or involves a lot of money, you typically want a panel.In most cases, one arbitrator should be enough. Keep in mind you generally will have to pay more money if you have your dispute heard by a panel of three arbitrators rather than by a single arbitrator.
Time is another factor to consider when deciding whether to use one arbitrator or more than one. If you decide to have your case heard by a panel, you may have to wait longer for a full panel of arbitrators to be available. After your hearing, you'll have to wait longer for a decision as well.
Some arbitration providers make this decision relatively easy for you by providing guidelines for when to use one arbitrator and when to use a panel.
For example, some arbitration providers require a panel of three arbitrators if the amount of money in dispute is more than $100,000.
 Some arbitration providers have specific guidelines regarding whether you must use a single arbitrator or panel of arbitrators, and how those arbitrators are chosen.Some arbitration providers appoint the arbitrators for you based on the information about your dispute that you provided in your initial application for services.
Others give you a list of names from which to choose. These lists typically provide basic information about each of the arbitrators so you can compare their backgrounds to make your choice.
When you complete your initial application with the arbitration provider, you'll get information on that provider's process for appointing an arbitrator to hear your dispute.
 If your arbitration provider gives you the ability to choose your specific arbitrator, you typically must submit names to the provider by the deadline they give you when you sign up for their services.Some arbitration providers will have you select two or three arbitrators, then your list will be forwarded to the other party, who will make the final selection from the list you chose.
In others, both parties are given a list of arbitrators and must rank those arbitrators from the one they prefer the most to the one they prefer the least.
Once these two lists are received, the arbitration provider will average the ranks together and assign the highest-ranked arbitrator.
If you're simply choosing a single private arbitrator who runs their own arbitration service, you won't have to go through this process. However, you still have to make sure the other party agrees with your choice.
 Your arbitrator must be neutral. The way neutrality is guaranteed differs among arbitration providers. At the very least, the other party to the dispute must agree to the arbitrator you've chosen.Both parties may be given a list of possible arbitrators and given the opportunity to strike names of anyone with whom they've had prior dealings.
With other arbitration providers, it's up to the arbitrators themselves to identify whether they know one of the parties to a dispute and therefore cannot remain neutral.
Regardless of the process, arbitration is voluntary and cannot go on unless both parties agree on the arbitrator chosen or appointed.
 Once the other party agrees to your choice or your arbitrators are appointed by the arbitration provider, you typically will receive a notice that lists the names of the arbitrators who will preside over your case.This notice typically includes other information related to your arbitration, such as the date, time, and location of your hearing.
Most arbitration hearings have a discovery period, just like in court, through which the parties exchange information and evidence relevant to the dispute.
Your notice typically will outline the procedures to be used in exchanging information and evidence, as well as the rules that govern what will and will not be admissible in the arbitration hearing itself.

