 If things leap out at you visually and stick well, you're probably the type of person who collects information visually. If you see it, you can understand it. Ways that you find taking in information easier include:


Information on pictures, charts, or diagrams is much easier to remember than the same information presented to you verbally.
You visualize things as you learn them, often looking into the distance as if you are "seeing" the information.
You create vivid images of information in your mind. When learning the Articles of the Constitution, you may envision yourself in the room with the Founding Fathers as they discussed them.
Your spatial skills are very strong: sizes, shapes, textures, angles, perspectives—–these are all easy for you to grasp.
You're able to "read" people by their body language, knowing what they're really thinking, even as they say something else.
You're very aware of your environment, and have a strong appreciation for aesthetics, art, and other visual media.
 Go where there are no distractions, nothing that will visually catch your eye. Avoiding "shiny objects" will allow you to focus on what it is you need to memorize. That means no TV, open windows, or those cat clocks with the eyes that move back and forth.
 For example, if you're memorizing history notes, then color code them by dates or key people. George Washington is blue, Ben Franklin is orange, anything about the Revolution is red, King George is green, etc.
 Writing each item down on a matching-color Post-It note will not only help cement this association in your mind, it will help with the next step too.
 Read it every time you pass by. Align your notes by color, vertically, and horizontally. by time.
 When you go to your note board, look at an item, rewrite it on a fresh Post-It or card, and replace the existing one. If you are having particular difficulty with one of the existing notes, take the old note and put it somewhere else, where you will see it more often. Replace that one occasionally, too.
 Draw diagrams/graphs, write out explanations, and teach concepts to each other to help each of you better remember them.
 Look for important of key words depending on what you have to memorize, highlight them, remember them, then try to memorize the rest. If reading online PDFs, make use of the highlighting function for key points. This helps your memory, as well as fast recovery of information when searching through the document again.
 Pace around the room while studying and repeating the information to yourself. By walking around, you will use both your right and left brain and will memorize the material much easier.

