 You can download the app for free for your iOS or Android device from the App Store or Google Play Store. Note that the DraftKings Live Scoring app is different from the full DraftKings fantasy sports app. The former prevents you from joining contests, editing your lineups or creating new accounts—meaning that it’s designed mostly to provide information on the status of the contests you’ve already joined., If you have trouble downloading the Android app on the Google Play Store, you can manually install the APK, which you can download from a separate DraftKings webpage (draftkings.com/android). You’ll find the download link on a line that says “For Canadian users, download directly.”This only works for Android devices.
Open your device's Settings menu and select "Security". Check the "Unknown sources" box to enable non-store app installs. See How to Install APK Files on Android for more details.
Navigate to the folder where you placed the APK file on your Android device (named “dkandroid.apk” by default”) and tap it.
 Do this by tapping in your username and password. Remember to log out of your account if you’re using a device that other people have access to. Otherwise anyone who opens the DraftKings app will have access to your account.
 Do this by tapping the “My Account” button, where you will be able to review your available funds, deposit additional funds, withdraw earnings or review your transaction history on the DraftKings fantasy sports app., DraftKings accepts payments via PayPal, Visa, Mastercard, Discover and American Express. You can by default deposit money in $25, $100, $250 or $600 increments. Or you can just select the “Custom” option to deposit a specific amount of your choosing.


Note that any deposit bonuses you earn from DraftKings—such as their 100% deposit promo for first-time players—will be released for every 100 fantasy points earned in paid contests. These deposit bonuses will also expire four months after they are first created—so start playing in a lot of paid contests if you want your deposit bonuses to be credited to your account.
 You can withdraw money from your DraftKings account if you’ve accrued at least $20. If you’ve deposited cash into your account, that account is where DraftKings will first send the amount you choose to withdraw. Any additional earnings will be received through PayPal or through a check that is mailed to you. For example, you deposited $25 using your credit card and won $50. If you choose to withdraw the full $75, $25 will first be returned through your credit card while the $50 will be sent via PayPal or check.
 You can go head-to-head with friends in private contests, or you can join public contests with the “Play Now” option.


You can sort contests according to the number of entries, ascending/descending prize pools, ascending/descending start dates, or ascending/descending contest names.
You can also sort the type of contest you want to join in. You can pick head-to-head, double ups, leagues, tournaments, 50/50s, satellites and qualifiers or multipliers.
You can also sort contests according to their size as well as entry fees – which range from free matches to those that cost more than $100 to join in.
The buttons for the aforementioned sorting options can be found on the top part of your screen.
You can create your own contest; keeping it private or opening it up as you wish using the DraftKings fantasy sports app.
 DraftKings offers up a list of players from upcoming games for you to pick. It also offers useful stats like Fantasy Points per Game (FPPG) and Opponent Ranking vs Position (OPPG) to help you identify potential picks for your draft.


Select the league you want to create a lineup in, like the NFL for the nationals and the CFB for college football.
Fill in the roles with the players you want. You’ll have to pick one quarterback (QB), two running backs (RB), three wide receivers (WR), one tight end (TE), one flexible position (FLEX) and one defense/special (DST). Remember to stay under the salary cap of $50,000.
Make sure to review player stats to help you gauge if your choice is worth the money it will cost to import them into your fantasy football team.
Do as much research as you can on your potential lineup. The DraftKings app provides some information, but knowing what you can about the picks in your draft – from recent injuries to the consistency of their performance throughout multiple games – will play a huge role in giving you the edge over your competitors.
Submit your lineup when you’re ready.
 This is the date and time found on the contests that you joined. You can check the post-game performance of your team on the DraftKings app, but it is highly recommended that you watch the games so that you’ll know just how well your team performed.
 This is only valid if you joined a contest with cash prizes and you actually managed to win in your chosen contests. Just go to “My Account” and confirm whether you want to use PayPal or a paper check to receive your winnings.

