 It's a pink app with "lyft" written in white on it. If you're already logged in, doing so will bring you to a map of your immediate surroundings.


If you aren't logged into Lyft, first enter your phone number, then type in the code that Lyft texts to you when prompted.;
, This is the white box near the bottom of the screen, just above the Set pickup button.
 You'll do so in the white bar at the top of the screen. If your friend is at a well-known location (e.g., an airport or a local restaurant), you can enter the location's name; otherwise, type in your friend's exact address.
 It should appear below the search bar as you type. Tap the result that matches your friend's location.
 It's at the bottom of the screen.


You can also tap the Lyft button (the car icon to the left of the Set pickup button) to change the car style if needed.
 While adding a destination isn't required for starting a ride, Lyft recommends adding a destination so the driver knows ahead of time where your friend is going., You'll do so in the white bar at the top of the screen.
 As you type, search results will appear below the search bar. Tap the correct destination that matches where your friend's needs to go.
 This button is at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will prompt the Lyft driver to navigate to your friend at the pickup location you specified.


You can also change your payment settings or add a destination on this page before requesting the Lyft.
 Lyft recommends that you contact the driver to inform them that the passenger they will be picking up is not the person who requested the ride.This way the driver won't think your friend is trying to steal the ride you requested.


Once the Lyft has been initiated, tap Contact to contact the Lyft driver.
Provide the driver with your friend's name and a brief description of what they look like.
 Once your friend arrives at the destination, your Lyft account will be charged using the payment method you previously selected.


You can have your friend reimburse you later if need be.
Since your friend is the one taking the ride, consider asking them to cover a tip in cash.

