 You can easily make delicious vegan whipped cream by using coconut milk or cream. To begin, place your coconut milk or cream in the refrigerator for 24 hours. Keep it in the back of the fridge or in a place where it can sit undisturbed, as opposed to on the door or in front of items that you reach for a lot in your fridge.It’s important to let the coconut milk or cream sit undisturbed so that the oil of the coconut can separate from the cream.
Also chill your mixing bowl or canister that you will use to whip the coconut milk or cream.
The coconut milk or cream will add a hint of coconut to the flavor of the whipped cream.
 After you have chilled the coconut milk or cream for 24 hours, take it out of the fridge. Transport it from the fridge to the counter without tipping or shaking it. Use a can opener to remove the lid, then use a spoon to dollop the coconut cream that has floated to the top out from the oil, which should have settled at the bottom, and place the cream in a large mixing bowl.Try to dollop the cream out very gently so that you don’t disrupt the coconut cream or milk and mix up the contents.
Dispose of the oil if you wish or reserve it to use for use in baking or other recipes.
If you are using a canister, place the cream in the body of a whipped cream canister.
 After you place the cream in the mixing bowl, use a whisk to whip the cream in rapid circular motions for about 30 seconds. If you are using a hand-mixer, turn the mixer onto high and move the mixer in lines back and forth through the cream for 30 seconds.If you are creating the vegan maple whipped cream in a canister, place the cream and the maple syrup into the canister, then follow the steps in Method 2 to properly assemble, mix and dispense the whipped cream. Coconut whipped cream also lasts about 2 weeks in the fridge.
 After whipping the cream in the bowl for about 30 seconds, pour in the maple syrup and whip using a whisk or a hand mixer on high until it forms stiff peaks and reaches the consistency of whipped cream., After you have finished making your coconut maple whipped cream, dole it out onto fruit or desserts. Place the leftover whipped cream immediately in the fridge, first covering the bowl in plastic wrap.Whipped cream made in the bowl should last for a couple days. You may need to whip it for 30 seconds or so with a whisk or hand-mixer to get it to the right consistency again before serving.

