 Resetting your iPhone will delete all of the data that's stored on it. Backing up your iPhone will allow you to restore your data after resetting. Music and other iTunes content will need to be re-synchronized from iTunes or re-downloaded from iCloud after resetting. There are two ways to backup your iPhone data:Open the Settings app and select "iCloud." Scroll down and tap the "Backup" option. Tap "Back Up Now" to begin an iCloud back up. This will save everything that is toggled on in the previous screen to your iCloud account.
Connect your iPhone to your computer and launch iTunes. Select your iPhone from the row of buttons at the top and then click "Back Up now" with "This Computer" selected. This will begin creating a backup of your iPhone on your computer, which will also save any pictures and videos.;
, You can perform the reset process directly from your iPhone without using iTunes on your computer. If you can't access the phone or are locked out because you've forgotten your Restrictions passcode, see the next step.


Open the Settings app on your iPhone and select "General."
Scroll down and tap "Reset."
Tap "Erase All Content and Settings," then confirm that you want to erase the phone. You'll be prompted for your lock screen passcode as well as your Restrictions passcode, if you have one.
Wait for your iPhone to erase and restart. This will take a little while. Once the iPhone restarts, you'll be able to set it up as new or load your backup.
 If you can't access your iPhone because you don't know the screen passcode, or you've locked yourself out because you can't remember your Restrictions passcode, you'll need to use iTunes to reset the iPhone.


Put your device into Recovery Mode if you can't remember the screen lock passcode. Power the iPhone off, then press and hold the Home button. Continue holding the Home button and plug the iPhone into the computer. Launch iTunes and continue to hold the Home button until the iTunes logo appears on the iPhone's screen. You can then restore the iPhone in iTunes.
Connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes.
Select your iPhone and then click the "Restore iPhone" button.
Wait while your iPhone deletes all of the data and resets.
 If you don't have a computer to plug your iPhone into but are locked out of it because you don't know your screen lock or Restrictions passcode, you can use Find My iPhone to reset the iPhone remotely.


Visit icloud.com/find and log in with the same Apple ID that is logged into the iPhone. You can also use the Find My iPhone app on another Apple device by logging in as a guest.
Click the "All Devices" menu and select your iPhone.
Click the "Erase iPhone" button and then confirm. Your iPhone will begin resetting automatically.
 Any iPhone with Find My iPhone enabled will have an Activation Lock. This lock is to help deter theft, and prevents unauthorized users from resetting an using a stolen iPhone. To bypass the activation lock, you need to enter the Apple ID password for the ID that was previously associated with the device.


If you bought the iPhone used and you don't know the password of the previous owner, you'll need to get the original owner to enter their password. If they aren't present, they'll need to relinquish ownership of the device at icloud.com/settings by logging in, selecting the iPhone in the "My Devices" section, and then clicking the "X" button.
This is the only way to bypass the activation lock. If you cannot contact the previous owner, then you will not be able to access the device. Always check to make sure the activation lock has been disabled before purchasing a secondhand iPhone.

