 You should put your baby to sleep on their back for the first year of their life. Although your baby may roll over during the night, it is recommended to put them to sleep on their back. By putting them to sleep on their back, you will reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome.Try extending one arm. If you are really worried about them turning over onto their belly, you could extend one of their arms. This will make them a bit less likely to roll onto their stomach.;
, When you put your baby to sleep at night, you should avoid putting them on their side or stomach. There is a greater risk of sudden infant death syndrome when a baby is put to sleep on their side or stomach. If your baby is not yet able to roll over and has little head and neck strength, putting them to sleep in these positions can lead to smothering or suffocation., You should use a fitted sheet on a firm mattress and avoid leaving objects in the crib. Fit the sheet to the mattress and then take out any toys, blankets, pillows or other extraneous objects from the crib. In addition, you should avoid the use of a sleep positioner.


Avoid using a sheet that is either too large or too small for the mattress, since this may disrupt your baby’s sleep and could entangle or suffocate the baby.At bedtime, the crib should be empty aside from your baby. This precaution helps to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome.You should avoid the use of a sleep positioner to keep your baby on their back. The use of a sleep positioner can increase the risk of suffocation. If you own a sleep positioner, you should get rid of it., Baby monitors stream information on baby sleeping position, heart rate and breathing to your smart phone. However, there is no evidence that they help reduce sudden infant death syndrome. You should stick to proven approaches to reducing sudden infant death syndrome such as putting your baby to sleep on their back, keeping foreign objects out of the crib, using a fitted sheet and avoiding soft bedding., Once you have put your baby to sleep, you could try a few relaxation techniques to reduce any anxiety related to your baby rolling over at night. Take a few deep breaths, enjoy a bath with Epsom salts or do a few nighttime stretches.


Epsom salt baths are very relaxing and are especially beneficial for muscle aches and pains.
Shoulder shrugs are a nice way to relieve tension in your neck and shoulders. Lift your shoulders up to your ears, hold them for a couple seconds and then let them fall back down. Repeat this stretch a few times before bed.