 But, you must be careful not to seem like a stalker. Today, that is a huge turn-off for any girl. Don't make it feel "mysterious" or "freaky" like you're watching her. Try simply and subtly explaining your feelings, and make an attempt of writing your name.For example, write something like this:Hi, (name here). You are one of the prettiest girls in school. Remember that and don't believe anyone who says you're not.Sincerely, (write name in pen and scribble out, or maybe erase if in pencil, to let her know you are genuine and thought about telling her your feelings and you're not just a stalker)This is a great way to let a girl feel great. With this one little sign that some person is out there and is willing to love her and thinks she's pretty will leave her smiling for days.;
, Just be careful not to put it in a really weird place that will make her feel uncomfortable. Alternatively, you can get your friend to give it to that person.
 Write "see you in chemistry" or "see you on the bus" to leave her guessing.
 Like in a class you both share, especially if she's next to you. If she is thrilled to get a secret admirer letter and happy someone feels this way, she will tell you everything, which is a good sign. If she acts annoyed, you probably have gone too far and should stop. Don't stop immediately, or she will get tipped off.
 If she's happy, trust me, this is a good sign. Whether she likes you or not, she will appreciate the special little steps you took in order to make her happy and feel loved. If she looks annoyed, it's a good idea to stop gradually. Try apologizing in one of your last notes and watch her reaction while she reads it. If she likes the extra attention, she will try very hard to find out who you are, but if she looks relieved, you have gone too far in her mind and you should forget about the notes. If she tells her friends right away, she is happy and wants to find out more.
 Be careful not to give it away. If she doesn't feel the same way she will try to ignore you or tease you and make fun. If she does, she will first try to see if you are serious. One of a girl's biggest fears when she gets a note is if the "secret admirer" really likes her or not, or if he's just trying to get her hopes up just to watch her fall.

