 Raking is ideal for small lawns and gardens.Use quality rakes, preferably with soft grips. Rakes 36” or wider require more force, so choose a rake that is of standard width (24”). You can opt for ergonomic rakes, which have specially curved handles.Don’t retrace your steps. Work from one side of the lawn to the other in a zigzag.With each line you rake, move the leaves into the area where there are leaves you haven’t raked yet. Every time you create a ridge of leaves, push it a few feet into the unraked area. Repeat this until your pile is two feet tall (0.6096 meters) or is getting hard to move.
You can purchase ergonomic handles separately and attach them to your rakes. Attach handles by screwing them into your rakes. By doing this with two rakes, you can rake leaves with both arms and without bending over., Use a sheet, a tarp, or a tablecloth to move large piles of leaves. Put the four corners of the tarp together and move the bundle by dragging it. You can use this method in addition to or instead of using leaf bags.Eight feet by eight feet (2.44 meters) is a good-sized tarp for this purpose.
You can purchase fun, seasonal leaf bags like large bags with jack-o-lantern faces to decorate your yard and move leaves out of the way at the same time!

, This is a good option for large lawns. Use a grass catcher on the mower to collect the chopped leaves.Raise your mower deck to the second-highest setting before mowing your lawn.If the leaves are wet, use the side-discharging mode of your mower for the first pass in order to loosen and lift the leaves. Then switch to either mulching or bagging mode and mow over the leaves again.
 Consider using a leaf blower, especially if you have a big yard with many trees.Leaf blowing is particularly useful if you have woods up against your property, as you can blow the leaves back onto the forest floor.You can use a vacuum attachment for your leaf blower or use a leaf vacuum by itself. Handheld leaf vacuums are handy for small yards or areas.If you’re purchasing a leaf blower or vacuum, look for one that has a shredding function. Consider the ratio of reduction; for example, if the product offers a 10:1 reduction ratio, it will convert ten bags of unchopped leaves into one bag.
Keep in mind that leaf blowers are loud. Also, the most effective ones are gas-powered, which use fossil fuels that contribute to air pollution., If you decide to hire a professional to do your leaf cleanup, you can expect to pay for each job, several times per season.If you don’t have the time to do the leaf cleanup, this may be the option for you. Alternatively, you can rent a wheeled leaf blower like the pros use for about $50 a day.Most homeowners pay between $174 and $491, but it will depend on the size of your lawn. You can expect to pay anywhere between $75 and $900.Try contacting a professional and have your yard measurements ready as well as how many trees are in your yard. Ask if they can give you quote for leaf cleanup.

