 People will often say “yes” to requests from coworkers, family members, friends, and partners, even when these requests are time consuming and at times irrational. This is because you do not want to let other people down. By spending valuable time on side tasks, you are distracting yourself from completing your own goals. Sometimes it is best to just say “no.”Dividing your time between multiple tasks, some of them unnecessary, makes things harder than they need to be.
You are also setting yourself up for failure. You will not be able to complete everything you say “yes” to, and as a result, this will distract you from doing the things that are important to your growth and success.;
, There is no perfect way to do something. Constantly striving for perfection is one way that people will often make things harder on themselves. Placing unnecessary pressure on yourself to perform tasks perfectly can make things extremely difficult. Instead, you should just focus on completing tasks to the best of your ability. Spending time stressing over perfection is wasteful and will lead to increased anxiety.For example, it is better to complete a written draft of a report rather than waste time stressing over a minute detail. You can always make changes during the editing and revising phase.
 You can make even a simple task, like deciding what to wear, more difficult by constantly second guessing yourself. This becomes even more stressful when you are confronted with a major life decision. Once you have made a decision, whether it was right or wrong, it is best to accept your choice and move forward. Second guessing every decision is a sure what to make things harder than they need to be.For instance, you have decided to switch career paths, but constantly second guess this decision.
Rather than focusing your time and energy on being successful at your new career, you are wasting time dwelling on a past decision.
Overcoming self-doubt and learning to believe in yourself takes time, but you can learn to be more decisive and self-assured. Working with a therapist is one of the best ways to overcome self-doubt. Using positive self-affirmations and spending time with supportive friends and family can also help you to overcome self-doubt.
 Some people will take on too much, and eventually become burnt out. In order to increase your productivity it is actually a good idea to allow yourself time to relax and engage in activities for yourself. If you tend to make things harder on yourself, you probably don’t allow yourself any free time. By giving yourself time off, you will be able to approach your work with a new found energy.For example, engage in leisure activities that you enjoy such as reading, watching T.V. shows or movies, exercising, or spending quality time with friends and family.
You may also want to try taking a vacation periodically as a way to clear your mind and recharge your batteries.

