 If your manager gets upset, or seems unreceptive to your feedback, it can be tempting to call out perceived faults in your manager's personality. Stick to actions rather than bringing up personal traits that have little bearing on the matter at hand.Think of the situation like any argument. Any chance of a productive discussion is lost once you start insulting each other.
 As you talk to your manager, you may be reminded of other issues you have with their management style. You also may recall other matters that are causing workplace inefficiencies or problems. Leave them for another time.If something seems important, make a mental note to look into it and bring it up on a separate occasion at a later date.
Remaining focused on the issue at hand tells your manager that you respect their time and want to see the company succeed.
 Your manager may have legitimate reasons for doing things a certain way, or they may be dealing with factors you weren't aware of. Speak openly about your concerns and then give them a chance to explain.When your manager is speaking, listen. Don't interrupt or contradict what they're saying. When they've finished, repeat back what they've said so they know what you understand. Allow them to correct any misunderstanding.
When you and your manager come to an agreement on something, repeat that understanding and get your manager's assent that you agree on it. Then move forward from there.
 If your manager completely shuts down and is not willing to listen to or accept any of your feedback, give them the benefit of the doubt. Find out how you approached the situation wrong and what you can do in the future.Treat the entire process as a learning experience. If your manager cuts you off or indicates they don't want to listen to you, you might say: "I understand that you don't want feedback from me on the TPS Reports. Are there any other areas in which you would welcome my input? I'd like to make more of a contribution to the company."

, Regardless of the outcome of your meeting, your manager will appreciate a written note from you thanking them for the opportunity to provide feedback to them.If the two of you agreed to any changes, you might mention those and discuss anything you've done to facilitate those changes.
If you were not able to come to any sort of agreement, or your manager was unreceptive to your feedback, you still should send them a short note thanking them for their time.
Close your note by telling your manager how excited or enthusiastic you are about contributing to the company's success. Invite them to solicit your feedback in the future.

