 This gas is produced as organic aka living things rot. The female fly has a sense of smell for this gas and are attracted to it. This gas also gives off the stinky, musty smell we associate with rotten food or a rotten houseplant that has been over watered. To eliminate the risk of maggots you must eliminate the sources of methane gas/rot., Female flies smell the rotting meat scraps in the garbage can and will flock to it.  Make note of your community garbage truck day of the week. Try to dump your meat scraps the night or day before to limit the time the flies will smell it. If you can't use this timing, place all your meat scraps into a zip lock bag and freeze them until that day.
 The bones and fat can be placed in a pot of water and boiled overnight and seasoned. This is also less expensive and more flavorful than prepared box broth in the store. The boiled bones and meat will have less meat smell thus attracting fewer flies.


Give your leftover meat bones to your dog for crunching. Dogs like to chew on things and meat bones are their favorites. Just make sure the bones however are not too sharp to cut the animals throat. You can also give dogs the gristle and boiled and cooked meat scraps as a treat. Although you should talk to a vet before doing this.
 Maggots don't need much meat or meat juice food to develop into more flies so cleaning up all meat juice and meat smells will starve them and prevent them for turning your trash can into a buffet. Use the same techniques when discarding tools and equipment used to cut meat.


Also clean the rags used in cleaning up the meat juice and newspaper clippings used in preparation (keeping the fish scales neater instead of all over the place) with scalding hot water or in a tightly sealed bag or container before tossing out.
 Not only is a smelly trash can a maggot magnet but a disgusting thing to smell for you and those who live in or visit your house. Rinse your trash can even if it's every 2 or 3 months with plain water during the warm seasons to keep the maggots away and the trash can smelling decent.
 Place such trash in sealed containers. Kitty litter, feminine products, leftover pet food,dirty diapers need to have their bags tightly closed so the stable fly can't smell the methane gas and want to lay eggs in the trash can. Same goes for manure and animal bedding including hay and straw. Don't put dead animals in the household trash either.

Don't put rotting plant matter in the same can as the household trash. If you do you'll have triple trouble with stable flies, blow flies and houseflies. Put it in a separate landscape bag or in a sealed container before tossing it out into the trash can.
 Cold weather doesn't bring maggots but hot weather does. Don't worry about maggots if it's freezing outside because there aren't any flies to lie the eggs that hatch into maggots. If you live in warmer climates you'll have to be extra vigilant in controlling maggots.

