 Although the term may sound strange, a blow-out involves straightening your hair using a blow dryer. After you shower (having shampooed and conditioned your hair), towel-dry your hair and use a comb to brush through it. Then, turn your blow dryer on high for both heat and speed, and begin drying your hair. As you dry your hair, pull the hair straight out from your head with a brush (hence creating a blow-out). Move the air from the dryer up and down these strands as they are pulled from your head; this will dry them straight.









Use a round-barreled brush for the blow-out. This will prevent the hair from blowing all over the place when you pull it away from your head.
Always ‘wiggle’ the blow dryer a bit to prevent burning your scalp or singing your hair. The movement will keep the heat from focusing too much in one spot.
If you’re having trouble, ask your hairstylist (or girlfriend, boyfriend or sister) for a tutorial. It may be difficult to do at first, but with practice it’s easy to catch on to.;
, Yes, the all-powerful flat iron isn’t just for girls to use. Flat irons work by heating up two very hot ceramic plates which you run your hair between, thus making your locks ultra straight. Flat irons range in temperature and size; choose a flat iron that is 1-inch wide or smaller, especially if you have short hair, and one that gets above 350-degrees Fahrenheit. To use it, turn it on and give it 2-3 minutes to preheat. Then, run small ½-inch sections of hair between the plates, away from your head.








Don’t hold the flat iron on a section of hair for longer than 3-5 seconds; your hair will singe if the heat is not moved down the strand.
If you want to set your straight hair, blast your head with your blow dryer on the ‘cold’ setting to cool down your hair after being heated with the iron.
If you have long hair, pin or tie up the top section and start from the bottom. Working in sections will guarantee you straighten all the hair, and help speed up the process.Always be careful when using a flat iron near your roots, as it may burn your scalp.
 If you’re willing to shell out some money, you can have super soft, ultra straight hair after getting a Brazilian Keratin treatment. This special straightening treatment is applied at a salon, and lasts anywhere from 6-8 weeks. It works by sealing liquid keratin (the protein your hair is made out of) into each individual strand of hair. A chemical that preserves this keratin is placed over the top, to help it to last longer.








Brazilian Keratin treatments don’t show any side effects as of yet, but they are banned in Canada and the European Union because of some of the chemicals the treatment contains., If you have very curly or kinky hair, you may consider getting a relaxer done. This is the chemical version of the Brazilian Keratin treatment, and works by permanently altering the strands of hair to make them straight (like a perm for curly hair). Relaxers can be very damaging, but they will definitely give you straight hair. Keep in mind that although the relaxer is permanent, it must be re-applied every few weeks or months to straighten the roots of your hair.


If you ever want to have your natural hair again, you will have to cut off the relaxed part and grow out your roots.
 In general, the shorter your hair is, the less texture/wave it will show. Therefore, if you have long hair and are struggling to keep it straight, you might consider cutting off a few inches. On the flip side, the longer hair is, the more weight it has, and therefore the straighter your hair will look. Aim to have your hair 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) long, or at a length somewhere near your shoulders. These two cuts will take advantage of the illusion of straight strands.









Avoid layers in your hair cut, as these add texture and wave/curl to hair.