 Yes, it's college and not high school, so the attendance policy may be a little lax, if it exists at all. However, the reason no attendance policy exists is that you are in class of your own free will and you've paid a lot of money to be there. So why wouldn't you show up? Besides, if you're not in class, you often miss key material that shows up on the test later.;
, If a teacher stresses a point frequently, consider it something important, both in terms of your nursing practice, and in terms of what will be on the test. Also, if you take notes, you are more likely to retain the information. Essentially, you learn the material three times: once when you hear it, once when you write it down, and once again later when you read your own notes to study.
 The best way to deal with reading is to follow the syllabus and read the material before that specific class. If you have questions as you're reading, write them down so you can ask in class. Which brings us to.
 Ask questions of the teacher and answer the questions your teacher poses to you. The more engaged you are in the class, the more you'll get out of it.
 Find a method of studying that works for you. Go through your notes (once immediately following class, and again before the test); if you are a highlighter, go through your highlighted textbook; if you are a social animal, go for some collective study sessions (just make sure they don't turn into gossip sessions).
 In the Army, the saying goes: "right time, right place, right uniform, right attitude." The same holds true for clinical. Although class may not have a strict attendance policy, you can bet that clinical will. Therefore, if you show up late (without a good excuse, that is), it marks you as unprofessional and will invariably hurt your grade. Also, make sure you know where you're supposed to meet. Hospitals are confusing places, so showing up early on the first day is a good idea. Make sure that your uniform is ironed, fits properly, and is clean. Lastly, join clinical in the right spirit. Clinical is where the rubber meets the road and you implement everything you learn in class. So, seek out new opportunities and don't be afraid to try new skills. Look up your patients' labs and medicines, which will familiarize you with them for tests and the NCLEX-RN.
 Although you will get frustrated with some of them, bear in mind that they have been nurses for a long time and really do know what they are talking about. Also, a good nursing instructor will also want you to succeed. The biggest frustration for nursing instructors is when students do not seek them out when they are having trouble. Therefore, if you are struggling with anything, talk to your nursing instructor about it. Bear in mind, they are trained to listen and to help others. Trust them.
 Not only does this look great on a resume, it gives you valuable experience in the healthcare setting.

