 Sometimes the best treatment doesn’t just focus on OCD symptoms. The thought content may disturb you to the point that it causes significant distress. A therapist can help you work through feelings of depression, shame, guilt, and depression in treatment.While addressing OCD may be the main treatment goal, it can also be important to target how the OCD makes you feel.
 With a therapist, create a hierarchy of situations or thoughts that cause you shame. Then, rank them from causing least shame to causing most shame. The therapist will help you face each situation and emotionally work through each situation that has caused shame related to OCD. This type of exposure can lessen the emotional reaction of shame and help you realize that you can face challenging thoughts and feelings.For example, you may feel shame around eating in front of your family and arranging the foods, doing simple tasks in front of others, and having thoughts about violence toward your sibling. Now, arrange the situations in order of severity of shame, then discuss each situation with your therapist.
 OCD is often treated with medications. Medications can help to lessen the severity of your symptoms. Medication can help decrease OCD thoughts overall, which can help decrease feelings of shame. Talk to a prescriber, such as a psychiatrist to discuss medications. Antidepressant medication is often tried first, and some people benefit from antipsychotic medication. Your prescriber may try several medications to find the best fit for you.It’s unlikely to find a medication that does not cause side-effects and that takes away all symptoms of OCD. When considering medication, it’s important to note possible side-effects and risks associated with medication. When taking medication, make sure you do so under medical supervision.
 Family therapy can help families to understand OCD better and respond to the individual's needs more effectively.Especially if the person with OCD lives with the family, it can be difficult for the person and the family members to live harmoniously and understand each other. Family therapy can help decrease conflicts and increase understanding about OCD, what it’s like to live with OCD, and how family members can help.


Children with OCD seem to benefit greatly from family therapy., OCD can leave you feeling alone and isolated. You may feel like you are the only person who has these problems. Group therapy can help you feel like you fit into a community of other people similar to you. It can be helpful in providing support, building emotional skills, and decreasing isolation.Group therapy is generally led by a psychologist or therapist. It can include learning coping skills, practicing ways to respond to compulsions, and joining together to support one another.

