 Think about what tone you want the date to have, how you want your date to feel, as well as the logistics of the date.For example, make sure you have enough money and have thought about transportation, tips, and other fees.
Think about the weather. Do you need to bring an umbrella or ask your date to bring a jacket?
Think about things you want to talk about and whether you want the date to be more romantic, fun, exciting, etc.
 Make an effort to show your date that you respect them, care about their feelings, and enjoy their company. Here are a few simple things you can try:


Pay attention to your date. Make it clear that your focus is on them, not yourself.
Don’t try too hard to impress your date – i.e., don’t brag about yourself, your possessions, your job, and so on.
If you drop off your date at their place, walk them to their door.
If you drove to the date separately, call or text your date to make sure they got home safely.
 For your date to be successful, you should not only look nice, but act respectful as well.Take the time to put extra effort into your appearance and your actions.


Wear a special outfit or do something a little different with your hair.
Act respectfully. Say ‘please’ and ‘thank you’ as well as ‘excuse me’ when it’s appropriate.
Show confidence by smiling, holding your head up, looking your date in the eye, and talking in a clear voice.
 Even if you are super nervous, you should make conversation during the date.Talking gives you a chance to know more about each other and to make your date successful. So put your phone on vibrate and talk to your date.


Ask questions to get your date to talk about themselves. For example, you could ask, “What’s been the most interesting day you’ve ever had?”
Before the date, think of topics that you could talk about like: sports, hobbies, favorite movies, or music.
Give your date a thoughtful complement. Keep it simple – you could say something like, “You look really nice tonight!” or “I saw the painting you posted on Facebook. You’re so talented!” Don’t overdo the complements, or your date may feel uncomfortable.
 If you’re hanging out with other people, or if you encounter someone you know while you’re out, it’s important to make sure that your date doesn’t feel left out. #*Take time to introduce your date to everyone.


Make sure to include your date in conversations. Don’t spend a lot of time talking with your friends about things your date is unfamiliar with. E.g., don’t go on about things that you and your friends did together, or make your date feel excluded with a lot of inside jokes.
 No date goes exactly as planned. The weather changes unexpectedly, cars break down, and other small disasters can occur that can throw your date off track. If you are able to go with the flow and make changes to the plan as needed, then your date will be more successful.


Have a back-up plan in case you can’t go through with your date as planned.
For example, have an alternative restaurant in mind or another activity planned as a backup.
Try to have extra money in case of an unexpected event.

