 While resting, place two fingers on your wrist near the center so that you can feel your heart rate pulse. Use a timer or a clock with a second hand, and count your pulse for 15 seconds. Multiply this by four to get your resting heart rate per minute. Your Maximum Heart Rate (MHR) is roughly 220 minus your age. For example, if you are 30 your MHR would be about 190.
Your target heart rate while exercising vigorously should be around 70–80% of your MHR.
These numbers will help you gauge the intensity of your workouts.
 As you are getting started, you will want to ease into your workouts. In addition, studies have shown that you burn the most calories from fat at low-intensity exercises.Try to get 20–30 minutes of lower intensity physical activity in each day.
Low intensity workouts will not cause your breathing to increase significantly. If you can easily carry on a conversation, then it's low intensity.
Your target heart rate for a low-intensity workout should be around 40% of your MHR.
Anything from a brisk walk to mowing the lawn can be a low impact activity. Incorporate these into your daily routine for a week or two before moving on.
 Once you have a week or so of low-impact workouts under your belt, you can start moving a bit faster.


Jogging or power walking is a great way to get into a moderate workout. Bicycling on relatively flat terrain is another good way to get moving.
Your target heart rate should be around 60% of your MHR. You should start noticing a quickening of breath and sweat after about 10 minutes.
Once you start noticing that your moderate workouts aren't pushing your system very hard, you can start ramping up to a more intense workout.
Your target heart rate for a vigorous workout should be around 80% of your MHR.
Running, cycling hills, rowing, and most competitive sports such as basketball or tennis provide a vigorous workout.
 If you can, try to squeeze in your workout in the morning. Some studies show that you burn more calories from fat in the morning before you've eaten your first meal.Working out in the morning tends to lead to a higher level of consistency in exercise routines.Exercising before the work or school day begins helps keep other obligations from interfering. Many people also find that working out early energizes them for the rest of the day.
Exercising too close to bedtime can lead to difficulty falling asleep, as your heart rate will still be elevated.

