 Complimenting your girlfriend can make her feel better about herself, and make you feel positive, too. Just make sure you stick to sincere and reasonable compliments. Exaggerating or lying about a feature that you don’t actually like may worsen the problem.


The key to a genuine compliment is looking for something good in her and sharing it freely without expectation of getting anything back. For example, you might say, “Your smile is beautiful” or “That outfit looks great on you.”It can also help to not focus too much on her appearance. Tell her she did a great job calming down an irate toddler, or she gave a really awesome answer in today's history class.;
, Although your girlfriend will appreciate compliments about her appearance, the best compliments point to someone’s positive traits. This shows her that she is so much more to you than just her looks. Talk about things besides her beauty, such as her personality, her intelligence, or her kindness.You might say, “You know that was really admirable how you helped your friend back there,” or “I can’t believe how giving you are. That’s one of the things I love most about you.”
Give her compliments that uniquely describe her. "You're funny" is a generic compliment that is easy to shrug off. "Your sci-fi satires are hilarious" is much more specific, and is harder to discount.
 If your girlfriend has low self-esteem, she may have trouble noticing her strengths. Make it your job to remind her of your many talents and achievements whenever she seems to forget. Sharing these sorts of compliments will make her feel good about who she is as a person.


For instance, you might say, "I think it's amazing that you choose to spend your evenings and weekends volunteering at the shelter," or "Algebra is so confusing to me. I'm glad I'm dating a math whiz who can help me understand."

, Your girlfriend probably expects to be showered with praise when she’s all made up and dressed up, so reserve praises for when she’s looking like her normal self, too. For example, if you come over late at night when she’s in her pajamas, tell her how beautiful she looks.