 Because you are younger, your boss may make some assumptions about you. Your boss may think that you are less mature, inexperienced, and less knowledgeable. Speaking less will prevent you from saying something reckless and proving your boss right..


Choose your words wisely and only speak when you need to. Avoid talking just to talk.
You will also learn a lot by observing and listening to your boss and coworkers.;
, Your boss does not expect you to know everything. Asking questions demonstrates that you are humble and are willing to learn.It is more damaging to get something wrong because you did not ask instead of asking a question and then producing quality work.


Try to figure out as much as you can on your own before approaching a coworker for advice or help. This way you can ask intelligent questions and show that you have tried to problem solve on your own.
When you receive an answer, listen and try to apply it to your work. Tell your boss, “Thank you for your insight. It was really helpful.”

, After you have been working for a few weeks, ask your boss for feedback about your performance. This shows your boss that you are thorough and take pride in your work. The feedback will also help you perform better at work and understand your boss’s expectations. Some questions you should ask include:I’ve been here for a few weeks. How do you think things are going?
Are there any areas that need improvement?
Is there anything that I should be focusing on?
What are your expectations for the first month? 6 months out?

, You can learn about your boss by observing or by asking direct questions. Pay attention to how your boss prefers to communicate and how your boss interacts with other employees. Most supervisors have particular things that are very important to them such as neatness, tardiness etc. Find out what is important to your boss and do what counts.For example, if you notice that your boss prefers emails over in-person interactions, use email as your primary method of communication.

