 You typically do this by adding the dried fruit to hot water. Measure out 1 cup of hot water.
Add 4-5 dried apricots to the water.
Allow the fruit to soak for 30 minutes.
When the apricots are rehydrated they should have increased in size and be soft when squeezed.
When the apricots are rehydrated, discard the water.;
, You will add the following: 1/2 cup spreadable apricot fruit
Juice of 1 lime
2 1/4 teaspoons ground ancho chili pepper
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
Rehydrated apricots.
 Use a high setting.Make sure the ingredients are evenly mixed.
The ingredients may stick to the side of the food processor.
In this case, use a spatula to scrape the sides of the bowl.
If you don't have a food processor or traditional blender, you can try using a hand blender.
 You will need to refrigerate the chamoy if you aren't using it right away. For the mangonadas, you will only need 2-3 tablespoons of the chamoy. Measure this out and store the rest.
This should keep well in the refrigerator.
You can use the rest as a dipping sauce or in a salsa.
 Pour 1 cup of freshly squeezed orange juice on top.Seal the lid of the blender tightly.
Pulse the blender to mix the ingredients.
Blend until the mixture is smooth, like a slushie.
 You will use these to serve the mangonadas. Divide 2-3 tablespoons of chamoy between the jars. Spoon the chamoy into each jar.Spread it around the side and inside of the glass using a knife or back of a spoon.
This will allow this spicy condiment to be tasted throughout the mangonada.
It should be a relatively thin layer.
 You will need to add the frozen mango juice and prepare the topping. Pour the mango and orange juice mixture into each glass. It should still be the consistency of a slushie.
Spoon a small amount of chamoy on top of each glass.
Swirl this with a spoon to create a design and to mix the flavors.
Top with a sprinkling of chili-lime salt.
Enjoy on a hot day!

, Pour in 1 cup of sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Seal the lid on the blender or food processor tightly.
Process until completely smooth.
Use the pulse setting on high.
 Put this into the freezer.You will need to freeze the mango mixture until it is completely frozen.
This will take approximately 5 hours.
Be patient. Making mangonadas from fresh fruit takes much longer than using frozen fruit because of this step.
 Add it to a blender or food processor. This might be difficult if the mixture is very hard.
Try using an ice cream scoop or sturdy spoon to scoop out the mixture.
Blend the frozen mangonada mixture until it is smooth like a slushie.
 Top each jar with lime juice and ground chili. Spoon a little bit of chamoy into each jar. Spread it around the inside of the jar with knife or back of a spoon.
Add a layer of frozen mango mixture, then top this with a small amount of chamoy.
Repeat this layering until the jar is full.
Pour a small amount of lime juice on top of each jar and sprinkle some ground chili as a topping.
 To do this, pour the mango mixture (from step 1) in several small cups or popsicle molds.Put a popsicle stick in each.
Freeze the individual popsicles until hardened.
Cut away the disposable cup or pop the popsicles out of molds.
Top each popsicle with some chamoy, squeeze a little lime juice on top, and sprinkle with ground chili.

