 When pouring concrete to, for instance, make a concrete patio, you're usually pouring concrete into a mold several inches to a foot thick. In this case, it's not necessary to use relatively complex formulas to determine the volume of concrete you'll need. Instead, use a contractor's trick to quickly figure the amount of concrete you need. Begin by finding the square footage of the area you're pouring into.


Remember - for square footage, we take our measurements in feet, not in yards, as above.
As a reminder, for squares or rectangles, this area can be found by multiplying Length × Width. For circles, it's Pi × R2. For more complex shapes, browse wikiHow's many surface-area calculation guides.
 This is simple - just measure the depth of the mold you're pouring into. Because we're pouring into a relatively shallow mold, we can take our measurements in inches, rather than having to measure in unwieldy fractions of a foot.
 All you need to do to determine your concrete yardage is to divide your number for square footage by a certain number - if your concrete needs to be thin, this number will be bigger. If your concrete needs to be thick, this number will be smaller. See below for common thicknesses, or proceed to the next step if your thickness doesn't match one of these:


If the concrete is 4 inches thick, divide the square footage by 81 to determine cubic yards.
If the concrete is 6 inches thick, divide the square footage by 54 to determine cubic yards.
If the concrete is 8 inches thick, divide the square footage by 40 to determine cubic yards.
If the concrete is 12 inches thick, divide the square footage by 27 to determine cubic yards.
 If you have a thickness that doesn't match any of the above examples, don't worry - it's easy to find the amount you need. Simply divide 324 over the thickness of your concrete (in inches). Then, multiply the answer by your square footage to determine the total concrete yardage.


Let's say our concrete for a 10 ft × 10 ft area needs to be 3.5 inches thick. In this case, we would find our yardage as follows:

324/3.5 = 92.6
10 × 10 = 100
100/92.6 = 1.08. We need 1.08 yd3 concrete.
 When pouring concrete, it's usually a good idea to buy a little extra just in case your measurements weren't exact. After all,dry concrete mix that you don't end up using can be saved and used for another project. However, if you don't have enough, you're in a bind - someone may have to run to the hardware store before you can continue. So, be sure to buy a little extra, especially for large projects.

