 The hyacinth macaw requires a large cage, with the minimum of 42 inches deep, 42 inches wide and 72 inches tall. The hyacinth macaw needs a lot of room to climb, forage, and move around. Even with the larger cage, the blue macaw will need a good deal of time to fly outside the cage.If you are the owner of a blue macaw, you’ll need to be prepared to share a good deal of your home with the bird.
As the blue macaw can easily pull most locks off a cage. You’ll need to either be prepared to replace the lock often, or invest in a strong lock.;
, The macaw will easily break a standard cage 8-gauge wire with his beak. Instead, use a stainless steel wires that will not rust, bend or chip. This is the most expensive type of cage. As the hyacinth macaw will climb on and chew the bars of its cage, you’ll want to make sure it’s not ingesting any paint.If the cost of stainless steel is out of your price range, steel cages that are coated in nontoxic and non-chipping paint is an option.
Paint also helps keep your cage looking neat and presentable, and guards it against rust.
 The hyacinth macaw is a very social bird whose cage should be centered in an area of the home where it can feel part of the family. While the macaw can tolerate a wide variety of temperatures, it’s sensitive to drafts. Make sure the cage is placed in an area free of drafts.The cage should receive a good deal of natural sunlight, which the macaw will need for the development of vitamin K. Vitamin K is necessary for healthy skin and feathers.
You should let your bird out of its cage as often as possible so that the bird can spend time with your family. It also needs to get a good deal of exercise by flying out of its cage.
Because the hyacinth macaw is a very noisy bird, make sure you’re not placing its cage where it will disturb neighbors or sleeping children.
 Perches made of the branches of fruit trees are idea, since your bird can safely chew them as well as perch on them. Each perch should have an area that’s about 1 inch in diameter. You’ll need to be prepared to replace these branches regularly.In addition to perches inside your birdcage, offer plenty of places throughout your home for your hyacinth macaw to perch.
A playpen outside the cage is highly recommended. A large, free-standing perch with food and water bowls, and places to hang toys from can provide hours of entertainment for your bird (and your family!). The playpen should have a tray underneath to catch anything your bird may drop.
 If you have space for it, your hyacinth macaw will appreciate having a room dedicated for its use. Make sure the room is “bird-proof”, emptied of anything the bird can get its beak around. For example, wooden moldings, window sills, and any wooden trim will quickly get destroyed. There shouldn’t be any electrical cords visible which the bird might chew.Make sure any trees or plants are non-toxic, as your macaw will chew them.
Have fun providing perches for your bird to stand and climb, places for toys, and mounted food, water and treat dishes.
 An outdoor or breeding aviary framed in brick or metal will be ideal for your macaw. It should have a protected shelter that can be climate-controlled where necessary, as well as an attached flight cage. The flight should be long so your macaw has room to stretch his wings. Install a hardwood perch at each end and consider including a climbing branch made of a fruit or nut tree.Your bird area should also include a bird bath, generally made of concrete to prevent damage.
Make sure your bird area is well-lit for maximum benefit. Again, your macaw needs natural sunlight to maintain good health.

