 Cut your butter into tablespoon-size slices. Use the measurements indicated on the butter packaging or just approximate. The most important thing is that the butter slices are all approximately the same size, so they will melt evenly.


Unsalted temperature is best for making brown butter, and is what most recipes call for anyway.
Don't worry about the temperature of the butter - it can be mushy at room temperature or rock-hard from the fridge. You're going to be melting it, so it doesn't make a difference.;
, Place your butter slices in a thick-bottomed saucepan - this is important as thin saucepans may heat unevenly and create hot spots - which is bad for your butter.


It's also better to use a light-colored saucepan, such as stainless steel, as this will allow you to see the color of its contents more accurately, which is essential when making brown butter.
 Place the saucepan over a medium heat and begin stirring with a wire whisk. Once you start whisking - don't stop!


It is possible to make brown butter more quickly on a high heat, but this greatly increases the chances of it burning. Play it safe with a medium (or low) heat.
 Once the butter has completely melted, it will begin to bubble and foam. This is when the water evaporates and the milk solids separate from the butterfat. Then, the foaming will subside and little brown specks will begin to appear. This is the milk solids starting to brown.


Keep stirring the butter while all of this is happening. This will help the milk solids to brown evenly and prevent burning.






Once the milk solids start to brown, you will begin to notice a wonderful hazelnut-scented aroma filling your kitchen. In fact, the French term for brown butter is beurre noisette, which translates as "hazelnut butter".
 Once the brown specks begin to form, turn off the heat and take the saucepan off the stove. Keep stirring the butter though, as the residual heat from the saucepan will continue to brown the butter.


As soon as the butter has achieved a beautiful amber-brown color (about 30 seconds), transfer it to a heat-proof dish to stop the cooking.






If you wait too long, or leave the butter sitting in the saucepan, the milk solids will start to blacken and burn within a matter of seconds. In that case, you will need to start all over again.
 Brown butter can be used to add a roasty, toasty buttery, nutty goodness to a whole range of foods. Try:


Pouring it over roasted winter vegetables (adding a little sage for added flavor), such as butternut squash or potatoes.
Swapping it with normal butter in any butter-based sauces.
Using it to make brown butter ice cream or brown butter cake frosting.
Using it in any cookie recipes that call for melted butter.
The possibilities are endless.

