 You will want to have 1 lb. (454 g) of dried fruit, but it can be composed of dried cherries, raisins, dried prunes or currants. You should cut large dried fruit, like prunes, into smaller pieces before soaking.;
, Pour a mixture of 2/3 Jamaican white rum and 1/3 port, cherry branding or red cooking wine. Pour the alcohol mixture into the jar until it covers the top of the dried fruit.
 The longer it soaks, the more potent your rum cake will be.
 Move a rack to the bottom level of your oven. Move another rack to the middle level.
 This will help to steam the rum cake, providing more moisture than traditional baking methods.
 Grease the baking tin with butter.
 Sift 6 oz. (170 g) of flour, 1/2 tsp. (1.4 g) of cinnamon, 1/2 tsp. (1.4 g) of nutmeg, 1/2 tsp. (1.4 g) of allspice, 1/4 tsp. (1.5 g) of salt and 1 tsp. (3.6 g) of baking powder.
 Add 6 oz. (170 g) of dry breadcrumbs and the lime zest to your dry ingredients and stir well to mix.


While you can substitute lemon zest, limes are a traditionally ingredient used in Caribbean cooking.
 Heat 4 oz. (113 g) of granulated sugar in a heavy pan. Add a few tsp. (10 ml) of water throughout the process, until it takes on a dark caramel color as it melts.


Stir it constantly to avoid burning. Take it off the burner once it achieves the darker color and fluid consistency.
 (227 g) of butter and 4 oz. (113 g) of granulated sugar with an electric mixer. Try to get this to a light consistency.
 (5 ml) of vanilla extract and 1 tsp. (5 ml) of almond extract. Add your browned sugar and half of your soaked fruit into this mixture. Mix well.
 This will take approximately 10 minutes.
 Add in the rest of your soaked fruit and mix well.
, If you insert a wooden spoon, it should hold up fairly well. You can mix more flour in to get a thicker consistency.
 Place your pan just above your broiler pan filled with water.
 Check your cake regularly after the first hour by inserting a toothpick. If it comes out clean, it is done.
 Remove it from the baking tin and wrap it tightly in aluminum foil. Store in an airtight container until you serve it.

