 Knowing exactly how much you can spend on travel, accommodation and expenses will help narrow down your search for a honeymoon venue in the Bahamas.;
, The Bahamas has a moderate climate all year round, but the summer months are more humid due to the rainy season.


Because the climate is dryer and there's less chance of rain in the winter, the Bahamas are busier and prices of flights and accommodations are higher than during the summer months.
Despite the weather, the summer months offer less tourism and lower prices, so if you're traveling on a tight budget, you can take advantage of discounted vacation packages.
Though the Bahamas are rarely hit by hurricanes, it's important to note that hurricane season lasts from the beginning of June till the end of November.
Spring break is a popular time for students to visit the Bahamas, and the islands are very crowded during these weeks.
 Go online and find out what types of activities you can do during your honeymoon in the Bahamas, and where to do them.


Besides being known for the bustling town of Freeport, Grand Bahama Island is best known for its ecological beauty. Eco-tours, dolphin tours, diving and snorkeling are amongst the activities many tourists enjoy here.
Providence Island, with the capital of the Bahamas Nassau, and Paradise Island, form a unique island pair that offers everything from luxury resorts and private beaches to upscale shopping and fine dining.
The Out Islands, the other 698 of the islands of the Bahamas, offer seclusion, simplicity, and remote beaches.
The Bahamas offer many resorts and hotels on islands with secluded white or pink sandy beaches with panoramic views, as well as many opportunities to kayak, hike, snorkel, scuba dive, sail, fish, swim, and play golf or tennis.
There are numerous activities for visitors, including dolphin encounters from the Blue Lagoon Island; Hartley's Undersea Walk that allows visitors to walk in 10 feet (3.0 m) of water with an oxygen mask so they can pet the tropical fish; tours of the Bacardi distillery; and historic walking tours of Nassau, which include visits to the Queens Staircase and the Versailles Garden.
 Make a list of your desires such as location, quality, price and activities.


The Bahamas offers all sorts of accommodations, from 5-star hotels and resorts to boutique inns and budget hostels.
Resorts and hotels usually offer all-inclusive options, in which everything from your accommodation to excursions is taken care of.
For lower accommodation costs and more freedom, look at inns and bed & breakfasts, where you only pay for your lodging and breakfast and choose where you want to dine.
Consider making a tour of the islands if you can't decide on a single spot to stay. This way, you can enjoy the culture, activities and relaxation offered on a number of different islands.



Work with a travel agent that specializes in honeymoons in the Bahamas to find a venue that meets the demands you wrote on your list.
Go to Honeymoons.com to find out more about all-inclusive honeymoon venues in the Bahamas. The site also features special offers and deals that might be helpful if you don't have a large budget.
Visit online forums such as the ones at Virtualtourist to read posts by others about honeymoon venues in the Bahamas. You can also ask users for suggestions on where to stay in the Bahamas for the perfect honeymoon.

