 Identify nouns as words that denote a thing or person (such as man, sky, clothes, teacher, friend). Recognize pronouns as words that take the place of nouns (he, she, they, it, some, others). For example:Take the sentence “The man was both my teacher and friend.” Man, teacher, and friend are all nouns.
However, if you were to say, “He was both my teacher and friend,” teacher and friend would still be nouns, while he is a pronoun since it is taking the place of man.;
, Recognize these as the words that either denote an action or a state of being within a sentence. When a verb is active, it describes what a noun does. When it describes a state of being, it links the noun to another word that describes the noun’s state of being. For instance:In the sentence, “The man teaches,” teach is an active verb describing what the noun man does. In “The man is a teacher,” is links the man to teacher to denote his state of being.
 These include adverbs, adjectives, and determiners, which modify or further describe another part of speech. Spot adverbs as those words that modify a verb within a sentence, while adjectives and determiners describe nouns. With adjectives and determiners, spot the difference between the two by what attribute is being applied to the noun. Determiners always quantify a noun, while adjectives attribute other characteristics.Adverbs: In the sentence, “Our substitute teacher spoke passionately about a few subjects,” the adverb passionately describes how the teacher spoke, with spoke being the verb.
Adjectives: In the same sentence, the adjective substitute further describes the noun teacher to distinguish that particular teacher from the class’s usual instructor.
Determiners: The noun subjects, meanwhile, is quantified by the determiner few to indicate that the substitute teacher spoke about more than one subject.
 This part of speech joins together two separate words or clauses within a sentence. It can also combine two full sentences in one longer sentence. For example:Words: Take the sentence “The man teaches passionately and thoroughly.” The conjunction and connects passionately and thoroughly, indicating that both adverbs are modifying the verb teaches.
Clauses: In the sentence “The man teaches passionately, which was evident in today’s lesson,” the conjunction which links the independent clause “the man teaches passionately” to the dependent clause that follows it.
Sentences: In “The man is passionate about teaching, and you could see that in today’s lesson,” the conjunction and connects what could have been two separate sentences. But by joining them together, it emphasizes the link between each one’s meaning.
 These words link a noun to another that adds meaning to that noun. For example, consider the sentence “Our teacher gave us a quiz on biology.” Here, the preposition on links the noun quiz to biology, which in turn specifies what subject the quiz was on.