 Autograph signings often require you pay a fee to attend. On a positive note, paying a fee guarantees you a high quality autograph for the celebrity you’re trying to get an autograph from.Keep tabs on autograph signings happening near you by signing up for the DeLuxe membership offered at SigningsHotline.com.
Be prepared to wait in a long line for a lengthy amount of time. Bring your smartphone to help you pass the time.;
, It’s the less expensive alternative to autograph signings. Just purchase a book to earn your spot in line and get an autograph.It’s a more controlled environment and allows you to connect with famous authors (actors, online influencers, politicians, television personalities) about something personal that touches on the subject matter of their book project.
You will usually have a much more authentic and engaged encounter than you would if the famous person in question was promoting a film.
Get more from your autograph encounter at the signing by asking the famous person for advice based on the subject matter of the book they wrote.
 Famous people sometimes go on press circuits, especially at popular public universities. Check your area for upcoming conferences and learn about their keynote speakers.Stand at the entrance or exit of the venue and ask for the speaker’s autograph in passing.
Ask questions and appear genuinely interested during discussions to stand out in the crowd of people while the famous person is making their speech. You will be a familiar face to them if you choose to approach them after the speech.
 Concerts tend to be the best opportunities to get autographs from musicians. Sometimes artists offer paid opportunities to receive an autograph. Other times, you just have to catch them at the right moment.


Consider purchasing a VIP package to get some one on one time with musicians backstage, often times with the accompaniment of an autograph signing.
Stand outside the concert venue near the artist’s tour bus and wait an hour or two to greet the celebrity as they walk to their bus after the show. They are typically kind enough to sign things for fans as they make their way to their bus to head to the next location.
 Stake out the ballpark or stadium during the season before and after games to see what athletes you might encounter. During the off-season, look into special sporting events like baseball card shows to meet players and get cards signed in person.


Try your luck at catching a baseball during a game. You might be able to get that ball signed after the game by a player.
Keep your eyes peeled for retired players who might be in the crowd with you during games and try going up to them to ask for an autograph. They are often very humbled by requests so don’t be shy.

