 Inhale as big as you can so that your chest and diaphragm get very large. Exhale slowly letting out all the air in your lungs. Repeat for 2 minutes or the duration of 1 song on the radio.


The goal of this exercise is stress-reduction. It is important to exaggerate the breath and stop before you get too relaxed. Deep breathing for a long period of time can lead to deep relaxation and sleepiness.
 Allow your eyes to dart back and forth between your mirrors, or from side to side and up and down if you are on a bus. This will help you to be alert and avoid eye strain.
 Tuck in your pelvis and engage your lower abdominal muscles. Then, engage your upper abs and move your ribcage slightly toward your hips.


Hold for 10 seconds and rest for 3 seconds, but breathe through the entire exercise. Repeat 8 to 12 times or until your muscles start to become tired. Car commuters can do this when they are stopped in traffic or at a long light, while train, bus or airplane commuters can do this whenever it is comfortable.
 Flex your lower and upper abdominal muscles and then raise your right hip as high as it will go. Hold for 3 seconds and then lower and repeat on the left side.


Repeat 10 times on each side or until you feel muscle fatigue.
 Meanwhile, engage your abs and back muscles. Hold for 10 seconds while stopped at a long light.


Repeat 3 to 10 times, or throughout your commute. Do not do this exercise while driving and in motion.
 Imagine you need to flex every single muscle in your body. Begin by wiggling your toes and then flex each muscle 1 at a time for 3 seconds, until you reach your arms, neck and top of your head.
 Grip the wheel at opposite ends, and try to push your hands toward each other for 3 seconds, as if you are crushing the wheel. Rest and then grip the wheel and try to pull your hands away from each other for 3 seconds.


Repeat 10 times, or until you are no longer stopped. You can repeat the exercise at each stoplight, or until your muscles are tired.
 Place your hands at 10 o'clock and 2 o'clock on the steering wheel. Flex the entire length of your arms. Pull yourself toward the wheel for 3 seconds, and push yourself away from the wheel for 3 seconds.


Rest after 1 repetition and then repeat 10 times, till the light changes or until you have muscle fatigue.

