 In order to begin medical treatment, you will first have to meet with a doctor or psychologist who will assess you and determine what sort of medications would be appropriate for you. During the assessment, you’ll be asked to share information regarding:


Your family medical history.
Your symptoms.
If you've tried any treatments.
If you're pregnant.
 Many medications are effective, but each person is unique.You may not respond to your first prescription, so it may take some time. Many individuals with depression need to try different medications and dosages. This will all be done according to what you and your doctor have agreed upon. Do not experiment with non-prescribed medication. This can be very dangerous.


Remember, antidepressants may take a week or more to take effect. If you have any questions, make sure you're addressing your concerns with your doctor.
There are ways to curb side effects of antidepressant medication, so make sure you speak to your doctor immediately.
 Depression may be most effectively treated with both psychotherapy and antidepressants.These medications may have the potential to make you feel better for a period of time, but they often will not change your current situation, stress levels, environment, personality, etc. That is why doctors and psychologists generally recommend taking medications while also going to therapy.
 It is important to be aware that there are recorded side effects associated with these medication options. Side effects will vary depending on the medication you’re taking. If you have begun taking medication and notice these symptoms, report them to your doctor.

Some of the most common side effects of antidepressants are:Nausea.
Headaches.
Anxiety.
Dizziness.
Weight change.
Sweating.
Dry mouth.
Difficulties regarding sex (e.g. difficulty becoming aroused).
 The duration of time you spend taking antidepressants will depend on the severity of your depression and how well you respond. Many individuals only need to take them for a relatively short period of time (e.g. six months). Others may need to take medications for an extended period of time.Think about depression like any other ailment. Individuals who have diabetes need to take insulin. The same is true for depression, though the symptoms are less physical.
If you feel as though you're ready to stop your medication at any point, speak with your doctor. Due to the nature of these medications, you need to gradually come off of them. You may find that you feel extremely unwell if you just suddenly stop taking them.