 To relax yourself and your dog, start by sitting down with your legs crossed. Your dog should be sitting near or on you. Start to breathe, focusing on each inhale and exhale. Start thinking about your dog and becoming in sync with him. Focus on his breathing and how much you love your dog.Rest your hands on your dog. You can start gently massage him if you need to help him relax.Remain sitting up straight.
Sit still for two minutes.;
, Another good pose to start with is Chaturanga. Get your dog to lay on his stomach. Stroke and massage his back lightly., This pose is good for connecting with your dog. Sit on the floor with your legs crossed, your dog in front of you facing forward. Place a hand over your heart, and place the other over your dog’s heart. Close your eyes and focus on your breathing., A simple, good yoga pose for dogs is the Chair pose. Get the dog to sit back on his hind legs. Hold the dog around the middle of his back. Then, help raise the dog’s front paws.Gently massage your dog’s shoulders as you lift the legs to give him a good stretch through his back.This pose stretches your dog’s ab muscles and front legs. It also helps strengthen the joints in the back legs., Sun salutations help stretch your dog’s muscles and get his body moving. You start in a seated position. Carefully lift your dog’s hind legs towards the ceiling. While you hold his thighs, start massaging the upper thighs with your hands.While in this position, try to get your dog to stretch his torso. This pose can help stretch the abs and the hips while strengthening the joints of the front legs., Bend from the waist until you are folded in half, your hands and head low. Pick up your dog carefully. The weight will help increase your stretch, and as you hold him, your dog gets a stretch in his limbs., Get your dog to lie down with the front legs extended. Kneel behind your dog and bend down to place your head on his back. Place your hands over your dog’s front paws, both of your arms extended outwards. Turn your head to one side and breath., Lie onto your back with your dog on your chest. Close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Pet or massage your dog as you relax into the pose.The goal of this pose is to have your dog eventually snuggle against your as he settles down.

