 The scientific method has been the backbone of scientific research since the ancient Greeks, and pendulums are easy to tinker with and see instant results. When conducting any of the following experiments, take the time to formulate a hypothesis, talk about which variable you are testing, and compare the results.


Always do the experiment 5-6 times to make sure your results are consistent.
Remember to only try one experiment at a time-- otherwise you won't know what changed the pendulum's swing.
 One of the simplest ways to learn about gravity's effects is through a pendulum, and the results may surprise you. To see the effects of gravity:


Pull back the pendulum 10 centimeters and release it.
Use a stopwatch to time the period of the pendulum. Repeat 5-10 times.
Add a heavier bob to the pendulum and repeat the experiment.
The period and frequency will be exactly the same! This is because gravity affects all weights equally. A penny and a brick, for example, will fall at the same speed.
 When you pull the string higher you've increased the amplitude, or high point, of the pendulum. But does that change how fast the pendulum returns to your hand? Repeat the above experiment, but pull the pendulum back 20 centimeters this time instead of changing the weight.


If you did everything correctly, the pendulum period will not change.
Changing amplitude does not change frequency, a fact that will come in handy in trigonometry class, the science of sound, and many other fields.
 Repeat the experiment above, but instead of changing how much weight you've added or how high you've dropped it, use a much shorter or longer string.


This time you will definitely notice a change. In fact, changing the length of the string is the only thing that will change the period and frequency of a pendulum.
 For older students or aspiring physicists, pendulums are a great way to learn the relationships between acceleration, friction, and trigonometry . Search for "pendulum equations," or devise your own experiments to find them. Some questions to consider:


How fast is the bob moving at the lowest point? How do you find the speed of the bob at any point?
How much kinetic energy does the bob have at any point in the pendulum? For help, use the equation: Kinetic Energy = .5 x Mass of Bob x Velocity2

How can you predict the period of a pendulum based on the string's length?

