 Assuming the book is already complete, you can narrow it down to a subset of possible genres. List anything that could plausibly describe a part of the book, even if you think that "romance" or "action" are relatively minor components.


If you're not trying to market a book, or you need help with genre definitions, skip down to the next section.;
, If you don't feel confident about your list of possible genres, look up works you've read that are similar to the book you're marketing. If several of them are listed under the same genre, chances are your book will fit under that category as well.


Conversely, if none of the books under "mystery" sound remotely similar to your book, it's probably a bad fit.
 Most fiction is sold through Amazon, so its top seller lists provide important information. Although publishers conduct more complex analysis, anyone can conduct one test quickly:


For each genre, compare the top seller lists each week for several weeks.
If the same books stay in the top 10 for a long time, the genre is slow moving. This usually means there's less competition, but you'll be fighting for a smaller readership.
If the list changes rapidly, that genre is fast moving. It will take more effort to compete, but the rewards (potential sales) are higher.
 A roundabout but effective way to compare genre success is through advertising fees. Web pages such as BookBub advertising prices and Kindle Nation sponsorship tell you how much various sites value different genres. Genres with higher costs tend to have more competition, but larger readership for those who rise above the rest.


BookBub's stats in particular give you excellent information if you plan to pay for advertising. Compare the cost of a featured deal and the effect of the deal (additional downloads/sales) to see which genre gives the best bang for your buck.
 You have some more information now, and may be able to narrow it down to a smaller list. Ask an editor, publisher, agent, or close friend for their input on the decision.
 Different genres have audiences with different demographics. Most readers will assume a romance novel is written for adults, while fantasy novels are more attractive to young adults. When you're deciding between genres, choose one with a main audience you think will enjoy the book.


If your target audience is not the same as a typical book in your genre's, clarify with an additional description. For example, write "Young Adult Mystery" or "Literary Science Fiction."

, Most websites allow you to pick more than one genre to describe a book. It's often best to allow your book to compete in multiple genres or subgenres, such as "Science Fiction Horror" or "War Thriller."

