 The other passengers may want the car to be colder or warmer than you find comfortable, so bring a few layers with you, too. This will allow you to adjust to any temperature. For instance, you can dress in a comfortable cotton t-shirt, but bring a long-sleeved button up or loose-fitting hoodie with you, as well. Wear soft socks and shoes you can slide off easily.


If you get hot easily, consider wearing a tank top beneath your t-shirt – that way you can lose a layer, if need be. Consider packing a handheld fan, also.
If you’re travelling in winter or to a much colder climate, be sure to bring your mittens, coat and a warm hat with you.;
, A small travel pillow can be a great comfort on a road trip. You can prop it up against the window and lean on it, put it behind your head or put it between your lower back and the seat to support your spine and prevent back pain.Take along a light blanket or two, as well. Choose blankets that can fit easily in the car and be folded up and put away easily.


Avoid bringing huge, fluffy blankets. They take up too much room and could end up making you feel claustrophobic.
 Riding in a car for hours on end can make you feel sticky and in need of a shower. Some trips may even be so long that you won’t have access to a shower for a day or two. You can freshen up easily while you’re on the go with pre-moistened body wipes. Buy disposable wipes that are alcohol-free – they are kinder to your skin. Look for travel wipes that come in resealable packaging for ease of use.Keep the wipes nearby, in your bag or backpack, so you can reach for them at any time. Always dispose of them after one use.
Bring the wipes in with you at rest stops so that you can wipe yourself down more thoroughly in the privacy of the bathroom.
 Simple deep-breathing exercises can help and they’re easy to do any time you want. Inhale slowly through your nose as you count to five. Then exhale slowly through your mouth as you count to five. Repeat. Do this for a few minutes at a time, whenever you’re feeling anxious or tense.


Make sure to take deep breaths from your belly – this expands your diaphragm and allows for the greatest oxygen intake.
If you’ve meditated in the past, you can pair the deep breathing exercises with mini-meditation breaks.

