 Wear padded cycling shorts and a lightweight, breathable cycling jersey. At the very least, shorts and a t-shirt will do – anything that will wick your sweat, and that you can comfortably cycle in all day. Consider wearing gloves to protect your hands from the bite of the wind and the friction of the handlebars. Bring your clip-in cycling shoes, if you have them, but be sure to pack a lightweight pair of extra shoes so that you can walk around comfortably when you're off the saddle.Last, but not least: wear a helmet!


It is important that the shorts are padded. Cycling shorts are specially designed with extra fabric to protect your groin, rear, and inner thighs from the friction of sitting on a bicycle seat all day. Make sure that they fit well!
If it's cold, consider wearing leggings, thermals, or lightweight sweats over your cycling shorts. The slight added weight and loss of mobility will be worth protecting your bare legs from the wind-chill.
If it'll be bright out, wear sunglasses to keep the sun's rays out of your eyes while cycling. This is especially important if you find yourself biking directly toward the position of the sun!

, The choice is largely dependent on comfort and capacity. Feel free to use a backpack, if you'll just be gone for the day and you don't need much. If you are taking a longer trip, think about buying or making panniers so that you can easily carry things on the back of your bike. If you are going on a very long trip, consider building or buying a small trailer or caddie to pull behind your bicycle.
 Include a small portable tire pump, a tire patch kit, and a basic toolkit in case something goes wrong with your bike. Make sure that you know how to use these tools; practice beforehand! Consider carrying a basic first-aid kit: antiseptic wipes, ibuprofen, and a few band-aids.


At its most basic, your toolkit might include a set of Allen wrenches and a tire lever. You can use the tire lever to easily pry away a bike tire when you need to patch or replace your tube. In a pinch, you can use a flat-head screwdriver or another long, flat, strong object to get the tube out., If you're going for a multi-day trip, then you'll need a place to sleep – but consider foregoing the tent for a simple sleeping bag if the weather's nice. Weigh the importance of your heavy, expensive camera lenses against the practicality of carrying everything on your back. Perhaps you can read on your phone or Kindle instead of bringing a heavy book; wear clothes multiple days in a row instead of packing so many changes; and use various items to suit multiple purposes., It's essential that you stay hydrated and keep your energy levels high! Slurp from a Camelbak, or prepare several large Nalgene bottles. Bring bananas, nuts, whole-grain bars, and other healthy, high-density foods. Supplement with electrolytes for enhanced hydration and muscle function.Your body loses these natural minerals when you sweat, and it's important to replace them if you'll be exerting yourself for a while. You can mix electrolyte powder into your water; you can drink electrolyte-rich beverages like Gatorade and Powerade; or you can pop electrolyte pills, available in bulk from many outdoor-supply stores.
Avoid energy drinks, which may dehydrate you or set you up for a sugar crash. In general, avoid fueling your ride with sugary, processed snacks. However, some long-distance cyclists swear by high-calorie candy bars for their quick-release energy.

