 There are three suggested routes from Manhattan to Roosevelt Island.


59th Street Bridge, Upper Roadway. Drive onto 58th Street east of 2nd Avenue. As you take the off-ramp to 21st Street, remain in the right lane. Turn right onto 21st Street. Drive to 36th Avenue and take a left to cross the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Once across the bridge, turn left onto Main Street. Take a left onto East Road and search for parking. The Upper Roadway is recommended over the Lower Roadway.59th Street Bridge, Lower Roadway. Use the right lane to take the Jackson Avenue/25A West exit. Take the first right off the bridge and remain in the right lane. Turn right onto Jackson Avenue. Turn right onto 43rd Avenue. Turn right onto Vernon Boulevard. When you arrive at 36th Avenue, take a left across the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Take a left onto Main Street. Turn left onto East Road and search for parking.Midtown Tunnel (I-495 East) to Queens. Take the Borden Avenue Exit (Exit 13) and turn right onto Borden Avenue. Take the first available right onto Vernon Boulevard. Take a left onto 36th Avenue and cross the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Once across the bridge, turn left onto Main Street. Take a left onto East Road and search for parking., Head West on Grand Central Parkway. Take the 31st Street Exit (Exit 45) and turn left onto 31st Street. Take a right onto 36th Avenue and cross the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Once across the bridge, take a left onto Main Street. Turn left onto East Road and search for parking., Head East on the BQE.Take the Humboldt/McGuiness Exit (Exit 33). As you reach the end of the off-ramp, bear left to drive under the BQE towards McGuiness and cross the Pulaski Bridge into Queens. McGuiness turns into 11th Street. Drive down 11th Street until you reach 44th Drive and turn left. Take a right at the next light onto Vernon Boulevard. Turn left at 36th Avenue and cross the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Take a left onto Main Street followed by a left onto East Road. Search for parking along East and West Roads., Since parking is extremely limited on the island, biking is an ideal mode of transportation. You may access the island on Bike via the Roosevelt Island Bridge. Bike down 36th Avenue towards the Roosevelt Island Bridge. When you have crossed the bridge, take a left onto Main Street.