 The most important tool you’ll need to start preparing make-ahead smoothies like a pro is a set of airtight, spacious storage containers. Ziploc gallon bags or plastic Tupperware pieces will work best for this purpose, as they’ll allow the most room to pack in all the different ingredients.Disposable plastic bags can simply be tossed in the trash when you’re finished with them, while Tupperware will provide multiple uses.
Make sure the containers you use are properly sealed to prevent spilling or spoiling.;
, What you put in your smoothies is entirely up to you. You could go with a simple and traditional flavor pairing, like strawberry and banana, or get a little wild with a concoction of papaya, dragonfruit, yuzu and mint. Get creative!


Aim to use about 1 ½-2 cups of fruits and vegetables per smoothie.It’s important that the fruits and veggies you choose be blendable, so avoid tough, stalky types.
 Next, consider what sorts of dry foods you want to incorporate into your smoothie. This could include things like ground whole grains, sun-dried fruits, blended nuts, matcha or coffee beans. Place your dry ingredients in a separate container and stash them away somewhere at room temperature.1-2 tablespoons of dry ingredients will get the job done in most cases.
Don’t forget about extracts, essences and seasonings. Spices like cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg are perfect for enhancing flavor., Now it's time to actually build the individual smoothie packs. Simply pick out an appetizing combination of ingredients, stuff them into the bag or container and seal it up. You can go ahead and include the dry ingredients if they're things that won't absorb moisture and form clumps, or wait throw them into the blender when you mix the smoothies.Put together a few themed flavor combinations, like a tropical pack with pineapple, banana and mango or a sweet-and-sour green pack with green apple, kiwi, spinach and lemongrass.Measure out the amounts of each item in advance to keep the smoothie packs a consistent size.
 Your smoothie ingredients will stay fresh until you’re ready to take them out and put them to use. Freezing the fruits and vegetables also eliminates the need to add ice to the smoothies. Keep the smoothie packs in the freezer for 12-24 hours, or at least overnight.Frozen smoothie packs will be usable for weeks or months on end.
Create enough room in the freezer to store several weeks worth of smoothie packs to spare yourself the effort of filling new containers all the time.
 Just upend the storage container, then sprinkle your dry ingredients of choice over the top. It’s that simple! Since you’ll have already completed the work of portioning out your smoothie packs, preparing the smoothies themselves will be a breeze.Fresh fruit may stick together after a night in the freezer. Give frozen chunks a quick squeeze or stir to break them up.
The storage containers can then be thrown away or washed and reused for a totally hassle-free cleanup.
 Pour in roughly half a cup of milk, juice or any other fluid. This will ensure that your smoothie turns out smooth and drinkable. It will also provide a base for the various components, resulting in a richer, more complex flavor.Health-conscious smoothie aficionados might choose skim milk, almond milk or coconut water as their blending liquid.
Try incorporating a drizzle of natural sweetener, such as honey or agave nectar, for a more indulgent finish., Place the lid on the blender. Pulse the mixture a few times to help break down the larger coarse or frozen fruits and vegetables. Once the blades are spinning freely, blend the smoothie continuously until it reaches the desired consistency.Blend the smoothie longer if you want it to have a uniform smoothness, or a little less if you prefer to leave some hearty chunks of fruit.
If you like your smoothies extra thick and cold, add half a cup of crushed ice right before blending., Your smoothie is now ready to gulp down for a quick jolt of healthy, all-natural energy. You also have the option of transferring the smoothie from the blender to an insulated travel cup and packing it for work, school or the gym. Just be sure to enjoy it while it’s nice and cold!Invest in a compact blender that doubles as a lidded to-go cup for even more versatility on the move.
 Throw one or two rounded scoops of a protein supplement in with your dry ingredients. The additional amino acids will help prepare you for a long day at the office or feed your muscles after a tough workout. Protein plays a crucial role in building healthy tissues and keeps you feeling full longer, making it perfectly suited for a midday snack or meal replacement.1-2 tablespoons of Greek yogurt or organic nut butter can also be used in place of synthetic protein supplements.
Vegan and vegetarian can use animal-free alternatives such as proteins derived from peas, soy or nuts., Most people know that smoothies and fruit go hand-in-hand, but you can also reap the benefits of leafy greens when mixing up an invigorating treat. Spinach, kale, wheatgrass and spirulina are all excellent options. These types of botanicals contain invaluable vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that belong in any balanced diet.To keep your smoothie from tasting unpleasant, stick to the “60/40 Rule”: 60% fruits, 40% greens.Add a splash of citrus juice to cut through the bitterness of more potent greens.
 There’s no better way to put the finishing touches on an already heavenly smoothie than with one or two nutrient-dense offerings like blueberries, chia seeds, pomegranate, oats or cacao. Superfoods won’t only improve your overall health and well-being, they’ll do away with any preconceived notions you might have about how health foods should taste.Contrary to popular belief, you don’t have to make a special trip to a health food store to purchase superfoods. Most of the more common varieties can be found in the produce section of your local supermarket.
Other Grade-A superfoods include sweet potatoes, quinoa, mango, coconut, pumpkin, green tea leaves and ginger.