 Don't pretend to be jerk so that you can impress her. Both lying about your true self and being rude will put distance between you and the girl.


However, don't be afraid to tease her a bit. Once you've talked a few times, most girls will be comfortable with you making a few lighthearted jokes at her expense (as long as it's a two way street and she can do the same to you). It shows that you're confident enough in yourself to make a small gamble that she could be offended. If she takes a joke seriously and is offended, just apologize calmly and let her know you were only kidding.;
, First, ask yourself why you want to impress this girl. Is it because she is the most popular girl in school, or because you truly enjoy her company?

, Hang out near her and listen to what the girl and her friends are saying. (Don't make it a dead giveaway that you're listening.) Then approach them and say, "I couldn't help over hearing BLAH BLAH BLAH". It should go naturally; if not then perhaps you should rethink this girl. Chemistry matters!

, Beautiful girls don't look around and see faces as attractive as their own - they see YOUR face and others like it. But they DO appreciate someone who makes them laugh. Be optimistic and cheerful.
 You've seen people walk around with their heads hanging, shuffling their feet as they walk. They look beaten, unhappy, defeated. That isn't attractive to anyone! If you want to attract a woman who's out of your league, then show her you're confident. Hold your head up, walk like you're proud to be you, delighted with who you are - but not arrogant, maintain eye contact if talking to her. Watch how others walk and carry themselves and try to mimic the confident behaviors you see.
 Don't wait for her to break the conversation off the first few times. Keep conversations short, interesting and active, and then go away. Let her know you have to go (she doesn't need to know why), wish her a good day, and walk away.
 Find out what other qualities she has that make her an outstanding woman. Ask her about herself and who she is. Women who are used to being noticed for their outer appearance won't be swayed easily by comments on their physical appearance. Be different and find the inner beauty (you can still admire the outer beauty in your own thoughts).
 Did she do an awesome job on her speech in history? Let her know, and be genuine. Highlight some parts that you enjoyed or tell her about an article you read on the topic.
 Sometimes, you meet and upon spending a little time with a girl, realize you have very strong feelings for her that you won't be able to hide. Don't. Just keep it light and start hitting on her immediately. If you make a little joke of it and say things like, "She's crazy about me," or "Of course I'm staring at you, you're the girl of my dreams." (wiggles eyebrows up and down suggestively with a big, cheesy smile for her)to her friends while she's standing right there, it will just be part of the way you get along very early on. But careful: if she doesn't giggle or seem amused and a little bit flattered, this will not work and will become tiresome very quickly. Watch for her reaction and adjust.
 Ask her out on a friendly date so you can see how much you guys really have in common. And if she is conceited then you will be grateful you didn't ask her out on a real date.


Be very cautious to only do the "friendly date" once or twice. If you do it too much, she'll start to look at your relationship as friendship, and this can be a difficult perception to reverse.

