 Although you may be performing the tests under an instructor, performing under a judge will help you see which movements of the test are your best, and which will need some work. The judges will often make comments on your score card that will help you improve when you next ride in front of a judge.


Look for a show that has different divisions such as open, amateur, and youth. This way you can enter a class that fits your specific riding level.
Shows may be found in your local horse publications, which are found at feed and tack stores. The back of breed magazines will also list the shows for that breed, often divided up into geographic areas. You may also look for shows online or ask your instructor to recommend a show.
You may want to look into performing your first dressage ride under a judge at a schooling show. These types of shows are often less formal than the open shows and are designed to help beginning riders become comfortable with what is required at a dressage show.;
, Booklets may be purchased through dressage equipment supply catalogs or online at various dressage associations. Dressage tests change every 4 years, and the last changes were published at the beginning of 2011.



Work on the geometry of the dressage tests. Make straight lines down the center line, halt squarely at the X, make correct 20-meter circles, and change gaits on command.
 This may include vaccinating the horse against common ailments and getting a health paper if you will cross state lines. Do this at least 4 weeks before riding your first dressage test.


Check your horse's feet, and have them trimmed or re-shod as needed. Do not try to trim or shoe the week of the show in case the farrier "quicks" the horse or drives a nail too close to the white line, causing the horse to go lame.
 You need a dressage coat, helmet, stock tie and pin, white breeches, white gloves, and boots. Many of these things can be borrowed for the class you are riding in, such as the tie, pin, and coat. However, good fitting boots and helmet are very important for your safety and should fit correctly.
 In dressage, the horse's tail is left free flowing; however, the mane and forelock will need to be braided and you will need rubber bands the color of the mane as well as combs, gel, or yarn.
 Clean tack will create a good impression for the judge, and if you do it the day before, this will save you work and worry on the day of the show.
,,, A reader will read the test to you as you ride. A reader can be anyone, such as instructor, but make sure your reader is familiar with reading tests during a show.


Even though you may have memorized your test for the show, you may want to have a reader just in case. It is very easy to become nervous, lose your focus for a moment, and forget where you are in the sequence of movements. The presence of a reader allows you to hear the next movement in case this occurs.

