 Talk to your children about what their household responsibilities should be, especially if they’re preteens or teenagers. Agree upon specific tasks, and make sure everyone is clear about when those tasks should be completed.For example, you and your child might agree that chores should be completed right after school or as soon as they get home. Alternatively, if they’re supposed to load or unload the dishwasher, it might be best for them to complete that task in the evening after dinnertime.
If you have multiple children, hold a family meeting to make sure everyone is on the same page about chore assignments. Ask them, “Does anyone think these tasks are divided up unfairly? Would you prefer to rotate chores, so everyone has different tasks each week?”;
, When assigning chores, consider how busy you and your child are, and place your emphasis on family time over busywork. Try to lighten their load during a sports season, during midterms or finals, or when their workload otherwise increases.Chores are often intended to instill a sense of responsibility. However, if your teen is in honors classes, plays soccer, and is in student government, it might be best to ease up on them when it comes to their workload at home.
If the family’s schedule is generally hectic, consider assigning everyone a 15 or 20 minute daily task to do together, like getting the kitchen and dining rooms in order after dinner. That way, everyone can talk to each other about their days while still keeping the house tidy.
 Assign tasks that your kids are physically and developmentally able to complete, ideally within 15 or 20 minutes. Try to think of chores that are challenging but not impossible for their age and size.For example, having a five year old fold fitted sheets by themselves is probably beyond their abilities. Likewise, expecting a child who is less than four feet tall dust a shelf twice their height without supervision could be a safety hazard.
Age appropriate tasks for pre-kindergartners include: putting clothes in a hamper, matching socks into pairs, and putting toys awayGood chores for six year olds include separating laundry, organizing mail, and watering plants.Have your seven or eight year old set and clear the dinner table, take out trash, and dust.If they’re ten or over, have them vacuum, mow the lawn, help prepare dinner, and unload the dishwasher., Instead of telling your child to clean an entire room, try to assign specific, smaller tasks. This will help them clearly understand their responsibilities and make their chores more approachable.For example, instead of saying, “Clean the living room,” you could say: “First, dust the shelves, television cabinet, and side tables. Then, after you’ve dusted, vacuum the floor.”

, If you know your child likes plants, have them water potted plants inside or the garden outside. If they love animals, have them brush, feed, and walk the dog, or clean out their hamster’s cage. Have them help you make dinner if they show interest in cooking, and make it fun by giving them their own chef’s hat and apron.