 Unless you were lucky enough to be blessed with a pristine natural singing voice, developing your singing skills takes a lot of work. To learn how to develop and push your voice, you've got to first figure out where your vocal range lies, so you can find good songs in your range and start working to expand your repertoire.


To start developing your vocal skills, sit down with a piano and sing notes that feel comfortable to sing clearly without struggling, then try to match your voice to that note on the piano. If it's a G, try finding songs in the key of G, or whatever key you match to naturally.;
, One of the interesting facets of the X-Factor, compared with other reality shows is that you'll receive coaching if you make it far enough into the show. But that doesn't mean that you can start from scratch. Building a good reputation with a singing coach will make you a good voice student, helping you to improve your skills and learn the necessary techniques to become a great singer.


A good teacher can help you learn fundamentals, as well as broaden your range of material. We can't listen to everything, so a good teacher will be able to suggest great songs that will showcase your voice, which you might have never even heard before.
Learning to take constructive criticism is extremely important and can be the difference between being a good singer and being a great singer who wins the show. Find a good teacher you can work with, who will show you how to improve and learn to take negative feedback that will make you better.
 Try to hit the really high notes and the really low notes within your voice range, then push yourself into developing a wider range of material. If you progress to the Boot Camp stage of X-Factor, what if they ask you to sing "Tiny Dancer" in D, when you've been singing in in B-flat? You'll only be able to pull it off if you've practiced pushing your range and exercising your voice.
 You can be a great singer, but without any charisma on stage, it'll be hard to win X-Factor. For that reason, it's just as important to develop your moves on stage as to develop your voice. It's not just a singing competition–you've got to have that "x" (extra) factor that makes you stand out, and part of the way to develop is to work on your stage presence.


It may be difficult to define "presence," but easy to see. Check YouTube for vintage clips of Michael Jackson, Tina Turner, and Robert Plant to see the "x" factor at work.
Singing into a microphone is more complicated than it seems. It's a good idea to get some experience using a vocal mic and learning to use it to highlight your voice. You don't want to get up in front of the judges and blow out the mic, or hold it too far away and lose your vocal essence.
 Even if you know who's going to win, one of the best kinds of homework you can do is to watch how the winners negotiated the whole show. Who seemed to be the obvious winner in the early going? Who seemed to be the underdog? You can learn a lot about how to market yourself against the other competitors when you watch the others who've come before you.


Every finalist on the X-Factor has something distinctive about them. Find your individual unique qualities and decide how you'll highlight them over the course of the show. Plan for the long haul.
Come up with an ideal itinerary for what you'd like to accomplish throughout the season. If you want to be the underdog by the mid-way point in the season, how will you accomplish that?

, Audition sites are typically made public several months before the audition occurs, so keep a close watch on the X-Factor website for open calls and mobile van auditions. Follow the show on social networking to get instant updates and you won't have to worry about missing out.


Typically, you can fill out the registration paperwork online and file it before you show up on the day of the open calls. If not, you can still sign up your paperwork the day of, you just might end up waiting around a lot longer.
In the United States, open calls are typically held in a wide range of locations on the west coast, east coast, and throughout the south. Recently, there were open calls in LA, New Orleans, and New York City.
In the UK, lots of auditions happens with mobile vans, in which the judges travel to different locations for smaller-scale auditions.
 Before you show up, you need to have your song verse prepared, memorized perfectly, and practiced extensively. That should be the major focus of your audition preparation. A good song doesn't necessarily need to be famous, but it should highlight your voice perfectly. Bonus points for songs the judges aren't super-familiar with (since they won't be able to compare it to the original) or original songs you may have written.
 Make sure you get a good night of sleep before the audition, avoid alcohol for 24 hours before, and stay hydrated. Eat something before you show up, because the audition will probably end up taking all day.At most audition sites, overnight camping is prohibited the day before the audition, but try to find out how early you can get there. Either way, you'll probably end up being there all day, and there's no proof that earlier auditions go better than later ones, and vice versa. Show up when it's convenient for you and don't worry about performing.
To register at the audition, you'll need to show two forms of ID. If you're under 18, a parent must accompany you and present their ID. After you sign the registration paperwork, you'll receive a wristband and seat ticket, and then wait around for a long time for your name to be called.
 The worst part of the whole experience is negotiating the waiting period. You'll probably be both anxious and bored at the same time, so use the time effectively to relax, but also to stay warmed up for your performance. Do any vocal warm-ups you've practiced with your coach, and try to stay as calm as possible.


You'll see lots of intimidating-looking singers doing weird elaborate rituals, probably, but try your best to ignore what's going on around you and stay focused. Do what you know. It's not the time to change it up.
 When your name is called, the butterflies will kick it into high gear. Stay calm! If you've practiced effectively, you should be confident in your song and in your ability to nail the audition. Tell yourself, "I've got this."


Focus on the little details of your performance, getting the song right, hitting the notes, and throwing yourself into the performance. Don't worry about cameras, celebrities, and what the audition will mean. Just think about the song. That kind of dedication is partially what the judges will be looking for.
Don't fawn over the judges because they're celebrities. If you feel nervous, don't try to mask it with giddy enthusiasm. They're just people, so answer their questions sincerely and get to the performance as quickly as possible.
While you should be calm, it is true that creating a sense of drama seems to have some effect on the judges. If you've got a wild story about how you almost missed the bus that you needed to take to get to the audition, or that you're worried you'll lose your job to be there that day because you're so dedicated to your singing, it might help you stand out some.
 The number-one thing that the judges will be listening for is a star-making vocal performance. The "x" (extra) factor is important, and the look is important, but these are things that can be molded and improved (that's part of the X-Factor as a program–finding people with a duck-to-swan story). Don't worry about anything but singing your heart out.


Don't worry about winning the show during your audition. Just worry about making it through to the next round.
Make it clear that you're very serious about being a singing star. People who say "this is my dream," is a big part of what the judges are looking for. They want stars who want to be stars, to give the people someone to root for.
 Wearing elaborate stage gear, playing tambourines, or doing any other gimmicky attempts at standing out will mostly just get the axe. It looks weird and the judges might laugh, but won't often be impressed. Don't over-think the audition. They're looking for your voice, not your sense of humor.


Acoustic guitars, however, do have a tendency to help you stand out from the crowd. If you play and have a song that could use some acoustic accompaniment, bring it with you if you're a competent player.
 You want to give the people someone to root for, and people tend to love a character with a big support system of family, friends, and locals behind them. It's a good story we can all get behind. If you can, get as many friends and family to come with you as possible, to scream with you when you come out of the audition with an invitation to the next round.
 X-Factor should be a marathon, not a sprint. No one performance, episode, or moment is going to win the show, so try to stay focused on the smallest possible tasks. Listen to the judges, take feedback constructively, work hard to improve your game, and get into the next round.


Not every one of your performances is going to be stellar, but each one needs to be good enough. Don't worry too much about being the best possible singer and performer every night, but try to focus on remaining consistent and reliable as a performer.
 You'll work alongside one of the judges and odds are you won't like everything they'll tell you. Your ability to take criticism and work hard to improve your performances will earn you bonus points, however, so it's important to keep a good head and respond well to feedback. X-Factor won't cater to divas and prima donnas, so check your ego at the door when you're going through bootcamp.


One part of the training process involves a makeover, and it can be a good idea to grow a bit of scruff before the makeover. If you transition from regular ol' you to Superstar You is especially dramatic, that'll play well with the judges and the fans. Part of the show is finding the most relatable character, the person with the most to root for, which can work in your favor during the makeover.
According to Demi Lovato, judge on X-Factor, the look is actually just as important, if not more so, than your voice. Take this part of the competition seriously.
 You want to present yourself as a multi-talented individual with a lot to offer your fans. One-note singers, even if they're talented, will quickly fall by the wayside in comparison to more complex performers and likable individuals. Great dancing, unusual hobbies, and quirky life stories all play well with the X-Factor judges, and with prospective record executives that might be watching the show and scouting talent.


Can you play piano? Sing in German? Break-dance like a fool? Save back some of these virtuosic talents for later in the programming, so you can stun everyone with a dramatic moment at the right time. If you suspect the judges might be getting tired of your act, you'll be able to throw a curveball.
 The winners of X-Factor, no matter how different in terms of style, substance, and skill all have one thing in common: serious hometown support. If you want to win the show, you've got to stay in touch with your roots and cultivate a serious following back home that will invest in your success and vote like mad.


Don't get too big for your britches. Make it a point to keep in touch with local press, sometimes at the expense of nationwide exposure. If you do a long-form interview with your local paper, emphasizing how much you love where you're from, how your roots are important to developing who you are, you'll have a sudden and rabid fan base who will fight for you.
 Take time out to develop your social networking presence and connect with your fans.


You'll like be extremely busy, so you might consider getting a close friend to help monitor the sudden deluge of emails, Facebook friend requests, and other media firestorm you'll encounter. Brief them on being polite, as they'll be your representative online.
 try to stay as flexible as possible and roll with the punches. It'll be almost impossible to prepare for everything you'll encounter, since the show changes somewhat from season to season, so you're likely to be surprised and jostled out of your routine by the strain of being on television. Be a good sport and be a professional, which is what the judges will be looking for. Act like you belong there.
 Remember when on that show you will be in the public eye, and a sudden rush of fame can launch some contestants into egotistical mode. So make sure you don't "slam" other acts or stars. Show the public the nice side of you. Get the public on your side. However don't make up an untrue sob story. When you get caught out no-one will want to buy your music.


Make sure the public knows that you want it. Be confident but make sure you don't appear to be only there for a laugh take the opportunity seriously because if you don't you will be voted off.
 While your performance of the songs you pick is by far the most important aspect of the show, song choice is still a critical part of your performance. If you're going to be a star performer who wins X-Factor, you need to prove that you've got a keen ear as well as a good voice, showing that you've got the right kind of taste in songs that will showcase your skills and connect with viewers.


Don't be afraid to get cheesy. Time-tested buzzwords for songs that connect on X-Factor include time, love, truth, chance, eternally, and always., The winners of X-Factor tend to be viewed as "refreshing." This means that there needs to be something in you that people haven't seen before, or at least haven't seen recently. If you sound just like Adele, or move around the stage just like Harry Styles, there'll be little reason for people to become invested in you.


Standing out can't come at the expense of marketability. Pulling a Marilyn Manson might make you much different than the rest of the field, but it's unlikely to connect to the type of people who watch X-Factor and vote. It needs to remain comfortably in the mainstream, which means you can't be too risky, subversive, or strange.
Ideally, X-Factor winners appeal to a wide variety of people: rockers, pop fans, tweens, grandparents. What can you do to make music that all of the above would be happy to listen to?

, On some level, we expect "star behavior" from stars. That means tantrums. That means weird habits. That means bowls of Lucky Charms with all the marshmallows removed, a la Britney Spears. To stand out, you don't want to appear in the news under the headline "diva." The newspapers have a big effect on what people think of you, so be careful and market yourself as a polite, down-to-earth performer who is preternaturally talented. You'll stand out that way.


Don't say anything to any judges, newspaper reporters, or cameras that you will regret. Being known as the girl who thought Tina Turner wrote "Respect" won't win you any fans with the judges or the press.
 The judges have succeeded in the music industry and you should take what they say seriously. They've been there, know what it takes, and will offer you constructive criticism. However, it's good to keep in mind that voters don't want to watch someone who'll be a wet blanket for a panel of celebrities. They want someone who will stand up for themselves at the right moment. Be your own advocate.
 One thing sells extremely well on X-Factor: sympathy. If you can get people to feel not only that you deserve to win, but that you've fought an uphill battle to get where you are, you'll be that much closer to winning. try to craft yourself as a sympathetic figure who deserves votes.


You need to have a good reason for having gotten into singing and performing. Maybe you remember your grandmother, who recently passed, singing you hymns when you were a child. Maybe the only way you could relate to your estranged brother was through music. Maybe you were picked on in school and took refuge in music. Find something people can connect with.
Packaging yourself as a sympathetic performer doesn't need to be over-the-top, and you shouldn't make anything up, but should try to frame something in a way that will make you seem more sympathetic. No one will root for someone who's been very lucky in life and lives relatively comfortably.

