 Taking a year off to work full-time can be a beneficial option. If you focus on living frugally and saving a large portion of your income, you can have several thousand dollars saved to apply towards college expenses. While this may not sound significant, you can cover a portion of your first year costs, which means less work will be required during the school year to cover the remainder of your expenses (you may even be able to get ahead and start saving towards the next year)


This can also be a valuable opportunity to gain full-time work experience and boost your resume.
If possible, consider living with parents or roommates during this year to offset your living expenses. Assuming you are working at a full-time minimum wage job, you can expect an annual salary of around $15,000 – $16,000 per year.;
, This is an essential part of any plan to pay for college debt free. Working part-time during the school year and full-time during the summers can be an excellent way to offset expenses, and unless you are able to secure a full-scholarship, this will be a key component of your plan to pay for college debt free.


If you budget wisely, you can apply the money saved during the summer to the following years tuition. You can then use the money earned during the school year, in conjunction with some of the other options presented, to offset the remainder.
 Colleges and universities often offer their employees tuition discounts. If you can secure employment at a school that offers this arrangement, you will not only be offsetting your expenses via work, but you will also be reducing your total expenses through tuition reduction..


A recent survey found that 98% of colleges and universities offer tuition breaks for employees. This is why it is very important to either contact your school, or check their online job board to explore what opportunities are available. Make sure to apply for every opportunity you are qualified for.
 Joining the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, or Coast Guard may qualify you for education benefits available while you are on active duty or after you leave the service. Each service has its own program, so you will need to speak with a recruiter or counselor to find out what benefits are available and whether or not you qualify. The military offers up to $4,500 in tuition assistance for active members., This can help you get some college credits under your belt before you begin. Dual credit students pay a fraction of what regular college students pay for the exact same course, and AP exams are only $93 each!Dual Credit: Taking a class dual credit means that you are a high school student enrolled in a college class. You will get credit for high school completing the class, and start earning college credit before you even graduate!
Advance Placement (AP): This is an advanced high school class, at the end of which you will take a test to see if you learned enough to qualify for college. This is another way to start earning college credit in high school.
If you take a lot of college classes in high school, you may be able to graduate college early!

, Generally speaking, you can choose to attend a community, public, or private college. Each type of college has different costs, with private colleges being the most expensive, followed by public colleges, and community college being the most affordable.Private colleges are typically only a good option financially if you are a very strong candidate and are able to qualify for a financial aid package which includes scholarships and grants as opposed to loans. The application process can be long, and if you do not qualify for aid your education can easily cost over six figures. Consider this option if you have very strong academic and extracurricular credentials.
Public colleges are typically affordable, with the average year costing about $19,000 including living expenses. This is a good option to consider if you feel your application is not strong enough to get aid for a private college, and if you are planning on staying in-state.
Community college is by far the most affordable option, typically costing about $11,000 for a year including living expenses. If you are intent on saving money, consider doing a two-year program at a community college (at a lower cost), and then transferring to a public college for the final two years (assuming you are interested in a 4 year program). This can save money.
Look into tuition-free or loan-free schools and programs. Many other universities are tuition-free for all accepted students whose families make below a certain amount (pay special attention if your household income is $20,000-$60,000/year).A loan-free guarantee means that the school will cover the cost of tuition + room + board to make sure you do not end up with any debt at all. However, the school may require you to pay the "estimated family contribution" determined by your family's income. If you are in the $20,000-$60,000/year range, this EFC will be little or nothing.
 College programs are generally either two year or four year. Two-year programs are not only more affordable per year, but they are shorter so your overall tuition is much less. Which type you choose depends on what your interests are.


The main benefit to two year programs is that not only are they affordable, but they are often highly skills based. This means that you will likely learn a marketable trade or skill that you can immediately take out into the job market upon graduation. They also include the option to upgrade into a four year program.
Four year schools are typically about three times as expensive as two year schools per year, and are useful if you want a degree is a specific field like biology, chemistry, math, or many others. Often, four year programs are important requirements to pursue many professions, and in today's competitive job market a four year program is necessary to compete in certain fields.
Start by understanding what your interests are and what career you would like to pursue, and then see if it is better served by a two or four year program.
 You can choose to attend school full-time, part-time, or even online. If you are looking to get through post-secondary debt free, it is important to consider options other than full time study.


Part-time study can be useful because each year will cost less (due to less credits being taken). In addition, the rest of your time can be spent working, which can make the year very affordable. The major downfall is that your education can take double the time (assuming your doing 50% of a full-time course load.
You can also consider taking slightly reduced course loads every semester, which may just extend your overall education time by a year or two. This can make a big positive difference in your ability to fund your education.
 A public two-year college program costs about $11,000 per year (including living expenses) on average, whereas a public four-year university program costs about $19,000 per year on average. If you can live at home with your parents, you could eliminate a large portion of your first year costs.Even if you live off campus, you will be able to join any school organizations, and attend any school events you choose! Not living in a dorm does not have to prevent you from feeling like a part of the student body.
 Most colleges and universities now offer some, or possibly all of their course material online. Adding online courses to your course-load can allow you to work more hours while in school. Many students with families or higher expenses opt for online courses so they can continue to work full-time.


Even adding one or two online courses to your semester can provide you with the flexibility you need to potentially get a few more hours at work in.
 There are numerous sources that provide information on available scholarships. One excellent place to begin is with the U.S. Department of Labour's Scholarship search. This resource allows you to search over 7,000 scholarships, fellowships, and other financial aid opportunities. You can locate that resource here.


There are also other excellent resources like fastweb.com and collegenet.com. These types of websites allow you to search billions of dollars of potential scholarships, and even match the scholarship to your personal profile.
 If you are still in high school, your high school guidance counselor can be an important resource with regards to directing you to scholarships. Guidance counselors often know about local scholarships, and they are often familiar with the types of courses you are taking as well as your academic performance, and they can direct you to various scholarships that match your profile.
 If you are interested in a particular school, call and make a phone or in-person appointment with the financial aid officer. These individuals can direct you to potential scholarships available at your school of choice that apply to your situation.Make sure to be open with them regarding your personal and financial situation, as many types of scholarships are directed towards individuals with specific sets of personal or financial qualities.
Make sure to inquire about scholarships outside of the school that may apply to you.
Your financial aid officer can also assist you through the application process.
 Often times professional associations have specific scholarships available for students pursuing that career path (like nursing, for example). If not, they can often direct you to scholarships and financial aid that may be specific to your career.
 There are numerous books available that publish extensive lists of scholarships available for students. Some common and popular titles include the Ultimate Scholarship Book,The College Board's Scholarship Handbook, and Peterson's Scholarships, Grants and Prizes.


It is always wise to look through one of these resources to see if there are any important scholarships you missed.
 Some employers offer subsidies or even pay the full tuition cost for their employees. This is especially true for large corporations or even some public institutions. Contact the Human Resources office at your workplace and ask about what options, if any, are available for employees.
 Students often incorrectly think that there are thousands applying to each scholarship, whereas in reality the numbers can often be very low due to the huge volume of scholarships that are currently available. It is for this reason that you should apply to every scholarship you are eligible for.


Applying for scholarships may be time consuming, but it is a worthwhile investment. Take a full day (or even two) off to spend just filling out the paperwork or online forms for your scholarship if necessary. Even winning one scholarship can save you hundreds, or even thousands of dollars.
 The ability to budget and manage your money is the most important part of getting through college debt free. You will need to carefully control your expenses, and make sure you are religiously saving the difference between your income and your expenses to cover your tuition.
 Your main goal will be to get your expenses as low as possible. To do this, you must understand the two types of expenses, and how to reduce them. Fixed expenses refer to expenses that do not change month-to-month (like rent), and variable expenses refer to expenses that do change (like food, for example).


Your largest fixed expense will likely be your rent. Focus on trying to live with many roommates, as this can reduce your rent expenses. Living on your own or in a dorm can be costly, and by checking sources like Kijiji you can often find roommates with whom you can share costs. You can also split other fixed expenses with roommates, such as internet and utilities costs.
Monthly transportation, food, and entertainment costs are all variable expenses. With regards to transportation, try to find living arrangements close to your place of education. This will allow you to walk, and use public transit when necessary, which can reduce your transportation costs significantly.
Entertainment spending can often be tempting when in college, and can also be an important part of maintaining good social relations. It is important, however, that you pick a small amount for education spending that you stick to and never exceed.
Explore options that your college has in terms of meal plans. These may offer a discount to buying groceries, but be careful to compare the plan with the amount you would spend on groceries to ensure you are choosing the affordable option. Look into the possibility of working in the kitchen or as a server, as you are sometimes allowed a "shift meal" when you work.
Consider buying textbooks used online, or from other students. Textbooks at college or university bookstores are often much more expensive than buying used. Amazon offers a wide selection of used textbooks, and many colleges and universities have Facebook groups that act as a marketplace for students who need to books to get in touch with students who are selling.
 If a job in education, public service, a volunteer organization, for a federal agency, or as a doctor, nurse, or lawyer appeals to you, these are all fields in which, under certain circumstances, some or all of your debt can be forgiven.Talk to your advisor at school about these programs, which can vary from state to state.
 Once you have taken steps to reduce your expenses, it is time to create a budget that will indicate precisely how much you make, and precisely how much you can spend. The difference between the two is the amount that will go towards paying for tuition and other costs.


The first step is to add together all sources of monthly income. If you received a lump sum scholarship payment (that is not automatically deducted from tuition) divide the lump sum amount by the number of months in the school year. This is the portion you have available to use each month.
Next, tally up all your expenses. Keep in mind cost-cutting measures that were discussed to make sure your expenses are no larger than they need to be.
Subtract the difference. This is how much you have available to save each month. If you add together your monthly savings amount for the amount of months you are in school, this is the amount you will have to apply towards tuition and other expenses. If the amount is too small, consider reducing expenses more. If there is an area you are having trouble reducing expenses in, look online. There are plenty of resources devoted to helping people reduce expenses.
 Sticking to your budget over time can be challenging, but there are a few tips and resources that can help you stay on track.


Keep your savings in a separate account away from the money you use for day-to-day spending. This helps you prevent spending it. Considering opening a high interest savings account with your bank or financial institution as well, these accounts can allow you to earn a slightly higher return than your regular checking account, and this can help your savings grow.
If you have difficulty budgeting, consider using software like Mint. Mint allows you to sync your bank accounts with the software, and automatically tracks your spending, while organizing it by category. You can easily tell if you are exceeding your allowed amount of spending this way. If you are exceeding, Mint can tell you exactly where to help you reduce those expenses for next time.

