 Before cleaning your foggy headlights, place the sandpaper in water. You should have at least one piece of 1000 grit paper and one piece of 2000 or 3000 grit paper. Allow the sandpaper to soak for 15 minutes., Before you begin cleaning foggy plastic headlights, you’ll need to protect the metal area surrounding the headlight with tape. Painter’s tape is usually blue, though it might be available in other colors, and works just as regular masking tape does. Apply the tape in a border around the headlight you wish to clean., Fill a spray bottle with water and a bit of car soap. Spray the headlights liberally with the mixture. Alternately, you might dip a cloth into the soapy water and wipe the headlight down using that., Spray the headlight with the water and soap mixture while simultaneously rubbing it with the 1000 grit sandpaper. Move your hand from one side of the headlight to the other with firm, even pressure. Continue spraying the headlight with the soap mixture throughout., After you’ve sanded the entire surface of the headlight, wipe it off with a clean, dry towel. Conduct a visual inspection of the headlight. The surface should be free of scratches and damage. The plastic will still look foggy. If some scratches or damage are still visible, spray the headlight again with water while sanding it down with 1000 grit sandpaper., Spray the headlight with more of the soapy water. Alternately, you could use a damp sponge saturated with soapy water to wipe the headlight down., Continue spraying the headlight with soapy water. Use 2000 or 3000 grit sandpaper to further reduce the plastic headlight’s fogginess. Move the sandpaper from side-to-side while spraying constantly with your other hand., Once you’ve rubbed the finer grit sandpaper across the headlight’s surface, dry it with a clean cloth. The headlight lens should have a uniform and slightly cloudy appearance.If the headlight’s surface is not uniform in appearance, wipe the headlight down again with 2000 or 3000 grit sandpaper while spraying it with soapy water.
 Apply two small dabs of regular polish to a rotary sander-polisher equipped with a four-inch (eight-centimeter) polishing pad. Wipe the pad about the surface of the headlight before turning it on. Then, set the polisher to a speed between 1500-1800 rotations per minute and move the pad slowly across the surface of the headlight.Use only a slight pressure when applying the polisher pad to the headlight.
This step will remove any haziness that remains from the sanding process.
 If the initial coat of polish does not improve the foggy plastic, wait a few moments to allow the plastic headlight to cool. Apply another two small dabs of polish to the polishing pad, then polish the headlight with the rotary sander-polisher again., Applying a finishing polish will further refine the plastic headlight’s clarity. Once you’ve successfully polished the headlight, apply two small dabs of finishing polish to a clean four-inch (eight-centimeter) rotary pad. Just as before, wipe the rotary pad about the surface of the plastic headlight before turning the rotary sander-polisher on. Set the polisher to 1200-1500 rotations per minute. Turn the polisher on and move it slowly and evenly across the surface of the headlight.When you’re done, wipe the headlight off with a dry hand towel. Remove the tape surrounding the edges of the headlight.
At this point, no fogginess should remain and the plastic headlight should be clear. If some fogginess remains, apply another coat of finishing polish, then wipe it away with a clean hand towel.

