 To avoid going over on your plan, you need to know how much data you're allowed each month, as well as how many texts and minutes you get each month. You can find that information online or on your bill each month.Some companies have a set limit of data each month. Others offer unlimited data, but only a certain amount of high-speed data each month. If you want to avoid worrying about data overages, consider moving to a company that has unlimited data, even if it slows you down after a certain amount of usage.
Similarly, you may have an unlimited plan for minutes texts, but you also may have a set limit., When your billing cycle comes around, reset your data statistics. That way, you can see how much you're using so you don't go over.You can also use an app to monitor your data usage, especially if your phone doesn't have built-in monitoring.Some services will even send you alerts when you reach a certain point.Another option is using your phone company to monitor usage. You can either download your company's app or go online to see how much data you've used in this billing cycle. Also, sometimes you can get your telephone company to send an alert when you reach a certain limit. You usually need to set up these alerts online or over the phone with the company.
 If you are nearing your data limit, it's time to start avoiding data usage. How drastic you are depends on how much data you have left. One option is just saving data-hungry entertainment, such as streaming videos and music, until you're on WiFi, so that you're not using data.You can turn off data for individual apps under settings.You can also turn off push notifications for each app and auto-syncing, also under settings.
Another option is turn off cellular data altogether, so you can't run up any data. Turn it off under settings., If you're running out of texts, you can turn to messenger apps. While these run off of data, you can also use them on WiFi instead. Basically, you use a messenger app instead of sending text to people, and they work pretty much like text messages.For instance, apps like Skype and Facebook let you text for free using their app, as long as the other person is using the same app.While it's not a perfect solution, it does let you communicate with other people without using texts or data.
 If you're running low on minutes, you can use a VoIP app. Like messenger apps, these apps use data or WiFi. They let you make calls to other people without using minutes.Most of the time, to call for free, the other person needs to have the app, too.However, some apps also let you make calls to other phone numbers. In some cases, you'll need to pay per minute, usually at a fairly cheap rate, while a few apps will let you call totally for free.