 If you are awarded a bankruptcy discharge, you are no longer legally required to repay some kinds of debts. This is a permanent order. Creditors can take no further action against you to collect the debt. They cannot communicate with you about the debt. They can take no legal action against you.Unless there are any objections to the discharge, it is usually granted automatically. Creditors, debtors and their attorneys all receive copies of the order of discharge.
 The amount of time it takes to get a discharge varies depending on the type of bankruptcy for which you file. The court can deny a discharge if the petitioner does not complete the required credit counseling and debt education courses. Exemptions from this requirement can be granted in some cases if the debtor is disabled or on active military duty.In a Chapter 7 case, the discharge can happen within 60 days of the first 341 meeting, which is usually approximately four months from the date the debtor files for bankruptcy. It may take longer if a creditor files a complaint objecting to the discharge or a motion to dismiss the case.
In Chapter 13 cases, the court grants a discharge after the debtor completes all agreed-upon payments. Since these payment plans last three to five years, it may take several years for the discharge to be granted.
 The kinds of debts that can be discharged vary depending on the kind of bankruptcy filed. Congress determines the kinds of debts that cannot be discharged. These decisions are based on public policy. Debtors must still repay those debts that cannot be discharged.The categories of debt that cannot be discharged include some taxes, spousal or child support, debts for personal injury, student loans, and debts owed for driving under the influence.
Under Chapter 13, some debts can be discharged that would not be dischargeable under other chapters. These include some taxes, some personal injury debts, and debts from property settlements during a divorce. Petitioners can also file a hardship discharge if they are unable to complete the planned payments due to circumstances beyond their control.
 Creditors can object to and block a discharge by filing a complaint in the bankruptcy court. This is known as an adversary proceeding. The court can deny a discharge if you delay or hinder the proceedings. For example, you will not receive a discharge if you do not supply the proper documents, fail to complete the required educational courses, willfully conceal or destroy records or property or perjure yourself.A discharge can be revoked if it is determined that it was obtained fraudulently. This typically occurs within one year of the discharge.
 You may choose to repay some debts that have been discharged. Discharged debts cannot be legally enforced, but you can voluntarily repay them. For example, if you owe money to a family member, you may choose to repay that debt. Also, you may want to repay a debt to someone whose opinion is important to you. An example would be debts for medical treatment from a family doctor., Keep all discharge court papers and decisions for your records. These will help you prove the debts have been discharged in the event creditors attempt to collect old debts. Creditors may claim after the fact that debts were discharged dishonestly, so having the papers to prove the court's decision can be useful.