 Your towel should be long enough so that it falls past your shoulders when it hangs from the top of your head. Your towel should be wide enough to reach from the nape of your neck to your to your hairline. If your towel is much wider than your head, you can fold the towel in half so it fits better around your head.It is a good idea to designate hair towels that are specifically for drying your hair. You may want to use a soft towels made of microfiber or an old, clean t-shirt to dry your hair because these materials will leave your hair softer.If you have short hair, you should use a shorter towel.
Some people like to use a plush towel to wrap their heads because of how soft and comfy it feels; however, microfiber towels are preferred by people with curly hair because they are less abrasive to the hair cuticle. You can also use a soft t-shirt to wrap your hair. Just like the microfiber towels, the softer material will not create as much friction with your cuticles as a fluffy towel and can leave your hair softer. You can also buy a hair wrap from a department store like Target. These wraps are made of absorbent microfiber and are lighter and easier to wrap on top of your head than a towel. ;
, You do not want your excess water to leak out of your hair wrap, so use your towel to gently squeeze the excess water from your hair. You can flip your hair over and squeeze the water out in sections if you have thick hair, or if you have shorter or thinner hair, you can tilt your head to one side and gently take each half of your hair and press it between the folds of your towel to dry it.


There are gloves you can buy made out of microfiber, and they are designed to dry your hair like a towel. Put them on and squeeze your hair to dry it faster., If you have straight hair, you can use a large tooth comb to detangle your hair and ready it for the wrapping. If you have curly hair, be careful not to over comb your hair with your fingers because you want to retain as much of your curl as you can. If you are trying to get wavy hair, you may want to skip this step, or gently scrunch your hair in sections so that you don’t disturb the clumps of curls in your hair.Your hair is at its weakest when it is wet, so avoid combing out a lot of snarls when it is wet. To help prevent breakage, comb your hair before you take a shower, and it will be easier to detangle before you wrap it up. , Bend over at the waist, and use your hands to brush all of your hair down over the top of your head so that all of your hair is hanging upside down in front of your face.


Pick a spot to bend over where you have room flip your hair over.
 The middle of the towel should sit at the nape of your neck on your back hairline. Adjust the sides of your towel so that both sides have the same amount of fabric hanging on each side. Then bring together the two sides of the towel to the middle point at the front of your hairline, and hold the sides of the towel together firmly. Hold the sides of your towel around your hairline so that the towel applies pressure to your head but is not so tight that it squeezes your head. If your wrap is too tight, it may give you a headache.


Tuck the towel behind your ears. Some people like to put the towel over their ears, but this makes it harder to hear.
 Twist your towel in one direction starting at the base of your head. With one hand, keep your towel in place and with the other hand wrap your hair. Twist the towel around your hair to the end. You want the wrap to be firm but not so tight around your hair that it causes damage.
 Stand upright and flip the wrapped hair to the back of your head. Clip or tuck the end of the wrap into the opening of the towel at the nape of your head to secure it.
 This should be enough time for your towel to wick away all of the excess moisture that it can absorb from your hair.If after an hour your hair is still wet, use another hair towel that is dry to replace the hair wrap until your hair is damp dry.
 Bend at the waist again with your head upside down again, and gently unwrap your hair so that it can let it air dry the rest of the way. Unwrap your hair but leave it loose in the towel so that when you bring your head right side up you don’t have to whip your hair back to get it out of your face. Instead, you can let your hair loose from the towel once your head is back up.


If you have extra thick hair, you can use two towels to help dry your hair.

