 Some communities produce so much trash that they're running out of places to put it. If you want to take good care of the land that you, your friends and your family call home, reducing the amount of garbage you throw away is a good place to start.


Buy minimally packaged goods. Avoid getting products that come wrapped in layers of plastic, since it's not usually biodegradable.
Recycle and reuse. When you do buy containers made of plastic, as well as containers made of glass or other reusable materials, try to find other uses for them instead of just tossing them out.
Start a compost pile instead of throwing out your food scraps.
Make things instead of buying them so you don't have to keep buying new bottles.
Cook at home instead of getting takeout, which often comes in plastic or styrofoam containers.
 Trees are essential for the health of the environment. They keep the land from eroding, they clean the air, they provide shelter for animals. Trees are so powerful they even bring our stress levels down when we live among them.Do your part to help trees in these ways:


Plant native trees that will help the soil and provide shade.
Don't cut down trees unless it's completely necessary. Save as many as you can.
See if there's a local group you can work with to save patches of forest from development.
 If you have the space and inclination, consider making your yard a haven for plants, trees and animals. So many wild places have been taken over that wild creatures need as much space as they can get. As a reward, you'll get to live next to plants and animals most people don't see everyday. Here's what you can do:


Don’t use pesticides or herbicides. Let your yard be completely organic.
Grow plants that attract bees and butterflies.
Have a birdfeeder, a squirrel feeder and a bat box.
Consider beekeeping.Provide a water source for animals, like a birdbath or a garden pond.
Let moles, opossums, raccoons and other animals thought of as pests live instead of getting rid of them.
 With so many animal species going extinct every day, it's time to rethink the way we see animals.Realizing that every creature is valuable and deserves a spot on Earth might change the way you interact with and talk about animals, and the choices you make in your everyday life. If you care about animals, try doing the following:


Make sustainable eating choices. Eat fish that were caught in a sustainable way, and pay attention to where your fish comes from by checking a source like Seafood Watch. Try to buy all animal products from sources you know and trust.
Take care of wild places, like beaches and forests, which are habitats for animals. If you're out for a hike and you see a sign instructing you to stay on the trail, do it.
See if your local state forest or park needs volunteers to help protect animal habitat.
Help spread awareness about endangered species. Let others know that you care about animals, and educate them on how important it is to keep them safe.
 Join up with an environmental group working to save the land where you live from destructive practices like clearcutting, strip mining, mountaintop removal and fracking. These practices affect not just the land, but the trees, wildlife, air, water, and human life that depends on it.

