 It's the easiest way in the game to get tons of cash, and the higher your level, the easier he is. At one point, it becomes a cakewalk. It will also speed up your reactions, once you master dodging his attacks. With the money, you can buy potions, new weapons, and sandwiches, not to mention other things like pets and so on. This can also be useful for XP.;
, What's a strong guy without good defence? What's a person strong in magic but slower than a snail? If you don't level your attributes up equally, you'll be left with a double edged sword; strong with one thing, but weak with another. To become tough, you must have no weak points. You must move fast, hit hard, defend yourself and throw magic into the mix (more powerful than your bow).
 Each weapon has different stats, such as +1 in magic but -1 in strength and defence or vice versa, for example. Find a one that you're comfortable with, and stick with it, until you find a weapon that you like more.
 Pets can't die, and only give you an advantage in combat. They're sometimes hidden, so explore the level to find them. Never stick with one forever though, change them to take advantage of the level. Water level? Use Seahorse. Groups of strong enemies? Use Bitey Bat or Dragonhead. Ice level? Use Yeti. Good pets all around are Meowburt and BiPolar Bear. You get the idea.
 Friends can back you up in difficult boss fights, hold off groups of enemies, or help you in other ways. Play with people more experienced than yourself, but not serious about the game, as they will get mad at your screw-ups.
 If you enter a boss fight further into the game without potions you will probably die. Bosses like the one in Wedding Crasher can deal a lot of damage quickly, so potions will be needed there. Also, you can heal yourself as you enter the boss.
 Bosses usually have short, repetitive patterns of attack which can be memorized to your advantage to dodge them and know when to attack. Take for example the boss in Rapid Ride: the cat will spit out a furball. If you destroy it in time, the king's ship will load it's cannon and fire at the cat, dazing it, and giving you time to attack. If you don't destroy it, it will damage the ship.

