 When you are planting a fall container garden, it is important to choose plants that can survive cold temperatures, including frost. Take into consideration the climate in your region, and choose plants that can survive well into the winter months. Here are a few plants to consider when designing a fall container garden.New Zealand flax.
Begonias .
Pansies.
Heuchera.
Evergreens.
Ornamental grasses, such as carex.;
, If you would like your container garden to have a pop of colour, then you should select plants that bloom and flower in the fall. These plants can continue to flower with less light as the days get shorter. In the late fall and early winter months many plants will lose their leaves and colour. The landscape can begin to look grey and drab. As a result, you can add colour to your yard through the use of autumn container gardens. The following plants will provide flowers well into the fall and come in a variety of colours:Chrysanthemums.
Pansies.
Ornamental kale.
 When designing an autumn container garden, you can also add colour using foliage. For instance, many non-flowering plant varieties will produce colourful leaves during the fall. These are excellent for autumn containers because they are often hardier plants that can survive the cold weather and also add texture and colour to your garden.For example, heuchera has colourful fall foliage and works well in fall container gardens.
Similarly, ornamental grasses in the autumn months can have an orange or purple hue to them that work well in container gardens.
Avoid planting sweet potato vines or coleus. Despite the fact that they are an excellent colour, they will not be able to survive the cold fall climate.
 You can also try planting some hearty vegetables in the fall. Many gardeners lament the fact that they can no longer grow flowers or vegetables in the colder seasons. This is not necessarily true. There are a variety of vegetable plants that can continue to thrive even after the first frost. If you are interested in growing a fall vegetable container garden, consider these plants:Garlic: Can continue to grow throughout the winter and even survive during frosty weather conditions.
Kale: Thrives in the fall and early winter months. Cannot survive the coldest winter climate, but will live through early winter.
Turnips: Will continue to grow in a container garden through the winter as long as they are buried deep in the soil.
Carrots: Will also grow during the winter as long as they are buried deep within a container for warmth.

