 To help you manage your IBS and GERD, you need to see your doctor regularly. In addition, it may be helpful to also enlist the help of a registered dietitian.


Stay in touch with your primary care physician or your gastroenterologist. They should be managing these conditions and staying in touch regularly.
If you take medications for these conditions, inform your doctor if they stop working or you're still having symptoms.
Look for a dietitian that specializes in GI conditions. Since many foods can trigger symptoms, it is important to make sure you learn how to avoid them while still following a fairly well-balanced diet.
Ask your dietitian for specific meal plans, recipes and supplement suggestions to help you stay healthy.
 If you have severe IBS or GERD, you may be prescribed prescription medications. These should be taken regularly to help you live with these chronic conditions.


Many times, both GERD and IBS can cause severe enough symptoms that they need to be managed with medications.
Take your medication as directed by your doctor. Never take more or less of the medication.
Also stay consistent. Don't skip days of taking your medications, otherwise they'll be less effective overall.
Try setting an alarm to remind you to take your medications. Timing your medication to take it directly after something that is already an ingrained habit (such as right after you brush your teeth) can help you remember to take it. Try storing your pills near your toothbrush or something that will trigger a reminder to take your medication.
 An additional supplement you may want to consider adding to your daily routine is a probiotic. This can help manage symptoms of IBS.


Some studies suggest that if you have IBS, that you might have an overgrowth of "bad" or "unhealthy" bacteria in your gut causing many of your symptoms.Probiotics are considered "good or healthy" bacteria. Adding a probiotic supplement to your diet may help repopulate your gut with the good bacteria and weed out the bad bacteria.
Probiotics can be taken in supplement form — in tablets, liquids or capsules. In addition, many foods have probiotics naturally or added. Try: yogurt, kefir, fermented vegetables, kimchi, sauerkraut or tempeh.
 Like probiotics, you might also want to consider adding some fiber to your diet; however, be careful with fiber supplements. A little too much and you could cause irritating symptoms.Fiber is great at relieving constipation — especially if you have IBS. Fiber also has been shown to reduce the symptoms associated with GERD.If possible, integrate more fiber-rich foods into your diet such as fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Be careful to avoid trigger foods and keep track of symptoms in a journal. Try: lentils, raspberries, blueberries, pears, apples, or artichokes.
You can add fiber in a supplement form - like a tablet, capsule or gummy chew.
Regardless of the choice of fiber, you always need to start adding it very slowly to your diet. Add in just 3 – 5 grams per day and assess how that affects you.

