 A panty liner is similar to a pad or sanitary napkin, but a little lighter, thinner and not used to soak up too much of your menstruation or period blood. It can be used to absorb daily vaginal discharge, post-intercourse discharge, or even a light period flow. Never use just a panty liner on a heavy day.;
, Liners are useful since you don't notice them as much as pads and can feel more flexible and comfortable.
 Discharge is the yellowy white sticky stuff that you can sometimes spot in your underwear. It can be hard to wash off when it dries which is why wearing a panty liner really helps. This is common during ovulation.



It's also good to keep a pack if you're going through puberty (developing chest, mood swings, growth spurt, hair, etc.) as spotting and irregular periods can be frequent.






Panty liners are small enough to fit into a wallet and can be a life-saver if you get an unexpected period. It won't be as absorbent as a pad but can provide some protection until you get your period supplies.
 It can be exciting to know you're maturing, but you need to know some facts. If you don't have a mature female figure in your life, you can ask a friend, friend's mother, your doctor or a female teacher. All women experience this and most will be happy to explain without embarrassment., For heavy discharge, you will need very absorbent sanitary pads. For medium discharge, regular pads, and for light discharge, you can use a pad for light flow or a panty liner.


Some women need a thicker and longer sanitary pad for nighttime. Since body shapes differ your nighttime needs may differ. You may only need a liner for sleeping.
Some top liner brands are Carefree and Lil-lets. A good idea for girls just starting their periods is to buy the Lil-lets starter pack which has several types of pads, liners and tampons plus a booklet and a handy make up bag. This is a good idea if you're unsure about your period and don't really know where to start with supplies.They are targeted to girls your age, and they have plenty of information on their websites that can provide more information.
Some offer a light fragrance or a fragrance-free to help combat associated odors. Period blood doesn't actually smell before it comes 'out', it's just when the blood mixes with air that bacteria can start to grow and form odor. Lots of girls worry about smelling but as long as you change your pad or liner every 3-4 hours or your tampon every 6-8, nobody will notice a faint smell. It's a matter of personal preference, but fragrance has been known to sometimes irritate.
Panty liners are often used as a backup for tampons to catch any leakage and prevent embarrassing situations.
 Many women keep a supply of liners, pads and tampons available in their bathrooms or storage cabinet.
 Not only will the bag keep everything organized, it will keep your supplies free of dirt and debris but you won't risk awkward situations should you spill the contents or have someone standing too close while you are looking in your bag.


You'll also have the supplies you need when you need them.
This is a good idea if you are about the age when girls start their periods but haven't yet. You don't want to be unprepared.

