 Focus on stretching your whole body - not just your arms. Football throwing is a complex physio-mechanical process that uses multiple muscle groups, including your core, legs, and shoulders.When you throw your ring finger and pinkie finger on the middle laces.Your middle finger next to the top lace.Pay special attention to these areas as these muscles will stabilize your body and add power to your throw.;
, The most common way to hold the football is with your ring and little fingers crossing the laces and your thumb underneath. Your index finger should be over a seam, and your thumb and index fingers should make an "L" shape.


Many quarterbacks prefer variations on the common grip on the ball, as described above. For instance, Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning lays his middle finger across the laces in addition to his ring and little fingers.Experiment to see which position is most comfortable for you.
Don't "palm" the football. Hold it lightly with your fingertips. Some palm contact is OK, but try to keep space between the center of the palm and the ball.
Don't grip the ball too tightly. Keep your hold firm but loose - you'll be able to adjust your grip more easily.
 Face 90 degrees away from your target. If you throw with your right hand, turn to the right, and vice versa if you throw with your left hand. Turn your pivot foot (opposite your throwing arm) so that it's pointing toward your target. Keep your eyes on the target.
 Before you throw the ball, keep it up near your ear, stabilizing it with your non-throwing hand. This allows you to be ready to throw the ball quickly at any time, minimizing the risk of telegraphing your pass to a defender.
 Release your non-throwing hand from the ball. Wind your throwing arm back, stopping just behind your ear.
 Quickly swing your throwing arm forward in a circular arc. Release the ball mid-way through the circle. Your empty hand should then head toward your non-dominant hip, palm facing away from you. Practice this motion a few times before you let go of the ball.


Use the rest of your body to build momentum for your throw. The hips, legs and shoulders can add great power to a pass.Step forward with your non-dominant (or pivot) foot, and move your non-dominant elbow down toward your back. Rotate your hips and shoulders in the direction of the pass.
 As the football leaves your hand, it should roll off of your fingertips. Your index finger will be the last part of your body touching the ball. This provides the spin that creates the desired "spiral" effect.


A proper throw will feel like it's only utilizing the thumb, index, and middle finger. The other two fingers on your hand stabilize the ball as it's being flung. They are not generally used to impart spin on the ball.
To impart more spin on the pass, you may snap your wrist forward as you follow through to the hip.
 Persistent, dedicated practice will improve your accuracy and distance. While practicing, experiment with small adjustments in your stance and grip. Once you have mastered the basics, these small changes allow you to fine-tune your technique to maximize comfort and results.

