 Being picked on, teased, or physically hurt by your peers on a regular basis could lead anyone to self-isolate and bullying often does lead to self-isolation.The best way to help your friend stop self-isolating when there’s a bully involved is to be there for them. You should also report it to a teacher or other authority figure that you trust.


Try to be around your friend when they are usually bullied. Just having you there can give your friend courage and cause the bully to think twice.
You can tell your coach, for example, “Some of the teammates are bullying my friend. Can you help us work this situation out?”

, You can help a self-isolating friend by encouraging them to get help for any alcohol or drug abuse problems that they have. Problems such as this often lead people to isolate themselves in an attempt to either hide their problem or continue using.Let them know that you think they have a problem and talk to them about seeking treatment.


You could tell your friend, “I’m concerned about the effect your drinking is having on you. You don’t do things you used to do and we barely spend time together. I think you need help.”
If your friend is under 18, you should talk to an ad you trust about what’s going on. For example, you might say, “One of my friends is having a problem with prescription pills. What should I do?”

, Self-isolation can be an indicator of mental illnesses like depression, anxiety, and food disorders.If you think your friend is struggling with mental health issues, you should talk to them about getting treatment. Treating their mental health problems can help them stop self-isolating and help them overall.


Ask your friend to see a therapist to help them any emotional or mental health issues they're experiencing.
If your friend is a child or teen, talk to a trusted adult about your concerns for your friend. For example, you might tell your parent, “I think my friend has depression. How should I handle it.”

, In some cases, the reason for self-isolation may be because your friend is being abused or has experienced something else traumatic.If you suspect that this might be the case, you can help your friend by talking to them about the situation and reporting to the proper authorities if necessary.


You might tell your friend, “I think some things have been happening to you that worry me. Can we talk about it?”
Or, you might say, “I think you might be being abused. Can we talk about what’s going on and how we can stop it?”
You can also help them contact an abuse hotline like the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 or the National Child Abuse hotline at 1-800-422-4453.

