 Examples include loud noises, children, other cats bullying them, and dogs. If your cat fears one or more of these things, it may not eat, and may react aggressively. Keeping your cat's environment quiet and still during feeding times will help to calm it.
 Cats will normally associate feeding with positive feelings, and so food can be used as a reward to help condition their behavior.There are a number of techniques you can try:


To build your cat's trust, find the cat's go-to treat and scatter some around the room during a play session. Try holding treats in your hand and dropping them to get the cat to come closer.
Expose to aggression-causing stimuli at a safe distance, for short periods of time, then reward with food for non-aggressive behavior. For example, if your cat has an aggressive fear of a specific person, that person might stand at a distance that does not trigger aggressive behavior.
When working with other cats, they might be kept in large cages at opposite ends of the room, on leashes, or in harnesses, so they can see the source of aggression, but not escape. After several hours, they might be brought closer together. After many such sessions, it should be possible for them to be close to each other, without becoming defensive.
 Petting aggression isn't a well understood behavior, even among experienced animal behaviorists. It's thought that some cats just have sensitive spots or limited tolerance for touch. The next time you pet your cat, watch her closely for signs of irritation. As soon as you recognize 'tells' that the cat's tolerance level is about to be exceeded, stop petting, stand up and tip the cat off your lap., This can be an easy way to calmly distract the queen. While she is occupied eating, it will give you an opportunity to care for the kittens, while avoiding the aggressive behavior. This can be used in a process of gradual acclimation.
 Learn what specific types of behaviors it likes and use only those strokes when training. Also remember to slightly vary your behaviors, as activity that is too repetitive can bore and annoy your cat., Avoid “free feeding” (keeping your cat’s bowl full all the time). If your schedule doesn’t permit giving multiple meals, you can purchase a feeder with a built-in timer, designed to open according to a preset schedule. Predatory aggression is shown not to occur when cats eat from a food bowl, but only with objects perceived as prey.