 The reaper(s) can be easy to kill, but it's powerful and can be tricky the first few times. Level up a couple times with dexterity and strength and get a good upgraded weapon.;
, Put on the best equipment you have for the fight.

The best weapon. A leveled up long sword works really well, but just about any will do.
A piece of lightweight armor. You need to be able to move fast though, so make sure you can still roll. You will not need a shield.
Ring of magical dullness is a good item for this run.
 (Note: You must beat the first required boss in Shrine of Storms to unlock this. Abjudicator pictured above. )

, Run down the stairs, jump off the ledge, turn around, and run into the area. Grave Robber Blige will be waiting in the tunnels if you wish to buy anything.

There are a lot of storm beasts flying around outside. They go for about 1,000 per beast. It might be worthwhile to stand at the edge and shoot them down before/after. Be careful as they shoot those pesky spears at you. Wearing something to keep from being noticed IE: thief's ring can help out.
 Run through the right or left bridge. Ignore the iridescent mantas, they are unimportant, and will keep respawning so long as their master is alive., Once you get near the shrine, jump down near the reaper., As soon as you hit the ground start mashing the roll button. The Reaper will fire off a death ray that will typically always kill you in one hit, if it hits you. Round around one side of the shrine. The reaper is the guy in black robes holding a scythe; you can't miss him. (The ring of magical dullness will help you out a lot by decreasing the damage. Increasing the chances of surviving a death ray. Either way it will take a huge chunk of HP off though.)

Alternatively. If you can aim it well enough, rolling into the reaper will damage and stun him, but only a little.
 As soon as you come up start swinging the weapon for all you're worth. With a good weapon it should typically take 4-5 hits. Don't stop until it's dead. (He will typically not hit you with a spell if you're close enough, but his melee attack is just as if not as devastating.), Once the reaper is dead all of his minions will fade away as well, but they can still hit you for a couple seconds after. If they kill you (they typically can't unless you're at low health but better safe than sorry) you will not earn the souls., One reaper is worth 4,000+ souls a piece. (Without anything special.) Don't forget to check his corpse however, as he drops Darkmoon stone and sometimes even a war Scythe., Reload the level and do it again. Once you get the hang of it you can earn 10,000 souls easily in just two runs.

If you don't wish to go all the way to the archstone; there are two ledges you can jump off of. One near where you came in, and one on the opposite side of the reaper's shrine. The area where you came in is safer though, so you can touch your bloodstain without fear of getting attacked, and losing all the souls.

