 Tea tree oil can be applied directly to pimples for an effective and natural acne treatment. It contains natural antibacterial properties which make it an excellent alternative to harsh synthetic chemicals. Just a small amount of oil will penetrate the skin to unblock the sebaceous glands, disinfect pores and dry out whiteheads, blackheads, pimples and other blemishes.To apply, pour a few drops of tea tree oil onto a cotton bud, cotton pad or tissue. Gently dab the tea tree oil onto any pimples or spots. Leave for a few hours, or overnight. The redness and swelling should decrease.






Always apply to clean, dry skin.






Make sure to use 100% pure tea tree oil, not products containing tea tree oil.





;
, If you find that pure, undiluted tea tree oil is a little too harsh or drying on your skin, try using it in a homemade spot treatment. Simply mix a couple of drops of tea tree oil into a few teaspoons of aloe vera gel and apply directly onto the pimple you wish to get rid of.As an alternative to aloe vera, try mixing tea tree oil with raw, organic honey. Honey also contains antibacterial properties and promotes skin healing.






Try storing these spot treatments in small lip-gloss containers for easy application.
 A few drops of tea tree oil can be added to either store-bought or homemade face masks to kill bacteria and dry out pimples. Here are some recipes for homemade face masks using tea tree oil:


Mix 3-4 drops of tea tree oil with two tablespoons of green clay powder, which can be found at most health food stores. Add enough water to turn your clay into a spreadable paste and give it a good stir. Apply the mask evenly, all over your face and neck. Leave the mask on for at least 20 minutes, until the clay dries and the tea tree works its antibacterial magic. Rinse off with warm water and pat dry.Blend three drops of tea tree oil with a teaspoon of jojoba oil, then stir in half of a very finely chopped tomato. Mash together to make a purée. Apply this refreshing face mask directly to clean skin and leave on for ten minutes, before rinsing off with warm water and patting dry.






Add 5 drops of tea tree oil to 1/4 cup of plain yogurt and apply as a mask. Rinse off with warm water after 15-20 minutes.
 For an effective, acne-fighting face scrub, try mixing tea tree oil with some other natural ingredients from your kitchen cupboard. In a small bowl, combine 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/4 cup of sesame or olive oil, 1 tablespoon of honey and approximately 10 drops of tea tree oil. Gently massage onto damp face, using circular motions, for 2-5 minutes. Wash off with warm water and pat your face dry.


This scrub may be a little rough for people suffering from cystic acne, but is perfect for mild to medium breakouts.






As both tea tree oil and honey are natural preservatives, you can make this scrub in bulk and store in a jar in your medicine cabinet.
 A few drops of tea tree oil can be added to your daily moisturizer and cleanser to help combat stubborn pimples. Apply 2 - 6 drops, depending on how strong you want it. Just be careful not to get it in your eyes!

, Add a couple of drops of tea tree oil to your bath to help clear acne on your chest, back and other parts of your body. The oil will add a fragrant scent to your bath.

Breathing in the tea tree-infused steam can help to alleviate congestion, so you should also try this when you have a cold!







, Many, many brands have harnessed the antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties of tea tree oil in their acne treating products. If you feel that the pure, essential oil is a little too strong for your tastes, buying a tea tree based product may be a good option. Tea tree cleansers, moisturizers and spot gels are particularly popular.

