 Showering in the morning can be a huge time waster. If you’re waking up late you should get in the habit of taking showers or baths the night before. It’s hard to keep track of time in the shower, so what feels like five minutes could be longer. A good alternative to taking a shower is to splash cold water on your face. Cold water increases your alertness and will wake you up in the morning.Make sure that you apply underarm deodorant and wear cologne or perfume so you can still smell fresh.;
, We all want to look good in the morning, but you can do your makeup when you get to wherever you need to go. Don’t risk being late when a quick trip to the bathroom could save you precious minutes!


Avoid doing your makeup in the car while you drive. It’s dangerous and could cause an accident.
Have a separate handbag for on-the-go makeup supplies so that when you need to rush you have all of the essentials available to you.
 If you take a shower the night before, allow your hair to fully dry before laying down for bed to avoid having frizzy hair in the morning. By tending to your hair the night before, you don’t have to waste time doing it in the morning, which can take up most of your time.


To achieve straight hair in the morning, pull your hair back behind your ears and wrap it around your head in one direction, securing it with bobby pins. Then wrap a silk scarf around your head tightly.
For curly hair, either use a foam styling donut, or tie your hair into two doughnut buns on either side with bobby pins., While some people prefer a caffeinated beverage in the morning, a tall glass of cold water is a healthy alternative that doesn’t require any brewing time. Other than raising your alertness, it’s also a good way to get hydrated in the morning. Another good thing about drinking water is that you won’t need to brush your teeth after drinking it.
 When we check any messages that we receive, it’s natural that we want to respond immediately. To maximize your time, refrain from checking your social media until you get to your destination.


Turn off cell phone notifications for your social media if you find that they are distracting you.
 Knee high boots with elaborate laces aren’t exactly the most time efficient thing to lace up in the morning. If you know you are going to wake up late, choose clothing that will aid you in getting out of the house faster. Instead of boots, consider slip-ons as they take far less time to put on.


Blouses with buttons on the back or jewelry with intricate clasps will slow down your morning tremendously. Try to avoid clothes and accessories that have these.

