 While cards in general are good games for strategy and memory, bridge is especially complex – and popular for staying sharp. There are about 25 million bridge players in the US, and also some evidence that bridge can sharpen the memory and improve cognitive function.In a nutshell, four people (two sets of partners) play in a bridge game. For each deal, players “bid” on the number of “tricks” they think they can take based on their hand, and one team takes on the “contract.” They then have to win the exact number of tricks they’ve bid or more.
Join a bridge club. There are a lot of different venues to learn and play bridge, like community centers, local leagues, and clubs.
After learning the ropes, you might also sign up for a local or national tournament. The American Contract Bridge League sanctions more than 1,200 such tournaments every year.
 Video games get a bad rap as something for lazy children or teenagers. But while not all video games are mentally stimulating, some recent studies say that say certain kinds can improve your spatial reasoning and memory. Choose the right one, however. For example, “first-person shooter” games work on spatial reasoning, but aren’t as good when it comes to boosting your memory recall and problem-solving.Try the classic Tetris. The idea behind this game is to fit moving blocks into appropriately shaped spaces. As you increase levels, the blocks will move faster and you’ll have to think more quickly.
Games that involve strategy and analysis are good, too. In “Civilization,” for example, you must try to create up an empire, its cities, technologies, and culture while withstanding aggressive rivals. In “Sim-City,” your goal is to build a vibrant city – with all the challenges of money, infrastructure, and crime of the real world.
 Chess is an old game and one of the world’s great games of logic and strategy. Chess is for two players. Each person has 16 pieces – a king, a queen, 2 bishops, 2 knights, 2 rooks, and 8 pawns. Each kind of piece moves in a specific way. The aim, meanwhile, is to pin your opponent’s king so that it cannot escape capture.To play chess, you’ll have to learn how the pieces move and the basic rules. A bishop, for example, moves diagonally along the chessboard’s squares. A pawn can usually only move one space forward at a time.
Once you learn the rules, you’re really only getting started. To play chess well, you have to learn to think the game. Chess makes you think with your adversary – you’ll have to strategize and guess how they’ll play up to several moves ahead.
As with bridge, consider joining a club or competing in a local tournament to practice your skills and improve. You’ll also meet lots of people with a shared passion for the game. You can also play for free online or find an app for your phone, like Chess Free for Android.

