 The longer you wait to write your thank you letter, the hazier the specifics of your interview or meeting will become. Because of this, you should sit down and write your thank you letter as soon as you get home from your interview.


Remember, part of a thank you letter should be spent discussing the specific details of the interview or meeting that you are very excited about or found valuable. The longer you wait to write the letter, the harder you may find it to remember what the person you talked with said.
 During the interview or meeting, exchange business cards with your interviewer, or simply ask for his or her card if you do not have one. Getting your interviewer’s card will ensure that you send your thank you letter to the correct location.


If you did not get the business card during the interview, look up your interviewer or the person who gave you guidance on the company’s website, or contact the company and ask where you should direct the thank you letter.
 If you did not find the job engaging, or you don’t think that you got the job based on the interview, it is still important to write a thank you letter. There may be a position open with that company in the future, and a thank you letter may help to create a positive impression that could get you hired in the future.
 If you have participated in several interviews or meetings, make sure to personalize the letters. Mentioning specific instances that occurred during each interview or meeting will help to show that you were really engaged in the interview.


While you can have a basic format that you use for all of your thank you letters, make sure that you had a personal touch to each one, and double check that you address the letter to the correct person.
 A thank you letter can benefit you in a variety of ways. First of all, sending a thank you letter can help you to stand out from the rest of the applicants. It will show that you are willing to put in a little extra effort, which is a valuable trait in an employee. Thank you letters also:


Show off your communication skills. Communication is a valuable skill for many different positions. Demonstrating your ability to communicate in writing will show off this skill to your potential employer.
Demonstrate your diligence. Persistence is often an excellent thing to have when applying for jobs. Following up is one way to stay persistent in your application for the job.

