 You can use old, scratched up DVDs that no longer, or you can use blank DVDs instead. You can also use CDs instead, but DVDs seem to be more colorful and holographic., Set the DVD down onto a heat-safe surface, or hold it by the edges. Blow dry the DVD using the hottest setting on you hairdryer for a few minutes., A DVD is composed of two layers with a thin, holographic film in the middle. You want the holographic film to stick to the back/clear layer of the DVD, not the front/decorated part. Work slowly and carefully.The DVD will be hot, so be careful.
Discard the top, colored part of the DVD. Save the bottom part with the holographic film.
 You can cut it into squares, rectangles, triangles, or random pieces. It would be a good idea to have a variety of shapes and sizes, especially if your vase is round., Wash the vase using soap and water, then pat it dry with a clean towel. Wipe down the vase one last time using rubbing alcohol. This will remove any oils that might prevent the glue from sticking.


From now on, try to handle the vase only from the inside.
Square or rectangular vases will be easier to work with than round vases. The shape is entirely up to you, however.
 Your DVD tiles will be a little translucent, so this will help the colors show up better. Apply 2 to 3, thin coats of flat, white spray paint to you vase. Let each layer dry before applying the next. Allow the vase to dry completely before moving on.


For a neater finish, line the rim of your vase with painter's tape, then stuff it with newspaper. Remove both once the vase dries.
 You can use hot glue, but it would be better if you used a glue meant specifically for glass. Start at one end of the vase, and work your way to the other. You can leave small gaps between the tiles, or make them flush against one another.
 How long this takes depends on what type of glue you used. Hot glue sets up very quickly, but many glass glues take much longer.
 This is not necessary, but it will help hide any glue and give you a more mosaic effect. You can fill the gaps in using black or white puff paint/dimensional fabric paint.You can also use grout instead.For a more interesting effect, try silver puff paint/dimensional fabric paint instead.
If you are using grout, be sure to mix it according to the instructions on the package. Apply the grout to the vase, then wipe it off with a damp cloth., Again, how long this takes depends on what you used. Both can take several hours to dry, but some types of grout can take several weeks. Once everything is dry, your holographic vase is ready to use! Fill it with water, then add some freshly-cut flowers into it.

