 Bath bombs are available in many different colors, scents, shapes, and sizes. Some even have extra items embedded inside, such as flower petals and glitter. Other bath bombs contain additional oils and butters that are good for your skin, such as almond oil and cocoa butter. Find a bath bomb whose color and smell appear to you the most; if you have dry skin, then look for one with additional oils and butters for extra moisture. Here are some things you can expect to find in a bath bomb:Essential oils such as lavender, chamomile, and rose. These not only make the bath bomb smell nice, but they can also help you feel relaxed or more awake.
Skin softening and nourishing oils and butters, such as almond oil, coconut oil, shea butter, and cocoa butter. These are great for dry skin!
Fun additives such as glitter and flower petals will float on top of the bath water. They are for aesthetic purposes and can help enhance the mood.
Salts and powdered clays and herbs are also often found in a bath bomb. They help soften, moisturize, and nourish your skin.;
, Some bath bombs include flower petals, which can get stuck in the tub after you drain the water out. You can prevent this from happening by putting the bath bomb inside a small cloth bag or a nylon stocking. The detergents, fragrances, and oils will pass through the fabric and enhance the bath water, but the petals will remain inside the bag or nylon stocking. Once the bath is over, all you have to do is empty out the bag or recycle it.
 Bath bombs are expensive, but you can make yours last longer by cutting it in half using a serrated knife. You will use one of the halves for your bath, and save the other half for another bath.If you choose to only use half of your bath bomb, be sure to store the other half properly by wrapping it in plastic wrap and keeping it in a dry location. You can also store you bath bomb in an air-tight container, such as a mason jar. Make sure that the bath bomb is dry; and moisture will cause it to start to fizz., You are making this bath for yourself, so make sure that it is comfortable for you. Make the water as deep or as shallow as you like, and use a temperature that is not too hot and not too cold for you. Once you have filled the tub to your liking, turn the water off.
 As soon as the bath bomb enters the water, it will start to bubble and fizz. Over time, the bath bomb will start to break apart and dissolve, thus allowing all the beneficial oils, salts, and butters to be released into the bath water.
 You can enter the tub while the bath bomb is still fizzing, or you can wait until it has finished.
 Get into a comfortable position. You can close your eyes and relax, meditate, or even read a book. The bath bomb will dissolve, and fill the water with fragrant essential oils, nourishing and moisturizing butters and oils, and additional items, such as flower petals, glitter, and color.
 After a while, the water will start to naturally cool down. At this point, you can leave the bathtub and drain the water. Do not stay in the water too long, or your skin will turn pruney and wrinkly!

, You do not have to rinse off after using a bath bomb, but if you used a colored bath bomb or one with glitter in it, you may consider doing so. Simply drain the bathtub, then take a shower and rinse the oils and butters off your skin. You may use a loofah and shower gel as well, if you wish.
 Some bath bombs use dyes that may stain your tub. The dyes will be easier to clean off while they are still damp. Use a bathtub cleaning sponge or brush and scrub the dye residue away. If there are any flower petals or glitter in your tub, you can either pick them out or run fresh water over them and let them flow down the drain.
 Bath bombs will keep their solid form as long as they are kept in a dry environment; however, the fresher a bath bomb is, the more it will fizz when you drop it into the bathtub.If you wait too long to use it, it will not fizz as much.
 If you purchase a bath bomb that contains eucalyptus oil, you can use it to help clear out your sinuses when you have a cold. Simply fill a tub with warm water, drop the bath bomb in, and hop in.
 Many bath bombs contain essential oils, which can help enhance your mood and make you feel relaxed, less stressed, or more awake. When choosing a bath bomb, look at the ingredient list to see what types of essential oils it contains. The essential oil is also responsible for the scent, so be sure to choose one that you like. Here are some common types of essential oils that can be found in bath bombs and their uses:Lavender essential oil has a classic scent with fresh, floral notes. It may help reduce anxiety, depression, and stress.
Rose essential oil is another classic scent with sweet, floral notes. Like lavender, it helps ease depression.
Lemon essential oil has a fresh, clean scent. It is very uplifting and may leave you feeling fresh and energized.
Peppermint and other minty essential oils have a cool, refreshing scent. They are great for easing headaches and nausea. They may also leave you feeling refreshed and energized.
 You can do this by dimming the lights in your bathroom and lighting a few candles. You can further enhance the mood by playing some soft music. Because you will be soaking in the tub for a while, you should consider bringing something with you. Here are some more ideas:Relax with a book.
Bring something to drink, such as champagne or hot tea.
Bring something to eat, such as fruit or chocolate.
Fold a soft towel and place it behind your head, neck, and shoulders before you lean back in the bathtub. This will make things more comfortable.
Wear a face mask to the bathtub. By the time you have finished taking your bath, the face mask will have finished doing its work.
 Sometimes, bath bombs can be almost too pretty to use! If you find it difficult to drop your pretty bath bomb into the tub, consider displaying it in a pretty dish in your bathroom. The fragrance released by the bath bomb will be subtle and not overpowering., If you like to pamper yourself but dislike sitting in baths, you can use a shower fizzy instead. Shower fizzies are similar to bath bombs, except that they contain fewer oils so that they don't make the floor of your shower slippery. Simply place a shower fizzy on the floor of your shower where the water will hit it, turn on the water, and step inside. The water will cause the shower fizzy to break apart and dissolve, thus releasing the fragrant oils.