 Goals need to be SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Time-constrained). Set short-term, moderate, and long-term goals. Make the goals challenging enough that you will feel pleased with yourself for completing them, and easy enough that they are attainable in the time frame you give yourself.

Short term goals can be varied. For instance you could set a goal to do 20 minutes walking on the treadmill on Mondays. Alternatively, by the end of the month you could aim to lift 10 pound dumbbells on your shoulder workout.
Moderate goals can range from lifting a certain weight on the bench press or leg press to swimming 10 lengths of the pool, or running a 5K.
If your long term goal is to be fit and healthy, you may choose to exercise three times a week.;
, When you’re not feeling intrinsically motivated, it’s helpful to offer extrinsic motivation to your workouts to keep you productive. Develop a rewards system based on your goal, and treat yourself accordingly.Most experts discourage you from rewarding yourself based on weight loss. Instead of focusing on the number on the scale, set milestones such as number of days worked out in a week or number of reps you complete of a certain exercise.
In terms of rewards, never treat yourself with food. Go for exciting but non-food rewards such as a new journal, a pair of earrings, or a snazzy new leather jacket.
 Recording your daily fitness routine and the changes happening in your body serves a twofold purpose. Your journal entries give you objective feedback on your progress, and help you stay motivated as you look back on how far you’ve come.Even if you’re just starting or have experienced a setback, your journal can be motivating. Review it weekly to see patterns in your fitness behaviors that need tweaking for greater success.
 Most gyms offer basic fitness assessments as a part of membership. Even if yours doesn’t offer this service complimentary, it’s worth the extra fee. A comprehensive assessment can give you details about your overall physical health, like your body fat composition and basal metabolic rate. The numbers you get from this assessment at the start of your journey are a great way to review your progress and maintain motivation., Whether you’ve been working out for years or just entered a gym for the first time, it’s important to express gratitude for your body just the way it is. However, as you go through plateaus in your fitness journey, it’s inspiring to look back and see how your relationship with your body has changed, especially when you’re feeling unmotivated during a fitness plateau.Start an “I love my body because…” board on a free wall in your home or in a notebook. Write down reasons, such as “I love my body because my legs help me to be a strong dancer” or “…my hips helped me give birth to a healthy baby.”

