 Mix a quarter cup of shampoo with equal parts water and add 2-4 tablespoons of oil. Sulfate free shampoos may prevent your scalp from becoming irritated and may stop your hair from becoming frizzy and easily breaking.With cornrows it’s important that you capture your hair’s natural oils to prevent frizziness.


Shake the bottle before applying the solution.
You can use grapeseed, jojoba, coconut, or olive oil depending on what kind of hair you have.If you don’t have a spray bottle you can use a small bowl.;
, Running your cornrows under warm water will open up your cuticles, and rinse the initial dirt out of your hair.Using a portable shower head can make this process easier., Shake your shampoo solution and apply it generously to your head and hair. If you're using a bowl, take some of the shampoo and lather the mixture in your hands. Once your hands are lathered apply it generously to your hair.


Do not neglect your scalp. This area can have a lot of built up dirt and leftover residue from hair products you've used in the past., Use your fingers to gently massage each cornrow until all of them are lathered.


You should wash your cornrows every 7-10 days.Washing your cornrows will prevent breakage when you take your braids out., Run your hair under room temperature or cool water. Rinse the rest of the soap out of your hair.


Leaving shampoo in your hair could create residue build-up from the chemicals in your shampoo., Protein based conditioners contain keratin, which helps patch cracked or missing cuticles in your hair.Use olive oil if your hair is prone to dandruff or dryness.Grapeseed and jojoba oils are lighter oils for people who already have oil prone hair.You can also use scented oils if you want your hair to smell good.
 Spray all of your cornrows with your conditioner solution. Make sure to get equal coverage on your hair.


Coconut oil and glycerin are two alternatives to conventional conditioners you can buy at the store., Covering your head in a plastic shower cap will help your hair retain moisture and stop the water that would normally evaporate from escaping.If you don’t have a plastic shower cap you can use a grocery store bag as an alternative.
 Hot water may cause unwanted frizziness in your hair.Doing a thorough rinsing will wash out any remaining dirt from your hair.


You do not have to take a shower when conditioning. You just need access to the shower head.
 Use a soft cotton towel and wear a shower cap until your cornrows are dry. Do not rub your head or you may undo your braids.


You can also wring out the ends of your cornrows in order to get out excess moisture., Find a leave-in conditioner that works best for your type of hair. If you are prone to frizzy or dry hair, choose one specifically made to handle frizzy hair. For oil prone hair, look for lighter solutions.Mix a quarter cup of leave-in conditioner with equal parts water and 2-4 tablespoons of oil.


Using coconut oil may leave an unwanted scent in your hair., If you have dry hair that is prone to breakage, you should moisturize your scalp on a daily basis.Gently spray over the top of your head to make your hair damp with moisturizer.


With oily hair, make sure that the ends of your cornrows are also getting oil.
 Rub each cornrow individually and remember to moisturize your scalp as well. Using this mixture will prevent your hair from getting dry and breaking.


Shea butter is another option if you want to use a different product to moisturize your cornrows., Wearing a satin or silk scarf will prevent your hair from being dry and helps maintain volume. Unlike cotton, it will not absorb your hair's natural oils and will allow for less friction between your hair and pillow as you sleep.You can also use a satin or silk pillowcase as an alternative to a head scarf.
Satin scarves are also called bonnets or head-wraps.
Satin and silk headscarves can be found at beauty salons, certain department stores, or online boutiques.

