 Try to find out why he or she is feeling jealous of you. It may be something you're doing, a person you're dating or being friends with or an achievement you've made. Whatever the reason, give your friend the space to explain it.


Ask your friend how he is she is feeling.
Ask what has brought on the feelings.
Ask if there is anything in particular that you have said or done to make him or her feel this way.;
, Let your friend express what he or she is feeling completely before giving your side of the story. Reiterate what you've think you've understood in your own words, to make sure that you're properly grasping what the concerns are.
 Make it clear that you're willing to work through things and that you are not judging your friend. If your friend is panicking, having a meltdown or going all dramatic on you, intervene quickly and suggest some quiet time. Suggest that your friend relax, taking deep breaths and sitting still for a bit, with you. You can clear the air better when your friend has calmed down.
 This can help your friend to realize that you're with him or her, not against.
 Make it clear that you want to get to the bottom of this, not let things grow worse.
 If you have said anything mean or lacking in support lately, be quick to say sorry. However, this does not mean apologizing for her or his feelings or suppositions about you. Focus only on things you've actually said or done that have directly hurt your friend.


With respect to the things you've achieved, the people you've befriended or the things you're doing now, do not apologize when your friend targets these as part of her or his jealousy. You have a right to be an independent person doing the best you can with your life.
 Are there realistic changes that can be made to help your friend feel included, a part of things or able to keep up with you?

, If you need to change what you're doing, who you're seeing or who you are just to accommodate your friend's jealousy, then it's not a friendship but a toxic burden. Any changes made should only be small ones, targeted at allowing your friend to feel more included.


If your friend has a history of jealousy, be wary. He or she may have gotten into the habit of crying "victim" when things don't go their way, and forcing others to change to fit their pace and wants. Keep an eye out for this possibility.
 It is a good idea to try to find a compromise if you are not in a position to make changes. For example, if you're seeing a boyfriend all the time and she feels left out, suggest some set times when the two of you meet up and do things just together. Or, if your friend feels that your job has the better of you, tell him that you will set aside time in the evenings or weekends to catch up with him specifically.


Perhaps it's an achievement of yours that has your friend's nose out of joint. Offer to pass on some of your knowledge, contacts or know-how to help your friend learn something more and have a similar opportunity if they apply effort. Don't hand anything to your friend on a platter though; this will simply feed the jealousy.
 Give time most of all. If you are best friends, you must spend time together to share secrets, ideas, stories, news and more.
 If you feel that your friend is happier, that's great. If not, ask again but there may come a point at which you have to accept that jealousy has taken root in your friend and it may be very hard to solve.

