 When the screen pulls up, click on "Play" or "Play Now." After the Poptropicans run across the screen, click on new player. After you have done that, select whether you're a boy or a girl, and select your age.


The game changes, depending on your age, so it's important to be honest and make the game as fun as possible.;
, You can pick boy or girl, then age, then look, and name. Then edit your look and enter the world of your choice.


If you don't like any of the features your Poptropican has, you can change the name by simply clicking on the card to the left of your character. Then, you select change all, and it will change the name and the other features of your Poptropican.
If you like the name, but not the other features, you can change those too. By clicking on that card to the left of the screen, below change all, are the features you can change. Skin color, shirt pants, and other details.
When you are happy with your Poptropican, go to the blimp on the right of your screen.
 To move in one direction, use the mouse and point it in the direction you want to go, and it will move. The closer the mouse is to your character, the slower he or she will walk. The farther away, the faster.


To jump, put the cursor overhead your character and click quickly.
To keep moving, simply move the mouse to the edge of the screen and click and you character will proceed.
Jumping is the same, just move the mouse above the character and you will jump.
If you want to duck, move your mouse down.
If the cursor is clear, or has no color, you cannot do anything right now.
 When you get in the blimp, you are brought to a map. You do not need to hold down the left click on the mouse to move. When you move to the edge of the map, click on the edge, and it will bring up a new map with new islands. Choose an island in which the name appeals to you, scanning the different options. To get there, left click the mouse and hold in the direction you want to walk or run.


If you've never played before, pick Early Poptropica. This island has proved to be the easiest out of all of the other islands.
 Each island will involve different challenges that you can complete, and once you finish the quest in an island, you earn Poptropica Credits. They're used to buy special effects and costumes for your player to customize the experience.


The quests will change from island to island, and at the different age points. Basically, you just want to move around and find different challenges and complete them.
 You can make friends in the Common Room, and then add them to your friends list for the future. The Friends icon should open the list. You can basically look at their profiles and get to know basic information when you click on their profile in your friends list.
 It's important to start a user name and a password when you start, and to make sure you save your progress each time you play. This way, you'll be able to come back and pick put he game where you left off the next time you want to play.
 The is always a Common Room where you can chat, battle, and even friend other real players in Poptropica. Sometimes you won't be told where to go, and you'll just have to ask around and make friends, solve problems, and find challenges to complete.


Talking is crucial in this game. Often, someone you talk to has a problem, and then you can fix it by using what you have or looking deeper into the place they have the problem in to fix their problem. You will normally get an item from this.
 If nobody in the place you land has a problem, and you've looked everywhere in the little space, go to the left or right and check out those spaces seeing if anyone there has a problem. Once you find the problem and get the item go to another place and fix another problem. That's a big part of the gameplay.


Each world on the Poptropica map has a different story, none of them will link together. However on each map, once you win and are granted a medal, you will given certain privileges that apply only to that map. An example of this is when you win Super Power Island and can fly on that island only.
 Some places you might not be able to go in yet, but attempt to visit every place on the island that you can to find challenges and tasks to complete.


Click books, cards, drinks, bookshelves, boxes, shelves, animals, and anything that just looks peculiar. They might have hints and stories along with your quest.
 You pick things up by running through them or talking to people who have the item. There should be a backpack icon, which contains your inventory as you collect things as credits that may come in handy for later quests.
 One of the fun things about the game is to buy new clothes and customize your character. You can make yourself look like a rock star, Darth Vader, or a number of other things. Every island success will give you 50 coins, so you should save up for new stuff.

