 Look around, ask questions if you want, and get a library card if you haven't yet.
 Look around for a calendar of events and ask a librarian if you're not sure. Start young! Some libraries have programs even for babies and toddlers., Bedtime is good, but any regular time will work. Even if they're not reading yet, get them used to the idea that books have stories in them and that story times are times to sit quietly. For older kids who are reading, start reading chapter books and other materials that are a bit beyond their current reading level. For chapter books, you can read one chapter at a time., Never allow books to be left on the floor or tossed around. Impress upon children that books are to be treated in special ways and have a special storage space just for them. A bookshelf is best, but books can also spend time on a nightstand or table if it seems more natural, especially while they are being read., In most cases, you will still be responsible for the care and return of the materials, but having their own cards makes it much more personal than if you check things out for them.

When they are old enough, encourage them to keep track of their own books and due dates, but supervise and remind them, especially at first.
 Many libraries have story times, performances, and other activities for kids. They're a great opportunity to help your kids associate the library with having fun, and many are designed to encourage reading., If the kids have their own cards, let them check books out themselves.

Check out at least a week's worth of books at a time. Remember that a week's worth of books for young children may be quite a few.
 Check out and read books for yourself when you take them., As your children get older, bedtime story time can transition into independent reading., For younger kids, help them find the right section but let them choose what interests them. As they get older, let them choose their own titles and let them judge what is interesting and appropriate., It's a great way to keep children engaged and reading over the summer, meaning that their education can advance during the summer rather than backslide. Reading is also a great antidote to summer boredom and excess television watching, even if your kids choose to read manga or adventure stories.