 Both positive and negative emotions are essential to living a balanced life. Consider this: if you did not know what sadness felt like, would you be able to truly enjoy happiness? Although negative emotions are uncomfortable, they are necessary for the full human experience—and, they also teach us useful lessons.Don’t suppress negative emotions like anger, shame, sadness, or embarrassment. The next time they arise, let yourself feel them. In addition to leaning into these emotions, you should also aim to find meaning in them. What are they trying to tell you? What can you learn from this experience?
Just be sure to express difficult emotions in appropriate ways. For instance, if you are angry, it is more practical to scream in your car when you're driving alone, as opposed to punching the person who fueled your anger. Let out your emotions in adaptive ways like kickboxing, singing, or painting a sad picture.
 To minimize the impact your emotions have on your health, you must become more aware of them and what they are trying to tell you. You can do this by taking the time to name what you are experiencing. Labeling your emotions can shed insight into the deeper problem, and provide a foundation for an effective coping solution.Consider this scenario, for example. A man is publicly criticized at work. He goes home and shouts at his wife and children. They ask what’s wrong, and he says “I’m mad.” While mad might be correct on the surface, deep down he is also feeling some other emotions like humiliation. Getting to the core of what you’re feeling helps you devise a plan to handle these emotions.
 Self-awareness is also connected to knowing how emotions affect you physiologically. Identifying the sensations and locations where different feelings manifest in your body can help clue you into what you’re experiencing.


Learn how to find the connection between your physical body and your emotions by documenting what you feel during different emotional states. For instance, if you wanted to hang out with a friend and they were too busy, you might feel rejected or sad. This might feel like a lump in your throat or a knot in your stomach.
Jot down a few adjectives that describe what emotions you feel throughout a week. Then, look back over your list to find recurring patterns. Trust yourself. You will get better with time and practice., Being able to recognize your emotions and their impact on your life is key to emotional intelligence. In addition to labeling emotions and figuring out how they affect your physical body, you also want to pay attention to how they influence your thoughts and behaviors.To carry the previous example forward, when you are feeling rejected, you might have tightness in your throat. You might also notice that your thoughts are “I don’t have any friends,” or “I’m a loser.” Then, you find yourself abusing alcohol or drugs to numb this feeling.
Emotional awareness helps you identify the emotion and find healthier ways of coping with negative feelings. Instead of emotional numbing in the form of substance use, for instance, you might call up another friend to see if they are available or watch your favorite comedy to cheer you up.

