 An orphaned puppy that has gotten cold needs to be warmed gradually. Warming it too quickly can cause it to go into shock, which can further threaten its life.Instead of quick warming, gradually increase the puppies temperature over the course of a half hour to an hour.;
, If the orphaned puppies are not kept warm they can get hypothermia very quickly. Use a hot water bottle filled with warm water or a heating pad set to low to warm the puppy. Put a towel or blanket in between the heat source and the puppy to make sure the heating is gentle enough.You need to make sure that the heat source is not too hot for the puppy. If you think it is too hot, place another layer of blanket or towel between the heat source and the puppy or turn down the heat.
 In order to keep the puppy properly warmed, make sure it is in a place that is warm in addition to giving it direct heat. In general, the puppy should be inside your home, in a spot that is not drafty or too cool.Depending on the puppy's age, the temperature it is kept at should be:Newborn to 7 days old - 85º to 90ºF
8 to 14 days old - 80º to 85ºF
15 to 21 days old - 75º to 80ºF
22 to 28 days old - 70º to 75ºF

, If there are multiple puppies you are caring for, keep them close together in a box or bed away from drafts or air conditioning. The body heat produced by the group will help the individuals stay warm.If you have a group of puppies the temperature of the room and the extra heating source can be kept at a slightly lower temperature. This is due to the warmth created by the group.In order to keep the puppies clean, you can place them on a puppy pad or towel that can be washed.
 If you come across an orphaned puppy and you need to start warming it up immediately, you can use your own body heat. Getting the puppy against your skin and protecting it from cold air will go a long way towards warming it up.Using your body heat to warm the puppy will mimic what a mother dog naturally does with its babies and will be a great way to gradually warm the puppy.


Remember, it's important to warm a newborn puppy because if it has an internal body temperature lower than 94ºF its body functions will begin to fail., Heat is far more important to a newborn puppy than food is. If the puppy is too cold, it will not be able to eat or digest any food. With this in mind, focus on heating before tending to other aspects of care., A puppy's ideal temperature will vary depending on how old it is. Take its temperature with a rectal thermometer to make sure it is getting enough warmth. Depending on its age, the puppy's rectal temperature should be:95º to 99ºF (35º to 37.2ºC) at one week old
97º to 100ºF (36.1º to 37.8ºC) at two to three weeks old
100º to 102ºF (37.8º to 38.9ºC) at four weeks old and after
The temperature of a newborn puppy should never drop below 94ºF. Below 94ºF the puppy's body functions will begin to fail and its life is at risk.
 Heating a puppy can cause it to become dehydrated rapidly. To avoid this, make sure the air around the puppy has at minimum 55 to 65 percent humidity but it is better to have a humidity level of 85 to 90 percent. This will require you to put a humidifier in the area where you are keeping the puppy.Signs that your puppy is dehydrated include dry mouth and gums and loss of elasticity of the skin.

