 Children often make generic comments. Things like, "My teacher's mean to me!" may not necessarily be a sign something is awry. However, if your child's been complaining consistently and seems stressed or worried in school, something may be wrong. When your child is complaining about a teacher, press him for details.


If your child says something like "My teacher was mean to me today," try to get him to unpack that statement. Press him for details. Say something like, "What exactly did your teacher say? What was happening at the time?"Children do exaggerate, especially when feeling miffed or wronged. "Mean" may simply mean the teacher scolded your child for doodling on his worksheet instead of completing his math problems. However, press for more clarification to be sure. Ask about the teacher's tone and her exact words. Even if your child was misbehaving, if his teacher raised her voice and used belittling language, this is a problem.For example, your child may say, "She told me I was being a little brat and yelled at me to get back to work." While your child was misbehaving, his teacher is the adult in the situation. Her response was not appropriate.
 If your child's version of what occurred seems inappropriate, you should investigate the situation further. Jot down exactly what your child said occurred so you have all the details. From there, do some investigation of your own. You do not want to get angry and confront the teacher until you have all the facts.


Check your facts. Your child may be exaggerating. You may want to call another mother and ask her to get her child's account of what happened.Talk to other parents. Some teachers have a bad reputation. If other parents have had an issue with this teacher, chances are your child is not exaggerating the situation., If you've determined there's an issue with the teacher, make an appointment to talk to her. Teachers are usually willing to talk to parents about issues in the classroom. Calmly give the school a call and request and appointment with your child's teacher.
 Even if you're angry, go into the situation as someone wanting to resolve a problem. If you enter the meeting yelling and placing blame, you're only going to escalate the issue. Use calm, inclusive language that's free of blame.


Start off the meeting by saying something like, "My child seems to be having trouble in your classroom. I'm not sure I completely understand what's been happening, but I'm hoping we can work together to find a solution."Even if you are calm and respectful during the confrontation, the teacher may get defensive. Many people do not take well to criticism, especially if they're frustrated or overworked. Stay calm if your teacher gets defensive. You do not want to escalate the discussion to the point it's no longer productive., You do not want to transfer your student from a classroom. A transition mid-year can be stressful. Try your best to brainstorm with the teacher on how the two of you can effectively solve the problem.


You may find the teacher simply does not know how to deal with your child. You could offer her some insight on how to help your child behave better in the classroom. Say something like, "I know Isaac struggles to concentrate, but I think sometimes reminding him gently is more effective than scolding. It seems to work at home."Also the teacher could just simply be a little grouchy and blunt and your child may be taking this personally. If this is the case, you can say something to your child like, "Mrs. Donahue simply has a different way of communicating than Mommy and Daddy do. It doesn't have anything to do with you. Just try to behave in her class."Ultimately, strive to leave the conversation with some ideas about how to move forward. Hopefully, your teacher will take your feedback as a learning experience and be better equipped to deal with your child.

