 Rockwool cubes are better at retaining water than paper towels, you can maintain a constant pH, and they are easier to transplant after sprouting.


Feminized cannabis seeds.
Set of 1 inch Rockwool cubes.
Small pointed object such as a toothpick or clean nail.
Metal or plastic tweezers.
Waterproof tray to hold water and cubes.
Tweezers (do not handle seeds with your hands).
pH test kit.
pH balancing chemicals (lime juice, pH Up/Down, Phosphoric Acid)
2-liter bottle with plastic lid.
A warm, dark place to store seeds.
Good potting soil.
Seed tray with 1x1 inch cells or plastic cups.
Compact fluorescent Lights.Grow light timer.
 Rockwool has an alkaline pH of 7.8, which is too high for cannabis seeds that prefer a more acidic environment (pH 5.5 to 6.5).Fill a bowl with tap water or distilled water. Use test strips to measure pH of water.


You may have to acidify (decrease the pH value) of the water by adding lime juice or pH down. Add this to water in very small increments (a few drops at a time) and remeasure pH with test strips. Repeat until you reach ideal levels. If the pH of the water goes below 5, you will have to discard it and start over, or increase it with pH Up.
Soak Rockwool cubes in water for 1 hour.
Remove Rockwool cubes from water. Do not squeeze or drain water - Rockwool is designed to maintain ideal air to water ratio for several days.
Do not discard water. Pour into a 2-liter plastic bottle or spray bottle and reuse for watering.
 Place soaked cubes in a waterproof tray. Some cubes come with preformed holes, but if not use a pointy object (clean nails work fine) to create a 1/4 inch (0.75 cm) hole in one side.Make sure the hole is wide enough for the seed to fit.


Place 1 cannabis seed in each hole, use a toothpick or tweezers to gently push it down to the bottom.
Cover the hole with a small piece of Rockwool to create a dark, moist environment.
 This will help maintain a humid environment by trapping moisture and retaining heat. Place covered tray with cubes 2 to 3 inches under a 40 Watt fluorescent tube. Leave the lights on 24 hours.It should take between 24 hours and 10 days for a sprout to appear.


Place a thermometer neck to the tray, underneath the dome or saran wrap. Monitor the temperature, ensuring it does not go below 70 or above 90 degrees Fahrenheit.
Cannabis seeds do not require light until their sprouts penetrate the top of the cube. However, it is good to have a light source set-up and ready for when they do sprout - especially since you cannot monitor the seeds 24/7.
Check Rockwool cubes 2-3 times a day. Re-moisten them with the pH-balanced water (stored in a 2-liter plastic bottle) if needed. Spray or trickle water onto the cubes until you observe it soaking through and coming out at the bottom. The cubes should be damp, not drenched., After 2-3 weeks, the roots should begin poking out of the Rockwool cube. You want to transplant your seedling before the roots begin to tangle. Cut 1 1/4 inch wide by 1 inch deep holes into a slab of Rockwool. Remove the 1 inch Rockwool cubes, being careful not to touch or damage the roots (you might want to use tongs for this part), and place in holes you already cut out in the big Rockwool slab.


If the cube does not fit (too small), gently remove it and widen or deepen the cut. Do not try to force the cube into a hole that is too small.
The cube should not sink down into the hole or be lower than the surrounding surface. It is better if the cube sticks out a bit rather than sinking in. This prevents water from pooling that can cause stem rot.