 Write down your ideas, or draw sketches on paper, so that you have a better picture of it.


If you have an idea for a design, sketch it! Paper and pencils are not difficult to find and it is better to do this before you forget. Modification is the biggest step.
Carry a sketchbook around with you at all times. Pin in fabrics you like, label colors and fabrics you will want to use. Note down anything you find inspirational.
Make a portfolio to hold your designs. You might need them later on.;
, Keep up to date with the latest fashions by checking out books, subscribing to fashion magazines, checking fashion sites, etc. Learn how the business works.


Spend some time digging through old and new fashion magazines; you can get some ideas and inspiration from previous designs. Look at sewing patterns and clothing catalogues too.
See if you can take some lessons in your spare time about fashion, sewing or drawing. Search the web for fashion courses for 13 to 17 year olds at reputable fashion colleges and schools in the USA and Europe or in the Arabian Gulf.
 To be a fashion designer you will need to have some experience in actually making clothes.
 Go through department stores and fabric shops hunting for fabric that you love that is not too expensive.
 Try altering clothes you already have, and even making your own! Wearing your own designs will be one of the best ways for you to advertise. Here are a few simple projects that you can try out:


Make an Umbrella Skirt
Modify Your T Shirt
Make a Summer Dress out of a Bedsheet
Recycle an Old T Shirt Into a Sexy Bikini
Make Easy Pants
Turn an Oversized T Shirt Into a Hot Mini Dress
Go through your mom's old stuff (if she doesn't mind!). If you see a shirt that has great sequins you can cut the sleeves off for example. Re-design those out of date items and make them fresh.
 Create a catchy logo that appeals to your target market.
 Make sure that people know about your talents:


Offer to design outfits or even prom dresses for your friends.
Wear your creations to school every day.
Partner up with a school club when they do a fund-raising sale and offer to donate some of your outfits to be sold.
Look into opening a shop on etsy.com, a site that hosts thousands of shops that sell hand made goods and that's compatible with teens.
Start soliciting feedback from friends, family, and online fashion communities. A great way to get started is submitting your sketches and completed samples to fashion design competitions like SocialAttire.com, modclothes.com, and other sites you can find on Google.
Maybe even start your own website for your fashions, or get a friend who is good with computers to help you do so.
Start a YouTube channel to show off your latest clothes!
Ask the teachers and administrators at your school to consider doing a fashion show to raise money. Design your own creations and show them off! Wear your fashion and be your fashion.
 Ask them if you should add anything or remove anything to make your designs better.
 A lot of devotion, time, stress, and effort goes into becoming one; and it doesn't happen overnight. It's something you work at, and don't give up on. It has to be something you love and want to be and have success in.

