 Picking a dentist is just as important as choosing any other health care professional. Ask your friends or co-workers if they have a dentist that they like. You can also get a lot of information from reading online reviews. When you visit your dentist, make sure he is willing to thoroughly answer all of your questions about the procedure you are interested in., Your dentist is likely to recommend a whitening procedure that utilizes a bleaching agent, which will most likely be in the form of a gel. Your dentist will make an impression of your teeth, and use that to make a mold that will fit your mouth. The gel will be placed into the tray, and you will keep the gel-filled tray in your mouth for a specific amount of time.This is a painless procedure, but you should still feel free to ask your dentist any questions or concerns you may have.
 Your dentist likely has these finishing strips, which are thin strips of sandpaper-like material that can be slid between your teeth and used to remove yellowing. The dentist will slowly pull the strip back and forth and up and down to polish your tooth. Because these strips are abrasive, it's best to let your dentist do this and not try it at home or you risk damaging your enamel.

Don't drink colored drinks (like wine, coffee, cola) after this treatment.
 Laser whitening is one of the newest methods that dentists use. It involves painting your teeth with a peroxide solution and then exposing the teeth to very strong light. This procedure is fast and painless; however, it can be pricey and your insurance might not cover the procedure. Make sure to ask your provider before scheduling a laser whitening., Many people have a fear of going to the dentist. If that sounds familiar, try going to a dental spa. These dentist's offices will be able to whiten your teeth, but they also include spa-like services. Think soft blankets and maybe even a little shoulder massage. This option is great for those nervous about any sort of oral procedure., Before you undertake any whitening process, make sure to discuss the possible side effects with your dentists. Although teeth whitening is mainly considered safe, there could be potential problems. The most common include increased sensitivity of the teeth and gums.Your dentist will tailor the whitening procedure according to your case. The way you bite or smile are some of the most important features of a proper whitening treatment.

