 Every resource has their designated set of job description allotted. Identify the skills from the explained job description. Example- One of the job description for a CNC operator is: - He/ She needs to maintain the machine daily after completing their shift. Skill Identified: - Knowledge of 5S( A concept for maintaining cleanliness). Competency identified:- Awareness towards safety and hazard.;
, Repeat the above-mentioned process department wise. Talk to managers and resources. Sum up all the JDS and list down every possible skill that contribute towards an effective task performance.
 Fix the categories apt for your organization. This may depend on your organizational industry, product, strength and client base too. Example- Technical, Behavioral and Processes; are some of the category that are common to almost all.
 Use your common sense and assign every single skill set into its suitable category. Example. “Machining” is a skill under Technical parameter. However, “5S” (the concept) will go to Processes and “Behavioral safety” can be fixed at Behavioral parameter.
 As the name suggests, it is the explained dictionary of every skill that we have mentioned above. We have to explain level wise description of every skill. You can either choose a three - level or four – level dictionary. Level 1 being lowest, Level 2 is Needs improvement, level 3 being Average and level 4 is good. If the highest level is level 5, try to mark accordingly.
 If your dictionary has level 1 being lowest, every single addition to its level is commensurate with the difficulty/ perfection level to perform the task. And Level 4 is the epitome for perfection. Assigning resources to these levels depicts their present caliber and knowledge level in that particular skill. Example- If I assign Mr. Gorge (Works at manufacturing industry as a CNC operator for past 2 years) at level 3 in “Machining” skill, then According to the dictionary, I am stating that he is having an average level of understanding for this skill.
 One resource needs to map twice against every single skill. As it is a tool to enhance the skill and get the appropriate training hence, Mr. Gorge needs to map again for knowing what is the desired skill level for him to perform the machining task most efficiently. It will vary according to designation, years of work experience and educational qualification. Example- If Mr, Gorge is a diploma holder and is working at junior level associate, his required level of competency would be level 4 (On a scale of 1-5). And if he is a graduate and is at mid-level associate, the desired level of competency would be much high as at level 5.
 Gap between Actual and Desired is the source of Training need identification. Comprehend the gap and fix it with appropriate training and seminar scheduling.
 The measurement can be done in two phases. One, just after the training, with a questionnaire and on-job performance. And Two, After six months of training, imparted. The second phase of measurement is aimed to testify the retention level.
 Competency mapping is a cyclic process. If, after two-phased evaluation, the resource has improved, then the actual skill level is enhanced and so the desired one too.
 It is a very useful tool for objective appraisals.

