 Many pet photographers feel that the best place to photograph a dog is outdoors because this is a very natural environment for the dog.However, you can also think about your dog’s personality when figuring out where to take the photos. For example, if your dog really loves his bed, then try taking a few photos there. Try to think of the place that your dog seems the happiest, and use that as your setting.


Don’t forget to try out a few different locations. For example, take a few pictures in your dog’s favorite indoor location, but try taking some outside too.;
, If you are taking still shots and you want the dog to look at the camera, then have the dog sit in the desired position. Once your dog is still, get him to look at you by calling his name or showing him a treat.If you have someone to help you, have them hold the treat where you want the dog to look. Use a happy tone of voice when you talk to the dog so that your dog will look happy and excited in the photo.
If you want the dog to look at the lens, you can use a treat or a squeaky toy and hold it with one hand next to the lens. If you use a squeaky toy, squeeze it a few times to get the dog to look at you.
 When taking action shots, it can be tricky to get your dog at just the right moment. Spend some time observing how your dog moves before trying to catch the perfect photo. This way you’ll be able to better anticipate your dog’s next move.For example, does your dog tend to run in short, quick bursts or does he jog along slowly? Do they make a particular facial expression when they’re about to try to catch something? Do they make a noise before they take off running? All of these will help you anticipate your dog’s next move more easily.
 You can take some pictures looking down at your dog, but this is the normal human perspective. To make your photos interesting, try getting down on your knees or on your stomach and getting a dog’s eye view of the world.You can also take pictures from various heights. Take some pictures sitting on your knees, and take some pictures while you’re laying on your stomach. You can even take some pictures lying on your back with your dog looking down into the lens.
 If you want a portrait shot of your dog, then start your photo shoot with the still shots. After you’ve taken several shots of your dog sitting still, move on to action shots. Don’t force your dog to sit still for hours. This will not be fun for the animal. Instead, start your sessions with a few still shots and then let your dog play while you capture action shots.Don’t be afraid to run around and play with your dog, snapping shots when you can. This will keep it fun for both of you, and you’re more likely to catch a shot of your dog looking happy.
If your dog isn’t cooperating, don’t try to force the situation. This will leave both of you feeling frustrated. Instead, give up for the day, and try again tomorrow. Don’t punish your dog. Taking photos isn’t something that he understands naturally.
 Getting low to the ground can help you capture great photos of your dog, but don’t be afraid to be creative. Try taking pictures of your dog from several different angles. You might capture a really great photo of your dog by doing this.For example, stand behind the dog and take his picture from behind. Take a picture with the lens pointing directly down at your dog’s face. Try lying down on the ground and take a picture looking up. You could even try turning the camera upside down and take a picture that way.
 If you are taking still shots and your dog is following a lot of commands (e.g. sitting still, looking directly at the lens, etc.) don’t forget to reward your dog with a treat. This will help your dog understand that he is doing the right thing, and photo sessions are a positive thing.