 One way to think about stigma and social categories is through the concept, identity positions. Essentially, this concept is used by some psychologists, linguists, and sociologists to represent our identities. These can sometimes be positioned against each other. In this way, identities are used to organize people and to structure how we think about people. According to law professor Kevin Barry, some of these identity positions are: How capable we are: "ability vs. inability."
How limited we are: "mild vs. severe."
How we fit into the world: "normal vs. abnormal."
How free we are: "independence vs. dependence."
How healthy we are: "health vs. sickness."
Some of the binaries listed here can become associated with being gay, autistic or blind, for example. In this way, people are sometimes seen as being “less than” others without these identities.
 Educate yourself on the way your particular identity is shaped by stigma. Learn as much as you can about the nature of your identity. Then, you'll feel less isolated.


For example, 22% of American adults suffer from some form of a mental health condition. Yet only half report it. Did you know that almost 1 in 3 (33.2%) of US children and teens are considered to be overweight or obese?
Learning about what you're dealing with can help you feel less alone. Seeing that millions upon millions of other people have to deal with the same thing in some way, shape or form can help you realize just how doable this is.
You'll also likely run into resources and inspirational stories along your quest for knowledge.
 Certain rights are afforded to people to ensure that people are treated equally and fairly. Regardless of whether you have a disability, you may be protected by certain rights. Constitutional rights, for example, include freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and so on.
 The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was passed in 1990 in order to work towards affording persons with mental or physical disabilities the same working opportunities and public services expected by all Americans.These rights include both state and local government services (such as assistance programs), public accommodations, access to commercial facilities, and everyday transportation options. In 2010, a list of standards were added the ADA to address building accessibility problems in already constructed buildings and to ensure the access to buildings constructed in the future. The criteria for disability are as follows:


A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of such individual
A record of such an impairment
Being regarded as having such an impairment.
If you fit this definition in any way, you may have certain legal protections against discrimination.
 Discrimination against stigmatized people happens all too often. The good thing is that you may have legal protections. If anyone takes advantage of you, you can fight back.


For example, all disabled people are protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). If you feel you didn't get the job, got fired, got taken advantage of or evicted by your landlord, or have otherwise faced discrimination due to the stigma, consider taking legal action. You likely have health, medical, housing, workplace, and general human rights on your side.
While you may be entitled to pursue legal action if your individual rights have been violated, be sure to weigh the pros and cons of doing so. If the discrimination wasn’t consequential to your future goals, perhaps it is best ignored in order to avoid the time and hassle (and often money) often associated with a legal battle. However, it’s important to know that you always have the right to take this option if you so choose.

