 You can choose more or less sophisticated software programs, depending on your skill level and comfort. Some photo editing software programs are Adobe Photoshop, Corel Paintshop Pro, and GIMP. There are also apps and programs that are specifically geared towards creating collages of pictures, such as PicCollage, PicMonkey, Shape Collage, and Fotor Photo Collage, and these are easier to use. Alternately, you can use a service like Shutterfly to make a photo book, which is bound and printed with hard- or soft-cover binding.


Photo collage programs may give you the option to either place your pictures according to templates or in user-defined ways.
You can also go with a more rudimentary way of creating a collage by using Microsoft Word and pasting photos into that.
 Photos from your last camping trip can showcase your adventures, or photos from your child’s first year can be a decoration for a first birthday party. You might also choose an inspirational theme, including pictures of strong women, for example.


You can also make a photo mosaic. For this project, choose a main image and then assemble small pictures according to color tones in the main image. These smaller pictures will be “tiles” that make up your larger picture., There are a number of photo mosaic websites and programs available for download, like Mosaically, Easy Moza, and AndreaMosaic.
 Think too about how you are planning to display this collage. Are you printing it out or sharing it digitally? Take into account how many pictures you have to work with; making a large collage will require lots of pictures. In addition, collages do not need to be square or rectangular, but instead can be star-shaped, heart-shaped, letter-shaped or other shapes., These can come from your own personal photograph collection or images you find online. If you are doing a photo collage, you should select the best photos that represent the event or convey the theme you’re going for. Depending on how large your collage is, you may need to choose 10-20 pictures, or you may need 50 pictures or more. Upload these pictures into your photo editing program.


Use high resolution digital photos. Your collage will look better if you have high quality images with sharp resolution (at least 300 dpi; 600 dpi for larger photos).
Consider the proportions of your pictures in your final collage. The pictures do not need to be the same size, nor do they need to be the same shape. In fact, a range of sizes and shapes will give more dimension to your collage and make it more interesting to the eye. Think about if you want a certain picture to dominate the collage and have subordinate pictures surrounding it, for example.
You don’t need to always choose pictures of people. Adding in pictures of details (a bridge or road, a plate of cookies, a deck of cards from a poker game) can add dimension to your collage. These add to the overall sense you’re trying to convey in your collage. Because you are creating a collage of many pictures, you can afford to include some background or detail pictures.
 If you want to stitch two photos together or superimpose one photo on top of another, use the photo editing software to accomplish this. You can also convert some or all of the photos to black-and-white, or add a polarizing filter to make the colors pop., Start deciding how you want to place your pictures. What parts of the pictures do you want to include or leave out? Be sure to leave room for a title or name if you want to include that (for example, you might put a title such as “Sage’s First Birthday”). Keep an eye on the colors: are you grouping all the blue-toned photos together? Do you have a big spot of brown-toned photos? Spread the photos out to balance the color across the entire collage. Or, you might want only blue-toned photos in the collage so that it matches the room for which you’re making the collage. Test out different arrangements, patterns, and color schemes.


Use text, icons and other effects to add decorations to the collage.
 As you work on your project, keep saving it so you don’t lose any of your hard work. Save your file as the default file type for your software program. This will enable you to be able to go back and edit it. When you are finished and satisfied with the project, save it to your hard drive. There are several file types that you can save your collage as, such as .jpg, .tiff, .bmp, .pdf, etc. Back it up on an external drive or cloud drive.
 You might post this collage on a blog or on social media. Add a statement that describes your collage and your inspiration for making it. Encourage viewers to make their own collages and share them with you.
 Either use a home printer or use a professional service to print out a high quality version of your collage. You can also get the collage printed as a poster or vinyl banner, or have it printed on other objects, such as mugs, mouse pads or t-shirts.


Print out an extra copy of your collage. A collage in honor of a child’s first birthday is a great present for grandparents, for example.
 You can either have a professional framing service do this, or you can select your own frame. Choose a frame that is complementary in color to the collage. Have hooks on the back that will enable easy wall hanging.
 Hang it on a wall that is easy to get close to (preferably not above large furniture). Because your collage has lots of pictures, you might want to display it so people (and you) can look more closely at it. Alternately, you can stand it on an easel, which can be a perfect way to display it at a birthday or anniversary party. If your collage does not have a regular frame with hooks or wire on the back, you can also stick it to the wall using glue dots, masking tape or other wall adhesive.

