 Everyone has thoughts that they don’t want, or that upset them or disturb them. If you touched something and think that you are now contaminated with dangerous bacteria or viruses, for example, you may be experiencing what is typically called an intrusive thought.Intrusive thoughts are ideas or mental images that overcome the mind with fear or or distress that is difficult to eliminate. Intrusive thoughts can come to control actions or behaviors, especially in those with undiagnosed or unmanaged OCD.
If you are unable to let these thoughts go, talk to your parents or therapist. They can help you.;
, Don’t see the OCD thoughts as part of you but as something external. You might consider the OCD thoughts as a bully, a monster, or give it a name. Separating the OCD thoughts from your own can help you recognize when thoughts are yours or when they are a symptom of OCD.When you notice obsessive thoughts or compulsions, relabel them by saying, “That’s my thought bully and I don’t have to listen to them.”
This can also help you talk about OCD with your parents. If they notice you starting to get into OCD thoughts, they can help you and say, “Looks like your OCD monster is inviting himself over.”

, Involving your parents/guardians and family in your treatment can help you better cope with OCD. They can give you feedback and help you recognize when your symptoms are improving or getting worse. It can be helpful if you feel comfortable going to your parents or guardians if you’re struggling or need help with your OCD.Ask your parents to help you identify obsessive behavior or compulsions. Have them say, “Is your thought bully bothering you?”
Check in with your family and accept any feedback they might have for you. It can be hard to accept their feedback, but recognize that they are doing it in order to help you.
Use a journal or thought log to help you provide feedback for yourself. This will allow you to self-monitor symptoms, recognize obsessive thought patterns, and even monitor personal progress.
 Help yourself manage your compulsions by changing something about your ritual. Think about specific actions that have become compulsions, and consider the order of the action, what you use to do the action, how often you repeat the action, and what triggers the action. Then, find one thing within your ritual to change slightly.When washing your hands, for example, if you always lather the left hand first, try changing your ritual by lathering the right hand first.

