 Putting a warm compress on the affected area may help soften your skin, making removal of the super glue easier and potentially less painful.Warm up one glass of water to a comfortable temperature that won’t burn your skin. Dip a soft cloth in the water and put it on the affected skin.Hold the compresses on for 30 seconds before trying to remove the super glue., You can use a variety of oils to help remove super glue from your skin. From vegetable to almond oils, these may help get rid of super glue residue on your skin as effectively as petroleum jelly.You can use any type of oil including vegetable, olive, almond, baby or mineral oil.Pour the oil on a piece of cloth or gauze and rub it on your skin for a couple of minutes.Make sure to be gentle so that you don’t further irritate your skin., Lotions may also effectively remove super glue and its residue from your skin.Apply a small amount to the affected area to begin getting rid of the product.You can use a cloth or your hands to apply the lotion to the affected skin. Gently rub it and it should easily peel super glue from your skin.You can use most types of lotion, though emollient hand lotions may be the best and most gentle options., Many people have successfully removed super glue with acetone or nail polish remover.Be aware that while this can effectively get rid of super glue on your skin, it can also irritate your skin, and should probably only be used when other methods don’t work.Do not use acetone anywhere near your eyes or mouth.Only use acetone on smaller skin surfaces that have super glue., Use a nail file or skin buffer to gently exfoliate the affected area. This may also remove stubborn or lingering super glue on your skin.


You can use nail files or emery boards, or even skin exfoliators such as loofahs.
In addition, simple table salt can work as an exfoliant. Wet the area with water and rub the salt into the super glue until it forms a paste. This can help loosen the glue and lift it from your skin.
Be as gentle with these products as possible, as they are likely to irritate your skin from repeated rubbing.
 If you are unable to remove the super glue from your skin after repeated treatments, seek medical treatment as soon as possible. This can help prevent infection as well as remove the lingering adhesive from your skin.If you skin shows any signs of infection or severe inflammation, see a doctor immediately.
You should also see a doctor immediately if you get super glue on or in your eye, or in your mouth.