 Not only will this clean and disinfect the ink, it will also remove any oil buildup in your pores. Use a cotton swab, dipped in rubbing alcohol, to dab the tattooed area., Use a makeup sponge to dab the primer onto the tattoo. This will give any other makeup you apply a better grip on your skin. It’ll make for a more opaque cover up.

Once dry, foundation primer will be transparent, so you don’t need to worry about trying to match it to your skin tone. , The first layer of concealer should be full-coverage concealer. This darker tone will hide most of the tattoo. Use a makeup sponge to dab the concealer onto the tattoo., This second layer of concealer will help completely cover up the tattoo and the first layer of concealer (which usually won’t match your skin tone). Use a ½ inch (1.3cm) brush to pat the concealer onto the covered tattoo. Be sure not to brush or sweep back and forth over the concealer; you’ll essentially reveal the tattoo and make the job harder for yourself., This will help the makeup set. It won’t run and is less likely to rub off. Use a fluffy eyeshadow brush to dab the powder onto the layers of concealer. Again, you don’t want to brush the powder on, as it might rub some of the concealer off., The kind of clothing you use will depend on the tattoo, its placement, and the reason you need to hide it. Darker tattoos will show through sheer or light clothing, so you’ll need to wear darker clothes. The best kind of shirt for covering up a tattoo is a dark, long sleeved shirt.

If you’re hiding your tattoo in a professional setting, you’ll likely need to wear a collared shirt.
If your tattoo is higher on your arm, you can get away with a short sleeve shirt. Make sure it’s the right size so the sleeves won’t ride up., If you’re thinking of covering up your armband tattoo, you want to make sure the cover-up lasts. It’s important to choose the right design. The best tattoo is something that you feel passionate about or holds a special meaning to you. Choose carefully and confer with your chosen artist., The more detail the new design has, the more effectively it will cover up your other tattoo. Fish scales, vegetation, and hair are examples of these details. Additionally, tattoos with dark colors are especially good for covering up tattoos. Black shading, purple, and green are all great colors for cover-up tattoos.

Cover-up tattoos will usually need to be larger than the original tattoo. In some cases, the cover-up will be up to twice as large., Much like getting any tattoo, there are a few things to consider before choosing a tattoo artist. You need to see samples of their work to make sure they’re skilled with the kind of design you’re looking for. Get some references as well; this will give you a better understanding of the kind of person you’ll be dealing with.

With cover-up tattoos, it’s important to find a tattoo artist who’s done them before. They take a tad more skill to render correctly., You should make sure that any licenses or certifications the artist holds are up to date. Find out what experience they have, if they underwent an apprenticeship, and if so, where. This will give you a better idea of their professionalism.

Additionally, you should confirm the tattoo parlor is safe and clean. While tattoo parlors aren’t regulated everywhere, there are a few things you can check to confirm safety. For example, the parlor should use disposable needles and inkwells., Some designs are simply too dark to be covered up, and might not mesh well with the new design you have planned. The best person to ask is a tattoo artist. They’ll give you some advice, including whether it’s needed and how many sessions you might need., Once you’ve spent time choosing your artist and your design, it’s time to get it done. Be aware that a good coverup design will take a good amount of time to be done properly.