 How large of a circle you need depends on the size of the head in question, so use a cloth measuring tape to determine how far down from the crown you want the brim of hat to hang. Double that figure and use a ruler to trace two perpendicular lines of equal length in an X-shape on your unrolled fabric. Then trace a circle connecting the ends of each line and cut out the outline of your circle.Don’t worry if your circle is less than perfect. Scarecrows aren’t known for flawlessly tailored clothes.
 Drape the felt circle over the head in question. Create pleats running from crown to brim along the back and sides of your hat by pinching the material into a crease for each pleat and then folding it over slightly. Secure each pleat in place with strips of masking tape where your brim begins.If the hat is for yourself, you may need to ask a partner to help with this step to make life easier.
Alternately, you could try using an inflated ball that’s roughly the same size and shape of your head., Remove the felt from the person’s head. Apply beads of hot glue with a glue gun under the fold of each pleat. Leave your strips of tape in place to hold the pleats together until the glue dries., Place the hat back on the person’s head once the hot glue has dried. Cut a length of fabric (either the same felt as before, or any other that you want to use as an accent) that’s long enough to wrap their head where you want the brim to begin. Tape the band in place, then remove the hat.As before, a partner may make this step easier if the hat is for you.
 Cut thin strips of cardstock paper. Then fold each one accordian-style to create a crinkled look. Line the band with them as desired.Regular printer paper might hold up for a while if you’re only wearing the hat once, but otherwise go with cardstock. Since it’s thicker than regular paper, it will stand up longer.
 Use your hot glue gun to add beads of glue between the headband and hat. Make sure to cover any straw behind the band, too. Then, if desired, glue the back(s) of one or two flowerheads to the front of the band to add a touch of farm-and-garden to your hat.