 Chances of cutting are higher when she is at home where she can have access to her tools. This can be from multiple different objects, such as razors, knives, scissors, or glass bottles. Encourage her to remove these objects from her environment so she isn't tempted to cut herself.


Sit with her as she moves the objects out of her immediate area. If she isn't ready to throw them away yet, have her put them on a high shelf or in a room across the house. This will give her more time to think about what she is doing before she does it, which may make her not want to cut herself.
 Getting your friend's mind off of her troubles is a great way to help her not want to self-harm. With her consent, try to change her surroundings and environment to help her feel better. Go on a trip, change the arrangement and decor in her room, change the wall colors, or put some interesting, funny posters, or inspirational posters. You can also help her choose the changes she wants in her room and help her put those changes into effect. This can be a change in the way the room smells, looks, or feels.


Be part of the process from start to finish. Take her shopping for the new items in the room and don't leave her until the project is done. Help her enjoy the process of welcoming changes into her life.
 Fighting the urge to cut herself can be especially hard when she is at home alone with nothing else on her mind or if she is preoccupied with herself and the painful feelings. Tell her to call you or visit when she has the urge to cut herself. Try to involve yourself in activities along with her that will keep her mind off of it. Think about her likes, interests, and hobbies and try to do something that involves those things.


If she loves nature, go for a hike. If she loves to paint, encourage her to paint. She can do anything creative to help, such as write a story, play an instrument, or draw a picture. She can also watch a movie or TV show, listen to music, play a game, or anything else she loves to do.
If you surround her with activities and things she likes, she will be more likely to be distracted from her behavior and need to cut herself.
If she doesn't go out much, encourage her to meet new people, develop contacts, and nurture relationships. This can improve self-confidence, self-esteem, and help her build trust in people.

