 If you have a positive perspective on life you may find it easier to plan for your future happiness. Some research suggests that self-efficacy, or believing in yourself, is connected to planning for future happiness.If you have faith that you can be happy now and in the future, you may do things to try to be happy. This will make it more likely that you will actually have future happiness.


Believe that you can succeed in general. Remind yourself, “I can do what I set my mind to. I can succeed and I believe in myself.”
Tell yourself that you can be happy. Try looking in the mirror and saying, “I can be happy in the future. I’m planning for it and it will happen.”

, There is some evidence that suggests that being grateful for the good things in your life can help you develop a happy mindset and be a happier person.If you are a happier person now, it may be easier for you to be happy in the future. As you start to plan for your future happiness, starting showing appreciation for the things in life that make you happy now.


Make a list of things you are thankful for and put it where you can see it often, like your desk or bathroom mirror. Add things whenever you can and be sure to look over the list from time to time.
At the end of the day, jot down a few things about the day that made you smile. It could be something as small as a butterfly crossing your path to something as big as acing a test.
 This can help develop the mindset for happiness by decreasing your feelings of stress. It can also help by making you more of aware of when you are feeling happy. You can be mindful by being present in the moment and focusing your mind and senses completely on one thing at a time.Before you begin doing something, think about what you are about to do. Remove as many distractions as possible so that you can focus only on the task at hand.
Pay attention to your senses as you are completing the activity. For example, while you’re eating lunch, notice the flavors, aromas, textures, sights, and sounds around you.
Focus your thoughts on what you are doing. For example, you might think to yourself, “I’m eating my lunch right now. I can smell the pepper in my soup. I can taste the garlic, too.”

, Life doesn’t always go the way we expect. If you’re flexible you’ll be able to maintain your happy perspective. Unexpected changes won’t overly stress or upset you. You will also be able to plan for your future happiness better if you’re flexible because you will be able to develop different ways to achieve happiness.


Be willing to change when needed. For instance, if you had planned to spend a quiet evening at home, but your mom really needs your help with her work, be willing to change your plans for the evening.
When possible have a backup plan. For example, if you are applying to your dream job, as a backup, also apply to your second-choice job.
 Having supportive, happy relationships can help you develop a happy mindset and help you plan for your future happiness.Your family and friends can help you be happier now by helping you cope with stress and tension and bringing fun into your life. They can help you plan for your future happiness by encouraging you and holding you accountable.


Accept their invitations when people that care invite you to do something. You could have a good time and be happy that went.
Talk to them when you have problems or feel stressed. Just talking about it may help you feel better and they might be able to help you come up with solutions to your problems.
Tell close family and friends that you are planning for your future happiness and ask for their support. You might say, “I’m planning for my happiness in the future. I’d like you to support and encourage me.”

, Sometimes a simple compliment, small favor, or even a smile can make a difference in your life and the life of others. When you are compassionate you can avoid some conflicts and feel good knowing that you are doing what you can to be kind to others. Some evidence suggests that doing nice things for others and being an agreeable person can also help you develop a happy mindset.Help others when you can. Bring in the groceries, hold open a door, or volunteer in your community.
Offer someone a compliment. For instance, tell the barista that makes your morning latte that you like her hairstyle when you notice that she’s changed it.
Remember to include ways to be continue being compassionate in your plan for your future happiness.

