 Consumers tend to think that small businesses provide superior customer service. They think the service is better and that the small-business owner knows and understands both the business and the consumer better. Make sure you are regularly present and actively engaged in the day-to-day operations of your business, even if you also need to do a lot of behind-the-scenes work. Customers appreciate being able to place a face with the business. Make it clear to your customers that everyone who works for you is fully knowledgeable about your products or services. Train your employees to anticipate your customers' needs.
For example, if you own a book store, designate individual employees as “experts” in various areas: Sam may be the science expert, Pat the literature expert, etc. Their name-tags can reflect this, and customers will soon learn whom to ask for when seeking help.;
, Create an environment that your customer wants to visit, where they feel comfortable—a home away from home. For example, you may have loved visiting Grandma's house when you were younger, because she baked your favorite cookies, knew what time "your" program was on TV, and knit you a special, cozy blanket. Try to find ways to re-create this welcoming, relaxing environment for your customers.
For example, if you own a used-book store, consider re-purposing an area of the store to become the “reading corner” with comfortable sofas and chairs. Offer free homemade cookies for special events like storytime or book-club meetings.
 As busy as you are managing the business, your customers will respond well when they realize that you recognize them and know who they are. For example, greet customers you recognize by name: “Ms. Ford, it's so nice to see you again!”

, They will be more likely to continue doing business with you if you make the effort to remember their preferences, their past purchases, and even details about their personal lives they've shared with you.


For example, when Ms. Ford enters your shop, you can say, “How did your niece like the book of fairy tales you bought for her birthday?”
Unless you have a great memory, you'll probably want to write down these details. Review them occasionally.
 While you should be receptive to your customers' complaints and concerns, be alert for their compliments, too.


For example, if customers have raved about the new chocolate pastry you put on the menu at your restaurant, continue offering it (which they'll appreciate), and you might create a new dessert based on a similar flavor profile.
 The customer is nearly always on your mind, but you're probably rarely on theirs. It's not bragging to promote your accomplishments and let customers know what you're doing for them; rather, it makes good business sense! Send updates via a newsletter, on your website, or through Twitter. Consider making personal phone calls, too.


For example, you can call a customer to let her know that her special book order is on its way, two days ahead of schedule.
You could email your customers announcing a new line of gluten-free cookies that you've created in response to their requests.
 For loyal customers you may consider sending handwritten notes or holiday cards in which you thank them for their business and loyalty. You could also send your best customers notes once in a while. For example, if you're a caterer and have worked for a family before, you could send something like this: “Dear Martinez Family, I saw that your daughter is graduating with honors from college — congratulations! Let us know if you need help arranging a celebration.”

, Your customers will most likely be impressed with your level of service and commitment if you make it a priority to follow through. Call your customers to see if the service they received was as expected and whether they were satisfied with their purchase.


You can use this method to solicit suggestions for improvement, and you may be able to get references for additional business at the same time. Ask the customer if they'd be willing to refer their friends and family to your services.
 In order to foster loyalty in your customers, do everything you can to earn a reputation for doing exactly what you say you will. For example, you (and your employees) should work hard at being on time for appointments, ship deliveries promptly and accurately, and offer reliable cost and schedule estimates.
 Your customers will notice that you honor your commitments and promises and that you observe your business's policies concerning returns and warranties. Word will spread if you or your employees fail to meet customers' expectations or if you go back on your word or your store policy. Not only might you lose your established customers, you will have a more difficult time expanding your customer base.
 You may have a strict no-returns policy, and you may not return deposits for your catering business. However, you should know when it's in your long-term best interests to bend your rules. For example, if the Martinez family has hired you to cater their family reunions for the last few years but need to cancel their daughter's graduation party, you should give serious thought to returning their deposit in order to retain their future business.
 See if you can find room in your budget for a small discretionary fund to be used to send your most loyal customers an occasional gift or token of your appreciation. You don't have to spend a lot to make an impression. For example, if you run a restaurant and the Browns have been Friday night regulars for years, consider buying a special floral arrangement for their anniversary dinner that they can take home with them.
Keep in mind that it's common for customers to tell others about their experiences with business, both bad and good. The Browns will be likely to tell their friends about how well they are treated at your place.

