 Go to SlideShare.net to view a tutorial by Mike Duncan about PPC basics. This interactive slide show contains images, examples and definitions of search engine advertising.


You can find the slide show at slideshare.net/sageisland/learning-the-world-of-pay-per-click-advertising-2890486;
, The most common type is paid search, such as those used by Google AdWords and Microsoft adCenter. Next, research Google's Display Network and PPC social media advertising, commonly used on Facebook and other social media websites.


You may want to do a trial run of each type of PPC advertising after you complete your research, to see what works best for your business.
 In many ways, the best way to learn about PPC is to learn by doing. The following is a good way to learn about ad formation, reporting and results. It is best if you already have a website for a business, where you track sales and traffic.


Pull reports from your website to see how much web traffic you have had for the last month. If your business is highly seasonal or you have had some big promotions recently, gather reports from a few months to a year. If you have a shopping cart, download or write a report quantifying recent sales. It is important to have baseline figures so that you can compare new reports after doing PPC marketing.
Choose a few keywords that you believe customers would use to look for your website. Make sure you choose highly targeted keywords, like "snow boots," instead of general words like "warm clothing." You will use these keywords to set up your PPC ads on search engines.
Sign into your Google AdWords account. Click on "Create your First Campaign." Choose your bid, or how much you will pay per click and choose a budget. You can decide how much you will spend on this ad. Since it is a trial run, you may want to set the amount quite low.
Decide how you want your ad to look. Type in text, links, maps and anything else that you or your marketing team have determined are effective messages.
Target your ad selecting certain demographics, geographical areas, languages and devices. If you know your products are popular in certain areas, then this is a good way to ensure your ad targets your ideal Internet surfer.
Click on "Save and continue." Make sure that Google AdWords has your billing information listed on your account so that they can bill you. Experiment on Google to see how noticeable your ad is. Then, monitor it regularly. You may want to continue the ad for a week or month. Then, compare your sales and traffic against your results as reported by Google and your own website.
 Search for YouTube users "daveerasmusblog" and "seobook" for your introductory tutorials.
 Take a break from learning what you need to do, in order to learn what not to do. Posts under the search terms "Top PPC mistakes" may help you to eliminate bad habits before they start.


A good example is the article searchenginewatch.com/article/2163090/Top-10-PPC-Campaign-Mistakes.
 This marketing website makes interviews with PPC professionals available to people. You may be required to sign up for a free account.
 This online magazine is an excellent resource for industry news. After you have established the basics, return daily for advice, statistics and trend reports on search engine advertising.


Search Engine Round Table is another good resource for industry articles and reports. Visit seroundtable.com.
 It is best to use this resource after cementing your basic knowledge about this type of marketing.

