 Make different facial expressions and ask your child to name the emotion you are trying to portray. Alternatively, you could draw the expressions on a piece of paper. The ability to identify a particular emotion when they see it will help your child to respond appropriately and show empathy.
 Sit down at at a cafe or on a park bench with your child and watch all the people walking by. Ask your child to guess how they are feeling based on their expressions and body language.


Take the game even further by asking your child for suggestions on what they could do to cheer the stranger up. For example, if you spot a little girl crying in the park, you could ask your child what he could do to make her happy.
Encourage answers like "I'd ask her to play with me" or "I'd give her a hug."

, Role play with your child and pretend that you are pirates, warriors, princesses, anything you like. Through acting, your child will learn how to express feelings both verbally and non-verbally and react to the feelings of others.
 Waiting their turn to play a game is a good way for kids to overcome their own feelings and impatience and show respect for other people's time and other people's feelings.


Choose a group game and make each child wait their turn while the others are playing. The game can be anything, from hopscotch to a karaoke competition.
 Playing with dolls or action figures can help your child to develop empathy in a fun way. Playing with dolls can teach your child how to care about other people's needs, to clothe them, feed them and so on.
 Plant some seeds with your child and make them responsible for caring for the growing plant. They will need to water it, make sure it's getting enough sunlight, and remove any weeds.


Older children could even take responsibility for caring for a pet, by feeding it, playing with it and bringing it for walks.
These activities will teach the child to put someone or something else's needs before their own.
 Select a feeling and stick it on the fridge. Then all week, ask your child to point out this particular feeling when they see it in themselves or in others.
 Picture books with the theme of helping or caring for others can be useful in explaining empathy to your child.


Show your child the characters in the picture book and ask your child to guess how they feel and explain why.
Which gestures indicate that someone is happy, angry, or jealous?

