;
,

, At the top of the page, next to the ‘All Newsletters’ heading, click the "Create a new email" button.


, On the "Automatically sent…" line, leave the first dropdown set as "When there’s new content…" which will trigger an email to be sent at a time depending on what you set in the second drop down on that line. Your choices are:


"once a day at…"
"weekly on…’
‘monthly on the…"
"monthly every…"
"immediately…"
The first four choices will bring up another set of drop downs with which you may set the date and time parameters based on the choice. If you select ‘immediately’ there will be no further choices.
 Select what you’d like your email’s subject to be. You can also add some placeholder tokens that will automatically populate dynamic data into your subject line. Here are placeholder tokens you may use:


displays number of posts.
will display the name of your latest post.
will show the issue number of your newsletter.
 You must now select which list you’d like your automatic emails to send to. If it’s general subscribers to your WordPress site, i.e. they haven’t signed up for a specific newsletter, select the list called "WordPress Users."


Once you’ve selected the list, click the "Next Step" button at the bottom of the page.
 On the next page is your email. By default, it has the "Automatic latest content" already added. Hover over it, or any of the pre-populated text boxes, and click the "Edit automatic latest conten" button.


Here, you can select whether posts or pages get sent, the maximum number of posts or pages per email, and you can also select which post categories get sent.
For any of the other pre-populated text boxes in the email, click the "Edit Display" button that appears. To remove them, click the "X" that appears at the upper right when you hover over it.
 To the right of the email is a box with four tabs: the Content, Images, Styles, and Themes.


On the "Content" tab are four widgets you may click and drag into the email to the left. They are:

Titles & Text
Automatic latest content
Divider
Social Bookmarks


On the "Images" tab, you may click the "Add Images" button and upload pictures, or select them from your media library.
"Styles" is where you set the colors, fonts, and other style parameters. ‘Themes’ is where you can select an overall style template for your newsletters.
 When you’re happy with the appearance of your email, scroll to the bottom of the page and click the "Next Step" button.
 On the "Final step: last details" page, you will have the opportunity to review everything you did on the "First step: main details" page.
 On the "Sender" line, enter the name and email address from which this email is being sent.
, Below the "Reply-to name & email" line, enter your email address in the text box, and click the "Send preview" button. Check your email, and make sure your email looks like you expect it should.
 Click "Activate Now" and you have an automatic email that sends a message when your WordPress site is updated.
,,, On the page, this is next to "What type of newsletter is this?"

, On the "Automatically sent…" line, click the dropdown and select, "When a new WordPress user is added to your site."


The next dropdown will let you select what level of user will receive the newsletter (i.e. subscriber, contributor, editor, administrator, or any), and on the next dropdown, select when will the new user receive this email.
 On the next line, add your "Subject." There are no dynamic tokens for this type of message, so whatever the subject is will be as you write it.
 Editing the email is the same as listed above, EXCEPT you may also select a particular post or page to add to this email by clicking and dragging the "WordPress post" bar into the email, in the box to the right of the template.


If you want to add a particular post or page, go to the next step, otherwise skip to step 9.
 Click and drag the "WordPress post" widget bar into your email. A dialog box will open.


At the top left of it you may select whether you’re adding a post or a page, then you may filter by category and whether it’s published or not.
In the box below, select which post or page you’d like added to this email, and then click ‘Insert selected’ at the bottom right of the dialog box.
 When you’re happy with the appearance of your email, click "Next Step" at the bottom of the page.
 On the "Final step: last details" page, you will have the opportunity to review everything you did.
,, Enter your email address in the text box, and click the "Send preview" button. Check your email, and make sure your email looks like you expect it should.
 Click "Activate Now" and you have an automatic email that sends a message when your WordPress site is updated.

