 There are many people who are celibate at some time in their lives. One study found that 14% of men and 10% of women had not had sexual intercourse in the preceding year. There are many changes and transitions in life that can lead to celibacy – involuntary or not.Resist the urge to judge yourself harshly for being celibate. Ignore what you think society says about where you should be in your lifespan and whether you should be having sex, dating, married or with children. Your opinion of yourself is the most important one. The depression that can occur from celibacy can unfortunately prevent you from moving forward.;
, If you feel socially awkward or shy, you may have trouble meeting people. The most significant barrier to finding a sexual partner is shyness.A general lack of social skills can also impede you from finding a sexual partner.Work on improving your social skills so that you feel more comfortable meeting new people.


Work on your nonverbal communication. Your body language communicates certain messages to other people. If you stand away from a crowd, or you hunch your shoulders a lot, you may be nonverbally telling others to stay away from you. Try standing up straight with your shoulders back and your head held high. Stand closer to a group of people and listen with interest to their conversation.Have a mental list of general conversation topics. If you find that you run out of things to say, you can prepare ahead of time with some general ideas about things to talk about. This can include the weather, your work or school, a recent movie, a hike you went on, and so on.Practice your social skills with all kinds of people. You don’t need to save your social skills for potential partners. Try them out on the mail carrier or the grocery store clerk.
 Making your dive back to sexual activity pleasurable will build your confidence. Feeling self-conscious or embarrassed of your body can make sex needlessly uncomfortable. If you struggle with body image issues that are negatively affecting your sex life, then make it a priority to rectify what you can and accept what you cannot.


Join a gym to get some exercise. You don’t need to have a goal of losing 15 pounds, but the very action of getting some physical exercise can improve your confidence.It can also improve your sex life by boosting your energy.
Treat yourself to a new haircut or new underwear. Feeling sexy will help you remember what you like about sex and get you excited for the activity again.
 Address your life circumstances that may be holding you back and reducing your confidence. Whether the obstacle is where you live or other circumstances, take the steps to address that obstacle.You may be in a living situation where you don’t have a lot of privacy. You might live with a roommate or a family member. If you want to pursue a physical relationship with a partner, figure out ways to ensure you get the privacy you need. See if your roommate will go out for one or two evenings every week, for example.


You might consider getting your own place if your living situation isn’t allowing you enough privacy.
 Ensure you’re in fine form to have sex. Schedule a physical examination with your doctor. This can be especially helpful if you stopped having sex for health reasons, for example.If you’ve had a baby recently, you will want to see your gynecologist to get a green light for sex. Many women who have given birth find sex to be uncomfortable or painful after childbirth.Your doctor can determine if there are any physical problems resulting from childbirth.
 Perhaps you stopped having sex because things weren’t working properly for you. For example, maybe you weren’t having orgasms anymore. This doesn’t mean that you have to stop having sex entirely. There are many options for medications and other treatments for sexual dysfunction, both for men and women.


Be proactive about addressing dysfunction that you’re experiencing. Make an appointment with your doctor. He or she will be able to help you figure out the next step.
You may feel shy or embarrassed when talking to your doctor about issues pertaining to sex. But your doctor is there to help you live your life to the fullest and genuinely wants to help you. It might help talking with a female doctor if you’re a woman, or a male doctor if you’re a man.
 Your mental health can affect how you respond to sex. If you are depressed, you might have decreased interest in sex.Address your depression or anxiety by seeing a counselor. This person will be able to help you dig into why you feel depressed or anxious. He or she can also give you strategies for coping with these disorders. Some signs of depression can include:


Significant loss of appetite or loss of weight.
Disrupted sleep (either unable to sleep or sleeping too much).
Fatigue or loss of energy.
Increased agitation or decreased movement noticeable by others.
Feelings of worthlessness or excessive.
Having difficulty concentrating or feeling.
Recurrent thoughts of death or suicide, attempting suicide or having a plan for suicide.
Talk with your doctor about medication. Depression and anxiety can be caused by chemical imbalances in the brain. Medications help correct those imbalances. Be warned, however, that some medications may reduce sexual interest or pleasure. Talk with your doctor to find the best option for you.
 If you’re having trouble meeting someone that you connect with, you might need to widen your circle of potential partners. Online dating sites are great places to find other people looking for relationships. This type of dating is much more common than it used to be, and chances are you’ll meet a wider range of people than you would in your everyday in-person life., If you’re in a long-term relationship and the spark has fizzled, you might need to reconnect with your partner so that you start having sex again. Rediscover the affection and attraction that drew you two together in the first place.


Relive good memories. Revisit some of the places you went for dates when your relationship was new. Try some of the old restaurants or visit the beach where you used to have makeout sessions.
Overcome anger in your relationship by talking with each other. The relationship might be suffering because one or both of you are angry or resentful. It might take a while to get back to the good relationship, but talking about your problems is a good first step. You might think about visiting a marriage counselor.
Make sex a priority in your relationship. You might have to schedule time for it, especially if you have kids. Plan a date night, send the kids to the grandparents’ house, and have a fun time together.
 When it comes to flirting, there are different styles of communication that have varied results. Flirtation styles include physical, sincere, polite, traditional, and playful.You will likely find more success with flirting and dating adopting a physical, sincere, and playful style rather than being especially polite or traditional. Also, the physical and sincere styles are even more conducive specifically for sexual activity.Physical flirting is where individuals show interest through physical touch, like touching someone’s shoulder.
Sincere flirting style is contingent on creating an emotional bond, and involves more self-disclosure than other styles, but also is non-sexual.Polite flirters are not comfortable being overtly sexual, and rigidly follow traditional courtship rules.Traditional flirting styles involve when men take the lead and are the aggressor.Playful flirters treat flirtation like a game, indiscriminately and openly showing their affection and regard for others.If you have a long-term partner with whom you want to re-initiate sex, try flirting with him or her. Ignite the passion in your relationship that you have had in the past.
 When speaking with someone you are interested in, use assertive communication. Express your thoughts and feelings directly using “I” messages, such as, “I think you’re really cute.”If you have hit a "dry spell" in your long-term relationship, you might say to your partner: "I've noticed we haven't had sex in a long time, and I'd like to talk about it."


Even when speaking directly, be sure that both people are taking turns in the conversations.Give the person a chance to speak by allowing for brief silences (usually a few seconds).If you are worried about your social skills, there are general expectations for how you should communicate. You should strive to be informative, relevant, truthful, polite, and modest., Don’t expect that you’ll have sex right away with a new partner. It’s better to get to know the person and take the relationship slowly. Then you will feel more comfortable with progressing to the next step.
 You can also make it a point to get to know your own body in a sexual way. Women who masturbate have significantly more sexual satisfaction than those who do not.Integrating sexual materials like vibrators and lube in your sex life can improve your satisfaction.These are tools that you can use alone or with a partner. If you’re shy about starting to use a vibrator or other sex toy with a partner, try it out by yourself first.
 In most U.S. states, the age at which you can have consensual sex is 18. Know that if your partner is under the age of consent and you are above it, you could be charged with statutory rape. Consensual sex also means that both partners are willing to participate. When having sex, both you and your partner can say no and withdraw consent at any time. If at any point someone says “no,” stop immediately.


Remember that just because someone doesn't say "no" doesn't mean that they are comfortable with the situation. Consent is an ongoing process.
 Unprotected sexual activity can lead to unplanned pregnancy or sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Fortunately, condoms are a great way to prevent these issues. Use a condom every time you have sex, and for the complete act.Pregnancy: Be aware that hormone birth control will only protect against pregnancy, not sexually transmitted infections. It’s best to have two ways to protect yourself, such as using both hormonal birth control and condoms. Use condoms according to their directions; condoms are only 82% effective against pregnancy with typical use (this equals 18 pregnancies out of 100 per year). The birth control pill is only 91% effective, with 9 pregnancies occurring out of 100 women per year.The most effective method to prevent pregnancy is the birth control implant, with fewer than one pregnancy per 100 women.
Sexually transmitted infections: Always use a condom correctly during sex.. Also, an HPV vaccine like Gardasil and Cervarix can prevent HPV, the virus that causes genital warts and cervical, anal, penile, vaginal, and oral cancers.. Talk to your doctor and support system about vaccination options.
 Dental dams, personal lubrication products, and other supplies can significantly improve sexual satisfaction. It can be especially helpful if you haven’t had sex in a long time and you’re concerned about discomfort for you or your partner.Dental dams: A dental dam is a thin latex sheet that is placed in the mouth to provide protection during oral sex. Try finding them online or at a sexual health store. Some drug stores do carry them, but they are not as commonly found as other forms of sexual protection.Personal lubricants: There are three kinds of lubricants, which include water-based, silicone-based, and oil-based, and all of these have different features.

Water-based lubricants: These are convenient because they rinse off easily and are easy to purchase in most stores.They can be used safely with condoms and can even prevent the condom from breaking.This type of lubricant also is associated with fewer genital symptoms than silicone-based lubricants.Silicone-based lubricants: These have the advantage of lasting longer than other lubricants. They are also the best choice for anal sex.Oil-based lubricants: These should never be used with latex condoms. Oil-based lubricants, or using oil as a lubricant, can cause the condom to break., People who can talk about sex have better sex lives.Be assertive with your partner about your needs.This communication is also important if you are talking to your friends. People who can talk about sex socially are more likely to be able to discuss safe sex with their partners.Don’t be afraid to let your partner in on details about your attitudes and feelings toward sex.Tell your partner what feels good to you.Frame requests in a positive way, such as, "I like when you touch me there." And don’t be afraid to ask what your partner wants and what he or she likes, too.
 Your sexual relationship will be more exciting if you engage in foreplay well before you actually have sex. Physical touching, smiling, laughing and other activities make both of you feel loved, safe and aroused.


Try giving each other massages, hugs and kisses even when you’re not having sex.
Send a sexy text to your partner.

