 If working with chunks of baker's chocolate or bars of chocolate, it will need to be cut into small pieces with a sharp knife before use.


Note that chocolate chips and most chocolate wafers are usually small enough to use without chopping.;
, Spread the chocolate out evenly in the top bowl of a double boiler or in a heat-resistant glass bowl that can fit safely and securely on top of a saucepan.


You should never let water come into direct contact with water as you melt it. Doing so may cause the chocolate to seize up, and the texture and consistency will become nearly impossible to work with.
 Fill the double boiler bottom or a saucepan with roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of water.


You should only use enough water to just barely fill the bottom pan without touching the bottom of your glass bowl once you place the bowl inside.
 Place the top part of the double boiler back into the bottom and place the entire thing on the stove. Heat over low heat until it begins to simmer.


Do not let the water come into direct contact with the bottom of the bowl as it simmers. You need the steam to reach the bottom of the bowl, but the water itself will be too hot.
Make sure that the bowl you use for your double boiler fits securely enough to prevent steam from getting into your chocolate as it melts. The chocolate needs steam to melt, but the moisture from the steam could be enough on its own to cause the chocolate to seize.
 Stir the chocolate continuously with a spatula until it melts and becomes smooth.


Continue stirring until there are no lumps. This may take a few minutes.
 Place the bowl on a dry kitchen towel to remove the moisture from the bottom.
 Heat the corn syrup in the microwave for about 30 seconds to warm it up slightly.


The corn syrup should not be hot. If it gets too hot, it could burn the chocolate.
You could use room temperature corn syrup, but warm corn syrup will be easier to blend in.
The amount of corn syrup you need will vary depending on the type of chocolate you are using. Chocolate with a higher fat content needs less corn syrup, while chocolate with a lower fat content and higher cacao content will need more corn syrup.
 Add the warm corn syrup to the melted chocolate and immediately begin stirring it in.


The chocolate will stiffen as soon as you add the corn syrup.
Do not over-mix the chocolate at this point. You only need to mix it about 20 times or so., If you want to add color to an entire batch of white chocolate, the easiest way to do so is to add the food coloring into the chocolate as you add the corn syrup and blend them both in simultaneously.


You can only add color to white modeling chocolate.
If you only want to add color to a small amount of modeling chocolate, you can do so later on by kneading it in after the modeling chocolate has already cooled.
 Wrap the chocolate in plastic wrap or a large plastic bag and let it cool until it becomes soft and pliable.


In warm environments, the amount of time it takes the chocolate to cool may be longer. Under some circumstances, it could take up to 24 hours.
Note that you could also quick-cool the modeling chocolate in the refrigerator, but letting it cool gradually at room temperature will make the modeling chocolate more stable.
To refrigerate the chocolate at this point, wrap it in plastic wrap or a plastic bag and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 2 hours.
 Knead it with your hands for 20 to 30 seconds to smooth it out and make it moldable.


Knead the chocolate as you would knead bread dough. Flatten it out, fold it over, turn it, and repeat

, Keep the chocolate in a cool place away from sunlight until ready to use.


If wrapped well and stored correctly, modeling chocolate can last up to a year.
Do not keep the modeling chocolate in the refrigerator.
If it becomes too hard after several weeks or months of storage, knead another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) or so of corn syrup into the modeling chocolate before using it., Chocolate chips and most chocolate wafers are small enough to use directly without chopping, but if you are starting with chunks of baker's chocolate or bars of chocolate, you will need to cut the chocolate into small pieces with a sharp knife before melting it down.


The pieces you use should be about the size of your average chocolate chip.
 Spread the pieces of chocolate out evenly in a dry glass bowl.


Make sure that there is no moisture inside the bowl. Moisture could cause the chocolate to seize and become unworkable.
 Microwave the chocolate for 20 to 30 seconds on high. Mix the chocolate, then continue microwaving it in 15 to 20 second intervals until melted.


Stir the chocolate after each interval.
If you overheat the chocolate, it could seize or scorch. As a general rule, once the bottom of the dish is too hot to touch, you should not longer continue microwaving it.
Leave the bowl uncovered as you microwave the chocolate.
 Pour the corn syrup into a separate bowl and microwave on full power for about 30 seconds.


The corn syrup should not be hot. If it gets too hot, it could burn the chocolate.
You could use room temperature corn syrup, but warm corn syrup will be easier to blend in.
The amount of corn syrup you need will vary depending on the type of chocolate you are using. Chocolate with a higher fat content needs less corn syrup, while chocolate with a lower fat content and higher cacao content will need more corn syrup.
 Stir the warmed corn syrup into the melted chocolate until evenly combined.


The chocolate will stiffen as soon as you add the corn syrup.
Do not over-mix the chocolate at this point. You only need to mix it about 20 times or so.
 If you plan to color an entire batch of white chocolate, add liquid food coloring into the white chocolate alongside the corn syrup and stir the two liquid ingredients in at the same time.


You can only add color to white modeling chocolate.
If you only want to add color to a small amount of modeling chocolate, you can do so later on by kneading it in after the modeling chocolate has already cooled.
 Transfer the dough-like chocolate to a sheet of plastic wrap or a large plastic bag. Let it cool to room temperature.


In warm environments, the amount of time it takes the chocolate to cool may be longer. Under some circumstances, it could take up to 24 hours.
Note that you could also quick-cool the modeling chocolate in the refrigerator, but letting it cool gradually at room temperature will make the modeling chocolate more stable.
To refrigerate the chocolate at this point, wrap it in plastic wrap or a plastic bag and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 2 hours.
 Use your hands to knead the chocolate for 20 to 30 seconds. When finished, it should be at a clay-like consistency.


Knead the chocolate as you would knead bread dough. Flatten it out, fold it over, turn it, and repeat.
 Place the chocolate into a durable plastic bag and store it in a cool place away from sunlight.


If wrapped well and stored correctly, modeling chocolate can last up to a year.
Do not keep the modeling chocolate in the refrigerator.
If it becomes too hard after several weeks or months of storage, knead another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) or so of corn syrup into the modeling chocolate before using it.
 Separate as much white modeling chocolate from the full batch as you plan to use.


This method is most useful when you only want to color a small portion of modeling chocolate. If you plan to color an entire batch, you would be better off adding the color in as you make the modeling chocolate.
You can only add color to white modeling chocolate.
 Add the food coloring to the chocolate in small amounts.


When using this coloring technique, wear rubber gloves as you work with the food coloring. Otherwise, the food coloring may dye your hands.
Less is more for this technique. Start by adding one or two drops. If you need more, you can knead it in later.
 Sprinkle cornstarch on the modeling chocolate in approximately equal amounts with the food coloring.


The cornstarch is necessary because it helps to absorb the moisture you added to the modeling chocolate when you added the liquid food coloring. You will also have an easier time kneading the chocolate by including cornstarch since the starch will make it less sticky.
 Use your hands to knead the modeling chocolate until it turns an even, consistent color.


Knead the chocolate as you would knead bread dough. Flatten it out, fold it over, turn it, and repeat to spread the cornstarch and food coloring throughout the entire chunk of modeling chocolate.
There should be no streaks of darker color once you finish.
 If the color is not quite bright enough, slowly add a few more drops of food coloring to the modeling chocolate and knead it in as before.


If the color becomes too dark, you may need to knead in more white modeling chocolate.
 Before you use the chocolate to model anything, you should let it sit undisturbed for about an hour.


By the time you finish kneading the color into the chocolate, the warm generated by your hands and by the simple kneading action will cause the modeling chocolate to warm and soften significantly. As a result, it will be too warm to use for modeling purposes at this point. You need to let the temperature come back down a bit, first.

