 There is the old saying 'Who you know matters' this counts for so much because through social involvement and professional networks you recognise a wide arrange of opportunities that are available to you. It becomes easier to see methods in which you can progress financially and meritoriously. As well as being very informed about job positions that are available and having access to information about companies and what is going on within them. Try to make contacts with everyone in the company you are working for from the person in the mail room to the CEO.;
, This follows on from networking. Any time someone asks for a favour, do not dismiss it lightly. Often, professional interactions work on a "You scratch my back and I will scratch yours" basis and so doing favours for others professionally often sets yourself up for the future when you need a favour done.
 It is often much easier to convince people to do things if there is mutual benefit there. It opens the doors for working on things together and is usually very profitable financially. Having an eye for mutual benefit then is of its own nature beneficial.
 Charity looks great on the resume but is also enjoyable to do. You meet interesting people, have a good time and do some good in the world in the process.
 A book is a great way to add a little to a career and requires a only a little regular work to complete. If you are a professional consider writing a book about your profession or something that you enjoy. If you are good at something, consider writing a 'how to' book on that area of expertise.
 Teaching people is often very rewarding because you are helping to enlighten people and looks great on the CV because it is a demonstration that you know what you are talking about. It also shows that you're willing to give back what you've benefited from through your life.
 The aim of this is not necessarily to make it to the Fortune 500 company list but rather just to add a little extra income though you never know - it might be incredibly successful.
 This is often a great way to share what you know or provide some interesting articles for people. It often comes with certain benefits, as it can create a fan following. This can be used both for networking and crowdsourcing. If what you do is particularly successful, you can make a little money from renting out advertising space.
 This provides you with a current and useful tool so that you are immediately ready for any positions that come up.

