 Generally, the FAMAS has very low damage (it takes about six shots to kill someone with no vest on), a decent portability, a high fire rate, relatively high accuracy, and low recoil. Typical assault rifle standards. You will also need to be a Private First Class to wield it, although you can get it in the new player's pack right when you start the game.;
, Nexon tells you the five statistics there, but there are many other ones that they don't - such as recoil path and such. These things are very important, and because of this, choosing a weapon isn't so easy as 1 2 3. Here is a breakdown of intermediate statistics:


Scope magnification and design. Some weapons (not on the FAMAS) will have varying levels of scope magnification. This usually applies to snipers, but also the G36E, G36KE, the Aug A1, Aug A1 Black, TMP, M416 CQB and variants, etc. You can look up more weapons with pre-attached or built-in scopes on the website's arsenal.
Recoil path. This is very important when you are playing in small maps such as Death Room. FAMAS has a recoil path of going straight upwards for the first five rounds when spraying, and then rocks back and forth every two to three rounds. Very good burst weapon, decent spraying weapon.

Some SMGs such as the P90 are headshot machines, with their recoil literally shooting upwards. The reason why it is called a headshot machine is because when you aim at a person's body, the recoil causes it to shoot at the center of the body, to the neck, and to the head. This effect is enhanced when attaching a reflex sight.


Spread recovery. This intermediate statistic is very important when burst firing (i.e. firing intermittent shots of three-eight rounds). When a weapon is fired, the reticle is enlarged. Hold down the fire button, and it will expand and contract corresponding to the time of each shot taken (which is about a split-second). When you release the fire button, the reticle gradually contracts to its normal accuracy. Spread recovery depends on how fast the reticle contracts after releasing the fire button. The FAMAS particularly has a very good spread recovery, meaning as soon as you release the fire button, the reticle shrinks in a split-second. This effect can be experimented with other weapons such as the PP19 or the Negev.
Reloading speed. Unless you are a CQC (Close Quarters Combat) type person, this doesn't really affect your performance. This is pretty self-explanatory. The fastest assault rifle to reload is the Aug A1 and the fastest SMG is the Uzi, but reloading speeds can be adjusted by extended magazines (more bullets in magazine = more time to reload). The FAMAS is not a very good weapon for reloading, so it is best in medium-complex maps such as Short Fuse. (Notice that complexity does not equal to size. Death Room is a very small map, but there are reloading spots for the FAMAS to gain time.) Generally in large & medium maps and small maps with small complexity, you will want to use the extended magazine 1, and small maps with large complexity (Junk Flea) you don't want to use any modifications. You can also buy fast loader magazines, but they lower your magazine capacity.
Space concealment. This basically means how much space the weapon takes up on your screen. Bullpup rifles such as the L85A1 generally take up the least with the exception of the M6A2-SRT (NX only). FAMAS is a bullpup rifle, but the top part really conceals the space, hindering sight. Because of this, do not put a reflex sight or ACOG scope on the FAMAS.

Sound. The FAMAS is the only weapon in the game with a distinct popping sound when fired, so it is advisable to always use a suppressor when firing. If you fire a FAMAS, enemies will automatically be alerted of your presence.
 This means, depending on map and complexity, to add an extended magazine, and to always add a suppressor. Never add a scope - it will hinder sight, and besides, the weapon is already accurate enough.
 These include the FAMAS G2 (suppressor pre-attached, reflex sight attached), and FAMAS G2 SE (improved version of FAMAS G2). While these weapons obscure sight, when zoomed in, they produce virtually no recoil when fired.

