 You will need eye protection, a lab coat or heavy long sleeve shirt to protect yourself from splashes, and acid-resistant (latex or nitrile) gloves. You should also keep a box of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) on hand to neutralize any acid spills.


Sulfuric acid is highly corrosive. Be careful not to spill or splash it.
If you get sulfuric acid on your skin, immediately flush your skin with soap and cool water for at least 15 minutes, and seek medical attention.
If you splash sulfuric acid in your eyes, flush your eyes for at least 30 minutes with cool water and seek medical attention. WEAR GOGGLES to prevent this from happening!

, This experiment will put off hydrogen (h2) gas, which is extremely combustible, and should only be done outdoors or under a laboratory vent hood, away from any open flames or ignition sources. You should also set up your experiment on an acid resistant surface, preferably one that is glass, or specifically chemical resistant.If you don't have a chemical-resistant surface to work on, you should at least put a sheet of thick cardboard under your work area. The sulfuric acid will dissolve the cardboard, but slowly enough that you can neutralize the spill with baking soda before it eats clear through.
 You will needs a 6-volt battery, a glass jar or beaker, 2 lengths of copper wire, concentrated sulfuric acid solution (available at scientific supply stores), a glass measuring beaker or eyedropper, and water.


If you do not have access to concentrated sulfuric acid solution, you can use battery acid, which is 30-35% sulfuric acid and is available at hardware and auto parts stores.
 Add 30ml of water to the beaker, and 5ml of concentrated sulfuric acid. If you are using the less concentrated battery solution, add 15ml of acid to 20ml of water.
 The wires should be an inch or so apart, depending on the size of your container, and should not be touching each other., One wire should be wrapped around the positive terminal, and one should be wrapped around the negative terminal.
 You should see bubble forming at the anode (the wire connected to the negative terminal) but not the cathode, and the solution will begin to turn blue as the copper sulfate is formed. Let the reaction run until the solution is quite blue, and then remove the wires from the solution and disconnect them from the battery.
 You can evaporate the solution by pouring it into a shallow glass dish that is exposed to the air for several days. You can also speed the process up by boiling the solution carefully in a heat-resistant (pyrex or borosilicate) pan, and then pouring off the last bit of sulfuric acid that does not evaporate. Be careful, as the solution in question is caustic and should be handled with great care.
 Copper sulfate is toxic to fish, plants, and other wildlife and should not be poured into lakes or streams, or rinsed down the storm drain. Copper sulfate is a common ingredient in many drain cleaners, and small quantities, like what this experiment will yield, can be safely diluted with water and rinsed down the sink.

