 When you have added all of the tracks that you want, you can edit them to make them sound better in combination. There are many different features that you can use; these steps will teach you some of the most useful.
 This allows you to split tracks into multiple parts and then rearrange them. In order to do this, drag the red line that shows your position in the song to the spot on the track where you want to split it. Then, on the main menu, select "Edit > Split". You can now move the parts around separately.


To put split tracks back together, click on the first part you want to merge, then hold "Shift" and click on the second part. Both parts should now be highlighted. Then select "Edit > Join" in the main menu.
 You can adjust the volume of individual tracks to make some louder than others. You can do this 2 different ways.

Under "Tracks", where you see the icon and name of the instrument. You will also see a circle with "L" and "R" next to it. (More on these later.) Next to that, there is the volume adjuster. Slide the dial left for lower volume and right for higher volume. This changes the volume of the entire track.






To the right of the instrument icon, click the downward arrow. A box will now come down that says "Track Volume". To the right of this is the track volume control. The default setting will have the volume about halfway up. Click on the thin line (this line has the same color used to represent the track, so, for example, green in the case of a piano track), and drag it up or down. (A little node will appear at each point that you click on.) You can click and drag at different points in the track give different volumes to different parts of the track.
 This allows you to make tracks come out of the left or right speakers/headphones. Like track volume, it can be adjusted in 2 different ways.

To the right of the icon of the track instrument, you will see a knob with "L" and "R" on either side. Turn this knob to adjust the track panning. Turning it all the way to either side will make that track play back entirely through the speaker/headphone on that side. Turning it part of the way will make it favor that side, but sound will still come out of both sides. Any changes you make will affect the entirety of the track.






Under the name of the track instrument, click the downward arrow. Click on the box that says "Track Volume" and switch it to "Track Pan". You can now adjust the pan in the same way used to change the volume described above. Click on the thin colored line and drag it up or down to adjust the left-right balance for the track at different parts of the song.
 This feature allows you to manually alter the characteristics of the notes you played on a "Software Instrument" track. To access this feature, click on the scissors icon in the bottom left corner of the GarageBand window. This will show you a close-up view of the individual notes on the track. To select a note, click on it. It will turn from white to the color of the track. Every time you click on the note, it will be played back for you.


To adjust pitch and duration, slide the dials under "Pitch" and "Velocity". You can click on the note to hear it with your adjustments. (Changing pitch makes a note higher or lower, while changing velocity makes it last for a longer or shorter period.)






To adjust alignment, i.e. to quantize a note, click on the bar below "Adjust to". (The default setting is "None". Then, select a time interval, and the selected note will be moved to the nearest of that time interval.






You can also quantize all of the notes simultaneously. To do this click inside the area where the notes are shown, but not on an individual note. Then, "Adjust to" should change to "Enhance Timing". You can then click to bring up a list of the different intervals. Click on one to quantize the notes. You can always select "None" to return to the original version of your song.



