 Think about why you became jaded in the first place -- unhappiness with a job, lack of friends, no time for activities -- and how you could change your situation. Even if you can’t change your situation much, sometimes it’s useful to figure out what are the elements in your life that are most responsible for making you jaded. Sometimes you can make small changes to the particularly egregious parts and it helps your outlook overall.;
, You can control how your body feels. Eating right (healthy fats, protein, whole grains, fruits, and vegetables) can make you feel better and more energetic. Getting a proper amount of exercise (even just a few hours a week spread out) will help you feel more energetic. Eating new foods and doing new exercises can also help prevent you from being depressed about everything in your life., For some people, family and friends are enough support to help deal with being jaded about particular aspects of our lives. Others might have deeper feelings of depression and need to seek professional counseling. Whatever your situation, find people that you can talk to about how you’re feeling and prevent yourself from getting caught up in feelings of being jaded about everything., If things are not going well in any aspect of your life and you’re jaded about anything working out, focus on one element that you might be able to change. Will it be love, work, home? Being jaded doesn’t have to take over your entire life.


If you’re jaded about every finding love, give online dating a try. If you’ve done it before, try other sites or a speed dating event.
If your job is the root of feeling jaded, start looking for other work. If that’s difficult to find, ask if your work will support you getting new training or certifications, allowing you to do different activities that will be counted as work.
If your housing situation has you down, consider your possibilities. If you’re still living with your parents, for example, and renting an apartment by yourself is too expensive, think about splitting with roommates or renting a room in someone’s house.

