 Browse through the United Nations website to get a feel for the different types of work available at the UN. Which areas interest you most? Are there areas you are already qualified for? Are there areas you would like to work in but for which you still need qualifications? Conduct research before starting your job search. Look at the following websites for information:


The UN Official website (http://careers.un.org)
unjobfinder website (http://unjobfinder.org)
The UN Job List website (http://unjoblist.org);
, UN careers are divided into different staff categories, each of which require a specific educational background and area of expertise. The categories are further broken down into jobs at different levels that require varying amounts of work experience. Taking into account your skills, interest and experience, decide which category and level is appropriate for you. Here are the options:Professional and higher categories (P and D)
General Service and related categories (G, TC, S, PIA, LT)
National Professional Officers (NO)
Field Service (FS)
Senior Appointments (SG, DSG, USG and ASG)

, Each career option has specific education and experience requirements. Before you apply for a job, make sure you have all the prerequisites. If you don't, your application won't be considered. Here are common requirements for many positions at the UN:


Fluency in English or French, the working languages of the organization. Fluency in additional languages, particularly Arabic, Chinese, Spanish, or Russian, is helpful for most positions.
A bachelor's degree or higher. Some lower-level generalist positions (mostly clerical or secretarial jobs in the General Service category) require only a high school diploma and, usually, relevant work experience, but most positions in the UN require at least a bachelor’s degree. Many specialist positions require advanced degrees in the area of specialty.
Work experience in a related field. Depending on the position for which you are applying, you might need anywhere from 1 - 7 years of work experience.

