 Take a look at the Ten Commandments for a moment. Have you ever lied? Blasphemed? Stolen (even something small)? Looked at someone with adulterous or lustful feelings? In Christianity, we are born with original sin, and act as sinners through our lives, even after accepting Jesus: as Jesus said, "If you look upon a woman to lust, then you are guilty of adultery already" (Matthew 5:27-28). He who hates a brother or sister is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him. ( 1 John 3:15). You have to face God on judgment day to give an account of your sins. If you die in your sins, God has to send you away from Himself to Hell, called the second death, for transgressing His law.


Realize, however, that He sent Jesus to give Himself willingly on the cross and so: If you believe, receive the Holy Spirit, and repent of your sins, then after you are saved, you will also serve others as if it is to God himself.
As Son of Man, Jesus said, "Father, if it is your will, let this bitter cup pass from me -- nevertheless, 'not my will but thine be done'.", giving Himself freely as the sacrifice for you so that you may now turn, "repent (change your mind) therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out/wiped away, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord;" (Acts 3:19);
, Believe, further, that Jesus died and rose again from the dead to pay the penalty for your sins and make you right with God. Believe the basic doctrine of Christ's redemptive death and resurrection

, Verbalize your belief in Jesus' forgiveness and your regret for all the ways you have fallen short of His holiness. This is a good time to admit your personal failure and disobedience to God. Believe that Jesus Christ forgives you. Repentance always expresses itself in a changed life; you turn from sin and to Jesus Christ; then, accept your free gift of salvation by faith in Jesus' redemptive death through grace from God.


Express reliance upon God: Specifically, confess your spiritual need and acknowledge for yourself Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour.






You need the Gospel of Christ: The good news of Jesus Christ, that you broke His Law but Christ took your punishment, paying your sin-fine. It is not earned, it is strictly given by God's grace. He grants us repentance and faith in His Son in order to save us from Hell.
Learn the difference between churches of the Gospel. Choose a Christian meeting to attend and fellowship. Consider and decide on the Baptist, Catholic, Lutheran, Methodist, Nondenominational, Orthodox, Pentecostal, Mormon, etc. denominations in order to decide which one is the Church that Christ started, the "Pillar and Foundation of Truth" .







