 You may not have to be completely perfectly scene all the time, but when you take pictures, it's a big deal. Get your scene makeup, clothes, etc. ready. Try to choose colours that bring out your best features, e.g. for green eyes, a coppery brown eyeshadow looks amazing. Add extra eyeliner, brighter eyeshadow, rat your hair some more. Make it obvious.;
, They are a lot easier to handle than a big digital camera, but still take high quality pictures. A digital camera is good, because you can upload them to your computer. An iPhone or anything like that is great because the Internet option means that you can send them to your website or profile instantly. You'll also need a tripod for your camera or something to lean your phone on.
 It just takes practice. It really does. Get a tripod to set your camera on. Then take the picture. Learn what looks good and stick to it. You could even try finding a bright colored wall or duct tape a bright colored piece of fabric to a wall and pose in front of it. The most interesting photos are taken at unusual angles. Try looking up or down at the object.
 Blow kisses, text message, tousle your hair, dance, blow bubble gum, whatever makes you a scene queen.If all else fails, throw on your huge sunglasses and have a friend take a pic from above while you're facing into a blowing wind or fan. They usually turn out well.
 Cupcakes, juice boxes, pop cans, stuffed animals such as Gir, turtles, random animals or anything random. If it's food, put it up to your mouth as if you were eating it. If it's a drink, use a straw and put your mouth on the straw. If it's a stuffed animal, hug or kiss it.
 Find a place with good lighting, and take your pictures there. A bright light is good, but the outdoors can be better and more natural looking.
 Find any things you don't like. Take note so you know what do right next time. Try to collaborate different poses into one new one, or try a different location with a different pose. Delete any embarrassing shots - having them leaked after giving a funny copy to a friend is not cool.
 It's nice for erasing a random zit or taming frizzy hair. Never use it to make yourself look thinner or something because people will figure it out.
 You can make a folder for your photos, or just place them randomly in any folder.

