 Many grocery stores sell lavender stems either in the spices or vegetable aisle. Farmer’s markets are another great source. You will need an estimated 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of dry lavender for this recipe. Make sure that you purchase culinary lavender, as it is safe for consumption, as opposed to other types of lavender, such as ornamental.Once you find the lavender, conduct a sniff test. If the lavender emits a light fragrance, it is good to use. If it smells musty or has no odor at all, continue your search.Another option is to buy fresh lavender, bunch it with string and hang it upside down to dry. When it is fully dry and crisp to the touch, pull off the buds with your fingers and store them in a glass container for later use.;
, As it stands, your dry lavender buds are too bulky to include directly into the mixture. They need to be ground down into a fine powder. You can use a mortar and pestle, a clean coffee grinder, or a spice grinder to create the powder.If you use a coffee grinder, it may be helpful to grind a cup or so of buds at a time. Store any leftover powder in a glass container.
Remove any remaining plant bits or debris by running your powder through a fine sieve or strainer.
If you have a sweet tooth, you can always add confectioner’s sugar to the buds and grind them together for a sweeter base mixture. Just be careful that you monitor the sweetness level when you combine everything together in the final steps.
 Lavender is a very common essential oil available at most specialty food and health stores. However, although the Food and Drug Administration regulates the basic production of essential oils, the quality can vary widely so purchase with caution.Look for clear information on the bottle regarding origin, purity (you want 100% undiluted essential oil), and production claims. When in doubt, use the smell test again.
 Pull out a small bowl, a medium mixing bowl, a whisk, a spatula, a cooking sheet, and a roll of wax paper. You will also need measuring cups and spoons.
 Keeping your cooking space as clean as possible is important. Starting the process with clean hands prevents the contamination of the final product.
 Place 1 cup of the gum paste in a medium mixing bowl. Pour 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of water into the bowl. Stir together with a spoon. You want a moldable-dough consistency. If you need to add more water, do so a few drips at a time.


If you add too much water, it’s okay. Just balance it out with additional gum paste.
Gum paste is a sugar powder, similar to fondant. It creates a sweet base while holding it’s form without freezing or cooking. It is commonly available for purchase by the can at craft and cooking stores.
 The amounts that you add will depend on your personal preference, so taste the mixture as you change it. Start with a pinch of lavender powder and 1 drop of oil and work your way up from there.


Be conservative with the lavender. Over-ingestion of lavender oil can cause rashes and other side effects., Lay out a sheet of wax paper and sprinkle some confectioner’s sugar on top of it. The sugar will provide an additional barrier against sticking and add a nice touch to the outside of the final product.
 Place it on the sugared wax paper and press it down evenly using your palms until it is ¼ inch thick. You can also use a rolling pin at this stage, however, coat it in a fine layer of confectioner's sugar to prevent sticking.
 Use a sharp paring knife to cut the dough into tiny squares. Or, use a smoothie straw as a makeshift cookie cutter.It helps to roll the cut-outs in a bit of the confectioner’s sugar to keep them from sticking together.
 Continue until you have finished out the mixture within the bowl. Let them sit 4-6 hours until hardened.


Place the cookie sheet in a cool, dry area where it will be undisturbed.
 Place them in an airtight container for storage. To take them with you during the day, put a handful on a sheet of wax paper and fold it around them, creating a small pouch for transport.


Empty mint tins make good portable transport devices for of lavender breath fresheners as well.
 A delicious taste and the aroma of lavender will fill your mouth.

