 Use a vacuum that has a wand attachment to clean out your grinder. Unplug the grinder and set the vacuum up close to it. Poke the wand around the inside of the hopper and around the burrs to remove as much of the coffee dust as possible.If your vacuum has multiple attachments, use the one with the narrowest end that will help you get the nooks and crannies of the grinder.
If you want, use a can of compressed air to blow dust out of the grinder instead of sucking it out with a vacuum.
If you are in a hurry, or don't have a vacuum or compressed air handy, blow in the grinder a few times to dislodge any leftover grounds. Be careful not to blow anything into your eyes.
 If your grinder has a removable hopper where you load the beans, take this off and wash it separately. Wash the hopper and lid by hand with warm soapy water. Make sure you rinse it thoroughly to get all of the soap residue off of it before you use it again.Allow the hopper to air dry upside down. If you are in a hurry, dry it with a lint free cloth or a paper towel.
 On most coffee grinders, either the inner or outer burr can be removed. It may require a tool that came with your grinder. Check the manual to find out how to remove the burr. Take out whichever one comes out most easily.If neither one comes out easily, you’ll have to clean them while they are in the grinder. Be careful using tools to take the burr out.
Make sure the grinder is unplugged for safe cleaning.
 Use a toothbrush or brush made for coffee grinders to carefully scrub all parts of the burrs. Scrub the one you’ve taken out first and then scrub the burr that is still in the grinder. Get all the cracks and crevices of the burrs, anywhere you can reach with the brush.Use a brush with stiff bristles, but make sure they are not metal. Metal bristles may damage the burrs.
 After you have scrubbed the burr in the grinder, dump loose grounds into the trash. Scrub again and dump it out again if any more grounds seem to be stuck in there. Repeat this process as necessary., Take a dry, clean wash cloth and wipe all parts of the grinder where the beans go. Wipe the burrs themselves carefully, and also wipe the chute and catcher where the coffee grounds fall.The “dry” cloth is important. Never use a damp rag to clean the grinder. The metal parts will corrode if moisture gets into them.

