 Mood swings are often associated with persistent expectations for bad things to happen or, in other words, negative thinking. For example, you might be waiting to hear back from a job and assume you didn't get it after only a day has passed. Or maybe your mother has informed you that she has something to tell you and you immediately assume that she's deathly ill. Not only is this kind of negative thinking often inaccurate, it can also dramatically affect your mood and lead you to feel very angry and upset, typically for little to no "real" reason.There are two different tricks you can try for dealing with such unhealthy automatic thinking:


Take a step back and relax. Instead of assuming the worst that can happen, think about all of the other scenarios that are possible. This will help you realize that the worst is not likely to happen, and that there's no point in getting all upset until you know more information.
Alternately, you could consider the worst possible scenario and prepare for it, just in case. By ensuring that you are well prepared for even the worst case scenario you can imagine, you might be able to focus your attention on something else instead of dwelling on the unpredictable consequences that could result from it.;
, Overgeneralizing is another way that you may lead yourself into a bad mood. Maybe you had a bad interaction on a date or with a co-worker. So what? You may think this means that you'll never find love or that you're going to be fired, but you shouldn't let this one situation or conversation make you feel like it's indicative or determinant of other trends in your life. This kind of generalizing is bound to make you moody and upset, but there is a way to counteract it.


Remind yourself that what happened was an isolated incident. Instead of assuming one incident (such as a disagreement with a coworker or date) is reflective of your entire relationship with this person, consider it as a one-off and something that doesn't happen very often. Remind yourself of all of the success you have had in this realm, whether it's your work life or your romantic life, and you'll be able to calm down a bit and realize that there's no need to get all worked up about it.
 Thinking only in terms of extreme, or "black and white" outcomes (e.g., perfect vs. disastrous or beautiful vs. ugly, etc.) has been shown to be associated with both mood swings and sudden alterations in affect.Focusing too much on just one outcome (as opposed to any other) has been shown to severely restrict your ability to engage with ideas and emotions that arise through your interactions with the world.If everything is judged simply in black or white terms, such as whether something makes you either happy or unhappy, successful or a failure, beautiful or ugly, you will be missing out on a full range of experiences.
It’s important to remember that the world is much more nuanced than this; the world is gray, not black and white. There are many different outcomes other than just being a complete success or a total failure.
For example, maybe your latest business deal fell through. Does this make you a failure in the business world? Absolutely not. You've had plenty of successes and a few setbacks. This in fact just makes you a real and well-rounded human being.If something doesn't go your way, chalk it up to experience. If you didn't get the job you wanted, it doesn't mean that you have no skills, but that that particular opportunity was not a good fit. The world is big and there are lots of opportunities out there! Don't let one rejection — or even many — tell you who you are and drive you into a dark emotional place.
 One of the most important things you can do to control your mood swings is to learn to take a step back and laugh at yourself. People who are prone to mood swings often take themselves pretty seriously, which makes it difficult to be able to poke fun at yourself, make a joke at your own expense, or even be able to laugh at a debacle you've found yourself in.But if you want to control your mood swings, then you have to be able to sit back and laugh sometimes, instead of letting every little thing that life throws at you get you riled up.For example, you're walking to pick up your date and a bird poops on your head. You could choose to get enraged, upset, or frustrated, or you can take a step back and think, "Wow, what are the chances of that happening?" Or, "Hey, at least I'll have a great story to tell the kids someday about mine and mom's first date!" Of course, some situations can't be laughed at. However, for all the rest, some levity can help you stay strong and in control of your moods in the middle of challenging situations.
 Take a step back and think. You might need to pause and adjust your expectations so that they reflect the true state of the situation. Sometimes, you may feel a mood coming on because you have to spend 15 minutes circling around the supermarket's parking lot to look for a spot. Though you may feel like it's the end of the world right then and there, take a moment to think about what is really upsetting you. Is it really that crazy that the supermarket is full right before the weekday dinner hour? Are you really mad about something silly like having to find a parking spot or because of a rude coworker's pointless comment earlier in the day? Ask yourself if it's really a big deal in the grand scheme of things. Maybe it is, but it's likely that you're letting something small blow out of proportion.


We can often let moods come over us without thinking about their source. Though knowing that there's no logic in your current mood may not help you change it, it can allow you to calm down a bit and realize that things aren't as bad as they may feel to you.
Think about your situation as if you were someone else. What would you tell yourself to do? Would you think that the situation you're in is really that big of a deal?

, One important thing to keep in mind when it comes to controlling your mood swings is to know when your emotions are taking over so much that your best move is to exit the situation. If you're getting heated, incredibly angry, or filled with resentment or another negative emotion and you feel like you don't have control over what you're doing or saying, then you should excuse yourself and walk away. You could also just leave the situation without saying anything. Though this may not give you the resolution you want, this will keep you from saying or doing something you might regret later.


If you're in the middle of an argument and things are getting intense, try saying something like, "Excuse me, but I need a few minutes to gather my thoughts." Then, go somewhere quiet and try to think about what happened.
When you walk away and your breathing and thinking return to normal, you'll be able to have a more rational perspective on the situation. Then, you can consider returning to the situation or conflict.
 Sometimes you just need to press pause and take a few minutes to calm down and check in your with yourself. When you feel your emotions rising, whether it's over an email exchange or an annoying situation at the supermarket, just take five minutes to be still, focus on getting your breathing back to normal, and wait until you stop feeling angry before you return to the situation. Remember that there's no shame in taking a break and returning to a situation with a calmer mind.


Try counting to 10 and breathing during your break. This long-practiced technique of counting to 10 before taking action works because it gives you a distraction and break between the incident and your response, which in turn ensures that your emotions don't take you over.Sometimes all you need is a change in environment. Maybe you've been cooped up too long at work and need to go outside to get some fresh air. Maybe you've been driving from place to place all day and just need to sit down. Whatever it is, taking a break from what you're doing can impact your mood in a positive way.
 If you're in a really bad mood or a funk and you can't get out of it, then sometimes the best thing you can do is call and talk to a trusted friend and confidante about it. You'll feel better about getting your anger, sadness, or frustration off your chest and you'll feel less alone in the process. Knowing that you have someone to turn to in a time of crisis can help you control your mood swings because you'll be comforted by the fact that you can get some help and advice easily.


However, keep in mind that if you always call someone when you're upset, consistently talking and talking about the incident can actually get you more fired up and may make you feel worse. Get to know yourself and see if talking to someone is always the best route for you.
 Everyone does something different to get to his or her "calm place." You should experiment and find what works for you. Some people just need to take a walk to clear their minds. Other people love sitting back with a warm cup of peppermint or chamomile tea. Some like to listen to jazz or classical music, or to spend a few minutes with their beloved dog or cat. Find whatever makes you feel the most calm and the most in control of your emotions, and find a way to go to your "happy place" whenever you're in one of your moods.


When you feel a mood coming on, try to complete your calming routine, or do as much of it as you can. Unfortunately, you may not always have access to the things that make you feel calm or happy, but you should try to do your best. If herbal tea is your thing, then keep a packet of tea bags in your desk at work. If your cat makes you feel at peace, keep a photo of your cat on your phone so you can make yourself smile no matter where you are.
 This is another important rule for controlling your mood swings. You may feel a mood coming on and in the process, say something that will make everyone involved feel worse, and which will be something you would regret later. When you feel yourself getting heated, take a moment to ask yourself if the thing you want to say will really be the most helpful and productive for you, or if there are other ways of expressing yourself or achieving your goals. Even pausing for a few seconds can help you gather yourself and feel more in control of yourself.


Saying something that you don't really mean can cause reactions that will only escalate the situation — and probably make you feel even worse in the process.
 Many people suddenly find themselves feeling cranky, angry, and irritated just because their blood sugar is low and they need something to eat. Recent research suggests that basic physiological needs (like the need for sustenance) can affect how we perceive certain situations. Further, ignoring basic physiological needs can cause us to perceive threats in our social environment that might not necessarily be there, or at least be considered necessarily important to our day-to-day affairs.Ask yourself when the last time was that you had a meal; you may find that you skipped a meal or haven't had a bite in more than a few hours without realizing it. If you find yourself getting moody in the moment, have a healthy snack, like an apple, a handful of almonds, or a yogurt, and you may start to calm down.It's best to be prepared and to avoid the situation where you find yourself in a mood because of hunger. Carry around a banana, a granola bar, or a small bag of nuts to keep you sustained throughout the day.
 Going for a walk has been proven to help people beat a bout of bad moods.Just going on a 30 minute walk and getting some fresh air can help you relieve stress, decrease your risk for cardiovascular disease, strokes, obesity and even some types of cancer.Make walking a part of your everyday routine in addition to taking a walk when you are starting to feel moody. Just focus on the rhythm of your body and the sound of your breathing, and you will soon feel yourself escaping one of your moods.
You may be in a mood because you've been cooped up all day, worrying about your problems. Taking a walk will help you see other people going about their day and help you to realize that there's a whole world out there aside from you and your problems.
 Keeping a journal can help you keep track of your moods and to think about how you can avoid getting upset or overly emotional in certain situations. You can write about your day and even mention when you were feeling happy and when you were feeling upset, anxious, frustrated, or another emotion in order to better understand the patterns of your moods. You may find that you tend to get moody in the evenings, or when you find yourself around certain people. Keeping track of what you're thinking and feeling can lead you to be more aware of your moods and to better control them.


Try to write in your journal at least every other day. This will help you develop a routine that allows you to sit back and think, rather than just acting first.
 Everyone has a trigger — something that sets them off and brings them into a mood. If you know what your triggers are, then you can work on creating a plan to deal with them. It's ideal if your triggers are something you can avoid, such as a friend who puts you down, or driving through a certain part of your town. Unfortunately, there are many cases where you'll still have to deal with the things that are bothering you and that trigger your mood fluctuations. This is why it's important to develop coping skills to manage those triggers, so that you can perhaps feel more in control of your moods the next time you encounter them.For example, if sitting in traffic always sets you off, try playing a relaxing CD of classical music or jazz in the car. If a certain coworker drives you nuts, learn to avoid this person or keep your interactions with him to a minimum. As with physical exercise, it’s all about learning more about your own personal boundaries and not pushing yourself too hard.
If you cannot avoid encountering your trigger -- if it’s your boss, for instance -- take it one interaction at a time. Try to put each interaction in context by reminding yourself of what you can and cannot actually control. If your boss is persistently rude or puts you in uncomfortable situations, you should explore options that will enable you to alleviate that situation, such as finding a new job, talking to his superior, or simply giving him feedback directly. But remind yourself that only YOUR actions are in your hands and that you can't control what other people do or say.
 Another reason you may be prone to uncontrollable or difficult moods is lack of sleep. If you routinely don't get enough sleep, then this will make you feel lethargic, irritated, and less in control of your mind and body. Though every person requires a different amount of sleep, most need between 7 and 9 hours of sleep. Once you find your number, try to stick to it, and make sure to go to bed and wake up around the same time every night.


You may not even realize that you're so sleep deprived because you've been drinking so much caffeine to counteract it. You'll feel far better and less moody with less caffeine and more sleep.
 Though many of the steps in this section can help you reduce your stress, the first step is to simply become more aware of your stress levels so that you can take concerted steps to alter them. Our emotions function as indicators to tell us when something is either physically or psychologically wrong, so it's important for you to think about which things in your life are bringing you the most stress, anxiety, or even anger and then develop ways to address them. There are many steps you can take to bring your stress levels down and your mood up.If your schedule is too packed, take a look at your calendar and see which social events or work obligations you can do without. Research has shown that making less time for our friends and family than we desire is directly related not only to higher levels of stress but also less efficient work. It is thus essential that you allocate enough time for spending leisurely time with friends and family.If a relationship in your life is causing you stress, then you need to address it. Whether it's a tense situation with your parents or your significant other, the sooner you talk about it, the better.
Make more time for relaxation. This can come in the form of yoga, laughter with friends, a warm bath, or mediation. Meditation, for example, is a particularly easy task to perform and has been generally shown to reduce blood pressure and relieve symptoms or anxiety and depression., If you consume a greater than average amount of coffee per day, typically around 2-3 cups, then it may be seriously contributing to your mood swings by increasing anxiety and/or blood pressure.That said, some people are fine with 4 cups of coffee, while others feel different after just 1 cup. If you suspect that caffeine is responsible for some of your mood swings — for example, if you feel like you have the majority of your mood swings shortly after or while drinking caffeine — then you should make an effort to slowly wean yourself off caffeine. You'll be surprised by how much better and in control you'll feel.


You could try switching from coffee to tea. Some people find the caffeine in tea affects them differently than that in coffee. However, even among teas, green teas typically have less (almost half) caffeine as black teas, so you might have to experiment with different types to find one that works for you.You could also try drinking your coffee or tea more slowly. You're more prone to mood swings if you gulp down an entire cup of coffee in less than ten minutes.
You should also avoid energy drinks. These drinks will make you feel jittery and can cause mood swings even in people who aren't prone to them.
 Anything more than one glass of red wine a day can contribute to heightened mood swings. Drinking alcohol, especially before bed, can cause you to have a restless sleep and to wake up feeling tired and cranky. Also, you may be more prone to mood swings while you're drinking alcohol, since it's a depressant. Keep your alcohol intake to a minimum, or even eliminate it completely.


Along with avoiding alcohol you should also avoid illegal drugs. They can exacerbate your mood swings in addition to causing an array of other physical and emotional problems.
 Make a habit of regularly exercising. This can help you burn off some of that excess energy and can help you find a more suitable outlet for your feelings. Though exercising for at least 30 minutes a day won't help you completely control your mood swings, it can definitely help you feel more in control of your body as well as your mind. Exercising can also stop your mind from churning and it invites you to focus on something else for a short time. It's important to note that there are real emotional and physical benefits to exercising, including the reduction of stress and the lowering of your blood pressure.Find a routine or regimen that works for you. You can try running, yoga, dancing, swimming, or anything that allows you to spend some time getting physical. If you are new to physical exercise, start small. Do whatever you can manage without going over the top so you don't injure yourself. Slowly build up as you feel more comfortable., An outlet is anything that helps you channel your negative or overwhelming emotions into some other activity. Some of the best outlets can be found in fulfilling hobbies or passions, such as photography, poetry, or ceramics. Find whatever makes you feel at peace and helps transport you "away" from your daily struggles. This doesn't mean that you can "escape" your mood swings, but it does mean that you can minimize them by making time for yourself to do something that you enjoy.


Your outlet doesn't have to be something creative or talent-oriented. Your outlet can be a form of exercise or "doing." It can be volunteering or watching classic films. It's all about finding whatever works for you and what you like.
Your outlet can also be something that you can turn to during a time of stress or mood swings. For example, if you feel a mood coming on, you should try to write poetry, draw or do anything else that distracts you and that you enjoy doing.
 Spending time socializing can help you control your mood swings and feel more happy and fulfilled. Though certain social interactions can actually cause abrupt shifts in your mood, spending time with the people you love and who make you happy can help you feel more calm and at ease. You may also be suffering from depression or sadness because you feel isolated, and being around other people can help you feel more connected. Make a goal of seeing your friends or family at least a few times a week and you will feel happier and more stable.


It's also important to make time for yourself. Mood swings can also come on when people feel like they don't have any time to themselves and are overwhelmed by everything they have to get done. Make sure there's time in your schedule to check in with yourself, whether you write in a journal, take a walk, or just sit in silence and think about your week.
 Keeping a well-balanced diet will keep you feeling balanced in body and mind. Eat at least 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day, avoid excessive carbohydrates and processed food, and try not to indulge in too many sugary foods. Getting your healthy carbohydrates, proteins, and fruits and veggies throughout your day can help you feel more balanced and make you less likely to have hormonal mood swings. Here are some foods that can improve your mood:Omega 3 fatty acids. Foods such as salmon and soybeans contain this valuable nutrient.
Folic acid. Studies show that people who are depressed have a lower intake of folic acid, so make sure to get your weekly dose of folic acid, which can be found in leafy greens.
Protein. Eat eggs, fish, lean turkey, tofu, and other proteins to keep your body from crashing. Make sure you have protein with a healthy dose of carbohydrates to create balance.
Be careful with fruit juices and cocktails. Only a few are 100 percent in juice content making them high in sugar or another juice you don't need. Also these juices can be less nutrient rich and lack the plant based chemicals to have any effect on emotional well being or make things worst.
 Some herbs, vitamins and supplements can improve or enhance your mood, although it is important to note that experts are not in complete agreement over the potential beneficial effects of these herbs and other supplements. In general, more research is needed to confirm the effectiveness of some mood supplements. Remember to always consult your physician before taking any herbal supplements.Here are the most common approaches to improving your moods using herbs and supplements:


Take St. John's wort. St. John's wort is one of the most popular herbs prescribed for enhancing mood. It is a yellow-flowered plant that has many chemical compounds that can have medicinal benefits. Keep in mind that you must consult your doctor before taking this herb as it can have negative interactions with other medications you may be taking, including birth control pills, antidepressants, blood thinners, and HIV medications. St. John’s wort is available in a range of forms, including capsules, tablets, liquid extracts, and teas. A typical dose of St. John’s wort ranges from 900 to 1,200 milligrams a day, and it should be taken for at least 1-3 months to see the best effect. Consult your physician or homeopath for their specific dosage recommendations.Take SAMe (S-Adenosyl-L-Methionine), derived from an amino acid and also available from protein food sources, is another widely studied mood-enhancing substance commonly used in Europe.SAMe supplements are usually taken in tablet form and the dose most often used for depression in clinical studies is 800 to 1,600 milligrams daily for up to 6 weeks. Although SAMe has few side effects, you should use caution if you have a pre-existing medical or psychiatric condition, such as diabetes, low blood sugar, or an anxiety disorder.There are also other potential vitamins and herbs that may help you better control your moods, although the evidence for these is less solid than for the two above. Lavender, for example, has been widely used in aromatherapy, essential oils, and teas to promote relaxation and relieve anxiety. Some people have also reported success in taking Valerian root to help with sleeping and to manage anxiety. You could also consider taking a multivitamin to ensure plenty of B vitamins in your system, which can help stabilize the membranes of your nerve cells. Though there is little evidence yet to confirm that vitamin D also enhances mood, at least one study has reported benefits in treating seasonal affective disorder with vitamin D., Nobody’s moods are completely stable all of the time. Having a bad day at work or a fight with a friend can can impact your mood and how you're feeling. However, if your mood swings are frequent and noticeably extreme (i.e., you fluctuate from high to low very quickly) and have no apparent direct cause (i.e., you had a great day with no difficult or upsetting interactions), then this may be a sign of a more serious underlying physiological or psychological condition.


If you have a persistent urge to run other cars off the road every time you drive, for example, or are consistently angry at your co-workers and can't fulfill your work duties, then these might be signs there are problems in need of your attention in certain areas of your life.
It is important to note that there are a number of potentially serious psychological or physiological conditions associated with severe mood swings. For this reason, speaking with your physician or other medical or psychiatric professional is important so that you can determine whether this is the case for you. Furthermore, the precise causes of your mood fluctuations will determine the best course of action for you in terms of coping with and controlling your mood swings.
 Certain physiological conditions have been known to be associated with noticeable alterations in mood and affect. These are conditions resulting from factors such lifestyle choices, including diet or lack of exercise, age or hormonal-related conditions, or side effects from medication. A medical doctor, such as a general practitioner, is the best person to seek advice from in order to learn more about these conditions and assess the possibility that they could be related to your mood swings. Some of these physiological conditions include:



Head injury or brain tumors - Damage to various parts of the brain could impact hormone regulation throughout the body, causing an adverse effect on your moods and emotions. If you think you may have experienced a traumatic head injury, or have any reason to believe you may have a brain tumor, consult a medical doctor immediately.Content in the media we use as entertainment- The music we listen to or what we watch on TV can cause mood swings easily. At their worst the affected individual will get nauseous and faint as well as throw up or turn extremely angry and hostile quickly. Red flashing lights also cause seizures for some people. After watching shows and movies about paranormal activity or doing things involving "spirits" many people become extremely irritable.

Allergies- Experiencing any allergic can make a person react in a sudden mood swing. If a person is exposed to even the site, sound, taste or smell of a trigger that person will suddenly go from a calm mood to an anxious mood.

Artificial fragrances-Many of the chemicals used in many fragrant items from cleaning agents to fragrant decor like car fragrances, candles, colognes, soaps and perfumes cause allergies which can cause mood swings. These chemicals include: benzene derivatives, aldehydes, phthalates, and a slew of other known toxins which companies can hide under the term "fragrances". These chemicals have been known to cause nervous-system disorders which can add up to ultimately causing mood swings plus other mental and emotional health issues.

Poisoning from foreign materials: Chemicals from the food we eat, the materials used to construct the buildings we work or live in, pest infections, venom from animals, can be the cause of mood swings. Lead and any chemicals that affect the brain are the main culprits. Doctors can use a variety of tests to determine rather or not a foreign material is causing you problems with emotional stability. The same can also be a side effect from medications.

Dementia - All forms of dementia are correlated with severe psychological and physiological changes, which can cause drastic alterations in mood and affect. If you are 40+ years of age, and exhibit other symptoms, such as severe memory loss, consult your doctor.Pregnancy - Pregnancy can bring about immediate and long lasting alterations to hormone levels and brain chemistry. These, in turn, can cause severe fluctuations in your mood and emotions. Even if a pregnancy didn’t come to full term, such as in cases of abortion or miscarriage, mood swings can continue due to the hormonal, biological and physiological changes that accompany pregnancy and the postpartum period. Consult your doctor if you are experiencing mood swings and have any reason to believe you may be or might have been pregnant.Puberty - As you enter adolescence, rapid changes in your biological and social states can bring about mood swings and shifts in affect and desire. It is important to understand these changes as being natural signs of growth and the experience of puberty. However, in severe cases, such as when there is some danger of imminent harm to yourself or others, you should consult your family doctor.Menopause - Similar to other shifts in your life-span, menopause can also be associated with severe mood swings and changes in desire and affect. If these become unmanageable in any way, consult a medical doctor.Continual stress - Sustained stress due to everyday activities can at times become too much for a person to handle. This can then be reflected in volatile mood swings. It’s best to tackle such sources of stress as soon as possible in order to avoid the type of long-term changes in brain chemistry that can sometimes result from persistent engagement with stressors in the environment.An illness or infection- Not feeling your best rather it's from a simple cold or huge cancer infection can have negative effects on emotional well-being. When your in a sicken state of life you become more easily prone to mood swings.
 Researchers have also uncovered a number of psychological and/or social conditions that are associated with severe mood swings or alterations in affect. Such conditions will often have a biological component, similar to those listed above, but will be better addressed by attending to the psychological or social needs relative to your everyday life. In order to assess the likelihood that such conditions are related to your mood swings, it recommended that you consult a clinical psychologist or other mental health professional, such as a therapist or counselor. These conditions include:



Substance abuse - The abuse of any substance whatsoever has the potential to alter brain chemistry and hormone levels in unpredictable ways. If you have struggled with such issues in the past, or are struggling in the present, there’s no reason to hesitate seeking help either from a mental health professional or a support group specific to your substance abuse problem.Attention deficit hyperactive disorder (ADHD) and attention deficit disorder (ADD) - Psychological disorders related to an inability to pay attention have been associated with mood swings and changes in affect.Bipolar disorder - Bipolar disorder is characterized by rapid changes in mood, particularly those shifting back and forth from extreme happiness to utter despair, in situations that would not typically warrant such reactions. With bipolar disorder, a person might, for example, become excessively happy over being given a compliment by a friend, only to become angry at that same friend minutes later. Only a trained mental health professional should make decisions related diagnosing bipolar disorder, or any other mental health disorder.Depression - Sustained bouts of depression can be accompanied by extreme shifts in mood, both positively and negatively. If you have been suffering from depression but all of a sudden become uncharacteristically happy or excited, pay attention to further changes in affect and desire. This will help you better understand how such mood swings might be related to your depression and everyday life.Grief - When you lose a loved one, it is very common to experience unpredictable emotional reactions in situations that might not have concerned you before. This is a natural part of the grieving process for some people. However, if these mood swings become unmanageable, or result in situations that make you a danger to yourself or others, it is advisable that you talk to a medical doctor or mental health professional about the possible benefits of medication and other coping strategies that can help you move forward. This could include instances in which a child didn’t make it to the full term of pregnancy. The emotional strain accompanying the loss of an unborn child can be more than any one person can bear on their own, and can create problems even if no immediately noticeable biological changes are present."Phobias" - Everybody has a fear of something rather it's rats, spiders, heights or crowds at their worst phobias can strike extreme fear in an individual once the trigger occurs. The person will go through a sudden mood swing out of fear.
"Traumas" - Many individuals who went through a horrible experience in life like rape, assault, abuse, victim of or witnessing a crime, jail can become extremely angry when a conversation or similar situation occurs associated with that incident.Many soldiers and catastrophic event victims also get upset very easily.

Stress from major life changes - Major life events, such as moving, changing jobs, or having children, can correlate with unpredictable shifts in mood. If you have gone through an event like this recently, and have since then experienced unexplainable mood swings, this is entirely normal. However, as with many of the descriptions above, consult a doctor or mental health professional if these mood fluctuations become unmanageable or present a possibility for bodily or psychological harm., If you feel that any of the physiological or psychological conditions listed above may apply to you, then you should consult a professional. If you suspect a physiological or biological condition is at work, talk to your family doctor. If you suspect a psychological issue may be chronically affecting your mood, consult a mental health professional (you may need a referral from your family physician in some cases).


If at any time you feel like you are controlled by your severe mood swings and/or feel powerless against these fluctuations, it is important that you seek professional assistance.This is not to say that a doctor or medication is always the right answer when it comes to mood swings. But if your mood swings are moderate to severe, then it's best to explore all of your options before trying to tackle your mood fluctuations all by yourself. Some people who have been diagnosed with mood disorders choose to approach their problems without medication, with many experiencing some degree of success where medications have otherwise failed.