 If you find something like a baby picture or a souvenir, or something from your history, show it to them. It will help you get closer if you see into each other's personal life, even if it's through objects.;
, Go on a huge roller coaster together, or do something like skydiving or zip-lining. Doing something like this will help you associate amazing memories with your friend.
 If you are too clingy, it will make you grow apart. If your friend goes on a month long trip, have fun emailing her, but make it occasional. The space will help you bond, because you will actually begin to miss the fun you usually have together, and it will make you want to stay friends more.
 Make a craft together. You can make build something, record a duet, make a two person film, choreograph a dance, make a website, make custom t-shirts, start a business, make some food, start a club, anything. If you have the know-how, teach your friend and you can do it all together.
 If you have a fear of heights and they have a fear of the dark, go on a huge roller coaster as late at night as you can. Anything to help you get over your fears, or at least face them.
 Find a time when everybody is out of the house where you can just be alone together. This way, you can say and do what you want without people hovering over you. Being alone does wonders for a friendship.
 If they are talking, don't space out. It greatly helps your friendship if you know as much about what's going on as they are willing to share. This is a two way thing, though. They should be listening to you, too.
 Call, text, or email them. Get Facebook, Twitter, Myspace, Youtube, Instagram, Pinterest, Skype, or Vine. Any of these ways insure that you will be updated electronically during your time without them.
 Try some trust exercises, physical or mental. You want to know you can trust them, right? Well, they probably want to do the same.
 Find a time to go buy a scrapbook, scrapbook paper, stickers, etc. One you have all of those things, find and/or print out any pictures of you together that you have. Glue and label them, and make the scrapbook fun. Periodically add pictures and update it. Don't be afraid to add pics of you separately. It's still you and them, just no together. Pics of you without them also make a great conversation piece if you forgot to tell them about what happened.
 Find all the videos you have of each other together and apart, and put them together into a big compilation on a program like iMovie. Add transitions, labels, and effects, and always update it. Make sure you both have access to and can watch it at any time.
 Hang out, play games, eat stuff, watch shows and movies, have your mom make a scavenger hunt, pull an all-nighter, fall asleep as soon as you see it's morning, beg your parents to let you stay over later, whatever you want. Sleepovers are a great way to bond.
 Go to a concert, party, pool, amusement park, dance, beach, haunted house, theater, city (like NYC...if you're old enough), local fair, sports game, or mall. Anything you both enjoy can be amazing.
 Arguments can be the death of a friendship if you don't fix it immediately. Try being the bigger person and apologizing first. If you take that step, they might too. Plus, if they try being the bigger person too, the argument will be over as soon as it started. Even better, try ending the argument before it starts by agreeing to disagree.
 If you are jealous of your friend, nothing will ever be fun. Be happy for them, and hope that they are happy for you. They are luckier than you sometimes, and sometimes you're luckier than them. There will always be someone better and worse than you at just about everything. Accept it and move on.
 Laugh, giggle, and smile, or rant, scream, and cry. It's okay to express yourself. Let them know what you do and don't agree with or like, however...expressive you get. It's okay, you guys are close already, so you shouldn't hold back. It's not a turn off if they really are your friend.
 Don't only have one friend. This can make you clingy, and in the end, you will end up making them have only one friend too. Be open to others. Also, don't exclude them in what you do with others, because it will make them feel bad.
 Ask questions. You should know as much about them as they are willing to tell. Just don't intrude upon what they aren't willing to share. Somethings are too personal to tell, even if you are close.
 Sometimes you shouldn't have to ask. Tell them everything. Secrets shouldn't be kept from best friends. Don't hold back with them. If you can really trust them, they won't tell a soul.
 For things like birthdays and Christmas, or for the little things like a good job on something/no reason at all. Anytime you feel like giving a gift, give one.
 Comfort them, celebrate with them, whatever they need. They need you, whether they admit it or not. For the moment, forget how you feel and just think about how they feel. And remember, don't make a joke out of the problem unless it's appropriate.
 Help them get adjusted to moving, or help them with homework. Whatever they need help with, you should help them to the best of your abilities.
 Two good ideas would be Dunkin' Donuts or Starbucks, since you can meet there whenever just for a snack. It's a good idea just to be able to eat breakfast every Saturday with them, just to have a set time and place to meet in case you haven't seen each other in forever.
 Some friends even meet every day right off the bus if they can. It's a great system to have you you can relax with a friend right after school.
 That only creates a barrier that make you grow apart whether you like it or not. Always tell the real truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
 It's always nice to have something that only you can laugh at together. It's also a great way to cheer each other up when you're down.
 Even in bed, have a phone near you in case they need to call you at 2am. Always be there for them. If they need you to come over, come over! It's okay to miss an activity once or twice if your BFF is about to break into tears. Emergencies are emergencies, and sometimes convenience can't matter.
 It's always nice to hear a compliment from someone you are close to. And besides, there gotta be a reason you're friends, so use that as a compliment.
 Virtual relationships never work out if you don't meet in person a few times. In-person meetings are vital, even if they only happen every other year.
 If you like acting, do the play together. If you like singing join choir. No matter what you love doing, if they love it too, it can become a vital part of the glue that holds you together.
 If you don't have fun together, it will never work. Friendship is about the ups and downs, so you have to make sure there are always abundant ups, tainted only by occasional downs.
 Some friends will form a band. Others will move in together. No matter what, find a way to make your bond last for life.
 If you start dating, make time for both people, and if dating gets in the way, stop dating them. Best friends before boy/girlfriends. Also, avoid the "dating my BFF" situation. If you break up, it will make it REALLY awkward between the two of you.
 By now you should be like family. It's time you got to know their real family, like brothers, sisters, and parents. Your friendship won't work if you don't know the family.
 That puts your friend in a seriously awkward position where they feel like they have to make you happy. The thing is, you are responsible for your happiness, and even though your friendship makes you happy, your friend shouldn't have to all the time. Be positive and your relationship will grow.
 Looks don't matter. No one should have to say that, but this is just a reminder.
 We've all been bullied, and no one likes it. So make sure to stand up for your friend. That way, they won't have to experience the bullying anymore.
 Don't let jealously, anger, etc get in the way of your relationship. You want to be close, so don't let ANYTHING get in the way.
 Don't forget what you know. That could make your friend feel like they are unimportant in your eyes. That creates a barrier that is hard to take down.
 Be yourself around them. You are close, so you don't have to hold back. You can be sad, mad, happy, surprised, or whatever around them.
 If something happens, don't let it ruin your relationship. Forgive each other, and let it go. Let it be a learning experience for you, and don't let it get in the way.
 Say they can't make it to your party. Just remember that they might not be able to help it. Don't be mad at them if you have no reason.
 Do homework together. Take walks. Eat meals. Whatever you regularly do, do it with your friend. It will make them feel loved and included.
 If you both really want to go somewhere, and one of you gets to go, see if you can go together. Vacations are a great way to bond.
 If your mom is making you go to an antique show, invite your friend and put the clothes on, taking pictures in black and white. Family outings are always more fun with your "extended family".
 You are best friends, but are you like one person. Try to practice finishing each other's sentences, saying things in synchronization, knowing when the other is acting differently, etc. Once you are this close, there's hardly a chance at all that you two will stop being friends.

