 Pure, high quality dark chocolate will give you the most “bang for your buck” — that is, the most nutritional value and antioxidant benefits (and flavor) per calorie consumed.


Dark chocolate has a higher cocoa content, which is the source of the beneficial flavonoids. As a primer, cocoa powder typically contains 88%-96% cocoa; dark chocolate, 45%-80%; milk chocolate, 5%-7%; and white chocolate, 0%. This is also the order in which they rank in antioxidant benefits.White chocolate lacks any cocoa solids, and thus any antioxidant benefits. It is, by and large, just a sugar/fat/calorie bomb and should only be considered a rare treat with no health benefits. Milk chocolate, for that matter, isn't much better.Quality dark chocolate should be at least 60% cocoa, have little or no added sugar, and contain cocoa butter, not palm or coconut oil., No, most candy bars, heart-shaped box candies, and chocolate Easter bunnies will not make the cut.


Compared side-by-side, dark chocolate contains slightly more calories and fat than milk chocolate, but has half the sugar, less cholesterol, and more of almost all the beneficial nutrients found in either.Also, remember that dark chocolate has ten times or more cocoa content, and thus substantially more flavonoids. Milk also tends to counteract antioxidants, even further reducing the value of the flavonoids found in milk chocolate.Sorry to say, but you’d have a tough time finding a valid “How to Get Slim While Eating More Sugar” article. You’ll have to learn to savor the chocolate while skipping the excessive sugar.
 If you think that dark chocolate means nothing but a bitter, unsatisfying block, think again. Now more than ever, there are numerous options when choosing dark chocolate.


Variations in cocoa content make important flavor differences, but so do ingredient choices and chocolate-making techniques. Try different brands and see which ones truly tickle your taste buds.
Dark chocolate that has been flavored with essences or spices can make a nice change from plain dark chocolate without adding calories. Many boutique chocolate stores specialize in such delicious varieties of dark chocolate.
 Both contain beneficial flavonoids; both offer a wide variety of flavor profiles and price points; both can present problems in the face of overindulgence; and both should be savored. Think of each as an investment in enjoyment and, when done right, health.


As there are ways to choose wine carefully, so too are there ways to choose dark chocolate. Yes, price is often one indicator of quality, but not always. For instance, look for bars that are solid, dark, and glossy, without white or gray tones, spots, or small holes.Treat your chocolate like wine, but also enjoy it with wine. Go ahead and double up on your flavonoids. When paired well, wine and chocolate make an indulgent combination that is surprisingly suitable for many a diet plan.
 Enjoy dark chocolate as a treat, and make it a part of other treats that can be sensibly added to your diet plan in moderation. Recipes using dark chocolate can be found all over the internet. Just keep an eye on how much fat and sugar are added to any recipe. Some examples include:


Dark chocolate mousse
Dark chocolate dipped mint leaves
Raw dark chocolate pudding
Dark chocolate cookies

