 The first step to efficient legal research is always to find out your key words. Unfortunately for Americans, the E.U. has not yet submitted to our legal jargon. Fortunately, the E.U. maintains a webpage the help Americans translate our legal words into theirs. You can also look at a E.U. oriented law review article or treatise. The next step will get you started on the legal research, and also help generate key words.;
, Go to the official E.U. website.


Advanced Search. Conduct an 'advanced search' for the area of law you are interested in, and browse the results for a page about your topic. Be sure to omit press releases and select summaries of legislation.






Summaries of Legislation. Alternatively, browse the Summaries of Legislation. While any pages on the general Europa website will be oriented to the layman not the lawyer, this is an effective way to start your research. The Europa page (or lack-thereof) will let you know whether the E.U. legislates this area of law, give you an overview of the E.U. policy, help you develop keywords, and links to primary source material.
 Go to EUR-Lex, the official legal database of the E.U. There are four approaches to efficient research on Europa, detailed in the steps below:


EUR-Lex Directory of Legislation. The directory is listed on the left-hand side of the EUR-Lex homepage. You must browse the directory and since legislation only appears in one place, you must exhaust all possible areas of the directory.
EUR-Lex Browse by Topic. In the center of the homepage towards the bottom you will see a link to "Thematic Files." This is organized by topic and more user-friendly for a beginner than the directory. Like the directory, you must browse.
EUR-Lex Basic Search. The basic search is the most user-friendly way to find legislation on EUR-Lex for a beginner. Before entering your search terms, you can limit by legislation, case law, topic, etc. The search query itself is limited, but permits some use of booleans. Start with a broad search and click "refine" on the results page to do a search within a search. Rinse and repeat.
EUR-Lex Advanced Search. The advanced search system is difficult to learn, but effective once understood (see "tips" below). There are several fields to use in your query, and these fields can be compounded. Some of the fields have particular uses that may not be apparent by looking (for example, "Subject_matter" field requires input of a specific bibliographical term and general terms will not yield results).
 Finding E.U. legal material is easy on Westlaw and Lexis for anyone who is already familiar with the sites. The only substantive advantage these services offer over EUR-Lex is that the query rules and booleans are more familiar.


On Westlaw, go to Directory --> International --> EU. From here, select the EU database you want. You will not get some of the traditional Westlaw perks like annotations.
On Lexis, go to Area of Law --> International and select an EU database. Note that Lexis gets its results directly from EUR-Lex.

