 Staring is a very focused and longer-lasting sort of look and it makes people feel uneasy. Look directly at someone in the eyes, and hold your gaze. The longer you hold your look, the more awkward you'll make the other person feel.


Staring can communicate a range of emotions. If you're smiling, for example, it may seem as if you're trying to flirt with that person. For the purpose of making someone feel awkward, however, you should keep your expression blank. A blank, neutral expression offers little explanation why you might be looking at that person, and the confusion will put your target on edge.
It should be noted that continuous staring may make you feel uncomfortable as well. It's not a natural thing to do with someone you're unfamiliar with.;
, This can be done by darting your eyes around and being fidgety. If people get the feeling that you're uneasy, the feeling will leap over to them as well. If you're a generally easy-going person, you'll have to make a conscious effort to be antsy. Don't sit still if you can help it. Body language is a great way to be awkward.
 These are especially good if you're in a relatively silent setting. That way, it will be difficult for people to brush aside the fact that you passed gas.


This is especially effective if the person you're trying to make feel awkward is polite. If politeness is high on his agenda, it's possible he'll do his best to keep from embarrassing you. The more obvious your bodily function was, the more he'll probably squirm.
 Even the most easy-going people have a personal bubble. Unless you're in a romantic partnership with someone, there's an unspoken understanding that you won't get in their way. Although the bubble is different for everybody, getting right in their faces has the ability to make anyone uneasy.


Keep in mind this won't result in an enjoyable awkwardness for anyone. If someone is prone to anger, he won't take this privacy invasion lightly.
 If you offer something like a high-five, there's a general understanding that the high-five will be carried out. If you remove your hand as the other person reaches for yours, this will create a psychological discomfort. No one likes seeing things unfinished.
 People who spend significant amounts of time by themselves tend to develop their own odd habits that may be received awkwardly by others. This isn't advised if you're only planning on making someone feel awkward once. It's also not a good idea if you don't like being by yourself. However, awkwardness will come more naturally to you if you do.

