 To ensure your mattress fits the bed frame properly, you will need to measure the base of the frame. Once you have the measurements, you can determine how much material you need to make a mattress and pillows.
 To make the mattress and the pillows, you will need the following supplies:A fat quarter of fabric
A dish towel
Loose stuffing
Buttons
Needle and coordinating thread
Doll needle
Buttons (optional)
Sewing machine (optional)

, Then, cut the towel in half. Place the right sides together and sew all the edges. Be sure to leave a 2-inch opening on one edge.Pull the corners into a triangle. Use the needle and thread to sew the box corners or use a sewing machine if you have access to one.
 Turn the dish towel right side out and use your hands to gently stuff the mattress until it is your desired thickness. Avoid overstuffing the mattress and make sure the stuffing is dispersed evenly. Then, sew the opening closed.


At this point you can add buttons to the mattress if you would like.
 As a finishing touch, you can add a quilting effect to the mattress to make it look more polished. Start by folding the fat quarter of fabric in half, with the right sides facing up. Then, sew along the two open edges, leaving the third edge open. Flip the fabric right side out and fill it with quilt batting that has been cut to fit the mattress.You can then hand sew the open side closed or use a sewing machine. Finish the quilt effect by sewing straight horizontal and vertical lines at even intervals across the quilt. This will also help to secure the batting in place.
 You can use scrap fabric and/or another dish towel to create pillows for the bed to finish it off. Measure the fabric or dish towel so it is small enough to make pillows that fit the bed. Then, cut out the fabric. Place the right sides together and sew all the edges, leaving a 2-inch opening on one edge.Flip the fabric right side out and stuff the pillow with stuffing. Then, sew the opening closed.
 Finish the quilt effect by sewing straight horizontal and vertical lines at even intervals across the quilt. This will also help to secure the batting in place.
 Lay the mattress and pillows on the bed frame. Test out the frame by placing your doll on it the next time she is ready to go to sleep.

