 Have your child eat small, frequent, nutritious meals. Try to get her to eat small amounts of solid and easily digestible food often throughout the day. You want to provide a constant supply of energy so that the immune system has all the necessary components to do its job., When your child has the flu, you should include quality protein in her meals to help boost her immune system. Good sources of quality protein include lean, skinless chicken and fish.


Try some chicken soup, which not only has been shown to have healing properties, but also contains chicken, a good source of protein. Keep it light and easily digestible with brown rice and a few vegetables.Consider fixing your child an egg in the morning. Eggs are an easily digested protein. They also contain zinc, which may help boost the immune system.Give your child Greek yogurt with lunch or for a snack. It contains protein.
 Vegetables and fruits are important while your child has the flu because they contain large amounts of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and other nutrients. Try including vegetables in broth-based soups or tossing them into an omelet.B complex vitamins, specifically riboflavin and vitamin B6, have been shown to boost the immune system. Leafy green vegetables, like spinach, kale, and other greens, are good sources of B vitamins.Vitamin E is an antioxidant. Avocados are a good food source of vitamin E.
Foods rich in vitamin C and antioxidants are important. Try red peppers, oranges and other citrus fruits, tropical fruits like pineapple, berries, and leafy green vegetables.You should also include foods rich in beta-carotenes and vitamin A. Foods that contain these nutrients are carrots, squash, and sweet potatoes.
 Fevers that often accompany the flu can cause dehydration. So, your child should drink lots of fluids. These fluids can be water, juices, electrolyte beverages like Pedialyte, and clear chicken or vegetable broths. At a minimum, try to get your older child to drink 8 eight ounce glasses of water or other liquid a day. If your child won’t drink anything, consider letting her eat popsicles or hydrating fruit, like grapes and melon.
You can add honey and lemon to water for an extra immuno-boost, but do not give honey to children under one year old.
Green tea contains antioxidants and are soothing.
Fruit juices contain vitamins and minerals. Make sure to buy fruit juice without a lot of additives, artificial ingredients, or added sugars, like high fructose corn syrup. Look for 100% fruit juice.

