 Your guitar's cable is connected to a bunch of components inside your guitar and they don't come apart. Also have handy a small tray to hold screws.;
,, Don't worry about the neck and headstock for now. Also don't worry that the screws are star-shaped. The flat-head will work fine as long as it fits. (Of course, if you have an appropriate Torx screwdriver or bit, go ahead and use it.)

,, Take it off first.
 It's a nuisance to work with the guitar with that on the table. If you have a digital camera, get pictures of how it looks assembled. Chances are you'll be referring to them when you rebuild.
, Only remove the four outer screws. The inner screws don't need to be altered. Make a note of how these pieces go together in case they become separated, or take a picture.
 Find and loosen the four screws in the corner. Be very careful not to lose the small parts here, namely the contacts between the Back and Start buttons and the board. Note how the Guide button goes, and/or take a picture. For the arrows, there will be a plastic piece behind the arrows you will have to pop off with a flat-head screwdriver. Don't use much force on any one side, just go from one to the next until it pops off on its own.
 Two screws at either end of the fret board will release that board.
 Carefully coil up the cord in the bowl and place the boards and ports on top of the cord.
 Simply turn it over.
 Remove the six screws and use your flat-head screwdriver used like a crowbar to pry this useless plate off.You should be left with four big pieces with nothing of consequence attached: neck and head, front and back, and body front and back.
 You can paint the guitar body, the strum guard (that raised platform below the strum bar), the neck, and the headstock. Since the headstock and neck are the same piece, you must use masking tape to paint them different colors.


Make sure to select paint that is designed for plastic.
 Spray evenly and completely coat all exterior surfaces. It is not necessary to paint the interior as well.
, This will help protect your guitar.
, Recall the order: from the headstock to the body, it goes Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, Orange.
 Ensure that pressing the buttons presses the rubber piece, which in turn completes a circuit on the board. Screw this board back into place.
 The guide button is tricky to get right. Consult your picture if you took one. Each button has a rubber piece which contains a conductor which will complete a circuit on the board. Plastic button the user presses, rubber conductor, board. You can't miss a single piece or that button will not work.
 Four screws, one in each corner.
 Four screws, one in each corner.
 If it does, consult your picture to see how it goes.
 Arrange the cables neatly and reinstall the cable management bridge.
, Use all of the guitar's features. Choose the wrong song and use back, not Red, to back out. Use Start instead of Green in a menu. Use all four arrows when you can. During the song, test your whammy bar (most useful on long white notes) and tilt sensor.

