 If you're a Bard, the best preparation for your survival, including the party members, would be having a high boost for your Heal percentage. Your party members expect you to heal them and support anyone within your party, especially the tanks.;
, For the tank type, you need to withstand any attack to protect your teammates and prevent DPS and Bards from dying. High DEF, HP, and a decent attack will be enough.


Don't forget to use skills that can provoke the enemies, increasing the malice count toward you.
 For DPS class, keep in mind that you don't have unlimited respawn in the Sky Tower. The key to winning is to stay alive while raiding through the floors. Have greater damage to kill monsters quickly


Don't forget to have a decent DEF to avoid dropping out from the party in the early part of the raid.
If the tanks are unable to hold the enemy’s malice, cease your attack and let the tank inflict more damage until he gains its 100% malice. Only then can you proceed your attack.
 Sky Tower NPCs can be found at certain towns in the game (listed below). You can also check your map for the rope sign, indicating the location of the Sky Tower NPC.


Navea (x:345, y:470)
Ventos Prairie (x:115, y:766)
Oblitus Wood (x:465, y:215)
Star Sand Desert (x:310, y:120).
 Just talk to the Sky Tower NPC. You can start registering for the raid one hour before the starting of the raid. Players who registered for the game can choose a group, the max number of group will be 90.


In order for you to join the Raid, you need to be level 60.
Eidolons are not allowed inside the Sky Tower, which makes the raid challenging for the players.
Aside from limiting participants to 40 players, you can only join 1 raid group per day.
You don't have to worry about dying since you can respawn inside the Sky Tower up to 15 times, beyond that you're not allowed to join the raid team.
Keep in mind that each raid group will be put into sets, which will be assigned to a certain time period:

Saturday: Group 1–30 (3PM–5PM), Group 31–60 (8PM–10PM), Group 61–90 (10PM–12AM).
Sunday: Group 1–30 (3PM–5PM), Group 31–60 (8PM–10PM), Group 61–90 (10PM–12AM).


All times are based on Eastern Standard Time.
 An hour before the raid time, talk to the Sky Tower NPC to join a raid group. You can join up to two different groups.


Remember to be on time and look for groups that start with floor 1 and have 40 people.
Choose a group wisely to avoid wasting your raid attempt.
In the group list, you can check the members before you can join them. Look out for the class composition and make sure that the group have at least 8 bards in the party, 5 tanks, and a good number of DPS.
 Sky Tower will reward you with loots if you're able to survive the floors. Mobs in the tower do not drop loots, but chests will appear at the end of the floor after you killed the boss.


The chests in Sky Tower are also bosses—the best way to get a decent loot is by using Treasure Charm.
You need to hit the chest at least once in order to get a loot.
Bards need to inflict damage as well for a higher chance.
 The most common mistake that occurs in the game is ignoring the red carpet. “Red carpet” is the term used for the red mark that appears whenever bosses use their skills. Never take those damage simply because in Sky Tower, bosses inflict huge damage, especially to players with low stat equipments.


Focus on killing the monsters and avoiding the redlines.
 As you enter the room, players will be buffed with either red or blue circle charge. If you bump into a player with a different charge, you’ll both receive damage. Try to stand away from each other, especially for those long-ranged classes.


For the melee class, attack the boss when you have the red charge buff since the boss spawns red charge explosives that will only inflict damage to blue buffed players.
 In this part of the floor, tanks need to pull mobs and control them all in the middle of the room.


The Bards’ Stun will be useful for crowd control.
Sorcerers can use their Sleep skill as well.
The other players should gather orbs to throw them into the giant jar.
Tanks shouldn't pick up orbs and should focus on holding the mobs instead.
 Plant monsters in this level will boost up the boss' damage reduction by giving them buffs. The only way to kill these plants quickly is by luring them into the fire pit while the tanks hold off the boss.


Bards need to keep an eye on the DPS classes since walking over the fire pit inflicts huge damage. Heal them whenever you can, and at the same time, keep an eye on your tanker.
 There will be mud summons in this floor that will approach the boss to heal it. While the tank is holding back the boss, let the other melee class handle the mud summons and kill them before they can heal the boss.


DPSes must focus on inflicting damage against the boss and kill it quick.
Healers should focus on healing the tanks, including the ones holding off the mud summons.
 If you're familiar with Tower Defense, this floor has the exact mechanics. The floor will be split into 6 sections, with towers and mobs will continuously charging to bring it down. All players must have enough DEF to survive and to protect the towers.


Split up the party for each tower and have everyone protect their assigned spot.
Kill the monsters with a crown above their head as they can deal more damage to the tower.
Survive, protect the tower, and kill the monsters for 5 minutes.
 This floor has three bosses that will summon one after another.


The first one to appear will be a staff boss, which has the ability to cast Instant Thunder; this will stun players.
The second boss is an axe boss; it has debuff skills that prevents everyone from receiving heal for 30 seconds. Kill this boss before everyone's health reach low.
The last boss is a sword-and-shield boss.
Divide the team and assign them to each bosses, and make sure each boss stands far apart from each other.
 This is one of the hardest part of the game since this requires teamwork. The boss will summon different kinds of totems that will give various kinds of buffs to the boss.


The tank's job is to lure the boss away from the totem buff zone to make the buff inactive.
Whenever a totem appears, all DPS class should stop attacking and let their tank pull the boss away from the buff, only then they can proceed.
Continued attack while the tank is luring will increase the risk of a target change, which might end up killing the DPS—or worst, healers.
Do not use any binding skills for this boss.
Bards should support mainly on tanks.
 Press "water bomb" skill twice when you throw.
Bards please buff move speed on party members and try to move together in a group with your party. Let tank takes agro on fire sprites first.
 Enter but stay outside outer circle. Wait for the "go" signal and do full dps on boss.
 Team will be assigned on the element, sync the hp and take it down at the same time. Tell us if your corner reach 10%.


assign teams to the 4 elements
Kill when all sides are at 10%

,,,,,,,,,