 Those in a codependent relationship feel an inability to stand alone. Co-dependent people are unable to exist on their own. If you do feel this is the underlying problem, both of you may need to seek professional assistance. Watch out for symptoms of co-dependency so you know when, and if, to seek help.Co-dependent people tend to have low self-esteem, which is why they seek validation from others.
If you or the other person is reactionary, this is another sign of co-dependency. As boundaries are blurred in a co-dependent relationship, opinions and feelings are taken very personally. For example, your boyfriend thinks the fact you disagree with him on a political issue is a personal attack.
Control is a major issue in co-dependent relationships. If you need to control the other person, or if the other person needs to control you, this is a sign the relationship may be co-dependent.
 Space can be positive in a relationship. However, boundaries must be established as a team. The other person may need more or less space than you. Be willing to compromise when it comes to negotiating space.Make sure to listen to what the other person needs as well. Both you and the other person should express yourself in a way that emphasizes personal feeling. Say things like, "This need has nothing to do with you. It's just how I'm made."
Try to think of compromise where both people's needs are met to a degree. For example, your boyfriend thinks you should spend six nights a week at his place. You don't want to spend more than three nights a week there. Maybe both of you could accept four nights a week as a compromise. You could also agree to spend more nights at your boyfriend's place, as long as he gives you space while you're there.
 You want to make sure you're not accidentally invading someone's space. When navigating a relationship, pay attention to the other person. They may be giving you signals you're missing.Ignoring someone's signals is inconsiderate. Even if you have a need that you want met, pay attention to whether the other person is able to meet that need. You may have to wait a few minutes, or a few hours, before you can get the attention you need.
For example, your girlfriend works from home and usually works from 6AM to 2PM. You're trying to chat with her while she's clearly working, and she's giving monosyllabic answers. She's signaling that she's busy. You should back off and give her some space.

