 You may want to sell items you already have. If you are adept at crafting you may sell items you make or refurbish.


Selling items you already have is a short term venture. However, if you invest that money into crafting or refurbishing you can develop a sound part-time business. Depending on the items you have, you can sell items at yard sales, online, in classified ads, or even auction houses.Consider what craft or thrift stores are around town. You will need a place to purchase goods to be refurbished or used in crafting.
 Many crafts and hobbies you can do are not profitable. To make money you will have to do your homework. Use online sites to see what items are selling and for how much. Visit local stores and websites to determine if you'd be able to make a profit selling any product.


Handmade crafts such as homemade books or soap require not only skill but marketing knowledge. Many people make money this way and, like the, you'll need to make your products unique and attractive.
 This will impact how much money you can earn buying, crafting, and selling products. Be cognizant of how much work you are putting into a product relative to your profit.



Sewing from home is a great way to create custom products as needed. If you are short on time, let customers place customized orders. Then you can sew only what they want. You can tell them how long it will take to make and avoid blindly spending time making products people may not want to buy.
 Who will buy your items? How will you sell your items to them? Once purchased, how will you be able to get the items to their home? Be sure to accurately estimate shipping and handling costs if selling online.


Many people use online sites such as www.etsy.com, www.ebay.com, or www.craigslist.com to advertise to a broad market and sell their items.
Local festivals, fairs, and markets may provide you an opportunity to sell your products in person. You typically have to purchase a booth. Even if you don't sell enough to cover the cost of the booth, you can distribute business cards to potential customers to view and purchase your goods online.
One clever trick is to sell clothes online. Buying locally for cheap and selling online at a higher cost is good business. You can turn a profit and still provide customers with quality clothing at less-than-retail prices.
 Keep track of what people buy so you can invest in making more of those products. You don't want to spend too many resources on products people never buy. Use initial sales as the measure of a product's viability.

