 This is called "lucid dreaming." Essentially, lucid dreaming is simply becoming aware of the fact that you are dreaming while you are dreaming without waking up.Once you successfully achieve this, you can be in control of your dreams. Lucid dreaming makes the possibilities of your dreams endless, and minimizes the risk of an uncomfortable dream.


Make mental notes about your surroundings/environment when you are awake. When you do this in a conscious state on a regular basis, your psyche will bring these habits into the dream state as well. Then, when you dream, you can identify details about your surroundings/environment that will serve as clues that you are dreaming. Once you achieve this, you may be able to become lucid in the dream state., As long as it's comfortable but not so comfortable that it feels like your normal wear.


Besides just making mental notes of your surroundings/environment, you can explicitly ask yourself whether you are dreaming or awake at various times throughout the day. Again, making a habit of such a practice will very likely carry over into the dream world so that you may recognize you are dreaming once in the dream state, should you ask yourself at that time. This is called the reflection technique., Stephen LaBerge developed the Mnemonic Induction of Lucid Dreams (MILD) technique as a means to helping people achieve lucid dreaming. It requires that you try to recall your dreams as completely as possible as soon as possible after waking, then tell yourself that you will remember that you are dreaming as you fall back asleep, followed by imagining that you are already dreaming lucidly and imagining the dream itself, and repeating these steps until you are asleep and dreaming again.If you follow these steps effectively, you may be able to become aware of the dream within the dream, thereby becoming lucid and gaining control over the dream.
 Sometimes, with enough concentration, you can determine what you will dream about before you go to sleep. This is called intentionality, and it is another means to dreaming lucidly.Intentionality, actually, is part of some other methods of lucid dreaming as well, so it is a good idea to practice it as you attempt to achieve lucid dreaming, even if it alone does not end up being effective for you. It is important to note that no lucid dreaming technique works for everyone or the same for everyone. For this reason, it is a good idea to try different methods, intentionality being one.


Intentionality basically just requires that you use your imagination to conceive of the dream you want to have.
Imagine the place you want to be in your dream and especially how you will get there. This can help you plan, in a sense, to dream lucidly.
 There are several products on the market that can help you achieve lucid dreaming through light stimulus. These products are masks that have led lights embedded in them that flash near the eyes if you wear the mask while sleeping. The idea is that you could notice the lights as you dream—particularly if you went to sleep with intentionality—and this could help you remember that you are dreaming, allowing you to become lucid in the dream.In addition to light stimulus, there is even an app for smartphones that helps with intentionality and plays sounds that might help the dreamer become lucid during key parts of the sleep cycle.
 Combinations of techniques to help you dream lucidly strengthen the possibility that you will become aware of the dream within the dream. In order to successfully dream lucidly, try different combinations of the various techniques to see what works for you. Some techniques have even been created via specific combinations.


One technique combines intentionality with the mental notes mentioned above (called reality testing).Another technique combines journaling—waking up to record dream memories in a journal—and analysis of the journal entries for common attributes with intentionality. It is called the wake back to bed (WBTB) technique.