 Combine the soy sauce, yuzu juice, rice vinegar, and dashi stock in a small bowl. Mix thoroughly using a wire whisk until the ingredients are evenly combined.Ponzu sauce is one of the two dipping sauces traditionally served with shabu shabu. It is a fairly common sauce, and as such, you might be able to find a commercially prepared ponzu sauce at an Asian grocer or in the cultural food aisle at a standard grocery store.
The finished sauce will usually be dark brown.;
, Transfer the ponzu sauce to a shallow serving dish.


The serving dish should be low and wide so that you will have no difficulty dipping pieces of meat and vegetable into the sauce.
 The sauce can be served on its own, but for the sake of presentation and taste, you could also add a few garnishes. Grated daikon radish, thinly sliced green onions, and a sprinkle of ground red pepper are common choices.


When using daikon radish, peel the daikon and chop it into handful-sized chunks. Grate one of these chunks using a box grater, then sprinkle it over the top of the sauce as desired.
There is no set amount to use when adding garnishes. Typically, you'll only want to add enough to give the sauce color without completely hiding it.
Set the sauce aside until you are ready to enjoy the shabu shabu.
 Use a spice grinder to grind the toasted sesame seeds into a fine powder. There should be no solid seeds left when done.


If you do not have a spice grinder, consider using a coffee grinder or mortal and pestle, instead.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the ground sesame seeds, dashi, soy sauce, sugar, sake, rice vinegar, and black pepper until the mixture is evenly blended.


For this sauce, you could pulse the ingredients together using a blender instead of whisking by hand, if desired. Doing so can help combine the solid ingredients—the ground sesame seeds, the sugar, and the black pepper—more thoroughly.
Note that this is the other common sauce served with shabu shabu, and it, too, can be purchased commercially to save time.
This sauce will end up being light brown.
 Transfer the sauce to a second shallow serving dish.


The bowl needs to be shallow so that you can dip food into the sauce without difficulty.
Do not combine the sesame sauce and ponzu sauce. The two must be kept in separate dishes.
 The sauce can be served without any garnishes, but garnishes can add color and an extra splash of taste. Thinly sliced green onions, a small sprinkle of chopped garlic, and a dash of ground red pepper are good choices for sesame sauce.


Add the garnishes to taste. Keep in mind that they should accent the sauce, not overwhelm it or mask it.
Set the sesame sauce aside until you are ready to serve the shabu shabu.
 Rinse the cabbage thoroughly under running water and cut it into bite-sized pieces.


Remove any damaged leaves from the freshly cleaned cabbage.
Cut the head of cabbage in half lengthwise, if it has not been cut in half already.
Cut each half into half again, forming even quarters.
Cut two quarters of the cabbage crosswise into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces.
 Each standard block of firm tofu should be cut into a total of 16 bite-sized pieces.Cut the block in half lengthwise.
Cut each section in half crosswise, forming quarters.
Cut each quarter in half once more, forming eighths.
Place the knife halfway down the side of the block and cut the stacked eighths in half that way, forming a total of 16 pieces.
 For both the enoki mushrooms and the shiitake mushrooms, wipe away any dirt with a damp paper towel and dry with a separate, clean paper towel. Remove the stems.


For enoki mushrooms, you will need to trim off the base connecting the mushroom strands together. Break the top portions off into small bunches.
For shiitake mushrooms, you simply need to cut off and discard the stems.
 The carrot should be cut into thin, round coins and the leek should be sliced into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces.


Peel the carrot before cutting it.
You could use negi or green onions instead of a leek, if desired.
 Use a sharp knife to shave the beef into paper thin slices, measuring no thicker than 1/16 inch (1.6 mm).


If you go to an Asian market, you might be able to find pre-sliced "shabu shabu" meat. This beef is just as good as home-sliced beef and can save you a bit of time.
 Use 5 cups (1.25 L) of water, or enough water to fill the pot two-thirds full.


The ideal pot will be large and shallow. A clay pot is the most traditional option, but a stainless steel pot can work just as well. You could even use a skillet if you cannot find a suitable pot that is both large and shallow.You will also need a portable or tabletop electric burner.
Alternatively, simplify the process by using an electric skillet instead of a separate pot and burner.
 Place the seaweed in the water and let it soak for about 30 minutes.


Meanwhile, arrange all of the other hot pot ingredients on a large serving plate, organizing them into clusters based on type. This serving platter will be situated next to the hot pot as your ingredients cook.
 Heat the water on medium-high and let it simmer for 10 minutes. Remove the seaweed when done.You should be able to do this on your tabletop burner, but this step can also be done on your kitchen stove. Using your kitchen stove can save a little time since the water will heat up faster.
Use long cooking chopsticks to fish out the seaweed. These chopsticks should also be used when handling the rest of your ingredients for the hot pot.
 Let the flavored water return to a boil, then add a little of the cabbage, carrots, mushrooms, and tofu to the water. Cook until crisp-tender.


If you used your kitchen stove to boil the seaweed, transfer your pot of water to your tabletop burner and let the water return to a boil before adding your other ingredients.
You should only add a few of the ingredients at a time. The pot should look full on the surface, but there should be plenty of room for you to fish around with your chopsticks.
The ingredients cook at different paces, but most cook within a few minutes at most, so you'll need to continually check on the pieces after you add them.
 Each person should be able to cook his or her beef by dipping a thin slice into the boiling broth using chopsticks. Gently move it around in the hot liquid, keeping it submerged until it changed color from red to brown.


This process should only take 10 to 20 seconds if the beef is truly thin enough.
 Each person must pull out the beef, vegetables, and other ingredients as they cook and eat them while they are still hot. As cooked ingredients are pulled out, raw ingredients should be put in the simmering water in their place.


This cycle continues until all of the ingredients have been cooked and consumed.
Dip the beef, mushrooms, vegetables, and tofu in either dipping sauce after cooking them and before eating them.
Note that you may need to skim the scum and fat from the surface of the broth as the ingredients continue to cook. Use a sieve to remove the unsightly surface contaminants, then dip the sieve in a small bowl of clean water to rinse off the scum.
 Traditionally, the udon noodles are enjoyed last. Add them to the hot broth once all or most of the other ingredients are gone and simmer them for a few minutes, just until they become tender. Fish them out with your chopsticks and enjoy.


You can flavor the udon with salt and pepper, if desired, or simply dip them into either dipping sauce.
Once the udon noodles have been consumed, the meal is done.

