 There are three important financial ratios in a company, the Return on Assets (ROA), the Return on Equity (ROE), and the Return on investments (ROCE). These three ratios can be used to determine how monetarily successful the company is and how management has contributed or detracted from this success.The ROA looks at how the business is using shareholder assets to earn returns. You can calculate the ROA by dividing the company’s net income by the company’s total assets.
The ROE looks at the return generated by using shareholder capital, which is the equity capital invested by shareholders and their share of the earnings. You can calculate the ROE by dividing the company’s earnings by the company’s shareholder equity.
The ROCE is the company’s return on all the capital it employs, including debt funds like loans and preference capital. You can calculate the ROCE by dividing the company’s return before interest and tax by the company’s capital employed.;
, Your company accountant should have company data that can be used to calculate the company’s ROA, ROE, and ROCE. These three ratios are useful as a measure of management effectiveness because they can provide hard data on how management has affected the business’ returns, and how effectively the business’s capital has been managed., The Return on Assets data can be a useful way to determine how much of a profit the company has made over several years compared to other companies in the same industry. Look over the ROA data and note how much profit was derived from the company assets. The higher the ratio, the better the company is doing in ROA.For example, if the total assets of your company is Rs 10 million and if the company has a net income of Rs 20 million, the ROA would be 20/10, or 2. This means that for Rs 1 in assets, the company made a profit of Rs 2.
You should look at the ROA over a period of at least two to four years to notice if there is an increasing trend in the ROA over a period of time. An increasing trend of ROA is an indication the company is improving and a decreasing trend of ROA is an indication the company is not doing well. You may then be able to determine if management is effective or ineffective based on how well the company’s ROA looks.
You can also break down the ROA into formulas like ROA = Net Profit Margin x Total Asset Turnover or ROA = (Net Income/Revenue) x (Revenue/Total Assets). You can then look at which areas management is focusing on to maximize the company returns. You may be able to then note if management is cutting costs, turning over more assets, or increasing prices for products., The Return on Equity can help you get a better sense of how effective management is at using shareholder funds and if they achieve a good rate of return from shareholder funds. You can breakdown the ROE into (Earnings/Sales) x (Sales/Assets) x (Assets/Shareholder’s equity). The ROE can then tell you more about the company’s earning/profits, the company’s assets, and the company’s leverage.If the company has a low profit margin or low earnings, this may mean management is not doing a great job at pricing products, is not regulating unprofitable products, and is not efficient at cost control. This can also mean management is not responding to the competition well and the company is then forced to sell products at a low margin. A high profit margin sheds a kinder light on management, as this means the company has become a monopoly in the industry and can sell products at a high profit margin.
The company’s sales/assets amount will be a measurement of the sales generated from the assets invested by the company. If the company has to heavily invest its assets to generate sales, this mean be a sign management is not investing the assets smartly or effectively. A high amount of capital investment could mean the company is not performing at the level it should.
If the company’s leverage or debt is high, it is an indication that the company has to use a high amount of debt (borrowing from banks, financiers, investors) to sustain itself. This may be a sign that management is not managing shareholder equity efficiently and may need to be more effective at using leverage to the company’s advantage.
 The Return on investments can be broken down into Return (before interest and tax) / capital employed. In order for your company to remain in business for a sustainable period of time, the ROCE should be higher than the cost of capital. The cost of capital is the compensation that the company pays to each category capital contributor.If the ROCE is not higher than the capital employed, this may be an indication that your management team is not using the capital employed effectively and may put the company at risk of defaulting on loans and other debt funds.

