 Although many cases of hyperthyroidism can be treated and resolved, some more serious cases can result in complications. These complications can have an effect on the quality of a person's life and may be quite serious in some cases. Learning which complications may arise from hyperthyroidism can help you prepare for them and know what to discuss with your doctor.Issues with the heart may occur; however, many of these problems can be reversed with treatment.
Untreated hyperthyroidism may result in brittle bones.
Eye problems and vision loss may occur if hyperthyroidism is left untreated.
Symptoms may suddenly worsen, resulting in a serious condition know as thyrotoxic crisis.
 If you are diagnosed with hyperthyroidism, your doctor may offer you a method to treat this disorder. Knowing more about the available treatments can help you and your doctor learn which one is right for you. Review these common methods of treatment for hyperthyroidism to learn more before your appointment:Antithyroid medications can help reduce the excessive amounts of thyroid hormones in your body.
Radioactive iodine will attack the overactive sections of your thyroid and return it to normal levels of activity.
In rare and severe cases of hyperthyroidism, surgery may be required to remove the thyroid.
Your doctor may issue other drugs to help reduce the symptoms caused by hyperthyroidism.
 There are many tests that your doctor can use to learn more about the health of your thyroid. These tests can reveal if your thyroid is functioning properly or if it is overactive. Learning more about the tests your doctor may use can help you be prepared for your appointment and will allow you to think of questions you might want to ask. Take a moment to review some of these common tests your doctor may use to examine your thyroid:Blood tests will measure your levels of thyroid hormones.
Iodine uptake scans will show how well your thyroid is functioning.
Thyroid scans will allow your doctor to take a picture of your thyroid.

