 Skin tones generally have yellow (warm) or pink (cool) undertones. Choose a color that contrasts your undertones to avoid looking sallow or washed out. People with yellow undertones should avoid orange and yellow eyeshadows, while those with pink undertones should steer clear of red and pink shades. In addition, people with deeper skin look gorgeous in bright shades!, To enhance your eye color, choose a neon shadow with a color opposite your own eye color. Electric blues and greens bring out the richness in brown eyes, while vibrant oranges and pinks will make blue eyes shine. If you have green eyes, bright fuchsias and purples will make them stand out., Shimmery shadows are typically easier to pull off than mattes, so beginners may want to start with a shimmery finish. Flat matte shades make a bigger statement, so pack on a matte neon if you’re ready to jump all the way in., The easiest and most subtle way to wear neon eyeshadow is to use it as eyeliner. Dampen a small angled liner or detail brush and dip it into the preferred eyeshadow (dampening the brush intensifies the color). Carefully place the eyeshadow by pressing the brush along the lashline. This can be done on either the upper or lower lashline, or both!To amp up the look, use a different color for the upper and lower lash lines.
 Use a flat, dense eyeshadow brush to pack on your chosen neon shade. Avoid swiping the brush back and forth. Instead, gently pat the eyeshadow onto the mobile lid, being careful not to go past the crease (eye socket). Using a patting motion will make the color go on more smoothly and with greater intensity.Use an eyeshadow primer or base to increase the longevity of your eyeshadow.
 This is certainly the boldest look, but still wearable. Use a brighter neon all over the lid and a deeper color in the outer corner and crease of the eye to create interest. Just be sure not to bring the color up beyond the crease and onto the browbone, as this can create a messy look., Blend neutrals into the crease and add black eyeliner and mascara to help define your eyes and ground the look. Pairing neons with neutrals keeps the look from appearing clownish. Neutral shadows in a shade close to your skintone can also be used to help buff out harsh edges., Neon colors can often highlight the ruddiness and imperfections of the skin, so add some light coverage to your skin with your favorite foundation for a more perfected look. Since the eyeshadow is the star of the show, keep the rest of the look neutral with a muted blush and nude lip color., Avoid looking too matchy-matchy and keep the the look sophisticated with neutral clothes in basic, classic designs. If you really want to tie in some neon, match your shoes, handbag, or jewelry.http://www.thegloss.com/beauty/how-to-wear-bold-bright-eyeshadow/

, At the end of the day, makeup has no hard and fast rules. Wear what you love and let your confidence shine through! You’ll be surprised at how wearable your neon eyeshadow is when paired with fearlessness!

