 Maybe you need to use a new technique or change your approach in order to love your job. When work becomes mundane, it can feel more difficult to face. In these situation, changing your approach might be helpful. This is sometimes called job enrichment.Look for little opportunities to change up your routine at work. Making small changes may make work feel more fun and help keep things fresh.
For example, if you are a teacher, try a new lesson plan now and then or test out a new teaching strategy. If you are a cashier, try asking each customer a different question to make small talk.;
, If you are not enjoying your job, then you might be focused on all of the negative aspects of it. To start loving your job, you will need to identify what you like about your job and start focusing on those positive aspects instead.Try writing down all of the things that you like about your job. These can be small or big things. For example, you might like your hours, your coworkers, your responsibilities, and the location of your workplace. Try reading through this list whenever you are feeling down about your job.
 If you find that you are having negative thoughts about going to work each day, try keeping a list of the things that you are grateful for. Practicing gratitude can help you to feel happier overall and may also help you see your job in a more positive light.Try listing three things that you are grateful for at the end of each day. For example, you might feel grateful that your boss brought doughnuts into work for everyone, or that you got to work at your favorite station that day, or simply that you have a job.
 Sometimes work may become a chore if little things start to bother you more than they should. If you find yourself focusing in on minor issues at work, such as a rude customer or making a mistake, remind yourself that these are not important in the grand scheme of things.One way to put problems into perspective is to ask yourself, “Will I be thinking about this moment while I am on my death bed?” If the answer is no, then it is not worth your mental energy now either.
 Sometimes a job can be more difficult to engage with when other parts of your life are out of balance. Consider other aspects of your life that might be making you unhappy.For example, are you having any relationship problems? Are you having financial difficulties? Do you feel depressed for no apparent reason?
If you are struggling with something, seek help from a friend or family member or talk to a therapist.

