 Sit down with your child for a discussion as soon as possible. Pick a time when your child is sober and you won’t be interrupted or distracted., You may feel uncomfortable bringing up this topic, but it's best to be straightforward and clear. Make sure there isn't any room for confusion as to what you're talking about.Say something like, “I found a glass pipe in your room the other day, and you smelled like marijuana after you came home from Mitchell’s house. I’m concerned about you. Are you using drugs?”

, If your child gets angry or denies using drugs, don’t give up. Show them any evidence you’ve gathered, and tell them why you’re worried. Ask them to be honest with you about what’s going on.Say something like, “You aren’t in trouble, but I need you to tell me the truth. I know this is hard to talk about, but it’s my responsibility to keep you safe.”

, If your child is willing to talk to you, gather as much information as possible so you can understand them better. Ask questions about which drugs they’re using, how using drugs makes them feel, and whether any of their friends pressure them to use., Keep your cool, even if you feel anything but cool right now. Your child won’t open up to you if they feel attacked. Treat the drug use – not your child – as the problem.If you’re too shaken up to stay cool right now, give yourself some time to calm down before you talk to your child.
 Emphasize to your child that you want to keep them healthy and safe, not boss them around. Be sensitive to any social or emotional problems they’re going through. Reassure them that there are ways to feel better without drugs, and tell them you’ll help them get any kind of support they need., Let your child know what you expect from them. Tell them that you won’t stand for their drug use, and explain what the consequences will be if they don’t stop. If you are taking away any of their privileges, explain why.For instance, you might tell your child that you will find a rehab program for them if they don’t stop using drugs on their own.
You might also limit the hours they can be out by themselves.
 Confiscate any drugs or paraphernalia you find, and dispose of them where your child won’t be able to get them back. Don’t allow your child to see friends who use or sell drugs. If your child drives, revoke their driving privileges until they can prove they’re not using drugs anymore.
 In some cases, talking to your child about your expectations and reducing their access to drugs and negative influences may fix the problem. However, in some cases, your child may continue to use or be unable to stop on their own.

If no matter what you try, your child continues to show signs of drug use or experiences withdrawal when they try to stop, you should get outside help., For many people, calling a drug abuse hotline is a great way to get your foot in the door and help your child find treatment. These hotlines are completely anonymous and you or your teen can call to ask questions or share concerns.

Teens in the U.S. may call the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration national helpline at 1-800-662-HELP., If your child needs professional help, start with a visit to their pediatrician or another doctor. A medical professional will be able to diagnose your child and recommend some next steps for treatment., If your child’s addiction is mild to moderate, an outpatient treatment program might be enough to help them get better. This will keep them living at home and going to school. If their addiction is severe, consider sending them to a live-in treatment facility to recover., Use the internet or the yellow pages to look up addiction treatment centers near you. Make a list of the programs that look like they might be a good fit for your child. If you’re in the U.S., the SAMHSA website is a good place to start your search., Contact the programs on your list to get more information about them. Ask them about their treatment approach, their staff’s qualifications, and whether they encourage families to be involved in a patient’s recovery., It may be a good idea for you and your spouse or co-parent (and possibly your child) to arrange a visit to the treatment center. That way, you can get a firsthand look at the facilities and see how the program works. Doing this may also help your child open up to the idea of getting treatment., Some insurance plans cover addiction treatment. Check to see if the programs you’re interested in will accept your insurance. You may also be able to find low-cost public treatment programs in your area., To fully recover, your child will need to keep seeing a counselor or attending a support group after they finish treatment. Once your child is in a treatment program, you can talk to the staff about the best options for aftercare., Find healthy ways to cope with your stress and other emotions. Get some exercise, see your friends, or just take a few minutes every day to breathe and center yourself.It’s easy to forget about yourself when your child is in trouble, but running yourself ragged with stress will only make it harder for you to help your child.
 Discuss your child’s drug use with your partner and your other kids if it’s affecting family life. Keep your discussion age-appropriate if you have other young children. Be honest, but don’t make a bigger deal of it than you have to.For instance, it’s okay to tell a four-year-old that his older sibling is in rehab because they are sick. A ten-year-old, on the other hand, can understand the basics of addiction, but don’t give them any details that might scare them.
 You can meet people who are going through the same thing as you through groups like Al-Anon, Nar-Anon, and Parents of Addicted Loved Ones (PAL). Look for a chapter in your area, or consider starting one yourself. Online support groups and message boards are another good option.
 Drug abuse hurts the whole family, not just the addicted person. Family therapy can help you heal together and address any issues that might have contributed to your child using drugs in the first place. Look for a therapist who specializes in helping families with addiction issues.