 Your first impression on a potential buyer is always the most important, so take a variety of high-quality pictures that will make your house look attractive and desirable. Take the pictures of the house immediately after cleaning it, and ideally take pictures when you've cleaned out most or all of your belongings.
 The best way to attract potential buyers is to list your mobile home on a database of homes, like Mobile Homes By Owner, found here as well as any other local trade papers and classifieds that will print short ads. The more places you list your mobile home, the more likely it will sell quickly.


To list your mobile home online, you'll sometimes have to select between particular plans. Usually you'll either choose an economy plan that allows for one photo, or choose the premium plan that allows more photos at a higher price. With either choice, your ad can stay on the site for the set price until it sells.
It's also a good idea to explore free options like Craigslist, which allow you to quickly write up the ad and make it as long and detailed as you want. Since trade papers usually charge per word, the ads tend to be clipped and super brief, making them sometimes frustrating to read.
 Get ready: if you've done your job right, you're going to have a lot of people getting in touch and wanting to check out your mobile home, walk through, and call with specific questions. Try to set aside specific hours to schedule showings, or even consider holding an "open house" so everyone can show up and check out the property at the same time.


Be both firm and flexible and consider negotiating the price. Don't let yourself get pushed around, but don't turn away serious offers either, even if they're somewhat south of what you initially hoped to get. Ending the sale is better than dragging it out.
 When you find someone willing to make an offer that you think is acceptable, fill out the necessary paperwork to make the deal complete. Select an acceptable move-in date and turn the keys over to the new owner of the mobile home.

