 The concentrates won't mix well frozen, so take them out of the freezer and let them thaw completely. You can speed the process along by running the cans under a stream of warm water. When the concentrate is soft enough to remove from the cans, pour it into a large bowl.Try cherry lemonade or strawberry lemonade concentrate to change the flavor and color of your fruit punch.
Or substitute frozen concentrate with liquid concentrate. Use any juice you like: cherry, apple, grape, and so on.;
, Pour the water and sugar into a small saucepan and bring the mixture to a full boil. Allow it to boil for about three minutes, until the sugar has dissolved completely into the water. You now have a simple syrup that will easily mix with the fruit punch to add just the right amount of sweetness. Allow it to cool completely.


If you like your fruit punch extra sweet, make 2 cups simple syrup.
You can skip the simple syrup entirely if you'd prefer not to add extra sugar.
 Pour the simple syrup into the bowl and use a long-handled spoon to stir the mixture until everything is thoroughly incorporated.
 Pour the sodas into the bowl and give the mixture another quick stir. Don't over stir, since you want the punch to stay carbonated.


If you're not serving the fruit punch immediately, store the fruit juice mixture in the refrigerator, and wait until the last minute to add the sodas. That way the punch will be carbonated when you serve it.
 Punch is usually served in a large glass bowl with a ladle you can use to portion it among small cups. If you'd like, keep the punch cold by pouring it over a few trays' worth of ice cubes. Here are a few other serving suggestions:


Make fruit punch ice to keep the punch from getting diluted as the ice melts. Just make an extra batch of punch and freeze it using regular ice cube trays, then add the punch ice cubes to the punch when you're ready to serve it.
If the punch is for a themed party, get creative with your ice! Try making an ice ring (freeze punch or water in a bundt cake pan), an ice hand for halloween (freeze punch or water in a latex glove tied at the end), or a giant ice cube (freeze punch or water in a large, square cake pan).
Serving punch with sherbet is a classic touch at kids' parties. Add several scoops of orange or raspberry sherbet directly to the punch bowl, or serve each cup of punch with a tiny scoop.
If the punch is being served at an adult party, add 2 cups of white rum or vodka to make it alcoholic.

