 There are four eras to choose from, each with different periods. These include the Old Republic, the Clone Wars, the Galactic Civil War, and the New Republic.;
, There are many sentient races in Star Wars from Abyssin to Zygerrian. Choosing a race can be hard at first but you can make as many character's as you want so no pressure.
 Your character's profession defines who they are in the galaxy. You could be a soldier or bounty hunter. Maybe you prefer being a criminal, or a power hungry sith?

, Choose a name that's iconic and memorable.
 You can either draw this, imagine it or find an image on the Internet. Make sure you know what your race looks like so you can be as accurate as possible. You can also use a photo editing program (like Photoshop) to adjust pictures to your liking.
 What happened in your characters past that lead to their future? Were they outcast from the Jedi order or maybe a soldier on the run. The stars the limits.
 When creating a character try to stay away from the cliché, especially with their background information. Here's an example of an original take on a new character:

Name: Andros Rehal
Race: Mandalorian
Era: The Old Republic
Profession: Bounty Hunter
Background: Andros Rehal was once a Jedi nearing council status when him and his apprentice, Thrax Megnalx were assigned a mission on Ruusan. A sith lord was trying to corrupt a temple. They traveled to the planet and ventured to the temple where they found the young sith. During the fight the Sith threw a piece of a broken column at Thrax, hitting him and knocking him out. Andros thought he had been killed. He flew into a fit of rage and viciously killed the young Sith, who had begged for his life. Andros left and two days later two jedi were dispatched to investigate their disappearances. They found Thrx near death. They took him back to Dantooine and healed him in a bacta tank. Five months later Andros had been found killing both Jedi and Sith. They mounted an attack party against him. A jedi master, his apprentice and Thrax. They went to Taris where he had been sighted. When the Jedi Master caught up with him Andros sent him into a trash pit. Andros killed the Jedi masters apprentice as well. Andros didn't recognize his own apprentice. He was blinded by rage. He killed his apprentice and only until he got a good look on his still, lifeless body did he realize what he had done. He left Taris and headed back to the temple on Ruusan. He relinquished his powers to the temple's force nexus and went into self exile. He became a bounty hunter and is still connected to the force. That location later became known as "The Valley of the Jedi".

