 Typically, the law where the employee lives will apply.


Courts don’t like non-compete clauses. If your clause is challenged and you’ve included a provision that another state’s law applies, the judge may strike it with regard to the non-compete clause.In some states, such as California, non-compete clauses are illegal. Other states such as Texas have laws that support employees over employers with regard to these clauses.If you’re unsure about the law in your state, consult an attorney first. A business attorney will be up-to-date with any trends in the law and know how courts are handling cases with these contract provisions.;
, Even if non-compete clauses are valid in your jurisdiction, no contract or agreement is legally enforceable without consideration.


If the clause is included in an initial employment contract, the offer of employment typically provides consideration for the entire contract including the clause.
If you’re asking an employee or contractor to sign the clause separately after they’ve already started working, it must have additional consideration such as a raise or promotion., Your non-compete clause does not need to become boilerplate in all of your employment contracts, and should be used sparingly.


Analyze the position of every employee you ask to sign a non-compete clause. Only use the clause for those who actually play a large role in your company and have significant access to valuable information.
General agreements signed by every employee usually won’t hold up in court if challenged.The purpose of the clause should be to protect your information and keep former employees from using it to their personal advantage, not to punish employees for leaving., Non-compete agreements also have a confidentiality component, and keep former employees from using sensitive business information to their own personal benefit or disclosing it to competitors.Non-compete agreements typically include a provision that an employee who leaves the company will promptly return any manuals, customer lists or other documents to the employer., You don’t want to prohibit former employees from engaging in too many types of businesses. Stick to activities that would significantly harm your business.


Some standard prohibited activities include soliciting the company’s clients, attempting to hire the company’s employees or encouraging other employees to leave, or competing with the business directly as the owner of a similar business.For example, if you own a cupcake bakery, you may have your head baker sign a non-compete clause which forbids her from opening her own cupcake bakery across the street from yours using the same recipes she used to bake cupcakes for you.
 Your primary interest should be in protecting the investment you’ve made into researching and developing your processes and client base.


The legitimate purpose of non-compete clauses is to keep someone from taking advantage of your employee training to learn all of your secrets, then open their own shop using those secrets and put you out of business.
Beyond simply identifying key trade secrets you want to protect, emphasize the time and effort you’ve invested in building those assets.
 You will have to go to court to enforce the agreement, but specifying particular remedies in the clause itself may lessen the risk of having your lawsuit thrown out.


Specifying injunctive relief allows you to go to court and have the judge issue an order for the employee to cease whatever activities violate the agreement.
You can also specify particular damages or require the violator to pay your court costs and attorney’s fees., The length of time restrictions last is one of the most important factors for judges in determining whether the clause is reasonable.


Generally, a non-compete clause effective for six months to two years will be considered reasonable.
A judge would look closer at any period longer than two years to determine if it was really necessary.However, reasonable duration depends on the facts of the case, and some circumstances may call for a longer restrictive period. For example, if the goal of your non-compete clause is to protect confidential client lists, your clause should last as long as that information would legitimately have value., Some aspects of your business may have value for a longer term than others, and a clause that reflects that may be more likely to be enforced.


For example, you may restrict former employees from using confidential information for a period of two years, but restrict other activities only for six months.
Keep in mind that in many states, courts will simply void the clause in its entirety rather than modifying it. This means that if a judge thinks the restrictions last too long, he will refuse to enforce the clause at all rather than only enforcing it for a shorter period of time., Courts in every state have held that non-compete agreements are only enforceable if they are limited to a specific geographic location.


Use specific language when describing the geographic scope of your clause’s restrictions. For example, instead of writing that the former employee may not perform certain activities “in this county or any surrounding county,” list the names of the specific counties in which the restriction applies.
Appropriate geographic scope depends to a large extent on what the employee does for you and what she’s likely to do when she leaves.To return to the cupcake shop example, you might restrict your head cupcake baker from opening her own bakery or becoming head baker for a competitor within a few blocks of your cupcake shop. However, a non-compete clause seeking to restrict your cashier from becoming a cashier at another cupcake bakery would likely be void.
Your clause is more likely to be upheld if its geographic scope is as narrow as possible.Courts typically won’t enforce a clause that attempts to prevent former employees from working in locations where you don’t do business., Just as you may want to restrict certain activities for longer periods of time than others, there may be some activities that are less permissible the closer they are to your primary location.

