 When you get ready to ask the guy out, have confidence in yourself. It may seem scary, but don’t let fear stop you from going through with it. Without confidence, you may end up giving in to insecurities. Remember, you are awesome and deserve nice things, so keep telling yourself that you can do this!Don’t be scared that the guy will not like it if you ask him out. Most guys today are okay with girls asking them out, and if they aren’t, they are probably not the guy for you!;
, When you ask him out, make sure you look nice, but not too nice. You don’t want to dress up in clothes you don’t normally wear to ask him out. Wear clothes similar to what you usually wear when you see him, and keep your makeup and hair like you normally do, too. Don’t try to do something different to impress him. Just be your normal, wonderful self!For example, don’t put on a dress, fake eyelashes, and tons of makeup if this isn’t what you normally wear. This may make you seem too intense or desperate.
 When you ask him out on a date, make sure to keep it low stakes and casual. Remember, this is a first date and you are still getting to know this guy, just as he’s getting to know you. Keeping it casual can put you both at ease and helps you avoid looking desperate or too intense.Try asking him for a casual meal. Say, “Would you like to go get coffee?” or “Would you like to grab lunch with me?”

, When asking your guy out on a date, try to have a specific date in mind. Saying something like “We should hang out” or “Let’s do something sometime” is non-committal and may not lead anywhere. Instead, ask him out to a specific activity so it’s clear that you two will be on a date.For example, you may want to say, “Let’s grab a smoothie after the gym” or “Let’s go to trivia at the local pizza place tomorrow.”

, Taking the plunge around others, especially his friends, may result in a rejection, even if he is interested in you. Wait until the two of your are alone to ask him out.If he’s around his friends, wait until the two of you are apart from the group. Start talking to him casually so you don’t bombard him with the question out of the blue.
 Taking the step to ask a guy out puts you in a vulnerable position. You have to be comfortable with hearing “no” because that is always a risk when asking someone out. If you can brush off a guy turning you down, ask out whichever guys you want.Some people cannot handle romantic rejection. If you think it will hurt you too much to hear “no,” then you may want to wait for him to ask you out.

