 It is imperative that you hire a lawyer if you are planning on filing a motion to terminate alimony. When you file a motion, you are asking the court to apply a certain set of laws to the facts of your case in order to come to a conclusion in your favor. This is difficult to do without the help of a trained professional. Because you have likely already hired a lawyer for your divorce, reach out to him or her first.


However, if you need to hire a new lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few questions you will be put in contact with qualified lawyers in your area.
 Most courts around the U.S. will have fill in the blank forms you can use to ask for a modification to your existing spousal support order. Your lawyer may use these forms or he or she may draft their own motion asking for alimony termination. If you are using forms, they can usually be found on the court's website. For example, in California, you can find all of the forms you need online, which will include:A request for order
A financial declaration
A spousal support declaration

, Once you have obtained the proper forms, they need to be filled out. While your attorney will draft these documents for you, it is important to understand what will go in them. Therefore, read through the forms with your attorney and help him or her fill them out. In general, the court forms will ask for the following information:


The request for order form will ask you to tell the court what you want. Usually there will be a box you can check next to "spousal support modification." You will then tell the court that you want the current order ended due to changed circumstances.The financial declaration will require you to tell the court about your income and expenses. You will need to go through everything as the court will want to know how much money you make and how much of that money goes towards valid expenses.This information will be used to determine if payments should continue to be made.
The spousal support declaration will give you an opportunity to tell the judge the facts surrounding your case. The form will prompt you to answer certain questions that will help the judge determine whether the law is on your side., When your forms are complete, take them to the courthouse where your original spousal support order was entered into. This is the court that will have to handle your new request. When you get to the courthouse, take your forms to the clerk of courts for filing. Once you pay the filing fee, the clerk will stamp your paperwork as filed. If you cannot afford the fee you may be able to get it waived.


When you take your forms to the courthouse, make sure you bring at least two copies along with the originals. The court will keep the originals but you will need one copy to serve on your ex-spouse and another copy for your own records., Once you file your paperwork, the clerk will schedule a hearing date. This date will be written on one of the forms that will be served on your ex-spouse., Your ex-spouse will need to be made aware that you are filing a motion to terminate alimony. You will notify your spouse by serving them with a copy of your paperwork. In addition, you will need to give your ex-spouse a blank responsive declaration so he or she can respond to your motion.To serve your ex-spouse, find someone who is over the age of 18 and not related to the case that can hand the paperwork to the other party. If the server cannot personally hand the paperwork to your ex-spouse, he or she may be able to mail a copy to them., Once the server serves the paperwork on your ex-spouse, they will have to fill out and sign a proof of service form, which can usually be found on the court's website. Once your server returns the completed proof of service form to you, you need to file it with the court.


This form tells the court that your ex-spouse has indeed been informed of the motion affecting his or her rights., On the day of your hearing, arrive at the courthouse early so you have time to park and get through security. You will not be allowed into the courthouse with any weapons, drugs, or other materials that could be harmful to others. Once through security, go to your designated courtroom and wait for your case to be called. Make sure you bring copies of all your paperwork in case the judge wants to see anything.


When your case is called, the judge will ask your lawyer questions about your request. You and your lawyer will have to persuade the judge that there has been a change in circumstances that makes it necessary to terminate the spousal support order already in place.Your ex-spouse will also have an opportunity to tell his or her side of the story.
 When the hearing is over, the judge will make a decision about your case. If you win, the spousal support order will be modified to reflect its termination. If you lose, you may have to continue to pay alimony. If you do not agree with the judge's decision, you may be able to appeal the decision to a higher court. You can only appeal if the judge made some legal error.


Regardless, when the judge makes a decision, he or she will draft an order, which is legally binding. Keep a copy of this order for your records.