 The most recognizable characteristic of the duck walk is its low position. Start by sinking into a squat, your center of gravity aligned over your heels. Get as deep as you comfortably can. You may want to lightly warm up and stretch your hips, knees and ankles beforehand to make working through the motion easier.If you’re doing the duck walk for exercise purposes, a slightly higher stance (thighs about parallel to the ground) will be more muscularly demanding.;
, To aid in stability, keep your entire foot in contact with the ground and rest most of your weight over your heels. This will ensure that you’re taking advantage of the most surface area possible and will allow you to use minor adjustments to keep your weight evenly distributed. Tense the muscles in your legs the whole time you’re in the bottom position—relaxing could cause you to lose tightness and fall over.Engage your core by squeezing your abdomen. Don’t allow your torso to lean or turn as you start the walking motion.
 At the bottom of the squat, lift one foot off the ground slowly. All of your weight will now be poised over your other foot. Spend a few seconds getting used to maintaining your balance in this posture. While duck walking, you will essentially alternate between single-foot balancing in a low crouch.Ankle flexibility is important at this stage because it makes balancing on one foot much easier.
 While balancing on your first foot, bring your opposite foot forward and across your body and set it down in front. Then, shift your weight to your front foot, pushing your back knee forward as you do so. Get centered over your front foot to stay upright.Hold your arms in front of your body or out to the sides to help you balance.
 Now repeat the stepping action using both legs to start walking. Make sure you shift your balance carefully when transitioning from one foot to the other. Duck walking can be quite strenuous at first, as you’re basically holding yourself in a one-leg squat, but it will gradually become easier with practice.Try to cover 10-12 feet at a time by duck walking, or aim for a specific number of steps to complete. Increase your steps or distance over time as you get better.
After every few steps, stand up and give your leg muscles a chance to recover.

