 One of the best ways to understand your sibling’s actions is to ask him/her directly.While having a reason for annoying you doesn’t excuse your sibling’s actions, it may help you find a way to resolve the issue. Use a calm voice to politely ask why your sibling is acting the way he is.


In some cases, your sibling may be annoying you to get your attention. Try to determine if you’ve been excluding him from activities without realizing it.
Your sibling may resort to annoying behavior if he’s feeling nervous or scared about something. Talking about the problem may help him feel better, and put an end to his problematic behavior.;
, Sometimes, your sibling may not realize how annoying his behavior actually is. He may think that he’s just having some fun and not understand how hurtful his actions have been. Calmly express how you feel, so your sibling has a chance to reevaluate his behavior.If your sibling is very young, use simple, clear language in order to help him understand the situation more easily. For example, you might say, "It makes me angry when you interrupt my homework," or "I get sad when you call me names."
If you’re having trouble explaining how you feel, try asking your sibling how he would feel if you treated him in the way that he’s treating you.
When a sibling keeps interrupting you while you’re in the middle of an important task, explain the circumstances surrounding your activity so he can understand just how important it is. You might say, "If you don't let me study for this test, I might fail my math class."

, Once you both know how each other feels, it may be easier to resolve the issue in a way that satisfies you both. This often means compromising with your sibling.If your sibling is acting out because he wants your attention, consider making plans to spend time with him later as long as he leaves you alone now.
When a sibling keeps borrowing your belongings without permission, you might identify some items that he is allowed to borrow if he asks first.
 If you decide to confront your sibling directly, it’s important not to allow the situation to escalate. At the first sign of physical or violent behavior, such as poking, shoving, or hitting, avoid the temptation to retaliate and immediately tell a parent. If you feel yourself losing your temper, leave the room to spend some quiet time alone.