 You can use store-bought sachets or make your own by filling cloth bags with potpourri or herbs and tying them shut with a piece of string. Tuck the sachets in your dresser drawers and hang them in your closet from a hanger.


You can use dryer sheets in a similar way to absorb odors and freshen cloths. Tuck them in your shoes and slip them into dresser drawers and closet shelves.
 Place them in closets and dresser drawers. You can also put a few drops of essential oil on the inside walls of a dresser drawer. Let the oil dry before putting your clothes inside the drawer. Try using scented candles and soaps as fresheners, too.


Place an unlit candle or a bar of scented soap wrapped in cloth in your closet or in a dresser drawer.
You can even use a bath bomb as an air freshener in a closet.
 Usually these will only mask bad smells, not remove them. The most effective kind would be an odor-neutralizing formula that also smells nice, like Febreze. You can also make your own air freshener by combining ½ cup white vinegar and ½ cup water in a spray bottle with ten drops of your favorite essential oil.


Spray this in your closet every few days.
The vinegar smell disappears after a few minutes, leaving only the scent behind., Put a piece or two into your closet to infuse your clothing with the smell. Cedar is known to keep bugs away and it also absorbs moisture. Moisture is one of the main culprits behind that musty smell on your clothes.
 Place an open container of baking soda at the bottom of your closet or in the corner of a dresser drawer. If you like, add a few drops of your favorite essential oil to the baking soda for an additional scent. Make your own baking soda freshener by taking a small jar and filling it loosely with baking soda. Add a few drops of your favorite essential oil and mix it with a fork. Poke a few holes into the lid using a nail and hammer, then put the lid onto the jar.


You can simply not use a lid, as well. This isn’t recommended if you have small children or curious pets, however.
Sprinkle baking soda inside your shoes to soak up bad odors. Be sure to dump it out of your shoes the next day!

