 The most straightforward way to eat an apple when you have braces is simply to cut it into small chunks. First, use an apple corer to remove the core and separate the apple into wedges. Then, cut the wedges into small chunks and enjoy.


The smaller the chunks, the less likely you will be to damage your braces. Aim for pieces that measure one half inch or less in all directions.
Choose apples that can stand straight up and don't slant to the side for an easier time coring.
Place the apple on a cutting board for coring. A flat plate will work too, but don't choose an expensive plate.
Apply slow but steady pressure to the corer with both hands until it passes all the way through the apple.
You can chop up an apple without a corer by simply cutting it into quarters, slicing out the core with your knife, and continuing to chop the apple into smaller pieces. This will take a bit longer and you will need to be especially careful not to cut yourself.;
, If you have a mandoline, you can use it to create thin apple slices that will be easy to eat with braces. Simply slide the apple over the mandoline blade and let it do all the work for you.Cut the apple in half first so you have a flat surface to begin slicing.
You do not have to remove the core to slice your apple, but if you choose to, be sure to use an apple corer that will not separate the apple into slices.
Make sure to follow all the instructions for safe use of your mandoline, and always use the hand guard if it has one.
 The spiralizer is another cool kitchen gadget that can help make apples more manageable for people with braces. Simply follow the instructions for inserting the apple into your spiralizer, turn the handle, and you will have thin strips of apple that look just like spaghetti.Eat your apple noodles with a fork or with your fingers.
 If you want super small apple pieces, try shredding it with a grater. When you're finished, place your grated apple in a bowl and use a fork or spoon to eat it.


If your grater stands up on its own, place one hand on top of the grater to keep it steady, and use the other hand to guide the apple over the blades.
If your grater has a handle, hold it at an angle against the cutting board with the blades facing up and use your other hand to guide the apple back and forth over the blades.
Once you get to the core, turn the apple around and continue grating the other sides.
Be careful not to get your fingers too close to grater. You might not be able to grate the entire apple.
Make sure you do this over a cutting board or a large plate. It is likely to make a bit of a mess.
 No matter how you cut up an apple, it will start to turn brown very quickly if you don't eat it right away. If you want to save your cut-up apple for later, splash some lemon juice on it and store it in an airtight container.


Cut-up apples can last in the refrigerator for three to four days. Just because they have turned a bit brown does not mean they are not still good to eat.Using a vacuum sealer to store your apple pieces will also help keep them fresh.

