 The main goal of the DASH diet is to reduce your sodium intake to help lower your blood pressure. You should not exceed 2,300 mg of sodium while you are on the DASH diet, so you will need to keep track of the sodium in the foods you eat.To find out how much sodium is in the food you eat, it is important to check the label. Read the labels and avoid foods that are high in sodium.
Foods high in sodium include canned foods, prepared frozen foods, snack foods, and cured meats, such as hot dogs, deli meats, and bacon.
 Like the Mediterranean diet, the DASH diet encourages lots of fresh fruit and vegetables. Make sure to include a serving or two of vegetables with every meal, and include a couple of servings of fruit each day as a meal accompaniment, snack, or dessert.

You can count canned or dried fruit, but check the label to make sure they do not contain any added sugar.
Try including a few plant-based meals into your diet each week as well.
 The DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) aims to reduce your chance of developing hypertension, which can also help you avoid Alzheimer’s. This diet suggests eating fat-free or low-fat dairy products as well as the foods suggested in the Mediterranean Diet.In addition, a recent study found that drinking low-fat milk may increase antioxidants in the body that can help you avoid Alzheimer’s.Have a cup of low-fat or fat-free Greek yogurt sprinkled with almond slivers and fruit for breakfast or for a snack.
Add fat-free or low-fat milk to your oatmeal or dry cereal or have some cottage cheese with fruit.
Use skim or low-fat milk in place of cream in your coffee or tea.
 These foods are great to include in your diet when you are trying to avoid Alzheimer’s. They help reduce plaque build-up in the brain that causes Alzheimer’s because they rich in omega-3 fatty acid, fiber, and antioxidants.Add fresh berries like strawberries, blueberries, or raspberries to your morning cereal or your salad at lunch.
Have a mix of walnuts, sunflower seeds, pistachios, and cashews as a mid-afternoon snack.
Try including almonds or walnuts in your dinner recipes. For example, you might try orange-almond chicken.
 The DASH diet recommends cutting back on your sodium to help avoid Alzheimer's disease.Instead of salt, experiment with other herbs and spices to give your meals an added kick.


For example, substitute salt with garlic, parsley, paprika or a blend of spices in your pasta dishes.
Experiment with spices you may not have used a lot before like rosemary, tarragon, thyme, dill, oregano, etc.
Cinnamon, sage, cumin, and turmeric all help reduce brain inflammation., Similar to the Mediterranean Diet, the DASH diet calls for using olive oil and other healthier oils instead of butter, margarine, and other solid fats like lard. Using oils helps to reduce your risk for hypertension, and relatedly Alzheimer’s.Try using sunflower, canola, peanut, safflower, corn, or soybean oil in your recipes.
You can also use cooking sprays made with one or more of these oils when you are cooking.
Be sure to cut back on your use of butter and margarine. Use only half of your usual serving size.
When choosing salad dressings, opt for light version of your favorite flavors.
 Some research indicates that high levels of sugar may cause memory loss and other signs of Alzheimer’s by shrinking the hippocampus.Avoid sweets and sugary beverages when you are trying to avoid Alzheimer’s with diet.


Have naturally sweet foods like fruit when you have a ‘sweet-tooth’.
Instead of sodas, which are packed with sugar, try having water with an orange slice in it for flavor.
 The DASH diet recommends limiting your red meat and having fish (like the Mediterranean Diet) or poultry instead.Try to include chicken and other poultry in your meal planning several times a week to help you avoid Alzheimer’s.


Have turkey or grilled chicken instead of meatloaf or steak for dinner.
Instead of adding ground beef to your nachos, for example, try topping them with strips of grilled chicken breast.
Do not exceed 6 ounces of meat per day.

