


If you are going to Disney World, near Orlando, plan far in advance. Many people plan in advance for a trip there, and book flights/lodging early. You also won't be stressed out.
Before going to Disney World, buy tickets.

In Disney World, there are 4 parks and 2 water parks they are: Animal Kingdom, Epcot, Hollywood Studios, and Magic Kingdom. The water parks are: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.
It usually takes two to four full days to see all of Disney World.
In a Central Florida trip, go to maybe 2 or 3 parks: a water park and Universal Studios.
You will probably want to book a hotel months before your trip and one close the what your main focus of your trip is. A good hotel is one close to the theme parks for the kids or even adults.
If going to Central Florida, plan on spending several days, as it takes a lot of time to see Disney World and other parks.;
, It can be hard to find a cheap flight, especially in the summer. Read this article to find a great flight.
 It's humid in Florida for most of the year. Read about packing for information.
,, It has a whole lot of artwork. You can get a feeling of Italy at this place.
 Opened in 1999, this is where the Miami Heat NBA team plays.
 It has over 800 Art Deco buildings all within one square mile. There is also a walking tour.
 It is an 8-block long pedestrian walkway between Washington Avenue and Alton Road with a lot of shops, restaurants, and cafes. All of them are Art Deco and Mediterranean styles found throughout South Beach.
, It contains animals and birds that are found on Florida's waterways, kept here.
 It is 4.1 miles (6.6 km) long, connecting St. Petersburg and Terra Ceia, going over Hillsborough County waters.
 This 73 acre location is the only zoo in northeastern Florida.
 It is a good choice for surfers and kayakers.
, It has 23 miles (37 km) of beaches, some of them are rated the best in Florida. Come to the beachfront for any reason!

, Explore Fort Lauderdale and Hollywood (not California, but Florida) from the water.
 You don't need a plane to Miami, and drive to Key West.
 Hundreds of butterflies of many types, birds, and exotic plants can be seen.
 Take a tour of the spacecraft launch area, try out some simulators, and meet an astronaut! (www.kennedyspacecenter.com)

, ft. Ron Jon Surfshop, is well known for its fantastic beaches and surf communities. Cocoa Beach Pier is a prime spot for surfing, swimming, and fishing. It's also a great chance to see some native wildlife, such as sea turtles, dolphins, and pelicans.
