 Cloudy vision can be a sign of cataracts. Though it can also be a symptom of many other illnesses, cloudy vision can also be a clear sign of cataracts.It's easy to confuse cloudy and blurry vision. While blurry vision is a lack of sharpness in your vision, cloudy vision is best described as a haziness or dullness in what you can see.
Cloudy vision is caused by a lack of transparency in your eye, in particular the lens. It can also be caused by diabetes, optic nerve damage, and macular degeneration.;
, Halos are usually an issue during the evening, but can occur other times when things are mostly dark. Glare, on the other hand, happens mostly during the daytime.Halos are a small circle that is around a source of light, such as headlights. They happen mostly during the evening or when it is dark outside.
Glare is light that seems too bright and does not help you see better. It can happen either during the day or night and can cause your eyes to be teary due to the too intense light source.
 Double vision can be caused by a variety of conditions. If you are suffering from double vision due to cataracts, your double vision will be due to problems with the lens of your eye.Double vision from cataracts can be in one or both eyes. If it's in both eyes, then you have cataracts in both eyes. Try this test: cover one eye at a time and notice if you still see double. If you do, then it could be the cataract. iI the double vision goes away after you cover one eye, you may actually have an ocular alignment problem (strabismus) instead of cataract as the cause of the double vision.
When your double vision is due to cataracts, it's an issue with your lens rather than your eye muscle or cornea. The main difference between double vision from cataracts or other issues is that light will be a factor in your double vision.
 Your prescription should be relatively stable, though it will likely become stronger with age. If you find your prescription is changing from year to year, it could be a sign of cataracts.


Proteins from your lens can build up and change your prescription. This may be a sign of fluctuating blood sugar as well.Cataracts could cause changes in prescription based on your vision quality. If your vision is changing regularly alongside other symptoms, you should schedule an appointment with your optometrist.

