 It is entirely your responsibility to know which test you need next, and when it is offered. Find out from the actuarial society website when the exams are offered, and what you need to do to register. Find a location that is convenient to you and register in plenty of time so you will be able to get in.;
, Make sure you allow yourself time to park, to find the room, to register and check in. You want to allow yourself to be in a good frame of mind for the test, and the anxiety of rushing in is not good. If the test location is far from your home, you may even want to consider finding a nearby hotel for the night before the exam. That will allow you to get to the area and get a good night's sleep before the test., Cramming right through to the test day is not going to be productive. If you have allowed yourself adequate study time in the months before the test, then one more night is not going to make a difference. The final night (or even two) will be better spent getting some good rest., If you have used practice tests as part of your study plan, you should have an idea of how fast you need to work through the test. There may be a natural inclination to move quickly, but try to avoid this. Work through the test at a pace that will allow you to complete the test with the time provided., Then read it again. You don’t want to get an answer wrong just because you misunderstood or misread the question. If you have difficulty understanding the question, try interpreting it with sample numbers in place to see if you can make more sense out of it.It may help, as you read the question, to mark important parts of it. Highlight key terms or numbers. Break the question down into separate parts or sub-questions if appropriate. Be sure to answer all parts of the question.
 Read the question, make notes, and try to make sense of what is being asked. At the very least, make sure that you mark down some answer for every question. There is no penalty adjustment to the score for giving incorrect answers, so your score can only improve by filling something in. You may get lucky and guess correctly., While you should pace yourself to allow time to answer every single question, there will be some questions that just pose too much trouble. If you find yourself struggling over a particular question, and you cannot seem to find the answer, be prepared to move on.Sometimes, questions are presented in “clusters,” with several questions that are based on a single fact scenario. If you find that you have difficulty understanding the scenario, and the first question poses some problems, it would make sense to skip the entire cluster and move on.
There is no adjustment to your score for incorrect answers, so mark an answer for every question. Make your best guess quickly. Then, if you have time after going through the entire test, come back to the ones you have skipped and spend some extra time on them.

