 Always follow your prescribing eye doctor’s advice about when to wear your contacts (or other corrective lenses). If she says to wear them all the time, or always when driving, do so.


If you need corrective eyewear to see clearly, you will likely be required by law to wear them when driving. Otherwise, your driving privileges could be suspended.
Some people worry that monovision contacts — where the contact in the dominant eye is calibrated for distant objects, and the weaker eye for close objects— are problematic for night-time driving. There is little evidence to support this claim, however.Indeed, if anything, most contact lenses should aid in your night-driving ability by improving your vision. There is a caveat for multifocal lenses, however, which is discussed below., Some research has indicated that multifocal contacts — basically bifocals on your eyes — may make it more difficult to discern colors and sharp details in low light. This claim is still debated by experts, however.Some experts recommend wearing night-driving glasses along with your multifocal contacts to improve visual acuity,while others believe them to be useless in this role.If you wear multifocal contacts, talk to your prescribing eye doctor, especially if you feel you have any problems with night vision.
The best solution may be to simply switch to equivalent anti-glare eyeglasses for night driving. There is no evidence that these hinder low light vision., The best way to ensure that you see your best when driving is to have regular eye appointments.


Your eye doctor will discuss the right frequency of appointments for you, such as annually or bi-annually.
Some contact wearers notice blurry vision at night and blame so-called “night myopia,” but this is not a legitimate medical condition. It is simply more difficult to see at night because of lower light levels. If your vision is noticeably blurry at night, you most likely should have your vision checked and prescription adjusted., Some people blame their eyes for night-time driving difficulties when the culprit may be something as simple as a dirty windshield.Streaked, smudged, and dirty windshields can cause blurring, clouding, distortions, and glare, so keep yours clean.
Dim or cloudy headlights can also limit night vision, so replace dimmed bulbs and clean the outside and inside of the headlamp covers to reduce clouding.
If the problem with blurred vision is with your eyes but not your contacts, you may possibly have cataracts. These cannot be cured with eyewear, so consult with an eye care professional for options.
A common symptom of early cataracts is increased glare from headlights while driving at night.