 Show up to your next date with a bouquet of mixed flowers or a few roses. Get a sense for which flowers and colors they like. If it is a new relationship that you’re excited about, you might consider finding flowers with warm colors like oranges, reds, golds, and hot pinks., If your lover is also a wine lover, consider springing for a vintage wine. Go to a larger liquor store or search online for a special vintage wine, if you can afford one, or a nice bottle of something produced recently. At your next get together, you can open the wine together and enjoy a special moment.


Vintage wines are not necessarily good, as there are both good and poor vintages. Do your research before buying a bottle of vintage wine. If you are not familiar with a wine, ask a friend or a retailer for details about the year the wine was produced, the region, and the winery.You can find vintage bottles of wine online at sites such as 2020wines.com and Wine-Searcher.com. If you purchase vintage wine online, try to get a fast shipping speed to reduce the time the wine spends travelling. Time in transit is bad for vintage wines.Buy wine with chocolate. You can find wine and chocolate pairings that create the perfect ambience for a romantic evening. For example GiveWine sells a 2013 Cabernet Sauvignon with chocolate truffles for $75., If your new lover is a whisky drinker, consider getting them some nice whisky glasses. You should check to see if they have nice whisky glasses the next time you are at their place. If they serve you whisky, ask them to tell you about the whisky and the glasses in order to get a feel for whether they would enjoy some new glasses. If you think they would, there are many options to consider:


Tom Dixon makes a Tank set of painted lowball glasses. These stylish glasses sell for $65.The Glencairn whisky glass directs the aroma of whisky to your nose and has a sturdy base. It won the 2006 Queen’s Award for Innovation. You can get four glasses for $27.Get them hefty whisky glasses that are inspired by the television show Mad Men. The Waterford Man Men Edition whisky glasses are made from solid crystal and are gold banded. You will make them feel rich and powerful. You can get two of them for $175., If your new lover is a book lover, ask about their reading interests and pick them up a novel or a non-fiction book. If you share an interest, consider picking up a book that relates to your shared interest.


If your new lover is a science fiction lover, consider getting them Seveneves by Neal Stephenson. It explores the future of the planet and space travel with detailed extrapolation and creativity.If you have a new lesbian lover, consider getting them Ash by Malinda Lo. This book retells the story of Cinderella but with lesbian characters.If you have a lesbian lover who is into poetry, you might consider I Must Be Living Twice by Eileen Miles, which includes new and selected poems. It has been getting excellent reviews.If you have a new queer lover, you might consider The Argonauts by Maggie Nelson, which explores queer family building., If your new lover has dry hands, consider getting them some hand cream. You could even ask if they would like you to apply the hand cream and give a hand massage. Find a better quality hand cream such as Burt’s Bees or Tocca hand cream.