 Heat opens up blood vessels, which increases blood flow and supplies oxygen and nutrients to reduce pain in joints and relax sore muscles, ligaments, and tendons. A warm towel applied to the forehead or neck may help relieve tension and sinus headaches.Soak a small, clean towel in lukewarm water (40–45℃) for 3–5 minutes, then wring the water out. Apply to the forehead or other sore muscles for 5 minutes, then repeat steps for 20 minutes.
You can also use a hot water bottle or gel pack to apply heat. Do not use heat higher than 40–45℃. It may burn the skin. People with sensitive skin shouldn’t use a temperature higher than 30℃.
Do not apply heat if there is swelling or fever. Use an ice bag instead to reduce your temperature. Headaches can be caused by excessive heat.
Don’t use heat on injuries, wounds, or stitches. It will cause the tissue to expand , which can limit your body’s ability to heal damages and close wounds. People with poor circulation and diabetes should practice caution when using warm compression., Warm showers may help reduce congestion headaches due to a cold or fever and alleviate stress, thus reducing the symptoms or onset of a headache. Use lukewarm water (40–45℃) when taking a shower so as not to dehydrate or burn your skin., Dry air can cause dehydration and irritate your sinuses, often leading to tension, sinus, and migraine headaches. Using a humidifier will help keep your air moist.Aim for the right humidity. The air in your home should range from 30% to 55% humidity. If the humidity is too high, mold and dust mites may thrive, both of which are common causes of allergy headaches. If the humidity falls too low, the people in your home may suffer dry eyes and may develop throat and sinus irritations — another cause of headaches.The simplest way to measure humidity is with a gauge called a humidistat, which can be purchased from most hardware stores.
Both portable and central humidifiers must be cleaned thoroughly. Otherwise, they tend to become contaminated with mold and bacterial growth that may be blown through the house. Stop the humidifier and call your healthcare provider if you develop any respiratory symptoms that you feel are related to the use of a humidifier.For a natural humidifier, consider getting a houseplant. The transpiration process of plants — in which water vapor is released from the flowers, leaves and stems — can help regulate indoor humidity. Additionally, indoor plants help clear the air of carbon dioxide and other pollutants such as benzene, formaldehyde, and trichloroethylene. Good indoor plants include aloe vera, bamboo palm, weeping fig, Chinese evergreen, and various species of philodendron and dracaena.