 Many local and national government websites offer up-to-the-minute traffic data for most major roads. Checking these can give you an idea about travel times, and help you to decide whether to take an alternate route.


Useful national traffic information sites include the USDOT Federal Highway Administration’s National Traffic and Road Closure Information,and Traffic England.;
, If you’ll be travelling on highways or in a city during the warmer months, there is a good chance you could encounter traffic caused by road construction. In this case, you might want to plan an alternate route. You can find out just where construction is taking place by using the local and national governmental sites that provide updated information on roads under construction.


Some national sites with road construction information include Highways England,and the USDOT Federal Highway Administration’s National Traffic and Road Closure Information., Highways near sports stadiums can become congested two hours before and two hours after games. Check your local professional teams’ schedules to see whether a match will be taking place within two hours after or before you plan to drive on these highways. If this is the case, consider alternate routes. Take similar precautions with large city festivals.
 Driving with friends or co-workers during high traffic times is an excellent way to reduce traffic. By carpooling you can save money on gas while reducing pollution. Carpooling vehicles can also take advantage of usually traffic-free carpool lanes in some cities.


Ask your co-workers about setting up a carpool, or connect to online carpooling networks such as Ridesharing.comor Erideshare.com., Check traffic websites, and use GPS systems and software to help you plan alternate routes past familiar congestion areas. Try to plan at least two routes, in case the best secondary way is congested itself or under construction. Having several optional routes planned will allow you to adjust on the fly, without having to check maps or ask for directions.


Sometimes an alternate route on city streets or state highways can get you to your destination faster than the congested road. But sometimes they can take longer, especially if you encounter several traffic lights or involve a major detour.
Avoid taking an alternate route that you haven’t planned. Just getting off a congested highway spontaneously, especially in an area you’re not familiar with, is an easy way to get lost.
 Many metropolitan areas now offer electronic tolling on major highways. This system cuts down on traffic by allowing you to pay tolls automatically without needing to stop at a tollbooth. Look up your state’s department of transportation website to sign up for this service.
 If you are able to choose which time of day to drive during the week, be sure to avoid rush hours or peak hours. Most cities’ rush hours run from 8 to 9 a.m. (08:00 to 9:00) and 5 to 6 p.m. (17:00–18:00),with less-severe congestion about one hour before and after these peak periods. High-density areas are also known to have a lunchtime rush period lasting roughly from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m (11:30 to 13:30).


If you routinely get caught in traffic during your work commute, ask your supervisor about the possibility of changing the hours when you begin and end work in order to avoid the heaviest periods of traffic.
 If you’re planning a trip or a shopping day, try scheduling it on the weekends, when traffic is substantially reduced in most metropolitan areas. Be careful, though, to find out when major weekend city festivals are taking place, since roads can fill up quickly before and after these events.
 If your can choose when to drive, wait for heavy rain or snow storms to pass before driving. Accidents and slower driving brought on by severe weather can significantly increase traffic. City traffic also tends to increase with sunny, warmer weather, so consider alternative transportation when going downtown during summer months.

