 Indulge in a bath at the end of a long day, even if you don't feel especially sore. By relaxing your muscles, you send signals to your body letting it know that the time has come to rest and relax. Triggering your body's relaxation mode before you go to sleep can make your sleep more restful, leaving you feeling thoroughly recharged in the morning.


Alternatively, try taking a hot and cold shower. Hot-cold hydrotherapy is said to strengthen your body's immunity and improve its circulation. The improved circulation can make you feel refreshed.
Take a hot shower like you usually do, then switch the temperature to cold and stay there for up to 30 seconds. Switch the water back to warm for another 30 seconds, then back to cold again for 30 more seconds before turning the water off.;
, When you wake up in the morning, use a body scrub on your feet and hands. Use an exfoliating scrub for your face as well. Scrubs can scrape away dead skin cells and improve circulation throughout your body. As a result, your body will end up feeling more energized than before.
 Eat lots of green, healthy vegetables, fruit, lean protein, good fats and whole grains. Filling your body with processed food, sugar, and alcohol can make you feel physically worn down. You do not need to cut out everything you enjoy from your diet, but limit unhealthy foods and focus on eating more nutritional meals and snacks.Eat breakfast. Skipping breakfast will leave you feeling drained by mid-morning, and if you compound the problem by eating a small lunch at the office, you will struggle to make up for the nutrients you lost by the time you get home. Your breakfast should contain a balance of complex carbohydrates, protein, and a little fat.
 Stretch for at least five minutes every hour throughout the day. Stretching makes you feel less stiff and worn down.Moreover, it improves your circulation immediately, giving you a quick jolt of energy as a result.


Your stretches can be simple. For instance, try standing up, taking a deep breath and raising your arms above your head. Hold this pose for a few seconds before relaxing your arms and gradually bending forward at the waist. Then, gently roll your head forward and from side to side to loosen any stiffness in your neck.
 The exercise you choose does not need to be vigorous or lengthy, but getting your body on the move for 10 to 30 minutes each day can cause your brain to release "happy" chemicals like serotonin,adrenaline and endorphins. As a result, your body and mind will both feel recharged.


For an added bonus, try exercising outside. A short walk on a sunny day gives your body plenty of vitamin-D enriched sunlight, and spending time outdoors—especially in nature—often recharges the mind as well as the body., Candles that contain essential oils are a good choice, or you can add a few drops of essential oil to your bathwater. Certain scents are believed to trigger a relaxation response in the body, while others may make your body feel more energized.


Lavender can help relax you.To recharge and revive your body, try scents like rosemary,juniper berry,peppermint,and citrus., Most adults only get five to six hours of sleep each night, while seven to nine hours are recommended for adults.The best thing to do for your body is simply to increase the amount of sleep you get each night and "repay" your sleep debt.Go to bed an hour early, if possible, for at least a week and notice the difference it makes.


If you are unable to get that much additional sleep, try taking a 20-minute nap.This amount of time prevents you from falling into a deep sleep but still treats your body to a little boost in energy.
 Take a break for 10 minutes every 90 minutes throughout the day. During this time, do something that relaxes you. Meditate, listen to music, play with a pet or practice a hobby.


Make sure that the task you do during your break can be completed within that time period. Otherwise, you may find yourself feeling tense and distracted when you go back to work.

