 A really nice way to get paper flowers with interesting, nuanced petals is to paint on watercolor paper. It allows for slightly different shades within the same piece that look natural and reminiscent of a real flower.









For watercolor paper, you simply dip your brush in a bit of clean water, add some watercolor paint to the tips of the brush, and go over the paper. The best part about it is that it’s supposed to look slightly different in every spot, so you don’t have to worry about shading or blending.
You can also use cardstock or construction paper, too, and it’s quicker and cheaper. You just won’t have the soft gradient of watercolor paper; however, you could choose a more vivid color with this type instead.;
, With this method, we’re going to assume you want to make a handful of different paper flowers. Let’s make three different sizes, then: 1" (2.5cm) flowers, 2" (5cm) flowers, and 3" (7.5cm) flowers. All you need to do is cut squares that are these sizes (in both length and width) and pile them up.









Make a whole bunch. Each flower will require at least 12 squares or so. And it’s not that the 1" squares are in the middle and the 3" squares are on the outside – instead, it’s just the amount you roll them up to get them bigger and smaller. A 3" flower, for example, will be made entirely of 3" squares.
 Take a handful of the same-size square in your hand and fold them all in half, layering them like an onion so you can cut them all at the same time.









To make your cut, place your scissors on the open side and cut it into a half-arch type of thing (that is, rounded at the top). When you open it up, you'll notice that it's now in the shape of a petal.
 Flower petals aren't flat, so you don't want yours to be either. Roll them up to bend the papers into a more flower-like shape. The more intense your rolling, the more curved they'll be.









And then unroll them. When you unroll them, they'll maintain a bit of the curve of the roll. Can you see how they might fit together to form a flower?

, For the very center of your flower, put hot glue in the corners of the paper and roll it back into a tight bud shape. The center of the flower will be more enclosed and the petals will spread out from there.









Hold it there for a second, being careful not to get any hot glue on your fingers. You now have the very center of your flower and can start attaching petals.
 Take another square of the same size and put hot glue in the corners. Then, taking the bud in your opposite hand, glue the petal the bud. Since you're still on the second layer of petals, this one, too, will be highly curved and close to the bud. As you expand, the petals should get more and more splayed out.









Every layer should peep out from between the layer before. In the valley where the two petals meet in one layer should be the center of the petal from the next layer. And again, with each succeeding layer your petals should get less and less rolled up.Once your layers reach the size and width that you want, you're done. It's as simple as that! With this technique, they look even better in groups, so don't stop now. Make a few to stick together to make their beauty (and your creativity) exponentially more remarkable.

