 Checking out or requesting books like "Beginning Programming For Dummies" and "Hello World! Computer Programming for Kids and Other Beginners" will acquaint you with the terms and options of software engineering. Once you have established some basic knowledge you can request books about specific programs or types of software engineering.;
, Two Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) graduates started this undergraduate tutorial program to help people learn basic college subjects for free, such as software engineering. Download the iTunes application, watch the tutorial videos and do the practice tests.


You will not receive credit for the tutorials you take; however, once you have an account, you will be able to track your progress with the classes and practice tests.
 MIT offers certain free engineering courses online. You will not be earning credits; however, you will be getting lectures and materials offered from 1 of the best technological universities in the world.


Ocw.mit.edu offers courses like "Introduction to Computers and Engineering Problem Solving," "Introduction to Computer Science and Programming," "Computer Science Mathematics," "Computer Language Engineering" and "Computing and Data Analysis." You may be required to complete prerequisite lower level courses before doing the more advanced options.
 This grant-funded program offers courses like computational mathematics, coding, engineering statistics and other courses that are university-level and applicable to learning software engineering. The course materials and instruction are free; however, you will not receive any credit for taking the class.


Go to to look at a course schedule. Classes change regularly, so you can check in both the open and future class sections.
 Through this aggregate, you have options to take tests on your skills as you progress. Organizations like Education For All offer practice with software testing, software engineering basics and knowledge in specific software framework.
 Contact local software engineers and volunteer some free man hours to learn what they do. You may be able to supplement your education with their practical know-how, while donating hours of programming to their own efforts.
 Sites like WordPress and Drupal allow people to create and improve their programs in their spare time. This results in an excellent collaborative effort and extensive programming resources that can help you with your own engineering.
 If you want to gain an associate's or bachelor's degree in information technology, you can take the College Board's exams in order to gain college credit by proving your advanced knowledge. If you receive a high score on these tests, the credits will be accepted at 2/3 of American colleges and universities.


You can also take exams at Excelsior College in order to gain credits. The exams cost approximately $100 and you can receive 3 to 8 credits. If you pass these exams and transfer credits to a university or college the credits themselves will be inexpensive and you will have fewer courses to pay for while studying for your degree.

