 Before you can start to work out a solution to your problem, take some time to identify your problem and describe for yourself in detail.You might even want to write these details down. Some questions you can ask yourself to define the problem include:


What happened?
When did this happen? Is it still happening?
Who was involved in the situation? Does it affect anyone besides me?
Why is this a problem? How does it affect me and/or other people?
Do you feel that the problem has changed? When has the problem been worse, and when has it been better?;
, Some problems can be really overwhelming when you look at them as a whole, so it might be easier to find solutions if you break your problem into smaller parts.For example, if your problem is that you have a lot of debt, then there is not a simple solution to this problem. Getting out of debt takes time and effort, so it might be helpful to look at the individual parts that make up your debt.


One part might be paying off a student loan, another part might be paying off a credit card, and another might be paying off a medical bill.
After you have identified these parts, then you can start to look for solutions to each one.
 Before you decide on the best course of action, it is a good idea to compare your options.If your problem is that you are in a large amount of debt, then identifying one aspect of your debt to work on at a time might be the way to go. This will depend on which part of the problem is the highest priority.


For example, you might decide that paying off your credit card debt is your highest priority because the high balance is affecting your credit score. Your second highest priority might be the medical bill, and third might be your student loan.
Therefore, you might plan to direct the highest amount of money towards the credit card payments and direct a smaller amount to the medical bill and student loan. Or, you might even contact the student loan provider to request an income-based repayment plan or a deferment until you can pay off the credit card and medical bill.
 Once you have identified the parts of your problem, identify the best solutions and set some small achievable goals to help you work towards those solutions.For example, if one part of the problem is that you need to pay off a credit card, then you might begin by identifying some realistic payment amounts that you can make towards the balance.


You might decide that you can afford to pay $75 per month on the credit card. Therefore, making this payment every month could be one of your goals.
You might also decide on a more long term goal, such as to make timely payments for six months in a row, or to pay off the balance by the end of the following year.
 The only way to tell if your solutions are working is to test them out. Therefore, after you have identified your goals, make sure that you follow through with them.For example, if your goal is to make regular payments on a credit card, then make those payments.
 After trying out a solution for a set period of time, such as a few weeks or a few months, reflect on the progress you have made towards your goal of solving the problem.Have you solved your problem? If not, are you on track to achieve a solution within the timeline you designated?


If you do not feel like you are moving towards a solution, then you can always reassess the problem and set some new goals. This is often part of the problem solving process, so keep an open mind and be willing to make changes if what you are doing is not working.
 Keeping a journal is an effective way to relieve stress and organize your thoughts.To deal with some of the worries you are having over your problem, try setting aside 15 minutes every day to write about your thoughts and feelings on the matter.


For example, you could write freely about how the problem is affecting you. Do you feel sad about it? Are you angry? Or do you feel anxious? Describe your feelings in as much detail as you like.
You can also use your journal entries to brainstorm solutions to your problem. If you have any new ideas about how you can approach the problem, then jot them down. Try making a list of every possibility and the review the list to see if anything on it might help., Trying to ignore your problem or to avoid thinking about it is not an effective strategy.However, allowing the problem to consume all of your time and energy is not effective either. Rather than dwelling on anxious thoughts or problems throughout the day, consider creating a "worry time" that is limited to a certain time or part of the day.Try setting aside 10 to 30 minutes in the evening to worry about the problem.
Take this time to focus on your problem or worry at hand, and identify how you want to handle it.
 When you are worried about something, your mind might race from one anxious thought to the next. You might think about worst case scenarios and allow them to make you feel even more worried than you were before. One way to address this type of worrying is to look at each thought from a rational perspective. You can do this by asking yourself questions, such as:Do I have any evidence that this will happen? What is that evidence?
Can I look at this situation in a more positive way? If so, what is it?
How big is the chance that the thing I am worried about will actually happen?
What other outcomes are more likely?
Is it helping me or hurting me to worry about this?
How might I reassure a loved one who was worrying about the same thing?

, Another way to control your worries is to redirect your thinking to the present rather than focusing on the future. You can do this by practicing mindfulness whenever you start to worry about your problem. Some simple ways to practice mindfulness include:Taking deep breaths and focusing on your breathing. Breathe in slowly through your nose and exhale slowly through your mouth for a few minutes. As you do so, focus on the sound and feeling of your breath.
Noting sensory details, such as the sights, sounds, smells, and physical sensations of your environment. For example, you might look out your window and notice the flowers, listen for the sound of birds chirping, inhale the scent of a scented candle, and pay attention to how your body feels sitting in a chair.
 There are ways to distract yourself from your problems in healthy and constructive ways. Healthy coping can have both mental and physical benefits to your overall well-being. Consider the following:Do something that you enjoy. Schedule a time to engage in things that make you feel better. Watch a movie. Read a book. Listen to music.

Exercise. Take a walk. Go for a run. Ride a bike. Hike some trails. These things will get your body moving, and help to reduce stress.

Meditate or pray. Quiet reflection for a few minutes a day can help to relieve chronic stress.
Organize your thoughts and actions. Sometimes we can feel overwhelmed by the problem at hand, or how to focus on our daily tasks. Consider making a check-list of how to proceed for the day.
 Listen carefully to what they have to say. They may be able to offer suggestions you haven't thought of, and their ideas might even be more objective since it's not their problem.Seeking out support can be beneficial both in the short-term and long-term. By sharing your feelings you are able to have a more meaningful connection with that person.
You don't need to "go it alone." Trust that there are people out there that will listen.
 Consider that some problems cannot be solved by you, or your friends and family. Sometimes we need advice from professionals, whether it is to assist with solutions, or to enforce consequences. Depending on your problem, you may find guidance from people such as:


Teachers, school counselors, educators, school administrators
Parents, relatives, or significant others
Mental health professionals, counselors, support groups
Supervisors, human resources, Employee Assistance Programs
Medical professionals, nurses, doctors
Law enforcement, crisis hotlines/support, victim support centers

