 Whether it is from your imagination or down the block, you will need to have a strong mental image of what it is you will be creating.;
, Using a ruler, graphing paper, and a pencil, draw what each observable side of the building would look like. If possible, refer to photographs of the original building you are aiming to recreate. Remember to also refer to your other drawings and the grid lines to ensure that the heights and widths of certain architectural features are represented consistently.
, Using a sharp cutting tool like an X-acto knife, carefully cut the walls of your card stock model out. Remember to separate walls that will be standing apart from one another. You will also want to cut out any windows or openings at this time.
 Lay the walls out over a piece of cardstock so that the bottom corners of each adjoining wall touch. Use this as a guide, trace out your cardstock floor. For this project you will want to expand this line out one or two centimeters and cut it free from the rest of the cardstock. Additionally, you will want to create a few holes near the middle of the floor section that you will be able to get your fingers through for later.
 Using the discarded cardstock from before, glue tabs to the inside of your model building's walls. These will be used shortly to hold the model together. Remember to add a few tabs on each wall section to connect to the floor and the roof

, With the tabs folded inward, use a strong craft glue to hold the walls together. Be mindful that the bottom of both pieces are straight and line up correctly.
 Because many roofs are angled, the actual dimensions of the roof can be skewed when viewed from the side. However with the walls of your model now in place, you do not need to worry about calculating lengths for roof pieces. Lay a folded sheet of graph paper, ideally along one of the gridlines, on top of your model's walls so that it mimics a roof and sketch out the extent you want the gables to extend.
 From the graphing paper, copy the roof plan from your drawing onto cardstock and cut it out. It is generally easier if you do not cut the peak of the roof but fold it, instead.
 Turning the house over, you can easily align the roof and wall sections so that they sit well together. Carefully attach the floor section on once the roof-to-wall tabs have dried.
 Being careful not to cover up the windows or other openings. Pinch the corners together gently so that the clay bonds or holds.
 The clay allows you to recreate any and all distinctive textures on the walls of facade of your model building. Do not cut deeply into the clay and be mindful of the scale of your model. Refer to photos or the drawing you made on the graphing paper originally.
,,,,