 No matter what activity you're doing, sound can have a drastic impact on how much you're enjoying it. For instance, maybe you have to clean your bedroom or the kitchen. The chore is a drag, but turn on some of your favorite tunes and it becomes a cleaning concert of fun.


Identify sounds that make you happy or relaxed. Music. Children laughing. Rolling ocean waves. Birds chirping in the trees. Aim to surround yourself with these sounds more. If you can't get to them naturally, listen to them from YouTube.
Identify sounds that make you upset, sad, or angry. Honking traffic. A phone ringing off the hook. Aim to avoid these sounds, if possible. If you can't, counteract them with sounds you like, such as listening to soothing music through earbuds to cover up the nonstop phone calls. Or, maybe you never get quiet time, and a good dose of silence can help you enjoy your tasks more., Humans crave the warmth and touch of others as it is our primary expression of compassion. In this increasingly digital age, touch has become even more important for you to thrive. Touch boosts safety and security, enhances overall well-being, builds trust, increases team bonding, and reduces risk of disease.Engage in activities and surround yourself with people whose touch brings you joy. Doing so can bring contentment to more areas of your life.
 Even eating can be fun when you are doing it mindfully. Many people associate food with guilty feelings. Maybe you should be saying "no" to that slice of chocolate cake at the office party or extra buttery popcorn at the movies. However, when you practice mindful eating, rather than eating mindlessly, you can enjoy more foods you love without the guilt.


To practice mindful eating, select a food such as a bite-size chocolate or small bite of fruit. Observe the food - shape, smell, size, texture. What is your reaction to looking at the food (i.e. salivation, impatience, etc.)? Place the food in your mouth for 30 seconds without chewing. Once 30 seconds have elapsed begin chewing. Afterwards, compare your understanding of the taste and texture of the food before and after eating. Then, compare this experience with your usual experience of eating.Begin practicing mindful eating at nearly every meal. Remove distractions such as TV or books and focus wholly on the foods you are eating.
 If you have been stressed out lately, you may need to plaster on a smile to counteract the negative side-effects of stress. Research from the Greater Good Project at Berkeley shows that smiling (even fake smiling) has positive benefits on physical health. It helps the heart recover sooner from stressful experiences.To boost your mood and physical well-being, smile when you're doing tasks you don't like much. You'll feel better for it.

