 A detox program is not a treatment for alcohol and drug abuse. Instead, it is the first step in an overall treatment program aimed at getting you off the alcohol or drugs.A detox program utilizes antidotes and other techniques, such as dialysis. The goal is to slowly wean the person offer the substance.In an alcohol detox program, the patient will stop drinking alcohol. Instead, they will be given a cross-tolerant drug that does a similar thing but to a less degree, which helps with withdrawal.
After the detox, sedatives are often used to help the patient ease away from the dependency of the drug.
Going through a detox program to help curb craving and withdrawal symptoms allows a person the ability to focus on the psychological side and education for when the patient is discharged.Behavioral addictions, like gambling or sex, don’t require any detox program.;
, There are different detox programs based on the type of substance abuse problem. Finding a detox program that treats your specific issue will help ensure your success. Types of programs include:Alcohol detox
Prescription drug detox, which may include addiction to Oxycontin, Vicodin, Xanax, Ritalin, Adderall, Valium, or Percocet
Street or recreational drug detox, such as cocaine, heroin, meth, hallucinogens, or marijuana
Opiate detox

, Outpatient care is a good option for people with mild addiction symptoms. In an outpatient detox program, you will receive more social support. You also have greater freedom because you still return home.Outpatient detox programs allow you to return home or to a job. You detox at home and check in with your doctors daily. You may also detox at home, but spend a set number of hours each day at a detox center under medical supervision.However, you will not have immediate access to medical personnel, and you may also be exposed to triggers or temptations to use again.
Your doctor can help you find outpatient detox programs. Your doctor can also help you find an intensive outpatient or partial hospitalization detox program.
 Inpatient care is for people with a serious addiction who may experience severe withdrawal symptoms when they try to get off the substance. In an inpatient center, you will have access to 24-hour care.You will be removed from all temptation because you will not have any access to the substance.If you go to the hospital with withdrawal symptoms, they can help get you into an inpatient facility. You may also look for a detox clinic or a substance abuse treatment facility that includes a detox program. Some psychiatric hospitals may provide detox programs.
 Detox programs offer help to individuals who are unable to start their substance abuse treatment program due to their addiction. The detox program will help you remove your physiological addiction so you can go through treatment.Detox programs offer safe, comfortable, and mostly pain-free options for weaning yourself off the substance you are addicted to.
In a detox program, you have access to medical personnel who can help and support you through tough times. This can help you avoid potentially embarrassing situations with loved ones as you go through painful withdrawal symptoms on your own.
 Many treatment centers and rehab programs offer detox programs. However, for more severe cases, a hospital detox may be the best option. This may be the choice if the patient needs more intensive medical care, has a lot of complications, or is an overall difficult case.Discuss hospital detox units with your local hospital or treatment center to determine what is available in your area and if hospitalization is necessary.
 Many substance abuse programs are not covered under private and government insurance plans. Contact your insurance company to find out if they cover substance abuse programs. If they do, find out how much they will cover and if there are any guidelines for treatment.Some programs offer financing for qualifying patients. Discuss this option with the program to see if this is an option for you.
You may also need to consider private loans or loans from friends and family, or use your savings to finance the treatment stay.

