 Make it a point to be kinder to others, and try to see things from their perspective. Instead of making comments that would hurt someone's feelings, think of ways to make their day better. If you have the time, go out of your way to do small things for others, and they will come to appreciate you more.


For instance, instead of making fun of someone to make yourself feel better, give them a compliment and make their day better.
Practicing compassion can make you a healthier and happier person.You can also buy a friend a small gift like candy or a book to show your appreciation for them.
 Being able to listen well and communicate in a constructive, assertive way may also help you to feel in control of your anger and be kind to others.Communicating your feelings and emotions will help other people understand your frame of mind and relieve a lot of stress. Often arguments or disagreements can arise because of a lack of communication and a lack of understanding when it comes to people's motivations. Try to be more truthful in conversation, even if it makes the situation less than perfect, or you think that the person may not like you for it. Do not skirt around issues that make you feel uncomfortable.


Put away distractions and give the person your full attention. As you listen, try to suspend judgment. Just try to understand what the person is saying and where they are coming from.
When you express yourself, use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. Try saying things like, “I feel frustrated when you forget to pick up your dishes.” Don’t say things like, “You never clean up after yourself!”
Communicating effectively also means sometimes being vulnerable and talking about things that could be embarrassing.
For example, if a friend does something you don't approve of, instead of yelling and saying things that you'll regret, say something like, "When you made that joke, and everyone laughed, it made me feel sad. I was humiliated, and even though you didn't think it was a big deal, it really hurt my feelings."

, People can't read your mind and for some, learning new things may take longer for them than it takes for others. Instead of escalating to anger immediately, be more patient with people. Think back to when you were doing something for the first time or when you needed help. Realize that not everyone's perfect. If someone is doing something that annoys you, instead of letting it go until you're angry, confront the person and have a conversation.


If your roommate is tapping their pencil and it's stopping you from doing your work, say something like "Hey, I know this seems crazy, but I really can't get this paper done while you’re tapping that pencil. Do you mind stopping while I do my work?"

, Being cynical all the time can put you in a bad mood and make you more irritable. Typically cynicism is a defense mechanism that you're likely to employ when you are disappointed or feel let down. Instead of expressing your emotions in a healthy and constructive way, you bottle them up and minimize the impact of your feelings to other people and yourself.This can spiral into having a negative view of the world, and it can put you in a constant state of anger.


Don't put down other people's work or effort. Admire someone when they excel at something instead of dismissing it or minimizing it.
Try to reduce the amount of judgment you put on others. If you don't understand a subculture or demographic of people, look to immerse yourself in their world instead of senselessly hating it.
 Empathy involves understanding and internalizing the feelings and emotions of another person. Try to put yourself in the person's shoes, and talk to people without passing judgment on them first. When someone is experiencing pain, relate to their emotions instead of dismissing them. Engage in active listening instead of waiting for the other person to stop talking. Internalize what they are saying, and try to feel the emotions that they feel. This can give you a better understanding of their perspective and actions.


To improve your active listening, concentrate on paying attention to what the person is saying, provide feedback to show that you're listening, and defer any judgment you may have. Instead of criticizing them, try supporting the person.
Think back to a time when you were under similar circumstances and try to reflect on how badly it felt.
 Don't put walls up and don't be suspicious of everyone you meet. This hurts your interactions with others. If you've done something wrong, take personal responsibility for your actions and don't blame other people for things you've done. Be open to making new friends and improving existing friendships.If someone makes a valid suggestion, instead of getting angry at them for pointing out a weakness, say "You're right. I need to work on it, and I am, but it's a process."
Instead of automatically taking comments in a negative light, ask the person "What do you mean by that?" Once they explain, it may not be as harmful as you initially thought.

