 While the car is on the ground, you should use a lug wrench or an impact wrench to loosen the lug nuts. Doing it this way prevents the tires from spinning. This helps break the lugs loose more efficiently and more safely.






;
, Consult your service manual for safe jacking points. Slide the jack under the car and position it directly under the jacking point. Jack the car up and secure it with jack stands.
 Now that the car is lifted, the weight will no longer be on the tires. You can finish removing the lugs either by hand or with your wrench. Then, simply slide the wheel away from the wheelbase.









You should always slide the wheel underneath the car. This adds an extra layer of safety if the jack stands fail.
 Now that you have the wheel off, you will be looking directly at your brake rotor. Mounted on the rotor (usually to the right) you will see your brake caliper. The brake caliper holds the brake pads against the rotor on either side.
 Brake calipers differ slightly from car to car, but they are always held in place by bolts or clips.These are usually located at the top and bottom of the caliper.Once the bolts and







, Some brake pads have a groove in the middle that serves as an indicator for wear. If the groove is nearly gone, the pads are in need of changing. In any case, if the pad is less than ¼ inch thick or is chipped or damaged, it needs replaced., Your calipers should not need replaced, as they are designed to last for the life of the car. That being said, if there is damage on the caliper it might need replaced.Also, it is possible that the bolts or pins that hold the caliper in place could be damaged. If this is the case you will need to replace those., The brake disc, or rotor, is another important part of the braking system. When the brakes are applied, the pads press down on the rotor to create the friction needed for stopping. This generates a lot of pressure and heat. If your rotors are not thick enough, or if they have grooves or chips in them, they will need to be replaced.Minimum rotor thickness is generally stamped on the outside of the disc and can be measured using a micrometer, a side caliper, or a tape measurer.The micrometer is the easiest and most accurate measurement.