 Finding the right person for a casual sex relationship is harder than it might sound. You need someone you’re sexually compatible with, who is also looking for a no strings attached relationship.You can meet your sex friend anywhere: at a bar, at the bank, in a class. Look for someone you’re sexually attracted to, but wouldn’t consider dating long-term.
Try not to pick someone you’re already close friends with. Introducing sex into your friendship might derail an already good relationship.
 Don’t just jump straight into sex – take some time to get to know the person and make sure you’re compatible as friends, too. Taking time to hang out without sex will also give you time to communicate what you’re looking for from this relationship.Be honest from the beginning that you’re not looking for anything serious and that you’re only looking to keep things casual.
If one of you has feelings for the other, then it’s time to break off the relationship. Relationships like these only work when both partners are on the same page.
 Don’t try to introduce romance into the relationship. Don’t plan dates or introduce them to your friends or family. By creating distance, you satisfy your sexual needs, without adding pressure from the other people in your life.

Don’t spend time talking or stressing about emotions. Over-thinking the relationship will only cause it to implode.
Keep it lighthearted. This relationship exists for you to have fun and let off steam. Don’t make it any more complicated than that.
 A friends with benefits relationship is not exclusive, so your friend will probably continue seeing other people (as will you). Don’t talk about these other relationships – they’ll distract from what you have going and may result in hurt feelings.Don’t take it for granted that you’ll be asked to spend the night. Be cognizant that you both have other things going on.
Understand that as other relationships come and go, you may see each other less. This is completely normal.
 A friends with benefits relationship may only work for a certain amount of time and that’s okay. Knowing when it’s time to break off the relationship is important for your mental health and happiness.If the sex stops being good or fun, that’s a sign you should end the relationship.
If one of you enters into an exclusive relationship with another partner, then it’s time to end the relationship.
If you’ve stopped enjoying each other’s company, then it’s time to end the relationship.
Do not try to upgrade your friend with benefits to boyfriend. Don’t hold on to something, just because you’re scared to lose it.

