 The first step to cure your condition is to firstly realize and accept the fact that the dryness, the itching and the roughed look of your skin is not any fungal or bacterial infection. It is not because you are dirty or unhygienic. Go to a good physician, dermatologist. An experienced doctor can tell you that you have Psoriasis by merely looking at it once.;
, Generally, Psoriasis affects children around the time they hit puberty. Rough and dry fingernails (on feet and/or hands), dry hands and dry soles, extremely dry elbows and knees are just the very common places where Psoriasis affects. Psoriasis can affect any part of the body including back (upper back and lower back), legs, genitals, groin etc. It is very important to find out all the places where such dryness occurs.
 Psoriasis affects the most during the time of winters and generally simply vanishes during summers. If your dryness has direct connection to the time of the year it occurs, you should consult a doctor and check if it’s Psoriasis.
 It is essential to understand here that Psoriasis is not strictly a 'disease', and is rather a condition. Simply put, our immune system does not realize it has something to fight against and your body does not respond to the extreme dryness as it would respond in a person not affected by Psoriasis. So basically, when your body does not give it enough moisture (not realizing the dryness is a problem), you need to provide it with external moisture at all times.


Now the moisturizers which are available in market for normal dryness can be useful for some who have mild cases of Psoriasis, but for major dryness problems, specific moisturizers are available in markets which would keep your affect areas moist for a long time. E.g. (Ranbaxy Xerina is a cream available for feet and elbows).
 The most important part in fighting Psoriasis is to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Keep away from smoking, drinking or any other vices. Stay clean. Work-out, perform regular exercises. Eat healthy and regularly and keep your sleeping patterns right. This is advisable to everyone, but the people affected by Psoriasis would realize how important a healthy lifestyle is once they see the difference it brings in their condition.
 Stress is a factor which boosts Psoriasis in people. If you have Psoriasis, it may have been dormant in your body for years, but the time you are stressed, you mind is weak, your immune system is weak, it kicks in. Keep yourself headstrong and always have a positive feeling about your condition. Believe that it can be cured, and it will be cured. Traditional meditation and Yoga techniques can help your reduce stress. Working out also increases the blood flow in your brain and makes you feel positive.
 Happiness and laughter can cure any disease. It’s very important to keep your mind in the right place and stay away from depression.

