 People who get enough vitamin C are likely to have shorter colds and milder symptoms of congestion. You can take 500mg of vitamin C as a dietary supplement split into 2 or 3 doses a day. Since smoking depletes vitamin C, smokers may need an additional 35 mg per day. You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are:Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices
Spinach, broccoli and brussel sprouts
Strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes
Mango, papaya and cantaloupe

, It is also important in the formation of red blood cells and to keep blood from clotting. Vitamin E can be found in foods like vegetable oils, almonds, peanuts, hazelnuts, sunflower seeds, spinach, and broccoli. Or, you can take a supplement of 15mg a day.Eating foods rich in vitamin E is not risky or harmful. But, as a supplement, high doses of vitamin E might increase the risk for serious bleeding within the brain. High levels of vitamin E in pregnant women may also increase the risk of birth defects.
 Probiotics are microorganisms naturally found in the digestive system and certain foods. You can take dietary supplements, or get them by eating yogurt and some types of milk or soy products.You do not need to consult your doctor about taking probiotics unless you have a weakened immune system or a severe illness. These individuals may suffer from fungaemia and bacteriuria from taking probiotics., Your body needs magnesium to create energy and reduce anxiety, stress, chronic fatigue, and chest pain. It also helps maintain healthy blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar levels. You can get magnesium from eating salmon, mackerel, halibut, tuna, dark chocolate, dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, brown rice, lentils, soybeans, black beans, chickpeas, avocado, and bananas.


If you do take supplements, you can take 100mg of magnesium two to three times a day, but keep in mind that there is a risk if diarrhea from taking more than 200 mg of magnesium per day.
If you're deficient in magnesium, you may notice agitation and anxiety, restless leg syndrome (RLS), sleep disorders, irritability, nausea and vomiting, abnormal heart rhythms, low blood pressure, confusion, muscle spasm and weakness, hyperventilation, insomnia, poor nail growth, and even seizures.It's important to not get too much magnesium since it can reduce your calcium absorption. Talk to your doctor about what dosage is right for you.
 Zinc is an essential trace mineral found in many foods you eat on a regular basis. It has antioxidant properties that help protect cells in the body from damage caused by bacteria and viruses. It’s normal to have slightly low levels of zinc, but taking a multivitamin and eating a healthy diet should give you all the zinc you need. The best dietary sources of zinc are oysters, shellfish, red meats, poultry, cheese, shrimp, and crab. If you take it as a supplement or in multivitamins, remember that you're recommended to take 8 to 11 mg of zinc a day. Avoid taking high doses of zinc, unless advised by your doctor.Zinc lozenges are helpful in treating colds and zinc nasal sprays can also clear up sinus congestion. Be sure to talk with your doctor before taking any zinc supplements or medications.

