 Ensure that you have all the components and the equipment needed to perform the assembly. Check whether each component has been given a reference designator. This is usually provided by the component supplier. It will help you to speed up the assembly process and reduce mistakes. Ensure that all components are accounted for before beginning the assembly process.
 Place a sheet of white paper over the intended work surface. This makes it easier to find extremely small parts. Keep an assortment of paper towels on the side. They will be used to wipe off any excess soldering paste. Also, lay out the assembly drawing, schematic, and the parts list for reference, Use a stainless steel or nickel stencil and apply the solder paste to all the solder pads. You can also use the solder paste syringe to apply the paste on extremely narrow pads., Check for any solder bridges as well. If you do find some, use the paper towel to remove the excess paste. You can also use the small razor to separate the bridges and keep clean lines between the pads., Use the tweezers and begin placing the least fragile components onto the board first. Work your way up to the fragile components. Start with the headers and connectors. Then move onto the resistors and capacitors. Then place the diodes and transistors, and finally end with the silicon components. Push each component down onto the solder paste to make it stick., The toaster oven and the TempTell reflower are used to reflow the board. Connect the oven to the reflower via the plug outlet. Place the temperature probe of the reflower onto the board. Place the board into the oven and turn it on. The reflower will control the temperature of the oven and help reflow the board., Once the reflow has been completed, switch the toaster and reflower off, and remove the board from the oven. Check the board thoroughly for any tombstones or solder shorts. Use a soldering iron to repair the shorts and tombstones. After this, you can move onto debugging the PCB.