 Your safety is first and foremost when it comes to dealing with rumors and bullying in general.There will be times when it is best to turn the other cheek and disregard them. Other times you will need to get involved. An initial approach to dealing with a rumor is to prevent it from upsetting your daily routine and your sense of safety.


If someone approaches you and says, “Did you hear that _____ is saying that you are _______?”
You can say something like, “Well, I know I didn’t do that so I’m not going to let it upset me.”
Some rumors will work their way toward a resolution without you taking any action.;
, Being the subject of a rumor can be distracting. This can cause other aspects of your life to suffer. For example, your grades at school can decline, you can’t concentrate at your job, or you’re having trouble sleeping.You can get a tutor to help you focus on your school work or ask your teacher for assistance.
Use the time to start new work projects. Something new will focus your attention and distract you from the negative situation you are going through.
 If you are the target of rumors you need to keep a written log detailing each time something happens. Hopefully, the rumors will stop, but if they continue you will have the evidence to show to someone who will help you. A reporting system including a written compilation of occurrences is essential for any program trying to prevent bullying incidents like rumor spreading.Use a notebook or writing pad to write the following:


The date and location of the incident.
What was said and who said it.
Indicate if the communication was in person, on the phone, in a text or on a social media channel, or written in a letter.
Take photos to document items if appropriate.
 Most people will be reasonable if given the chance. Being open to a reasonable compromise aids the resolution process.Appeal to a person’s sense of fair play.


Regardless of whether you or someone you know is the target of a rumor, approach the instigator and say something like, “Hey _____, you know it’s not fair what you’re saying about _____. Come on. Think about it. You should stop.”
The person’s response will vary. For example, if the person is reasonable they will accept what you are saying and change their behavior. On the other hand, the person can look at you in a crazed way and says, “Oh, you want to make me stop? Huh? What are you going to do about it?”
If the person stops, then you can thank him for being a good guy.
If the person has an inflamed reaction, then try to diffuse his negativity. You can say something like, “Hey, I was just trying be peaceful about this.” You need to remove yourself from the situation as soon as possible if someone threatens you. Report the incident to someone in authority like a teacher, counselor, parent or law enforcement in extreme situations.
 It is hard not to get caught up in rumors and the associated drama. You have the choice to either add to the problem or stop yourself from participating. When you hear others starting rumors or causing more drama, speak up and tell the person that you aren’t going to be part of it.


Being a role model for others can help them develop positive traits, and motivate you to do great things in your life.