 Conduct and statements made during a compromise negotiation are not admissible at trial to prove your liability.Also, any offers to pay for medical expenses may not be used at trial to establish liability for an injury.Courts exclude this evidence because they want to encourage settlement negotiations. If you were worried that your offer of a settlement could be used against you in court, then you might never agree to settle.
 Because the courts want to encourage people to seek legal advice, they prohibit the introduction of any statement made to an attorney for the purpose of seeking legal advice when the attorney is acting in a professional capacity (as opposed to acting as your friend). Also, the client must intend that the statement be private.The attorney-client privilege can be waived—and waived inadvertently. If you tell your attorney something in public and it is overhead, then the witness can testify to what you said., To promote spousal harmony, courts will exempt spouses from being forced to testify against each other. Also, they will exclude statements made between spouses.


The communications privilege allows you to throw out any statement you made to your spouse. Although your spouse may still testify about other matters—e.g., what he observed—he cannot testify as to what you told him.
The testimonial privilege allows you to keep your spouse from testifying completely, about any matter. In federal court, however, the testifying spouse holds the privilege; that is, if she wants to testify, then you cannot stop her., The government also wants to encourage police to adhere to the Constitution when gathering evidence. Under the “exclusionary rule,” courts will throw out evidence seized without a search warrant to induce compliance. This is a complicated area of law, but you can learn the general rule.


Generally, to use evidence at trial, police must seize it pursuant to a valid search warrant. If police grab it without a valid warrant, you can move before trial to have the evidence suppressed.
There are many exceptions to the valid warrant requirement. For example, if the warrant was defective but police relied on it in a good faith belief that it was valid, then the evidence is admissible. Furthermore, if you consent to a search then the evidence will be admissible.
Evidence is also admissible if it is gathered incident to a valid arrest, was in plain view of the police officers, or was discovered while the officers were in “hot pursuit” of the suspect.
Also, evidence seized by private parties (not the police) is admissible if turned over to the police.
 If you are interrogated when you are under arrest, the police must give you four Miranda warnings: you have the right to remain silent; if you say anything, it can be used against you in a court of a law; you have the right to an attorney; and, if you can’t afford an attorney, one will be provided for you.Failure to give even one warning can keep the prosecution from introducing the statements in their case-in-chief.


Any statement you make could, however, be introduced to impeach you should you testify.
If you allege a constitutional violation, an oral objection at trial is not enough. You should also file a pretrial motion. If you do not file a pretrial motion, then the issue could be forfeited on appeal.

