 Your basic sandwich is generally made with bread, on a roll or in a wrap. If you're going to choose one of these items or something similar, boost the nutrition of your sandwich by choosing whole grains.


Whole grains are a more nutrient-dense and healthier option compared to refined grains (like white bread). They're less processed and contain all the parts of the grain.Whole grains are typically much higher in fiber, minerals and even protein compared to refined grains. Breads high in fiber keep you full longer and therefore helps stop snacking. Snacking can result in overeating, which can contribute to obesity.
If you're going to choose an item like bread, a wrap, English muffin, bagel, flatbread or deli thin, go for 100% whole grains.
Look at the food label to make sure your item is 100% whole grain. The ingredient label should list only 100% whole wheat or 100% whole grain flour.;
, If you want to minimize your bread intake or just try something a little different, consider using a tortilla or a wrap. You can wrap up your sandwich fillings for a quick meal.


Both tortillas and wraps are flat and are not as high in carbohydrates or calories compared to many types of bread or rolls. They're also a little bit less filling since they're just less food overall.Again, choose 100% whole grain if you can. Many corn tortillas are automatically whole grain as well.
Be wary of what size wrap you buy. Many come in 6", 8" or even 12". The bigger they are, the more likely it'll count as two servings of grains. Stick to a 6" wrap to minimize calories and carbohydrates.
 Many bread companies are jumping on the low calorie, low carbohydrate band wagon by developing "deli or sandwich thins." These are rolls or bread that are very thin, low in calories and carbohydrates.


These deli thins are a great substitute for regular bread. Many companies make them in 100% whole grain versions, have added fiber and protein.Sandwich thins are also usually low in calorie as well. Some may only have about 100 calories for both pieces. This may be lower than other breads or rolls you've used in the past.
Again, read the ingredient list to make sure that these products are truly 100% whole grain.
 Another way to add more nutrients (and fewer calories) to your sandwich is by using a lettuce wrap. This is a fun twist on a classic sandwich that can also make it healthier.


Lettuce, like other vegetables, is naturally low in calories. Many lettuces, especially dark greens, are also high in nutrients like fiber, vitamins and antioxidants.You use a lettuce wrap just like you would a tortilla. You can place your sandwich fillings and toppings in a large lettuce leaf and roll up.
Not all lettuces are great for wraps, but collard greens, Swiss chard, mustard greens, kale, butter lettuce, or iceberg lettuce all have large leaves that can be rolled.
 If you're overly concerned about calories or carbs, there is one additional method for serving your sandwich. You can try a naked or open-faced sandwich instead of the traditional sandwich.


A naked sandwich is one that doesn't have any bread or wrap. It's just the filling.
For example, you could do turkey and cheese roll ups stuffed with sliced raw vegetables.
An open-faced sandwich is one where you only use a single slice of bread. It cuts down on the calories and carbohydrates that you're consuming. These are especially great for hot sandwiches.
For example, you could make an open-faced tuna melt using only one slice of whole wheat bread.
 Most of the time you make a sandwich, you're most likely going to add some type of sauce, dressing or condiment. It adds a little moisture and extra flavor.


Be mindful of what types and how much of these condiments you add. You could start with a fairly nutritious or low-calorie sandwich and send it overboard with high-calorie or high-fat condiments.Try to choose condiments that are a little lower in calorie. Try mustard, salsa, hot sauce, horseradish, relish, hummus, reduced fat mayonnaise with olive oil, or a drizzle of olive oil and vinegar.
Make sure to measure out the appropriate portion size as well. Many are only 1 teaspoon or tablespoon per serving.
 Many sandwich fillings contain some sort of protein. Whether it's peanut butter and jelly or a ham and cheese, protein usually plays an important role; however, many protein options for sandwiches are overly high in sodium.Sandwich fillings that are frequently high in sodium include nut butters, deli meat, bacon, sausage, salami, and frozen veggie patties.
A diet high in sodium can increase your risk for high blood pressure and stroke. Sticking to lower sodium items is better for your health.Instead of traditional deli meat items, try the following lower sodium items: roasted turkey or chicken breast, low-sodium deli meat (look for this on the label) or sliced grilled steak.
Add about 3 – 4 oz of lean protein to your sandwich. This is about one serving and will help keep you satisfied.
 A nice slice of cheese really completes a sandwich. Don't skip it in favor of lower calories. Cheese can also add extra nutrients to your sandwich.


Cheese is part of the dairy food group. It contains a decent amount of calcium, Vitamin D and even has some protein.Whether or not you choose fat-free, reduced fat or full fat cheese is up to you. The calorie difference between these options is minimal. Fat-free cheese is more processed than the full fat, so you may enjoy the flavor of the full-fat.
Make sure to measure the appropriate serving of cheese. Only add one slice or about 1-2 ounces per sandwich.
 An easy way to make any sandwich or wrap a bit healthier is by adding vegetables. They can add a whole host of beneficial nutrients to your meal.Vegetables are great to add to sandwiches. They can add flavor and crunch without many added calories.
In addition, vegetables are high in fiber, vitamins and antioxidants. Adding just a few to your sandwich can really boost the overall nutritional content.
You can add any type of veggie to your sandwich. It can be as simple as lettuce and tomato or you could a little more fancy with caramelized onions and roasted red peppers.
One serving of vegetables is about 1 cup or 2 cups of leafy greens. You probably won't be able to get an entire serving on a sandwich, but aim for about 1/2 serving.
 If you enjoy the traditional BLT, you may also love a BALT — or a BLT that has avocado. It's a simple twist on a classic, but something you're bound to love.


Start by toasting two pieces of 100% whole grain bread. You can also use 100% whole wheat wrap as well.
Spread 1 tablespoon of low-fat, olive oil based mayo on one side of the toast or wrap.
Top with three to four slices of cooked bacon (it should be around 3 oz), two to three leaves of romaine lettuce and one to two thick slices of a ripe tomato.
Last, top with 1/2 of a thinly sliced avocado. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and either roll up your wrap or top with the remaining slice of bread.
 If you're looking for a vegetarian based wrap, try this Mediterranean wrap. It's packed full of vegetables and makes for a great, high-fiber meal.


Start with a 8" 100% whole wheat wrap. Spread on about 3 – 4 tablespoons of your favorite hummus. Evenly spread the hummus over the entire wrap.
Then top with 1/2 of an avocado that's been sliced very thinly. Sprinkle with a little salt and pepper to taste.
Then layer on: 1/4 cup of sliced roasted red peppers, 2 tablespoons of diced black olives, 1/4 cup of thinly sliced cucumbers and 2 tablespoons of crumbled feta cheese.
Roll up your wrap tightly. Slice in half and enjoy.
 Cut down on your carbohydrate intake by making spicy salmon lettuce cups. Using sweet, cup-shaped butter lettuce is a great substitute for bread in this recipe.


Start by laying out two leaves of butter lettuce. Try to use the bigger, outer leaves. You can also use iceberg lettuce leaves as well.
Fill each lettuce cup with about 1/3 cup of canned salmon (you can also use tuna in the recipe as well).
Lightly drizzle about 1 teaspoon of your favorite hot sauce on top of each salmon cup. You can add more if you like things more spicy.
Also top each of your salmon cups with about 1/4 cup of pico de gallo, 1 teaspoon fresh cilantro chopped and salt and pepper to taste.
 A warm, cheesy tuna melt is a great sandwich. Keep it portion controlled by using whole wheat English muffins instead of traditional sandwich bread.


Start by separating the halves of a whole wheat English muffin. Toast until your desired doneness.
While your English muffin is toasting, mix together a 3.5 oz can of tuna with 2 tablespoons of low-fat mayo with olive oil, 1 tablespoon of relish, and salt and pepper to taste.
Scoop half of the tuna salad onto one side of the English muffin. Repeat with the remaining tuna salad and English muffin half.
Top each half with 1 tablespoon of shredded cheddar cheese. Place under the broiler for about 30 – 60 seconds or until the cheese melts.

