 This way, you'll know exactly how much fabric you need.


Make sure to measure both wide and long. Though the shade will likely not cover the length of the entire window, you'll need to choose how much of the window will be covered.

This version of the Roman shade is immobile. Determine how much light you want let in before you begin working.
 It's best to use fabric scissors for this part.


Cut a section that's 2 inches (5 cm) wider than your window. This extra length is for the hem on each side.
Cut a section that's at least 2/3 longer than the length of the window you want covered. If you want 18 inches (46 cm) covered, allot 30 inches (76 cm) -- this accounts for the looping of the Roman shade style.
 Preventing fraying will increase the longevity of your work and ensure a more uniform look.


Each side should be 1 inch (2.54 cm) -- the extra material allotted from before.
Use iron-on, no-sew tape as an alternative to a needle and thread.
 2 inches (5 cm) is a sturdy width.


The length of the wood should match the width of your shade.
If you don't have a saw (or prefer not to use one), most home improvement stores will cut it for you.
 This eliminates the need for a curtain rod.


Drill holes (left, right, center) matching the size of the screws you have.
 Raw wood will draw negative attention when seen from the sides. Use whatever medium you have available.


Spare pieces of fabric (secure with glue or colored duct tape)
Paint
Beads (secure with glue)

, Use colored duct tape or glue to make it nice and sturdy.


Where the wood meets the fabric will be facing the window, at the bottom. This part will not be visible.
Make sure your fabric is facing the right direction!

, Gather the fabric into pleats, looping and folding back. Each loop should hang lower than the one before. They can be as large or small as you desire. Around 5 inches (12.7 cm) apart is standard.


Place your shade on the floor. To keep it straight, you can refer to a rug or square tiles, if available.
Use a ruler if you're feeling meticulous. The loops on the left and right need to be the same size.
 Make sure to do this from the back of the shade, so the pins aren't visible.


Don't grab too much fabric from the front. This could pucker the fabric and draw attention to the pins.
Place three pins in each loop -- left, right, and center.
If your loops are different sizes or your pins are uneven, redo them before you get any further.
Pin the bottom of the shade. Any hanging material should be the last loop.
 Lift up the material and screw the wood into the wall, using your three pre-drilled holes.


The fabric should drape over the front, obscuring the screws and wood from view.
Make any small alterations once hung. If you are happy with the finished product, you may tack the material and remove the pins.

Tacking could produce puckering.