 Amano shrimp can adapt to most environments in an aquarium; they can live in a small tank of 5 gallons (a little more than 18.92 litres), but they thrive best in a larger tank of 10 gallons (about 37.85 litres).

Make sure that your tank is planted, as these shrimp love planted tanks; they love objects that catch detritus in the water. They eat the mess in the plants, making your tank a lot cleaner.
Amano shrimps prefer plants such as moss or marimo moss balls. They hang onto them and eat as well as clean your tank.;
, Amano shrimp are vulnerable to water fluctuations and predators. They need their tank mates to be peaceful and not extremely aggressive. Tank mates should also be able to survive the same environment as the Amano shrimp.

If you are looking to breed Amano shrimp, then you should have brackish water ready (half salt-water, half fresh-water), but they are also able to survive fresh water too.
Don't add any fish that would try to harm Amano shrimp or their fry. They are very vulnerable; even the smallest species of tetra could gobble on a baby Amano shrimp.
 The water quality is a key part to an Amano shrimp's survival. They need clean water with the right pH. They also need the ammonia, nitrate and nitrite to be kept at an all time low.

They require their pH to be between 6.5-7.5; a little lower than 7.3 is ideal as this is the pH in where they thrive.
They require the water hardness to be 8.0 dkh. They need to have their water changed at least 20-30% once a week or twice a week to be on the safe side.
 Amano shrimp need their filter to give flow as this will help detritus get trapped in plants and they will eat it. They also need correct water flow to swim with ease. You should never get a filter with a big intake, as fry will easily get inside and die.

Because sponge filters have an intake so small, they are an ideal filter for Amano shrimp fry, juveniles and adults.
You may think that you don't need a sponge filter for adults, but this will make feeding cost less as they will not need that much food. They will get their food from the sponge on the filter as they like a cheap and easy meal.
 Amano shrimp are omnivores and they love to eat anything that comes near their mouths. They poke around on driftwood to clean it from the bio-film. They also eat a lot of algae; they will always be on the look-out for plant matter or any other organic matter that is available.

You can supplement an Amano shrimp's diet if it eats too much of the waste in your tank (this can actually happen). They will eat blanched zucchini or any other soft vegetable, and algae wafers are a favorite.

