 These include:


Don't butt into other players' roleplays. This means you should not randomly start roleplaying with someone uninvited, always ask the RP group before joining. People hate it when you enter without asking.
Use decent spelling and grammar. While this doesn't sound as important, but it does help. Using better spelling and grammar usually gives the impression that you're experienced, or mature; therefore making people want to roleplay with you.
Don't god-mod. For those of you that don't know what the term "god-mod" means; god-modding is basically making yourself undefeatable, or extremely powerful in a roleplay. The act of god-modding (Or "GMing") is looked down upon, and very much hated.
 This part will help you learn this simple language. These signs include, but are not limited to:


Parenthesis ()
Quotation Marks "
Asterisks *
Hyphens -;
, They are usually referred to as "Roleplay Language". This Part will help you understand the simple RP language, starting with OOC.


OOC is the most known part of RP Language; OOC stands for "Out Of Character". The situation you should use OOC is if you're saying something as yourself and not as the character you are portraying. In simpler terms, chat outside of roleplay.

Example of OOC: "Hey, what's up?" (Lol, that was a bad introduction.) ---- This is how you use OOC.
Another explanation, OOC is what separates the real world from the Roleplay world. OOC is by far the most important of the symbols used IRP (In Roleplay).
 Quotation marks are non-essential parts of a roleplay, mainly used to make it better. For people who use quotation marks, they are the most used symbol of them all. Quotation marks should be used when speaking in the Roleplay, here is an example: "Hello, my name is Aeric." You don't need to use this step because it is optional

, This is an asterisk: *. A hyphen is simply a replacement for the asterisk, it can be used in place of it. It's simply for people who want to use - instead of *.


Asterisks are used when performing an action in roleplay. This is why this little star is so important. Without asterisks, some people won't know if you're talking or performing an action.
Despite the asterisk's importance, they are one of the easiest symbols to remember to use, and master.
Here is an example of how to use an asterisk: "Whoa, what is that?" *I peek around the corner, looking at the bright light.*

, Again, roleplaying can be extremely addictive and fun. You are almost guaranteed to make tons of friends. To roleplay, you don't have to stick to the specific story and personality of who you're roleplaying! Be creative, make up a new personality; Mario doesn't always have to be the hero, he can be a villain if you want him to. Don't stick to a specific story or personality because you feel you have to. No, that would be no fun. Part of the enjoyment of roleplaying is making your own story.

