 Usually, the top of the report or statement lists the time period.;
, The balance sheet lists the assets and liabilities of the company.


Take a look at how the balance sheet is set up. The assets will be listed on the right, and the liabilities on the left.
Read the assets. Assets include cash, investments, property and other things owned by the company that have value. The assets are listed in order of liquidity. The most liquid assets, such as cash, are presented first.
Review the liabilities. Liabilities are debts or obligations that the company owes to others. These include rent, payroll, taxes, loan payments and money owed to other vendors or contractors.
Notice the difference between current liabilities and long term liabilities. Current liabilities are things that will be paid off within a year. Long term liabilities will take more than a year.
 This will show you how much money the company earned over the specified period of time. Any money that was spent in earning that income will also be reflected.


Read the top line, which should say "sales" or "gross revenue." This reflects the amount of money the company made by providing its products or services, before any expenses are deducted.
Review the operating expenses. These include the costs of doing business, such as salaries and advertising.
Notice the depreciation line. This reflects the cost of an asset over the amount of time it can be used by the company.
Check the operating profit, which is the amount of money the company made after the operating expenses are deducted.
Look at the amount of interest that was earned and paid. These amounts added (interest income) and subtracted (interest paid) from the operating profit total.
Check the amount of income tax that was subtracted.
Read the last line of the income statement. This reflects the net profit or loss.
 This will tell you how much cash the company has available. It will also track the money coming in and out of the company during the specified time.


Read about the operating activities first. This section analyzes how the company's cash was used in order to reach its net profit or loss.
Check the investment activities. This part of the cash flow statement shows any income from investments or assets that were sold.
Look at the financing activities. This tracks what the company did to pay back or acquire things such as bank loans.
 Accounting professionals will often provide a paragraph that provides an overview of the financial report.
 There are usually back-up or supporting documents available, such as receipts and invoices, that help explain transactions.

