 One benefit of making your own dog toys is that you can control how safe they are. Whichever toys you choose to make, do not include any potentially dangerous items (ribbons, string, rubber bands, small plastic pieces) in the toy's design.If swallowed, these items could cause serious digestive problems for your dog that could require veterinary care.
Your dog could also choke on these items.;
, Small dogs love to play with stuffed animals. One way to make a stuffed animal is to place stuffing from an old stuffed animal in an old sock, and sew up the end of the sock.If you do not have an old stuffed animal, you could stuff an old sock with other old socks.If you are good at sewing, you could purchase fabric at your local fabric store (or use fabric that you already have at home) and stitch together your own stuffed animal.
When making the stuffed animal, do not include any small pieces (e.g., buttons, plastic eyes, plastic nose, detachable pieces) that your small dog could swallow.Keep a close eye on your dog if you place a squeaker in your homemade stuffed animal. If your dog finds the squeaker, he could accidentally swallow it., This is another good toy for a small dog. To make this toy, you will need an old sock, an empty plastic water bottle without the cap, and some tasty treats. Fill the water bottle with treats, and then tuck the bottle inside the sock. Tie the top of the sock in a secure knot.Because of your dog’s small size, consider using an eight ounce water bottle.
You could also cut off the top of the water bottle to create a wider opening for your dog to access the treats. If you do this, make sure the bottle’s edges are smooth before placing the bottle in the sock.
Periodically replace the treats so they don’t get stale., If your dog enjoys playing tug of war with you, then a braided tug toy would be a great homemade toy him. To make this toy, you can use either old socks, old towels, or an old fleece blanket. Cut the towel, blanket, or socks into strips and braid the strips together.Make a secure knot at each end to prevent the braid from unraveling.
Make the strips about two to three inches wide.You can make the strips as long or as short as you want, depending on how large a tug toy your small dog can handle.Fleece is very durable,making it a good material for a tug toy.
 This is a very simple toy to make at home, and can keep your small dog easily entertained. Because tennis balls would be too large for your small dog, fill the sock with ping pong balls. Make a secure knot at the open of the sock.Depending on how much your small dog likes to chew on things, he could chew on the sock enough to crack the ping pong balls inside.
Consider going to your local pet store to find small balls with which you could fill the sock.
You could also place treats inside a sock to make a homemade puzzle feeder toy., A denim dog toy is durable, which is good if your dog likes to chew and tear things apart. To make this toy, make a complete horizontal cut across one leg of a pair of old jeans.How high up the leg you make the cut is up to you.


After making the horizontal cut, make a vertical cut along the seam to lay the section out flat.Fold, not roll, the jeans section lengthwise.Create a loop with the folded jeans section, and then make a secure knot.The knot should be in the middle.
 You can use an old fleece blanket to make this toy. If you do not have fleece at home, you can purchase some at your local crafts store. Cut the fleece into strips—the length and width are up to you.Although there is not a specific number of strips to cut, a greater number of strips will make the toy thicker and puffier.


Stand the strips up on their side and line them up in a row.Run a long piece of heavy string (also available at your local crafts store) diagonally across and fully around the strips. Make a knot in the center of the strips.Repeat the same motion to create multiple knots in the center of the strips.Trim the excess string and fluff the strips.This toy is good if your small dog does not have a strong chewing tendency.
 Your small dog will need a variety of toys to prevent him from getting bored.Give him two to three toys at a time, then switch them out once a week.If you do not have enough homemade toys to rotate out this frequently, consider adding in some store-bought toys.


If your small dog tends to destroy his toys, you may need to rotate them out more frequently.
 Although dogs are generally not picky when it comes to toys,do not be surprised if your small dog prefers some toys over others. For example, he may really enjoy playing with the homemade stuffed animal, but not show much interest in the tug toy.


If you see him gravitating towards certain homemade toys, make more toys of that type.
Watching your dog will allow you to observe if (or when) your dog becomes destructive with his toys., Your small dog will love playing with his toys, but his playtime will be even more enjoyable if you are playing with him—interactive play is very important for your dog.Your homemade tug toy is great for engaging in a friendly tug-of-war game with your dog.


The other toys you make may be good for playing fetch with your dog.
Interacting with your small dog during playtime will allow him to release pent-up physical and mental energy, which will help prevent him from feeling bored or isolated.