 Each state in the U.S. sets its own requirements for individuals to be allowed to vote in that state. The requirements in Florida are pretty standard, and are as follows:You must be a resident of Florida.
You must be 18 years of age or older.
You cannot have been convicted of a felony. If you have been convicted of a felony, you may still be allowed to vote if you obtain a pardon or get some other judicial order allowing you to resume your voting rights.
You must not have been adjudicated mentally incapacitated with regard to voting. If such a decision was entered in the past, you may be allowed to vote if you get a new order from a court that reinstates your capacity to vote.
You must provide a Florida driver’s license, Florida state identification card, or social security number.;
, You may obtain a copy of the Florida Voter Registration Application in several ways. The form is the same, regardless of the method that you select. You may get a copy of the form as follows:Access and complete the form online. Visit the website of the Florida Secretary of State, and find the form at http://dos.myflorida.com/media/693757/dsde39.pdf. You can either print the form and complete it by hand, in black ink, or type your responses on the computer and then print the completed form.
Visit any Florida driver’s license office to get a copy of the registration form. You may complete the form and submit it right there at the office.
Visit any voter registration agency. These are places of public accommodation that have been authorized to provide voter registration services. These agencies include any office that provides public assistance, any office that primarily serves people with disabilities, any military recruitment office, and any public library.
Get a form from any agency that is authorized to issue fishing, hunting or trapping licenses.
 However and wherever you get the application form, the information that you need to provide will be the same. You need to complete the form, either typed or handwritten in black ink, by providing the following information:.


certification that you have not been convicted of a felony or adjudicated incompetent to vote (this is just a box for you to check)
name
address
date of birth
Florida driver’s license or identification card number, OR final four digits of your social security number
address where you were last registered to vote, if any
political party affiliation
race or ethnicity (providing this information is optional)
If you will need assistance with voting, you may mark a box to that effect.
 By signing the application, you are certifying that all the information is correct. It is a felony to intentionally submit false information in a voter registration application. The penalty could be a fine of up to $5,000 or imprisonment up to five years., You may submit your completed application in one of two ways, either by mail or by hand. Your “date of registration” is either the day that it is postmarked, if you mail it, or the date you turn it in, if you deliver it by hand. You must register at least 29 days before you can vote.To submit your application by mail, send it to the Supervisor of Elections for the county in which you live. A complete list of addresses for all the Supervisors of Elections is available on the second page of the registration application.
To submit your application by hand, take it to any Supervisor of Elections’ office in the state, a driver’s license office, a voter registration agency including an armed forces recruitment office, public library, or the Division of Elections.
 Within about two weeks after submitting your registration application, you should receive a voter information card in the mail from the Supervisor of Elections. If you do not receive the card, or if any information on it is incorrect, you should call the Supervisor of Elections office in your county., You may wish to check your voter status, to ensure that you are registered and to verify your political party affiliation. To do so, visit the Check Voter Status site at https://registration.elections.myflorida.com/CheckVoterStatus. You will be asked to provide your first and last name and date of birth. When you click the “Submit” button, you will be told instantly the information that is on record for your voter registration. You will also be notified where you are supposed to vote, based on your registered address., On the website of the Florida Division of Elections, you can select the link to “Election Dates.” This will let you know the dates of upcoming primary and general elections. It will also notify you of the deadlines to register to vote., The Supervisor of Elections provides informational materials about the candidates and issues that are to be decided in the election. To obtain this information, contact the Supervisor of Elections office., Early voting is an option that allows voters to vote up to ten days prior to the official election day. If you choose to vote early, you need to visit a designated early voting site. You will need a valid photo ID with a signature. You can find the link to the early voting times and locations, provided in both English and Spanish, at http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/.


You do not need to provide any reason for choosing to vote early. This is an option that is available to all registered voters.
 If you wish, you may vote by mail. Until July 1, 2016, this was referred to as “absentee voting,” but the option is now called voting by mail. You will need to get a copy of the ballot from the Supervisor of Elections for your county, follow the instructions that are contained with the ballot, and then return it to the Supervisor of Elections. The completed ballot must be returned to the Supervisor of Elections by 7:00 p.m. on election day.You do not need to provide any reason for voting by mail. This is an option that is available to all registered voters.
 When election day arrives, if you have already registered, you may visit your assigned polling place and vote. If you do not know your polling place, you can call the Supervisor of Elections for your county or check the polling place on the Check Voter Status site.When you arrive at the polling place, you will be asked to state your name and address and provide a valid photo ID, with a signature. If you do not have a valid ID, you will be provided a provisional ballot. This ballot will count as long as the signature on the provisional ballot matches the signature that you provided when you registered.
 Anyone who needs help or support with voting is entitled to receive personal help. You will be asked to fill out a declaration stating that you need assistance, but you are not required to disclose the nature of your disability.All polling places are required to be accessible to all voters. If you encounter any problems or have any difficulty in voting, notify the Supervisor of Elections or the Florida Agency for Persons with Disabilities.

