 You may find that dishes with less fat, sodium, and sugar don’t seem as flavorful; however, you can expand your palate and learn to appreciate the taste of foods more fully by using herbs and spices to bring out flavors.Experiment with different herbs to find some you favor. Spices are also usually healthy, though make sure a mixed spice isn’t mostly salt.
 Cheese is one of the most commonly consumed sources of saturated fat, and is high in sodium and calories as well. When a recipe calls for cheese, use a low-fat version. Look for cheeses with less than 3 grams of fat per serving. If you do use full-fat cheese, use less of it than the recipe calls for. Often, half the cheese called for will usually be sufficient.Sharp cheddar and parmesan are generally decent options. You can also get away with using less of these cheeses more easily, since they are stronger in flavor.
When a recipe calls for cream cheese, use fat-free cream cheese blended in a one-to-one ratio with plain Greek yogurt. This is especially preferable for dips.
 If you’re in the habit of eating comfort food frequently, try to cut back. Plan a comfort dish for the end of the week and look forward to it. To prevent cravings for unhealthy food in the first place, eat high-protein, high-fiber meals that are low in sugar. These are the best types of meals to keep you full.Further, whenever hunger strikes, drink a full glass of water. Often, people mistake thirst for hunger and wind up consuming unnecessary calories.
 Get in the habit of eating dishes like mac and cheese alongside at least an equal-sized portion of veggies. For instance, carrots, broccoli, and cauliflower are easy to steam, and taste great with cheesy or meaty side-dishes. If you prefer, mix veggies directly into whatever less-healthy food you've been dreaming about., When you do indulge in a comfort food of questionable nutritional value, get in the habit of eating smaller amounts. One way to do so is by eating mindfully. Sit down to eat, and focus only on your food. In fact, focus on each bite. Consider how each mouthful tastes and feels. Since this practice itself will calm you down, you’ll feel content more quickly.