 Regardless of which dog registry you are considering, it is important for you to understand the benefits of dog registration. For example, registering your dog provides valid proof that you are his owner.Obtaining this proof is one of the first steps towards becoming a responsible pet owner.If your dog is purebred, registering him helps ensure that his pedigree remains intact from one generation to the next.Purebred dog registries provide other benefits, such as maintenance of birth records.You can still enjoy the benefits of dog registration even if your dog is not purebred. Registries such as the Dog Registry of America and the National Hybrid Registry accept non-purebred dogs.Remember that registration is not proof of breed quality.This is more applicable if you are looking to purchase a purebred dog, rather than registering your own.
If you are only interested in registering your dog for proof of ownership, then getting an Identichip/microchip implanted in your dog is best. If your dog gets lost and is picked up by a rescue, the shelter will scan the chip, pick up the unique number, and be able to reunite the two of you.;
, The three most reputable and well-known all-breed registries in North America are the AKC, the United Kennel Club, and the Canadian Kennel Club.It may be helpful to start your search with these registries to determine if your dog is eligible for registration.


The website http://www.dogbreedinfo.com/dogregistry/dogclubsregistries.htm provides a comprehensive list of dog registries for both purebred and non-purebred dogs.
If you have a service dog, consider registering him with a service dog registry, such as the United States Service Dog Registry.Some dog breeds are so rare that they are not listed on the more common dog registries. The American Rare Breed Association has a registry for rare dog breeds (e.g., wirehaired Vizsla, miniature American shepherd).There are also breed-specific registries, such as the registry associated with the Australian Shepherd Club of America., Not all dog registries are created equal. Dog registries that primarily cater to puppy mills are not reputable and should be avoided. Also, be suspicious of dog registries that do not require a valid proof of pedigree.


Do not use dog registries that require only a photo of your dog as proof of his pedigree.
Reputable dog registries are non-profit organizations. Be wary of dog registries that are for-profit companies.
Avoid dog registries that do not have a code of ethics or set of standards that registrants must follow.
Some online registries may be especially unscrupulous by charging unreasonably high fees or disappearing after receiving your payment.Consider speaking with your veterinarian, other dog owners, or a reputable breeder for recommendations on respectable registries.
 Although the application format itself will vary from one dog registry to another, the required information is generally the same. For example, you will need to provide your contact information and specific information about your dog (breed, name, sex, date of birth).Other registration requirements may include information about your dog’s breeder, photos of your dog, and a three-generation pedigree certificate.Requesting the three-generation pedigree certificate will probably require additional payment.To register your dog through the AKC, you will need to obtain the registration application from the breeder from whom you purchased your dog.If you are registering your service dog, you will likely need to provide valid proof of your disability.If payment is required, be aware that your payment may be nonrefundable.Some dog registries will have applications that you can fill out and submit online. For others, you may have to download the application from their website and fill it out by hand.
 The length of time between submitting your application and receiving your dog’s official registration certificate will vary between dog registries. For example, the registration process usually takes about three weeks for the AKC.Consider contacting the registry if its website does not provide information on when you can expect to receive the registration certification following submission of the application.
 It is important to carefully read through the information on your dog’s registration certificate. Contact the registry if you notice any errors or inaccuracies on the certificate.