 A simple way to redirect a conversation away from politics is by making a joke that is completely apolitical. By making a joke, you’ll make it easier to change the conversation and lighten the mood.


Consider joking about a well-known topic of popular culture, like the New England Patriot’s Deflategate. For example, say something like "You know, I'd rather vote for Tom Brady than either of the candidates."
Craft your joke so it’s not offensive and does not involve any other taboo conversation subjects, like race, ethnicity, or religion.
Think about making a humorous comment about an experience of your own., During a conversation about politics, you’ll likely find the opportunity to subtly change the topic of conversation. By changing the topic of conversation, you’ll be able to avoid directly talking about politics.


Change the conversation based on a related fact. For example, if someone is talking about a candidate from Iowa, share your experience about traveling through the state. Consider talking about how you visited the giant ball of yarn or the baseball field depicted in Kevin Costner’s Field of Dreams.
Redirect the conversation based on timing. For instance, if an election is coming up try to change the topic of the conversation to what you’re doing on election night or the weekend before the election. You might just find that other people will be more interested in talking about recreational activities than politics., Sometimes your redirecting may not work. When this happens, you want to withdraw from the conversation so you don’t appear as if you’re trying to force a change in discussion.


Time any redirect appropriate. Make sure there is a smooth natural transition in the conversation before trying. For instance, wait until someone has spoken and there is a pause in the conversation.
Never interrupt someone or cut them off when they are about to speak.
Don’t change the topic of conversation to something completely about yourself. Your coworkers may think you’re self-obsessed.