 Drinking more fluids will help you to flush out the bacteria from your bladder and urethra and prevent your UTI from getting worse. This can help lessen discomfort or pain caused during urination.


Drink enough fluid for your urine to be light yellow. The urine may not be clear no matter how much you drink, and may instead be cloudy from the infection or light bleeding. Strive for urine that is light straw yellow.Drinking plenty of fluids will also flush bacteria out of your bladder and help speed the healing process.;
, Certain foods will irritate your bladder and make you want to urinate more often. Try to avoid the four Cs: caffeine, carbonated beverages, chocolate, and citrus.While you have a UTI, eliminate these foods from your diet. Reintroduce them into your diet slowly after the pain and the urge for frequent urination has gone away.
 Cranberry and blueberry are helpful when you have a UTI because they contain elements that will help the bacteria not stick to the walls of the bladder or urethra. This helps reduce inflammation, infection, and recurring infections.


Try to get cranberry and blueberry juice with as much percentage of juice as possible. There is pure, 100% cranberry juice available, so try to find it. Also look for juices without added sugars or high fructose corn syrup. Cranberry juice cocktail can have as little as 5% juice, but up to 33%, as well as artificial or added sweeteners and won’t help as much as 100% pure cranberry or blueberry juices. Try to get the purest form you can.
You can also take cranberry extract as a pill supplement. This is a good alternative if you want to reduce the amount of sugar you ingest.Make sure to follow the supplement directions.
Don’t use the supplement if you are allergic to cranberry juice. Speak with your doctor before taking a supplement if you are pregnant, nursing, or planning a pregnancy.
Don’t take a cranberry supplement or drink cranberry juice if you are taking a blood thinner, such as Warfarin.Cranberry juice and extract can be used during an infection and as a preventative measure.
 Ginger tea can help alleviate the inflammation. It can also help reduce any nausea you feel. You can also take a supplement. Cooking with ginger spice doesn’t have the same effectiveness as a tea or supplement because it doesn’t provide the same concentrated amount.


Check with a pharmacist or physician if you have medical conditions or are taking medications before incorporating ginger into your diet. It can interact with certain medications and supplements.
Ginger can cause mild heartburn and diarrhea if taken in high doses. A high dose is considered more than two cups of tea per day or more than the recommended amount of supplements.
Don’t take ginger root, ginger tea, or supplements if you have gallstones, will have surgery soon, are pregnant, breastfeeding, or intend to become pregnant without discussing with your doctor. Don’t take ginger root, tea, or supplements if you have a bleeding disorder or are taking blood thinners.