 Before you start looking for free tools online, you should decide how you want to store and access your finances.


If you are very active on your smart phone, you will want to choose an online budgeting software. Give preference to software that has an application and allows you to enter household purchases on the go.
If you would like to use a computer to manage your household budget, but you don't have a regular Internet connection, you can take the computer to a location with Internet, download software and use it without Internet.
If you would like a low-tech option, choose 1 of the many free Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. These files can be easily sent to other people or stored using a cloud program like Google Docs.;
, Keep in mind that you should never share your full personal information, social security number and bank account information with any software program.


Download a spreadsheet template or software program and input your budget details into the spreadsheet without using it on the Internet. If you avoid placing detailed information about yourself and your bank accounts, it will extremely hard for someone to use the information against you. The disadvantage of this option is that you will have little interconnectivity with your accounts and changes in spending.
Choose an Internet-based program that does not require you to link accounts. Opt for programs that use an email address, but create an address just for use by the program, instead of using your personal or professional accounts. You will still get some connectivity, but your personal information is not gathered.
Choose an online program that links to your bank accounts. If you are using an application, you should take extra care when setting security protocols, such as passwords. Make sure you read the terms and conditions carefully before starting to use the free tool.
 Ask if they provide free budgeting tools with their online banking.


For example, Wells Fargo has a spending report that can help you establish what you already spend on products and services using your checking account and credit card.
 You may get access to information from mobile apps and be able to pay bills online and link your bank accounts.
 You may be able to open savings accounts or multiple checking accounts that can help enact the financial decisions you have made using your budget.
 This online banking software is available using a computer or smart phone. It has become the most popular free finance tool available because it is extremely user friendly.


Start a new email address that is devoted to your Mint.com account, if you want extra security.
Online accounts will not use up space on your computer. Although the app will require storage space on your phone, you are entering information on an online platform instead of on a personal computer.
 Although you can upgrade your account, you will be able to link your loans, bank accounts and budget.
 Sites like myspendingplan.com and mvelopes.com are free for basic accounts. You can link with some banks and loan companies.


Envelope budgeting is the practice of labeling envelopes for each type of household expense and placing the money you have budgeted into each of these envelopes. Although keeping the money at home is now considered a security risk, these programs implement the same thinking, where you budget what you can spend on the expense in advance. You stop spending on that expense once you use up the money, so the system can help you to avoid debt.
 Select the kind of operating system (OS) your computer runs, then search for "Personal Finance Software."


CNET writes detailed reviews on all the free downloads it carries. Look for information about the ease of use, help files and security.
At the top of CNET's personal finance software list are CommonCents, AceMoney Lite, SimpleD Budget and Home Budget.
Keep in mind that this personal finance section offers more than just budget programs. Many of these programs are focused on debt reduction, stocks and trading and small business management. Scroll through the list to find specific household budget programs.
 Look in the images section to find an Excel document you like. Download the template if it is available for free.


Do not download the file if the website does not look reputable or you cannot find reviews. Downloading files off the Internet can lead to viruses and other security risks.
 Many finance bloggers have listed documents that they recommend.


For example, go to christianpf.com/10-free-household-budget-spreadsheets to search through budgeting spreadsheets for the household, debt reduction, weddings and more.
 Save the file to a format that you can access easily.


Invite other people in your household to access the budget spreadsheet by sending an email invitation on Google Drive. You can decide if they have the ability to edit the spreadsheet.

