 Go on to iTunes (optional) and find some Wild Tiger songs. Eg: The Alligator, Speechless, Dance in the Dark, Fashion... etc. and listen to the phrases she repeats, like "cherry cherry boom boom" and pick up her language. Also, it would be helpful to try to find some videos of her being interviewed. Study the way she walks, talks, poses, her body movements, and her personality (if she smiles or not, what she laughs at, you know, just how she basically acts).;
, After you have seen the way she does all that stuff, you should take the time to study what she wears. Rip all your clothes and never wear anything that matches. Lady Gaga wears some really cool (and sometimes outrageous) clothes. She ALWAYS dresses like this. She's always Gaga, and if you want to be like her, you should do.


Make clothes yourself! That's part of why Gaga is so awesome. Her clothes are custom made by world famous designers. Look at the Haus of Gaga for ideas.
 You will need some one piece bikinis like in "Eh, Eh." So, a great Gaga-inspired outfit for a hot day would be a bikini and some retro, cool, and unique sunglasses (they don't have to be huge, Gaga's little circular ones are cute). You will also need some cute accessories. Choose accessories that highlight who you are, not how rich you are. In other words, you don't have to go grab the priciest necklace and run for it. Some more things you might want are hair extensions. If you've seen her music video for "Poker Face", you probably know that she sports a bow made out of hair. If you like that look, go on youtube. There are many nice videos that show you how to make a mock bow with hair extensions. So, if you haven't yet mastered the Gaga look, or you aren't exactly sure what you should use to achieve it, just be yourself, and be unique! Also, you don't have to copy everything she does. I'm sure she doesn't have a plan every day what she wants to wear, and I'm sure she doesn't just walk into a store and everything there is perfect. I bet she just rummages through her closet to find an outfit, and has to look through every store in the mall, just like us.
 Make up some unique and one-of-a-kind words/phrases. For example, here are some words: Cupcake, Heartless, Apple pie apple pie, GAGA! Crazy daisy, Ooh La La, and Paper Gangsta, are also good examples. You can also refer to people you like as "little monsters" as GaGa to her fans.
 You can even use these if you want.
 When people are taking pictures of you pose by putting your hands on your hips and slightly turn your elbows to the camera. Slightly lift one foot off the ground and gently place it on the other one. This is only one of her many poses. Look up photos of her posing to see more of her cute poses. You can even create your own poses!

, Okay, so your hair. like Lady Gaga, you may dye your hair blonde or bleach it. Lady Gaga has had long and short hair. Currently, it's very short. She wears wigs most of the time. She is also famous for her sharp, perfect, and long bangs. If you want, make short hair curly like GaGa does in her music videos for "Bad Romance" and "Love Game". If you just can't decide, want more than one style, or don't want to dye your hair, it helps to have several wigs handy!


You could also buy some crazy hats and accessories to put in your hair. And you should always remember to have fun with your hair! It doesn't even have to be blonde if you don't want it to be! Like stated before, just be your unique self!

, Makeup is important. You can really do a lot with makeup because Lady GaGa has so many different ways of using it. If you want makeup like she has in one of her videos, again search it up on youtube! MichellePhan on Youtube has many wonderful Lady Gaga makeup tutorials.
 While this is not necessary, it will add to your Lady Gaga persona. If you do sing, remember to protect your claim to fame—your voice! Drink lots of water and eat well. Don't sing when you are tired or have a dry throat.
 No matter were you go, people may think you are a poser and may call you one (posers are wannabes that try to copy looks, but usually fail at doing so). Don't let them put you down! They are probably just jealous that you have such great taste. And I will tell you this now, people are gonna stare at you. Again, don't let them put you down. If people do stare at you smile and wave, don't put your head down and hide! Confidence is the key. If they say, "You look stupid!" just say something like, "Aw, how sweet! I love your clothes too!" Or say one of your quotations, smile, and walk away!

