 Gently apply a thin coat of petroleum jelly over your upper lash line using clean fingers or a cotton swab. You can apply it before bed, if desired, and sleep with it on, or you can apply the petroleum jelly during the day.


Petroleum jelly coats and seals each eyelash, protecting the lashes from drying agents and other harmful substances in the air. As a result, your lashes stay moisturized more effectively, thereby growing out to be stronger and healthier.;
, There are a few different oils frequently suggested, but each one works the same way by providing a protective coat over each lash, thereby blocking out drying agents or other harmful airborne debris. Oils are a natural eyelash conditioner.


Olive oil, vitamin E oil, castor oil, and emu oil rank highest on the list of recommended oils because of the nutrients they contain.
Carefully dab a small amount of oil along the upper lash line using a cotton swab. If applying before bed, let them dry slightly before you go to sleep.
 Egg whites are packed with protein. Some people wash their hair with an egg white treatment regularly, and to the same end, you can use egg whites on your eyelashes to fortify and strengthen them.Mix one separated egg white with equal parts castor oil.
Use a lash brush or cotton swab to apply roughly two drops of this mixture to the right and left upper lash lines.
 Applying a commercial lash conditioner or accelerator on a daily basis can cause your lashes to look longer and healthier in only a few weeks' time.


The specific ingredients found in these products vary depending on the brand, but they often include things like peptides, vitamins, and aloe, or other nutrients that can help your lashes becomes stronger and longer.
 A balanced diet should keep all your bodily functions running properly, including the body's ability to grow eyelashes. For an added boost, though, make sure to consume plenty of B-complex vitamins, especially biotin. Some dieticians claim that B vitamins can help eyelashes and the hair on your head grow.In fact, some evidence suggests that a biotin deficiency is one possible cause of premature or rapid eyelash loss.
Biotin can be found in natural food sources, including nutritional yeast, liver, cauliflower, salmon, bananas, carrots, egg yolks, sardines, legumes, and mushrooms.
You should also look at getting more silicon into your diet to promote better hair growth overall. Silicon can be found in asparagus, cabbage, cucumbers, olives, green beans, beer, rice, and oats.
 Many standard times of mascara can make your eyelashes look great, yet ultimately damage them. Eyelash primer should be used beneath these lashes to protect them from the harsh ingredients of your mascara and eyeliner


Look for primers that contain pro-keratin. This nutrient can protect and strengthen each eyelash you apply it to.
 As a general rule, less is more when it comes to mascara and eyelash health. The less often you use mascara, the quicker and stronger your eyelashes will grow. When you do decide to put a little mascara on, though, there are some choices that are better than others.


If you have sensitive eyes, you might want to consider investing in hypoallergenic mascara to reduce irritation. When your eye becomes inflamed, you are more likely to lose lashes.
Avoid waterproof mascara. These formulas are very potent, and the ingredients used to get the mascara to stick to your lashes can cause damage to weak eyelashes.
When you do wear mascara—or any eye makeup, for that matter—make sure to thoroughly and completely wash your face before going to bed. All of the eye makeup should be gone. Otherwise, you could cause more damage to your eyelashes.
Remove clumps of mascara when the mascara is still wet since doing so will be far easier at this stage. Removing dried clumps may result in the loss of an eyelash or two.
Discard your old mascara after three to six months to protect your eyes and eyelashes against germs that could cause painful and/or lash-damaging infections. You should also discard mascara after you suffer an eye illness, like pink eye.
 Most people do not intentionally yank out their eyelashes, but you might be doing just that without even realizing it. Eyelash roots are especially delicate, so they can break off without much force.Tugging at your lashes with your fingers or a lash curler is a big no-no, and you should also make a conscious effort to stop rubbing your eyes.
When washing off any eye makeup, you should pat or dab at your eyelids instead of rubbing, scrubbing, or pulling.
 Brushing the hair on your head can stimulate circulation and the hair follicles beneath the scalp. In a similar manner, gently combing your eyelashes can stimulate eyelash growth.


Make sure that you do not tug your lashes as you comb them, however, since doing so could cause further damage.
 Massage stimulates the hair follicles along your lash lines, causing them to become more active and improving their ability to grow stronger eyelashes faster. It also stimulates blood flow, which can help, as well.


Gently rub along the lash line and entire eyelid using small, circular motions. Use your pinky finger to avoid applying too much pressure to the eye accidentally.
Massage for 5 to 10 minutes daily to see results.
 As previously noted, using mascara can give you the appearance of longer, fuller eyelashes, but some standard mascaras can actually do more harm than good in the scheme of things. The best type of mascara to use for eyelash grown is a lash-enhancing kind, while lengthening mascaras are the best to promote the look of longer lashes immediately.


A lash-enhancing mascara contains special lipid complexes that are actually capable of strengthening your eyelashes as it coats them. Wearing this type of mascara is less likely to damage your lash line, but you should still make sure to clean it away gently to avoid accidental damage.Volumizing or lengthening mascara can give you a great look, but if it does not contain lash-enhancing properties, using too much of it or using it too frequently can still cause damage to your lashes.
 While eyeliner spends less time clinging to your eyelashes than mascara does, it still touches your lashes at the root, giving it plenty of opportunity to help or hurt new lashes as they grow in.


A "lash grower" liquid liner should be applied directly to the base of the lash line. The peptides in the product strengthen your lashes at the base.
 Lacquer is formulated to give your eyelashes more volume and shine without becoming clumpy. If your eyelash area looks especially vacant, you can swipe some on over your favorite mascara for an added boost.


While lacquer does not damage eyelashes as much as a traditional mascara does, it can still have a negative effect if abused. For best results, use the lacquer over lash-enhancing mascara or primer.
 As you brush the cosmetic over your natural lashes, these extensions are deposited on the ends, making your eyelashes look fuller and longer.


Some of these cosmetics also contain hyaluronic acid and vitamin E, so they condition your eyelashes while giving them an added visual boost.
These cosmetics should only be applied toward the tip of your lashes, though. Applying them near the root can cause irritation, since the fibers can come loose and get into your eye.
 Some beauty salons now offer eyelash extensions. Synthetic lashes are individually glued in between your natural lashes, creating the appearance of a full, healthy lash line.


The process can take a few hours, but the results last for several weeks.
You will also need to get a 30-minute touch-up every two to three weeks if you want to keep the look going.
Sleep on your back to avoid accidentally pulling out the extensions.
One downside of eyelash extensions is that, for some women, they can actually cause your own, natural eyelashes to fall out more rapidly and ultimately thin out.
Another disadvantage of eyelash extensions is the cost. The procedure can set you back $300 or more.
 Fake eyelashes can give you the appearance of long, lovely lashes, but they usually need to be changed out daily and might cause long-term damage to your eyelashes if used too often.


The part that causes the most damage is removal. As you peel the fake eyelashes away, you might take some of your natural eyelashes along for the ride. Since you have to change your fake eyelashes so often, this damage can seriously build up over time.



The medication is applied along the upper lash line, eventually stimulating longer, thicker, and darker lashes, but you should not apply it to the lower lashes.
Usually, doctors instruct you to take the medication daily for two months or more.
Possible side effects include itchy or red eyes, dry eyes, darkened eyelids, darkened brown pigmentation in the iris, hair growth around the eyes if the medication continually runs off the eyelids and onto the surrounding skin.
 There are a variety of health conditions and disorders that could be responsible for your loss of eyelashes. If you have one of these conditions, the only real way to grow eyelashes long-term is to treat the underlying condition.


Eye infections, hypothyroidism, autoimmune diseases, eyelid inflammation, and trichotillomania are all conditions that could be to blame.
Doctors may recommend a special cleaning routine for eyelid inflammation and infections. An infection may also warrant the use of antibiotics.
Hypothyroidism needs to be treated with thyroid replacement drugs.
Trichotillomania is a psychological condition that causes you to pull your eyelashes out. You might be treated with cognitive-behavioral therapy and certain mood-stabilizing drugs.
Autoimmune diseases are often treated with various immuno-suppressants.

