 A dedicated comics store is the best place to start a collection, since there will be a large selection available, and store employees that can give you advice. Use this worldwide comic shop locator to find one nearby.;
, If there is no comic book store in your area, try to find another area with a sizable collection. Libraries won't let you build your collection, but they can be a good place to find out which comics you enjoy before spending any money. Book stores, especially ones that sell used books, often have good starter material as well.


As a last resort, you can try the magazine sections of gas stations and grocery stores, but the selection will typically be poor or nonexistent.
 If you are interested in trying out superhero comics, you might want to start with one of the DC or Marvel characters that you're already familiar with from popular culture.



Spiderman is a good introduction to the genre, while Batman is another extremely popular comic with darker themes.
For plenty of humor and action, try Captain America or Thor.
For a more complex approach, follow the large hero team X-Men, or read about the antihero Deadpool for his fourth-wall-breaking gallows humor.
 There are many other genres of comic books, but the selection may vary from store to store. Ask advice from a comic-reading friend or a comic store employee, or follow the suggestions below:


The graphic novels Watchmen and V for Vendetta, along with the Sandman series, are popular examples of comics that address more adult, intellectual themes using superhero tropes.
Japanese manga includes many sub-genres. Try this introductory guide.
Browse the store's independent publisher section or graphic novel selection to find a wide array of artistic and writing styles.
 If you truly can't decide where to begin, find the bargain bin and start buying stacks of comics for a dollar or less each. You probably won't find popular or valuable comics this way, but you may find hidden gems that spark your interest in a series.
 There's no need to start with issue 1 if the series has been going on for years. Typically, a story arch lasts for roughly 10–20 issues, and introduces you to several comics and characters. Not all story arcs are easy for beginners to jump into, so asking a store employee or comic-reading friend for advice is the best way to find a good starting point.
 Once you've found a comic book you like, there are a couple natural ways to progress your collection. A comic book series is defined by the name on the cover. If you like The New Avengers issue 25, chances are you'll also enjoy other The New Avengers issues as well. To catch a glimpse at a larger story involving characters you might not be aware of, read a story arc instead. These are "crossover events" that involve more than one series. These can vary widely in how many series are involved and how long they last. Here are two extreme examples to show the range, one of a very short story arc to track down and one that could be a significant collection challenge on its own:


The New Avengers/Transformers story arc lasted only four issues, and was published as a separate, temporary series involving only characters from those two franchises.
The Batman: Knightfall story arc took over a year to complete, and was published in staggered order throughout the series Batman, Detective Comics, Shadow of the Bat, and several other Batman-related comics., The most popular comic book characters are major protagonists in several series running at the same time, and typically exist in the same "universe" as other characters and comic book series. For example, if you're a fan of Wonder Woman, she's recently starred in the series Wonder Woman, Justice League, Superman/Wonder Woman, Smallville, and Injustice: Gods Among Us.To learn more about the world and other characters in it, you can read many more comics set in the DC universe, such as the many series that involve Batman, Superman, The Green Lantern, and others.


The largest comic book universes can be complicated, as most of them have been relaunched several times with changed features. Sometimes, the same character may exist side by side in different, but similar universes, or a "What if?" issue may show a hypothetical story that doesn't have an impact on other comics.

