 From your desktop, click "Start" then "All Programs." Look for Microsoft Lync and click on it.
 Sign in using your username and password. When the main window opens, you will see your name and presence status., Below your name is an availability menu. Click on it to set your presence status.

It is advisable that you set your status to "Busy" or "Do Not Disturb" when you’re in a meeting or when you’re sharing your screen to avoid getting disturbed.
 From your contacts list, find the person you want to talk to.

If he/she isn’t in your contacts list yet, you can search for him using the search box. Double-click on the name to start a conversation. A chat window will appear.
 If you’re meeting with more than one person or doing a presentation for a bigger audience, just add them one by one to your chat window.

You are now in a virtual conference setting.
 At the bottom of the chat window, there’s a text box. Use that to start typing your messages. Press the "Enter" key to send your message.

Everyone in your conference will see everyone’s messages.
 This option will be available in the chat window menu, An invitation will be sent to everyone in your conference.

Each one will have to accept before he can see what you’re sharing.
 You don't want to have anything not having to do with the conference open to your colleagues or clients., This options means your whole desktop will be shared. Everyone in your conference will see what you’re seeing and doing on your desktop.

Be careful when choosing this option as you may accidentally share some personal or confidential items.
 You will be asked to select which among your open programs you want to share. Usually, this will be a PowerPoint presentation or a document file., You can choose more than one., Once the file is uploaded, it will appear on the right panel of the chat window., There are various tools available on the lower left-hand side to aid in your presentation., A blank whiteboard will appear on the right panel. You can use this to draw whatever you need during your presentation, just like how you would use a real whiteboard., There are various tools available on the lower left-hand side to aid in your presentation., Once you’re done with your presentation or if you want to pause and stop sharing your screen, click on "Stop Sharing" found on the upper right-hand side of the chat window.

The right panel will be empty, and another presenter can then start sharing.
 When the meeting’s done, exit your chat window to lose your connection to the conference.