 All of the following ingredients can be added, mixed, and matched to make incredible quesadillas. You simply need to mix it all up with the cheese and then add the scoops of the filling mixture before cooking -- no other work needed!


Remember that you can mix and match cheeses, as well.
A little extra cheese never hurt anyone. Feel free to play with the ratios to find your perfect quesadilla.
 The most common addition to quesadillas is a protein of some sort -- either shredded chicken or pork, steak, or beans. Add at least one cup of bite-sized meats or beans to your cheese and enjoy. For meats, be sure to add a light seasoning, such as half a packet of taco seasoning, to get a little extra flavor.


Black or pinto beans
Chopped or shredded chicken
Mexican pulled pork
Thinly sliced flank or skirt steak.
Crumbled bacon

, Meat eaters aren't the only ones who get something more than cheese. The following veggies are perfect if you simply brown them in some oil, then toss with the cheese after they're cooked.


Mushrooms
Onions (well-caramelized)
Squash
Zucchini
Leeks
Bell peppers
Poblano peppers (roasted), Lettuce and other greens will tend to wilt unappealingly under the heat. You want to add only the vegetables that can hold their flavor and texture under the heat of cooking, such as:


Diced yellow onion
Jalapeno peppers
Fresh green peppers
Sliced avocado
Chopped garlic

, Feel free to get creative, as you can really customize the flavor of your quesadilla with just a few pinches of spice. While most of these are for a Mexican-inspired dish, you can even try out a set of Italian spices if you're using cheeses like Mozzarella or Fontina:


Cracked red pepper
Garlic powder
Paprika
Cayenne Pepper
Chili Powder
Oregano
Dried onions
Basil, rosemary, thyme

, Fresh tomatoes are incredible on top of a quesadilla, but they lose some of their punch and flavor when cooked in a pile of cheese. Seafood, as well, tends to drown out in cheese, leading to bland bites of food where there should be much more flavor (the only exception is cooked shrimp) Keep these ingredients out of the heat and you'll be much faster:


Seafood
Greens (though a thick layer of spinach can work)
Tomatoes
Cabbage
Uncooked meats

