 Instead of relying on your allowance, find ways to earn your own money. This will show your parents that you are willing to take on responsibility. If you are having difficulty finding a traditional job without having work experience, there are plenty of other ways a teenager can make money.Digitize people's paper photographs, or old home videos. Your parents' friends might not have the time to do this themselves, but they might be willing to pay you to do it for them.
Mow lawns or do yard work. This is one of the traditional ways for a teen to earn money, and it can pay pretty well if you are the outdoorsy sort.
Make your own jewelry and sell it on Etsy. You could also ask local clothing shops if they would be willing to sell your creations for a percentage of the profits.
If you excel at a particular school subject, offer to tutor younger students.
Offer coaching or lessons in anything you are good at, such as weightlifting or playing the guitar.
Work as a mother's helper, helping busy parents with housekeeping and childcare.
 Part of being an independent teen is learning to manage your own money, but it is also a big responsibility. Having your own accounts will save you money on check-cashing fees and other high-cost financial services. However, you will need to understand a few basic concepts before opening an account.Open a savings account, and don't touch it. The earlier you begin saving, the less money per day you will need to save in order to save the same amount.
Some banks offer special checking accounts for teens, with reduced fees and no minimum required balance.
Keep track of the balances in your accounts by regularly checking them online.
Memorize your bankcard PIN and online passwords, and never share them with anyone.
When you purchase something with a debit card, think of it as cash to avoid overspending., The best way to learn how to manage money is to devise a budget and stick to it. Knowing how much money you have and understanding where you spend it is the first step toward achieving financial independence.Always try to put a percentage of your money into savings, before you do anything else.Plan ahead for large expenses like gadgets or trips – know the amount you'll need and when you will need it, so you'll know how much you should be putting aside for it every week.
Keep a spending diary. Keep track of every penny you spend, and what you're spending it on. Doing this will show you where you could cut back, so you will be able to save more.

