 Some people may be at higher risk for getting Hepatitis C. Organizations such as the World Health Organization and the Mayo Clinic suggest screening for these individuals. Consider testing for Hepatitis C if you:Inject drugs.
Use intranasal drugs.
Have received infected blood products at a facility with inadequate infection control practices (usually before the 1980's).
Have had invasive medical procedures at facilities with inadequate infection control practices.
Are the child of a mother with Hepatitis C.
Have HIV.
Are or were incarcerated.;
, There is no vaccine for Hepatitis C, but taking preventative measures can minimize your risk for contracting the disease. Figuring out occasions on which you may have been exposed to Hepatitis C can help you better evaluate your risk for the disease.Think about and note any occasions on which you may have been exposed to Hepatitis C. Consider things such as where you were, what you touched, and if you required medical treatment. For example, if you were traveling to a country that doesn’t screen blood and required medical care, you may have been exposed to Hepatitis C. You may have been a Good Samaritan and helped a person in an accident. If you came in contact with any of the person’s blood, you may have been infected with Hepatitis C.Another common cause is if you receive a transplant that is coinfected with Hepatitis C. Transplant recipients who receive organs from HCV-positive donors have a high risk of acquiring HCV infection and liver disease., This can minimize your risk of not getting prompt screening for the disease. Symptoms of Hepatitis C include:Fever.
Fatigue.
Loss of appetite.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Abdominal pain.
Dark urine.
Clay-colored bowel movements.
Join pain.
Jaundice.
Bleeding or bruising easily.Itchy skin.
Swelling in the legs.
 However, 70 to 80% of individuals infected with Hepatitis C don’t have any symptoms. If you suspect you’ve been exposed to the disease, it’s important to undergo tests for a diagnosis.Consider getting tested for Hepatitis C if you have any doubt. There is no harm in getting screened, even if your risk is fairly low. This could minimize the risk of serious health conditions and prevent you from transmitting the disease to someone else.
 One of the best ways to share your concerns about the risk of contracting Hepatitis C and evaluating your risk is speaking to your doctor. A medical professional will consider various factors and determine if screening is necessary.Let your doctor know about your concerns. Inform them about known risk factors and situations in which you may have been exposed to Hepatitis C.
Ask any questions you have about the disease and things that may make you at risk for Hepatitis C.
 A person can contract Hepatitis C by coming in contact with the blood from an individual who has the disease. Most people today are infected with Hepatitis C by sharing needles or other implements to inject drugs. People infected with Hepatitis C can also transmit the disease even if they show no symptoms or are unaware they have it. Other ways that Hepatitis C spreads include:Sharing needles or syringes. Injection drug use accounts for 60% of cases.
Needlestick injuries in health care settings. Healthcare setting injuries account for less than 5% of cases.
Mother to a fetus or infant. Perinatal exposure accounts for less than 5% of cases.
Sharing personal items, such as razors, with a person who has the disease (rare).
Sexual contact with an infected person. Sexual contact accounts for approximately 15% of cases.
Unlicensed and/or unhygienic tattooing or piercing conditions (rare).
Receiving a blood transfusion of unscreened blood and blood products. Blood transfusion infection rates account for 10% of patients., Just as it’s important to know how Hepatitis C is spread, it’s also vital to know how you can’t get the disease. This can minimize your concern about contracting Hepatitis C and may help you avoid potentially uncomfortable situations. You cannot get Hepatitis C by:Sharing eating utensils.
Breastfeeding.
Hugging.
Kissing.
Holding hands.
Coughing.
Sneezing.
Sharing food or water.
Being bitten by a mosquito or insect.
 Any person can contract Hepatitis C. There are some general risk factors that may expose you to Hepatitis C. You should consider these when evaluating your own risk for the disease. The risk factors include:Injecting street drugs or past drug injection.
Receiving donated blood, blood products, or organs.
Hemodialysis patients or those who received it for a long time.
Getting a tattoo or piercing in an unsterile environment.
Being infected with HIV.
Being the child of a mother with HIV.

