 Fleas hate the small of cedar chips and tend to steer clear of them. To keep these parasites at bay, spread cedar chips around the perimeter your dog’s kennel, as well as in damp corners of the yard where fleas would thrive. For added protection, sprinkle them around the fence in your yard and near outdoor furniture.Mow over cedar chips to turn them into a fine powder that will ward off fleas.Cedar is non-toxic for dogs and only a danger as a choking hazard (i.e. if big pieces are swallowed by a dog).
 Fleas thrive in shrubs, trees, and leaves (as opposed to open grass). Keep your yard clean by mowing the lawn, raking leaves, and trimming shrubs and tree branches regularly. Toys (belonging to pets or kids) should be stored away when they are no longer being played with, not left lying in the yard.In particular, be sure that the area surrounding your outdoor kennel is as clear as possible of fallen leaves and foliage.
 Fleas like moisture, so keep them at bay by making sure your lawn stays dry. Avoid over-watering your lawn - as a general rule, grass needs 3/4" - 1" of water each week to stay green and healthy. Use a rain gauge to measure how much water your grass is getting.The water that your grass gets counts whether it's from a sprinkler or from a rain fall, so adjust your watering in accordance with the weather.
 To prevent fleas from returning to your dog’s kennel, make sure that your dog is free from infestation itself. Watch your dog for signs of scratching, and check for tiny dark specks in its fur. Watch out for dark brown-black insects, which can sometimes be seen moving on your pet’s skin.If you have difficulty determining whether or not your dog has fleas, try running a fine comb through its fur, close to the skin, and tap the comb onto a white piece of paper. Fleas will be visible if present.
 Bring your pet to the veterinarian for advice on the best way to treat your dog's fleas. Let the vet examine your pet to examine the extent of the infestation. Ask about topical treatments and medications, if necessary., To fully eradicate your flea problem you must eliminate these pests in all areas of your home; your dog can easily transport fleas from indoors to its outdoor kennel, and vice versa. Take all measures necessary to rid your home of fleas and keep it flea-free. This undertaking will include:


Washing all bedding, towels, and clothing
Vacuuming carpets and upholstery thoroughly
Mopping floors
Using a dehumidifier to prevent dampness and moisture

