 For a traditional college or university with a film program, this will mean both academic record and creative portfolio. For a film school attached to an art school, there will be less focus on your academics and more on your creative output. For any application, however, you should begin early and write and create multiple drafts of your application. , Most schools require these for admission. Take these tests for the first time in your junior year of high school (if you plan on going immediately to film school after high school) so you will have plenty of time to retake them if your scores are not high enough for the schools you want to attend. Most schools post their test averages so that you have a good sense of whether you can fall within that range. , Be sure to ask someone who really knows you, your work, and your love of film. Schools take letters of recommendation very seriously and so should you. , For a traditional college or university with a film school, most will require some kind of written statement about you and your goals. Start working on this months in advance. Ask your guidance or college counselor to read your essay. They are often able to give you the most specific help and advice since they have experience and insight on the college process. , This will often be an extra part of the application, and each school has different requirements. Check carefully for each school to which you are applying -- you might have to do a different portfolio for each one. Think about how you want to present yourself to the admissions committee. If you have done a broad range of film projects, make sure your submission reflects this. You could submit a short film or excerpts from different works. If you are less experienced, you might want to explain how recent your interest in filmmaking is and any projects you have in process. , Get applications in early so that you are certain the schools received them. Most students will be applying for some kind of financial assistance. The form for government grants and loans -- the FAFSA -- is mandatory for many schools. The school to which you are applying may also have a separate financial aid form. Read each school’s policy about financial aid carefully to make sure you don’t miss any paperwork or deadlines. , Most schools post the ranges of grades and test scores they accept from their applicants. If yours are significantly lower than that range it's unlikely you'll be accepted. Also keep in mind that many of the most prestigious film programs are highly competitive and accept a very small percentage of those who apply. Make sure you have a few backup schools in case your first choices don't accept you.

