 Meditation can improve your focus, concentration, energy, and overall happiness. Meditation can also significantly reduce your stress levels. Studies also demonstrate that those who practice any kind of daily meditation are generally more optimistic about life., Moreover, meditation can allow your brain to cycle between beta waves (when you are awake) and alpha waves (the stage that immediately precedes sleep).By meditating, you are not replacing your sleep cycle. However, you are giving your brain the rest periods it needs in order to be fully awake during your beta cycles. Only 10-15 minutes of meditation can provide this positive, sleep-like benefit.Those who meditate regularly do not need to sleep as often as those who do not meditate.This is one of the reasons why many people find it easy to fall asleep immediately after meditating: your brain is primed to fall asleep. Meditation is not the same thing as sleep, however.Meditation can also be used to correct sleep disturbances for this reason., Many people expect that meditation requires closed eyes. However, there are methods for meditating that do not require you to close off your vision. Indeed, some people report feeling particularly rejuvenated and refreshed after an open-eye meditation experience.This type of meditation is particularly useful for those who have to integrate meditation into their public transit commute, workday, or school day: you can meditate without being noticed. All you need is a place to sit and a few minutes of time in which you can meditate.
 If possible, choose a dark, quiet, calm place to practice your open-eye meditation. When you become more advanced, you will be able to meditate in the middle of a busy classroom. But to begin with, try a dimly lit space in your home. Close the blinds and turn off your devices in order to eliminate as many distractions as possible., Keep your back upright but loose. Sit comfortably. Many people enjoy sitting in the lotus position to meditate. However, you are free to meditate in whatever way keeps your body relaxed. Just be sure that you maintain a good, non-slumping posture. You can sit on a chair, kneel, or even lie down if you prefer. Keep your hands loose and open, resting in your lap.Some people find that incense or scented candles can help them relax and focus. Feel free to try this as you begin to practice open-eye meditation., You will not be able to meditate with open eyes right away. To build up your open-eye meditation skills, begin by practicing having each of your eyes focus on a different object. Choose one object to your left to focus on and one object on your right to focus on. Try to maintain this dual focus for as long as you can, even if it's just a few seconds.


Your brain will be so focused on the visual information that all other distractions and mental noise will begin to disappear, allowing you to achieve a restful, relaxed meditative state.
Gradually increase the time you spend focusing on these two sets of objects. If you want to challenge yourself, you might also try turning your head while keeping the image of these two objects in your mind.
Soon you will begin noticing other objects in the room that are in front of you. Be aware of these objects, but do not let them distract you. For example, you might be awed by a beautiful beam of light in your home. However, you do not want to think about the dusty shelf you have to clean that you just saw. Dismiss such worries from your mind.
 Once you have gotten used to focusing on two sets of objects at once, begin to integrate deep breathing exercises into your meditation. Breathe in through your nose for 5 seconds, hold for 5 seconds, and then release slowly through your mouth. While you might have to explicitly time yourself as a beginner, your goal is to make deep breathing automatic eventually so that you no longer have to "count" inside your head.
 Once you have mastered the art of open-eye meditation in a calm, controlled environment, you can begin to bring it into your daily life. It will be challenging to do so at first, but you must be patient and forgiving with yourself. Let your body be a source of calmness and relaxation even while the world around you is chaotic and distracting. Soon, you will be able to achieve a restful, focused state with your eyes open when you are at work, school, or on the bus.

