 Someone who is really in a fit of rage may not be willing to have a reasonable conversation with you. Sometimes, the best option is to give the person some space until they calm down and is capable of sustaining a conversation with you.


This can be difficult if it is someone you live with, but you can go outside, run an errand or two, or go to do a chore or activity in another room.
 Many people respond well to a change of environment if they are feeling angry. .Moving from an indoor space to an outdoor space can be particularly effective, as being outdoors can elevate one’s mood. You can either be direct and say, “You’re upset. Let’s go for a walk and talk about what’s bothering you,” or indirect, saying, “I need to go down the street to get something. Do you want to join me for some fresh air for a few minutes?”

, A good way to deal with anger or other overwhelming emotions is to sit quietly and focus on taking very deep breaths. Combining the deep breathing with some meditation exercises, such as visualizing a happy place or picturing negative emotions exiting the body, can make the breathing even more effective. If the person is willing, you can guide them through a meditation exercise. Instruct them to do the following (you can do it too!): Sit comfortably with both feet on the floor and your hands resting comfortably in your lap. Close your eyes.
Take a deep breath in, allowing your belly to expand with the fullness of your breath. Picture a white light entering every corner of your mind and body as you breathe in.
Breathe out slowly and deliberately, allowing yourself to fully exhale. As you exhale, picture negativity leaving your body as dark, muddy colors, leaving only the light behind.
Repeat for 10-20 breaths or until the person feels relaxed and comfortable.
 If the person who is having a temper tantrum is too overcome with emotions to think rationally or is unwilling to brainstorm a reasonable solution with you, try suggesting a few solutions to the problem. Your cooler head is likely to prevail, and you might get through to them.


Don’t be surprised if the person initially rejects your solutions. They may need some time to calm down and process what you suggested. They could very well return to you later and say that they took one of your suggestions to solve the problem.
 If you are really at a loss as to how to handle or help the person having a temper tantrum, you could try asking them what you can do to help. They may tell you that they just need some time, or a hug, or a walk outside. People who are prone to anger problems may be aware of what helps them cool down when they are angry.
 If you were having a conversation that caused the person to go into a temper tantrum, you should probably drop the topic for now if it is not completely time-sensitive. Give the person time to get over their initial anger and return to it later once they seem calm and rational.

