 Teflon, the material used in making nonstick pans, can lead to fatal poisoning in birds. When Teflon is overheated, it emits a gas that is deadly to birds. When a bird gets Teflon poisoning, their lungs fill with fluid that moves to the airwaves, causing death.Teflon poisoning is extremely quick. It only takes a minimal amount of gas in the air to kill a small bird and damage a larger bird.
To protect your bird, refrain from using Teflon or nonstick cookware in your home.
 If you don’t want to get rid of your Teflon cookware, then you should be careful and smart when cooking with it to protect your bird. Always stay with your nonstick pots and pans when cooking with it. Cook at the appropriate temperatures and make sure the pans don’t get overheated, which is the main cause of gas emissions.Get rid of any Teflon or nonstick drip pans in your oven because they can heat to extremely high temperatures that will release poisonous gas.
When you cook or bake with nonstick cookware, move your bird to a different part of the house, as far away from the kitchen as possible. You may want to put your bird in a well-ventilated area so no harmful gases get trapped.
Make sure to get rid of any Teflon or nonstick cookware if it is scratched or messed up in anyway.
 With early detection of Teflon poisoning and a quick response, you might be able to save your bird. The main symptom is respiratory distress. Your bird may breathe through their mouth, gasp for air, or experience wheezy, raspy breaths.The bird may act uncoordinated or weak. The tail may bob or move around.
If the bird has experienced poisoning for an extended amount of time, the bird may fall off the perch.
Teflon poisoning affects birds very quickly. Your bird can die before you realize the bird is poisoned. However, by being cautious with poisonous fumes from nonstick cookware around your bird and acting fast when your bird shows any negative symptoms, you can keep your bird safe.
 If you believe your bird has Teflon poisoning, you should act quickly so you can try to save your bird. Your bird can die within few minutes of Teflon poisoning, especially if they continue to breathe the gas.First, you should immediately move the nonstick cookware out of the house and cut off the stove or oven.
Open the windows to help let out the gas, and turn on all exhaust and house fans. This helps increase the ventilation in the house so your bird won’t breathe in any more of the noxious fumes.
Call your veterinarian and tell them you are immediately bringing your bird with possible Teflon poisoning into the office.

