 We all know that your chances of finding a prince skimming through the grocery aisle or cruising eHarmony are pretty slim, so the first step to finding your charming is to be where the princes are. Do a little research — Wikipedia can be your best friend. Find out where your favorite princes tend to be and land yourself there, too. Let’s start with the basics:


You need to be in countries with eligible princes, like Dubai, England, Germany, Monaco, or more. If you can't afford the plane ride over, a lot of princes go to school, live in, or frequently visit New York City, so start running in some high society circles.

Charities. Many princes not only have a lot of money but have the responsibility and power to set a good example for their nation, like Prince Harry who has spent time building a school for children in Lesotho. Check any prince's Wikipedia and you'll most likely find charity work. Having a passionate cause can put you in the same place as your prince — and can also help the rest of the world.
Schools. Young princes go to classy schools, so if you're in the same school, you're set. And if movies have taught us anything, the way to a prince's heart is through his physics class.;
, The shining armor from your knight can definitely be blinding at times, and you will be very tempted to put all of your energy into your quest because, well, you’ll be around a prince! Keep these in mind when you feel a little consumed.


Stay true to your passions. You have more interests than just capturing your charming, and along the way you don’t want to miss important opportunities! Besides, princesses can be interesting and multi-dimensional. Like Princess Sirivannavari, she’s Thai royalty and a fashion designer whose line debuted in Paris!
Get a hobby. Getting a hobby can not only help you develop and encourage your own personality but could be the key in striking common ground or meeting up with His Royal Highness. Queen Letizia of Spain was already a prime-time celebrity and met King Felipe of Spain while reporting on an oil spill. Princess Mette-Marit met Prince Haakon at a rock concert.
If you’re always stressing about whether or not this boy is noticing you, you’re going to be a royal wreck when he finally sees you. Be independent and self-contained.
 Subtle means just that: subtle. So put away your blow horns and hand-painted “Marry Me Harry” posters, it’s time to play the game. This step is particularly tricky with princes as opposed to other types of guys, because there’s a fine line you have to walk. On the one hand, you have to stand out from all the other girls vying for his affections, so playing hard to get might just get you unnoticed. On the other hand, you don’t want to come off as just another prince-chaser! After you’ve made contact with your beloved, keep these in mind:



Be casual, but polite. Being starstruck will not grant you any favors, but being rude is not becoming.
Drop consistent hints. Just one might not land. Princes are still guys, and guys are dense. Sending mixed signals is overrated.
Don't accidentally reveal all the information you have learned from him from your many hours of cyber stalking. You know when people talk to you and mention where you had lunch yesterday because they saw it on Facebook? Yeah, it’s weird.
Don't come on too strong while flirting, being overly aggressive will put him in an uncomfortable situation, especially in public. It doesn’t make you look too classy, either.
 We all know that in dating situations you should always be yourself, and that’s true. But one must keep in mind that princes run in royal circles, and are not only used to elegant ladies, but everyone else is used to them too, especially with the paparazzi. Yikes. No more spitting, rough-housing and tomfoolery. For the most part, you could probably get away with a mixture of common sense and all that useless stuff mother told you and you tried to repress, but for the rest, check out the basic etiquette rules for the situation and country. Each royal family usually has an etiquette web site or even hot line that you can contact to find the appropriate dress and conduct for the occasion.
 Just like it is with any guy, once you’ve got past the flirtatious hello's, you’re going to need something to talk about. Again, with princes, you’re in a different world. Do you both travel everywhere in an armored car shielding yourself from the paparazzi? Were you both raised in a family that had to adhere to the European monarchy and thus put a lot of pressure on you as a figurehead? Were you always picked on at school for only having one or two adjectives in front of your royal title? Whatever it is, find interests and passions you both share.
 This is the most important of all. No matter what you do on the outside, it's what's inside that counts. If you and your prince are truly meant to be, and a genuine match, just let your inner beauty shine and he will see you for the awesome lady you truly are.

