 The ear is a very sensitive organ and can injure easily if improperly examined. Avoid pulling, pushing, or generally being rough with the patient you are examining. This can calm your patient and minimize the risk of injury from sudden movements.Ask your patient if the pressure is acceptable to them. For example, “Is the pressure I’m using ok, Mr. Neumaier? Let me know if you have any discomfort.”;
, Hold your otoscope between your thumb and pointer finger like a pen or pencil. Use your thumb as a fulcrum to aid your examination of the various parts of the ear.Hold the otoscope in the right hand to examine the right ear and the left hand for the left ear.Practice using your otoscope with both hands. It may make examinations easier since you need to keep the otoscope in one hand and hold the ear with the other., Use your opposite hand to gently pull the outer ear up and back on patients older than 12 months. Straightening your patient’s ear canal can make it easier to examine the ears.Pull the outer ear down and back for babies under 12 months.
Grasp the ear at the 10 o’clock position when examining the right ear and the 2 o’clock position for the left., Put a new speculum, or pointed end, onto your otoscope before each patient. Select the largest possible speculum that your patient’s ear will accommodate. When inserted, the speculum should fit snugly into the outer third of the ear canal. Speculums that are too small can cause discomfort and reduce how much of the ear you can examine. Use the following guidelines for speculum size:Adults: 4 to 6 millimeters
Children: 3 to 4 millimeters
Infants: as small as 2 millimeters

, Place the otoscope at your patients ear, not in it.Look into your otoscope and then slowly insert the pointed end of it into the ear canal. Steady your hand on the side of the individuals face if necessary. Slow and gentle insertion can prevent unwanted movement in your patient. It also keeps your hand and scope in line with the ear and minimizes the risk of injury.Avoid putting too much pressure on the otoscope, which can cause the patient discomfort.
 Avoid ramming the speculum into the ear canal. Insert it at most 1 to 2 centimeters and then use the light to view beyond the tip of the speculum. Stop the examination immediately if the patient expresses any pain or discomfort., Angle the tip of the otoscope towards the person’s nose. This follows the normal angle of the ear canal. From here, move the otoscope gently at different angles. This allows you to view the person’s eardrum and canal walls. Stop the exam at any sign of increased pain or discomfort., Return the otoscope back to your starting position. As you watch through the speculum, gentle take the speculum and scope out of the person’s ear canal and outer ear. Release the person’s ear from your grasp., Remove the speculum from the otoscope. Throw it away in a certified medical waste container to minimize the spread of disease or infection to other patients.If you don’t have disposable speculums, scrub each tip with hot water to remove excess wax. Then soak the speculum in a covered dish of rubbing alcohol for 10 minutes.
 Ears can vary in size, shape, and color. However, healthy ears have the same general characteristics. Recognizing these signs can help you quickly examine your patient and identity potential problem areas. The following are signs of a healthy ear canal and eardrum:The ear canal should be the color of skin with tiny hairs. It may have some yellowish brown or reddish brown earwax, which is normal.
The eardrum should be pearly white or grey and translucent. You should see tiny bones pushing on the eardrum and a cone of light visible at the 5 o'clock position in the right ear and the 7 o'clock position in the left

, Infected or diseased ears also exhibit a variety of general symptoms. Identify abnormalities during your examination. This can help you get prompt treatment for potential problems. Look for the following abnormalities in the ear canal and eardrum that may signal a problem:Wiggling or pulling on the outer ear cases pain or discomfort. The ear canal may also be red, tender, swollen or filled with pus.
The eardrum may have little or no light reflection. You may also see redness bulging, visible amber liquid or bubbles behind the eardrum. There may also be visible hole(s), whitish scars on the surface of the eardrum, wax blockage, and blockage with an object such as a bean or bug.
 Schedule an appointment with a medical doctor if you are performing an exam and are not trained to diagnose medical conditions. This can ensure that you or your patients get a proper diagnosis and prompt treatment for infections or other conditions that can affect your ear. Seek medical attention for any of the following visible abnormalities in the ear:Inflammation
Pus
A dull or red eardrum
Fluid or bubbles behind the eardrum
A hole in the eardrum
Foreign objects or impacted wax

