 Make sure you wash and rinse really well. Afterwards, wash your face and brush your teeth thoroughly. Make sure your breath is minty fresh before you go to your room and call it a night. Pick your full outfit (tops, bottoms, underwear, shoes, socks, scarves, hair accessories, sweater, jewelry, everything). Before bed, apply a moisturiser and maybe a lip butter. Light some candles as well, and set them in an even, sturdy, cleared spot so that they don't tip or light other things on fire while you sleep. If you have some, spray a scent like lavender or ocean breeze on your pillow to fully relax yourself.;
, Put on a warm, comfy robe and go out to your main room. Turn on the TV and have a nice breakfast while watching. Cereal with fruit or nuts, fruit crepes, French toast, eggs Benedict, etc. are perfect, filling, delicious breakfasts. Hopefully you drove to your school before the first day, because you should know the latest time you can leave.
 You shouldn't brush your teeth straight after breakfast, or the flavor will reappear. Floss completely, brush extremely well, and use mouthwash. On your way to school, chew a piece of mint gum and keep mints in your locker at all times. Split pieces of gum for before and after lunch if your school allows it.
 If you're going to put accessories in your hair and/or curl it or straighten it, put on the leave-in shampoo after this. Keep a comb in your locker in case you need a quick little fix.
 Make it natural or very light for the first day, as in no more than concealer/powder, light blush, natural or very little colored eye-shadow, as well as a thin coat of mascara. You can, at the very least, wear lip gloss.
 Only bring a few things, since your first days are usually filled with instruction. You should take your binder to keep in your locker, a bag of pencils, and a planner/agenda.
 Keep a drink, a main course, and two extra snacks. If you're taking a sandwich, don't use bread from an unopened package, because it'll stick to your teeth (making lunch awkward!) If you don't take lunch, know how much it costs, and bring a bit extra just in case. If you don't get a lunch card passed out to you, get your student ID from a teacher and write it down so you have it for lunch.
 You don't have to constantly smile, but keep your lips normal - not smiling but not frowning. Keep your back straight, and don't look at your feet. Once you're inside and the halls are open, call the attention of a kid who looks about your age and isn't busy (talking to their friends or fiddling with something). Ask them where your first class is, but if classes are in the same spots, ask where your locker is. Pick a nice, friendly-looking person so you're not ignored or insulted. They'll probably be happy to oblige. Once they help, thank them, and then casually ask, "Hey, what's your schedule?" If you share any classes, you're set for those!

, Don't be shy! It seems hard, but it's super easy to say, "Hey! I'm _____. May I sit here?" If you approach them nicely, they'll probably say yes no matter what. However, if a kid is acting weird or seems rude, find another seat. You don't want to have to tolerate them, and it's not the attention you want.
 Sitting in the front makes you seem like a teacher's pet, and sitting in the far back makes you seem like you don't care. Another pro to sitting in the middle is that you're surrounded by all sorts of people - friendly, like you, rebels, and nerds. Fitting in with all groups is a perfect way to get attention, but be yourself.
 You may seem like an intruder if you take one of the last seats at a crowded table, so get there early. Introduce yourself, and ask a question, like "where's the gym?" or "do you know where cooking class is?" It also shows confidence, and in that case, don't be too quiet or too loud.
 Don't fake them for attention. If you sit next to somebody and see something cute that they're wearing, go, "Hi, I'm___. I love your _____!" It's great to make somebody smile and feel good about themselves, and people want to be surrounded by people who make them feel good.
 If somebody says something funny out loud and seems nice, respond to the joke sarcastically or with another. If the person smiles and/or laughs, introduce yourself. Being funny, for girls and guys, is just about the NUMBER ONE WAY to get people to be your friend. The best kinds of friends are unannounced friends - you don't have to say it, you just are.
 If you watch somebody drop their stuff, help them pick it up. Maybe say a teasing joke, like, "Ah, books are so tricky." Smile at them so they know you're just kidding around. If they say something, respond and introduce yourself. If somebody's going through a hard time, try to help them out, but never force them to tell you anything.
 Not necessarily chess club, but maybe art club, Christian club, or a local anti-drugs or anti-bullying group. You'll get to meet amazing people here. You get to pitch ideas and be part of the school. Go for anything you like, really, whether it's art, drama, leadership, sports - whatever!

