 There a few different ways to become a citizen or resident of Belize, and they each have different sets of application procedures and eligibility requirements.


Permanent Residency
Qualified Retired Persons Program
Citizenship;
, If you have family members who are Belizean citizens, you may qualify to apply for citizenship by descent before you move to Belize.


Citizenship is granted to individuals born in Belize and to the children and grandchildren of citizens of Belize.
Your Belizean parent or grandparent does not need to be alive at the time of your application for you to receive citizenship, but you will need to be able to prove that they were legal Belizean citizens.
 If you marry a citizen of Belize, you are eligible to become a Belizean citizen as well. Belizean citizens can file for citizenship for their foreign born spouses as soon as their marriage is legalized.Marriages are investigated to make sure they are not fraudulent immigration scams.
All children from this marriage are automatically eligible to become Belizean citizens, whether they are born in Belize or in another nation.
 If you do not qualify for citizenship through marriage or descent, you will need to go through the citizenship application process. This is a long-term process that has a specific set of requirements that must be met.


Belize requires the applicant to have lived in Belize as a permanent resident for a minimum of 5 years before they can apply for citizenship.
The citizenship application is usually processed within 6 months, but may take up to a year, or more., When you decide to move to Belize, you will first need to obtain a tourist visa to remain in the country for over 30 days. If you have received citizenship status through marriage or descent, this is not applicable to your situation.


All visitors, besides cruise ship passengers, must present a valid passport before entering the country. Your passport must not expire within three months of your arrival date.
You can stay in Belize for up to one month without a visa.
If you decide to stay longer than a month, you must go to the Immigration Department in Belize City or Belmopan to receive a visa extension and to pay for a new tourist visa. All prospective Belizean residents must enter the country on a tourist visa until they have completed one year of residency.
 Tourist visas are intended for short stays, and can be extended up to one year. They do carry certain requirements and can be renewed.


Check to see if your current country of residence requires a specific Belize visa to enter Belize. There is a flat rate fee for a tourist visa that increases after the sixth month of your stay. If you are driving or boating into Belize from either Guatemala or Mexico, you will receive a temporary importation permit for your transportation. You cannot legally work in Belize with a tourist visa so ensure that you come to the country with enough funds to sustain yourself.
 Permanent residency is the first step in becoming a citizen in Belize if you are not the relative or spouse of a Belizean citizen. Applicants for permanent residency must live in Belize for one year prior to applying.


To become a permanent resident, you must first enter the country on a tourist visa. You will then apply for residency and renew your tourist visa every 30 to 90 days until your residency is denied or granted.
During this one-year period, you may not leave the country for more than 14 consecutive days.
To apply for permanent residency you will need to complete Permanent Residency Application form, take an HIV and STI test, provide proof of a clean criminal record from the police, and two recommendations from individuals who have known you for at least one year. There are fees associated with applying for permanent residency. The fees range from $250 to $5000 USD and vary based upon your home nationality. Once you receive residency, you will pay $62.50 USD for a residency card.
 If you meet the eligibility requirements, you may also apply to be a Belizean resident through the QRP program. This is a shorter process and is an attractive option for older individuals and retirees. To qualify you must be at least 45 years old and be able to show that you have adequate financial resources to live in Belize, because you cannot legally work in Belize as a QRP.
You must provide financial documents that demonstrate that you have the resources to deposit at least $2,000 USD each month.
To maintain your QRP status, you must spend at least one month out of the year in Belize. You can live in any other nation you desire in the remaining 11 months if you wish.
QRPs are considered non-residents for banking purposes so they can set up a bank account with a local or offshore bank in Belize.
QRP status is not the same as citizenship, it is a separate program that is akin to residency. , To receive nationality status (i.e. citizenship), you must become a permanent resident, and have been a legal resident of Belize for a minimum of five years. If you become a citizen through descent or marriage, these requirements will not apply to your case.


After five years of residence, you can now apply for citizenship.
There is a provision available to register an applicant’s minor children at the same time an individual applies for nationality. If you achieve nationality, any of your children under age 18 are entitled to become a Belize citizen, regardless of where they were born. You must apply to be a citizen in Belize, you cannot apply remotely.
 While you are compiling your citizenship application, you must prepare certain documents, pay certain fees, and understand application procedures.


You must be prepared to swear an oath of allegiance, have a basic understanding of the Belizean Constitution, and recognize Belize's sovereignty.
Applications for citizenship must be made in person while in Belize. You will need your birth certificate, identification forms like a Social Security card, to fill out an application form, provide financial statements, a police record proving you have no prior criminal convictions, a medical test proving you do not have HIV or any STIs and to pass background checks.There are fees associated with the citizenship application, just as there are fees associated with permanent residency and tourist visa applications.
 While there are a few ways to become a citizen of Belize, there are some restrictions to keep in mind.


Your home nation may require you to denounce your citizenship or have limitations in place for citizens with dual nationalities. Be sure to know the laws of your home country about holding dual citizenships. Belize allows its citizens to hold dual nationality status with other nations. This means that if you are a Belize citizen you can also be a citizen of another country, if that country also allows you to hold dual nationality status.
However, if you are a Guatemalan national you must renounce your Guatemalan citizenship to become a Belizean citizen.
 There are quite a few benefits to becoming a citizen, rather than remaining a permanent resident.


You can vote in Belizean elections as a citizen.
You are eligible to hold a Belizean passport.You can join the Belizean armed forces.
You become a member of CARICOM. The Caribbean Community, or CARICOM, allows you to travel freely between member nations in Latin American and the Caribbean. You can work and own a business in Belize without a work permit.

