 Personality can be revealed through your smile. For example, if you come into the interview with a great, big smile you may be seen as a very happy, fun-loving person, which may be your true personality.


If, however, you are a very serious stern individual, showing your naturally reserved smile (and not a fake, cheesy grin) will portray your seriousness .
Whichever the case may be, starting your interview off with a genuine (not forced) smile will help you build rapport, feel more relaxed, display your personality and possibly show off your confidence.
 You may be silly, eccentric or have a strange sense of humor. Sometimes, it's okay to reveal this in an interview. However, you must remember to remain professional and sometimes that means toning it down.


Don’t forget why you are really in the interview! Remember the point is not to “be on stage” but to showcase your strengths and personality that will prove you are the right person for the job.
The best advise here is to think before you say or do something that may be a little over the top for an interview. You do not want the interviewer to end the interview thinking “wow what just happened in there?” You want them to think “this person can do the job and will fit in just fine”.
 The best way to answer interview questions is by also providing examples to back up your claims to be able to do the job. To show your personality, you can choose examples that will explain how your personality contributes to your actions and helps you succeed.


For example, tell your interviewer about the time when you ran a contest for your team to reduce the amount of errors in their reports by rewarding the person with the least amount of errors after 2 weeks with a free lunch. This can show the interviewer that you have a unique personality with the ability to motivate your team in a fun way.
 Showing your true personality is not acting, it comes out naturally and should remain as such. If you are trying too hard, you will be seen as a phony and it will be obvious that you are acting like someone you are not. This will also become exhausting for you!


For example, going into an interview extremely energetic, loud and upbeat may come off as annoying, because it will not be seen as genuine. You will then be so tired by mid-interview that you may not be able to focus.
Remember you do not want to act like the person you think the company wants to hire, but who you really are.

