 Open a new browser tab or window on your computer, and visit the Badoo website.;
, If you signed up with Badoo using your Facebook account, click the “Sign in with Facebook” button to continue. To sign in using the conventional username and password, click the “Sign in” button at the top to access the login page. Enter your registered username and password into the fields, and click “Sign in” to continue.


If you don’t have an account yet, click the “Sign up” link instead. You can sign up using a Facebook account or by providing the information needed in the given fields.
 Upon logging in, you’ll be taken to your Badoo dashboard. You’ll find the “Create New Entry” button at the top of the page.
 A dialog box will pop up. In the first field, enter a name for the entry. In the next field, write what you want to post about.


You can always create multiple entries to your Multilog. Your entry can be about anything, for instance, a great party that you’ve just attended with cool friends. Include all the details you want to share in your entry.
 You can always set the audience of the Multilog to “Public” for other Badoo users to read it. This can be done by clicking the “Settings” option that is located on the top right corner. The other setting available is “Private.” With this setting, you can add the names of the select people who can view your multilog.
 If you want add media to the entry, click the “Add photos and videos” button located at the bottom. A box will pop up, which allows you to browse through your computer files. Locate the photo or video you want to add, select it, and click “Open” to upload and attach it to your entry.


The least dimensions of the image is 200x200 pixels. Anything larger can be uploaded up to 128MB file size. The limit for video length is 100MB and 30 minutes in length. Videos should possess a minimum of 10 seconds of duration to be uploaded.
 When you’re done, click the “Create Entry” button present at the top of the interface. The entry will then be displayed on a new page. If you want to share this entry to others, just copy the URL and send it to your friends. You can share this URL on other social network medias. If your audience is set to Public, they can get a glance of your entry. You don’t have to be a Badoo user to view the entry.

