 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 12.4% of all people without a high school diploma in 2012 were unemployed compared to 8.3% of those with one. The outlook is worse when examined over a period of time. For instance, between 2000 and 2013, the average unemployment rate for those between the ages of 25-34 who did not complete high school was 15.1%.


Without a high school diploma, you can’t go to college and going to college is to your advantage.
For the same time period, the unemployment rate for 25-34 year olds with some college was 8% and only 3.6% for those who graduated from college.;
, Staying in school will make a huge difference in how much money you make after graduation. Those who don’t finish high school have an average income per year of $20,241 compared to $30,627 for those who did graduate from high school and $56,665 for someone with a college degree.A male high school graduate who works until he’s 65 can expect to earn on average $330,000 more in his life than a dropout, while a male with at least some college will make $538,000 more. The benefits don’t end there.


Without steady employment or a livable wage, there won’t be opportunities for vacations, let alone nice clothes or cars. In many cases, a car itself might be too expensive and owning a home may never be possible.
 Staying in school and graduating greatly reduces the likelihood that you’ll be incarcerated at some point in your life. Almost 1 out of every 10 young males who didn’t finish school was in jail or prison in 2006-07 compared to only 1 out of every 33 high school graduates.And roughly 30% of federal inmates, 40% of state prison inmates, and 50% of people on death row of both genders didn’t complete high school.
 Your teachers can be a great resource to you in a variety of ways if you take the time to reach out to them and get to know them. For instance, if you’re struggling academically, ask for help. Research shows that when students and teachers feel connected, students do better in school and enjoy their classes more.Strengthening your relationships with your teachers will also help you get a job when you graduate; get into college, a graduate program or a trade school; get scholarships to attend those schools; and get valuable insight into other ways to pay for furthering your education.


They have this knowledge and the very important ability to write letters of recommendation for you, which will be greatly beneficial in achieving your goals.
You won’t get these things from your teachers, however, if you don’t put in the effort to show them you care about your education.
If you’re in high school, set up a time to meet with your teachers to talk about your goals and things you’re struggling with. Ask them for help. And help them when you can – stay after class to help pick up things, volunteer if your teacher asks the class for help with something, offer to help hand out assignments or equipment during class and so forth.
If you’re in college, go to your professors’ office hours on a semi-regular basis. Talk with them and ask questions that show you care about school.

