 You will likely have the most energy at the start of your work day, so jump right into those jobs that require additional concentration. Focus on tasks that are new to you or need a high level of creativity. Leave the mindless or basic work until the end of the day or when you feel as if you are lagging.Avoid procrastinating or putting off difficult tasks. Your concentration throughout the day will be diminished if you’re worrying about a challenging task that you put off until the afternoon.
 Multitasking, or jumping from item to item and trying to juggle many tasks at once, quickly drains your energies. Instead, choose a particular task and concentrate on finishing it. Don’t get caught up in making it perfect, just aim to finish it and then clean it up later. “Single tasking” will also help you to set reasonable goals and resume work despite interruptions.While single-tasking, you can also break down a large task into smaller pieces. If you have a large task that needs attention, spend some time thinking about how that task could be segmented into a series of smaller projects. Then, decide on which tasks to complete first, and start working., Every person has a few hours during which they typically work the best. For a week, keep a chart where you write down your energy level from 1–10 each hour. Then, look over these numbers to see where your peaks of energy and productivity lie. In the future, spend these hours on your most challenging tasks.For example, many people find that they work best between 9:00 and 11:00 am, and are at their slowest right after lunch. Take advantage of this to save mindless tasks for after lunch, and start on harder work in the morning.
Make it clear to your coworkers that you do not want to be disturbed during this time unless it is urgent.
 It is likely that your boss or employer will create big-picture deadlines for you. But, to avoid procrastination and to increase concentration, look over your work and create your own deadlines for each project. This will give you ample time for each task with time added in for breaks. You can also add in extra time if you are worried a particular project might be problematic.For example, if your boss sets a deadline of Thursday, you could set personal deadlines to complete a third of the project on Monday, a third on Tuesday, and a third on Wednesday, then use Thursday to proofread and revise.
You can also make to-do lists at the beginning of each day or at the end of the day (to use the following day). Order your to-do list according to importance. Place the most important tasks at the top of the list and the less important ones below these. Work down the list from most to least important. Keep the list short so that it is reasonable for you to accomplish what is on it.
You can also vow not to take your work home with you to provide yourself with a deadline. If you cannot bring work home, then you will be more inclined to stay focused and get your work done so you can go home.

