 It can be harder for autistic children to read and remember words than it is for them to remember something that they have heard. Pictures can help autistic children to remember a written word and also to remember a word that they have heard.


For example, you could write the word sun on a flashcard while showing them a picture of a bright yellow sun at the same time. This allows them make an association between the picture and the card. Flashcards are also form of pictures which are better than simply writing the word down on a paper.
Flashcards can also be used to teach autistic children verbs. For example, you could write the verb “laugh” down on a flashcard and then act it out for them so that they can remember it through your actions.
Different actions can be taught this way by showing flashcards of words and then asking the child to act them out. In this way the words and the actions both are being taught at the same time.
 Sometimes the child may have a problem in recognizing a real object, even if he was able to recognize it in a picture or image earlier. This may be due to the fact that the color or size of the real object differs from the one in the picture. Autistic people tend to notice minor details very thoroughly, even ones that a normal person wouldn't notice.


It is important for the child to be able to relate the objects in pictures with their real-life counterparts. For instance, if you show the child a picture of vase, place a similar-looking vase on the table to show him how it looks in real life.
Later, you can expand the activity by placing a selection of different objects on the table along with the vase and asking him to pick out the vase. When he gains a vivid image of a real vase in his mind, it will be easier for him to recognize vases of different kinds as well.
 Often an autistic child fixates on a certain topic that he enjoys and will refuse to move onto something new as a result. This certainly does not mean that your teaching should be stopped. Use that fixation to your advantage by molding other subjects around it.


For instance, if a child has fixated on a picture of a train, teach him mathematics based on that picture only. You might ask him to count the number of compartments each picture of a train has, or ask him to calculate the time a certain picture of a train would take to reach the station, etc.
 With the help of colors, you can teach a child to sort through a selection of items and organize items of a similar color in one place. This turns learning into a game, which is very effective in teaching autistic children.


Scatter a lot of items of different colors over a table and then ask the child to group all the same colors together and place each set of colors in a separate corner of the room.
Sorting and dividing things teaches a lot of math skills, while also helping the child in everyday life, where being systematic and well-organized is positive thing.

