 That person behind you in line at the ATM or the supermarket may just be another shopper, or they could be paying close attention to you in hopes of seeing your account balance or PIN.Shade the monitor area with your hand when typing in your PIN and try to block others’ view of the screen. Do this even when no one is around. Some thieves use binoculars or install cameras so they can watch you from far away.
 There typically is a lot of identifying information in your wallet or purse. If stolen, the person can use that information to steal your identity. For your protection and to help prevent identity theft, leave anything at home that you aren't planning on using.Don't keep all your credit cards in your wallet, if you have more than one. Keep them in a safe or other secure location in your home, and only take with you the card you're going to use.
Write "SEE ID" in your signature block on the back of the card rather than signing it. This provides you with an extra layer of protection should your card get stolen. You also can secure credit cards by changing them to a PIN-only option, if possible.
Avoid carrying blank checks, or any identification other than what you need. For example, if you're driving, you may need to carry your driver's license, but if you're in your home country you won't need your passport.
Thieves can access your social security number if you have your social security card in your purse or bag. Though it may seem tempting to bring it along with you, you may want to leave it stored in a locked storage location and only bring it on trips where it will be needed.
 Even in relatively safe areas, pickpockets or purse snatchers look for easy opportunities. You can keep what information you are carrying secure by always keeping your wallet or purse close to your person and within your line of sight.Go for a cross-body bag, rather than one you merely dangle from one shoulder. Avoid allowing the bag to hang behind you, as someone could reach in without you even knowing. If you carry a wallet, consider attaching it to your body with a chain or bungee cord.
Never leave your wallet or purse unattended, such as at a restaurant or grocery store.
 If you're out and about, it can be convenient to take advantage of the free public Wi-Fi available at many cafés, libraries, and public parks. However, if these networks are open to all, they come with risks.Even if the network requires a password, you should still consider that network open if the password is available to anyone. For example, a café that has a sign on the wall providing the password to its network is technically open and available to anyone, even though the network itself is secured.
Avoid doing any banking or transmitting any sensitive personal information when using these networks, and be aware that having your computer or mobile device on these networks provides an opportunity for hackers to access whatever information you have stored on your hard drive.
 Ideally, if you want to get cash with your debit card, you should use an ATM located inside a bank branch – even if you have to go a little out of your way. Private ATM machines, particularly those outdoors, present a tremendous risk.Look for security cameras, and inspect the machine carefully for signs of tampering before you use it.
Avoid ATMs located in out-of-the-way places. At night, stay away from ATMs that aren't well lit. These not only put you at risk of identity theft, but also put you at risk of being assaulted or mugged.
 ATM skimming occurs when thieves put a device over top of an ATM card reader that steals the information from the card when you swipe. These skimming devices also can be found on unattended point-of-service card readers, such as those on gas pumps.Look carefully for signs of tampering. Many gas pumps, for example, have a tampering seal. Do not use the card reader if the seal has been broken, and alert store staff immediately.

