 If you're a teen, you might not bother working on prioritizing your sleep schedule. However, it's important to work on making good sleeping habits a goal. Try to manage your schedule around sleep.


Your body has a natural circadian rhythm that adapts to your sleep/wake cycle. If you make a conscious effort to go to sleep and wake up around the same time each day your body will begin to naturally nod off at bed time and wake up in the morning.It can be tempting to crash on the weekends, but this effects your sleep cycle. Try to not sleep in too late on Saturdays and Sundays.Try to schedule around getting enough sleep. Social events and extracurriculars should not interfere with getting 8 to 9 hours of sleep a night.;
, Many teens like to hibernate in their rooms. However, if you spend your days in your bedroom you'll learn to associate that space with activity. When it's time to sleep, your brain won't be ramped for rest. Try to avoid your room during the day.Beds, in general, should only be used for sleep. Your body should associate your bed with rest time. Doing homework, playing video games, or spending time on your laptop in bed can confuse your mind and body.If you crave the privacy of your room, try to separate the sleeping area from the waking area. Have a desk placed in your room and use this to go online, do homework, talk on the phone, and any other activities you'd rather do in private. You can even consider putting up a curtain or some kind of divide between your bed and activity area. This way, your brain will associate a certain part of the room for sleep., Teenagers tend to spend a lot of time on their phones. However, the light produced from electronic screens produces a stimulating effect that makes sleep difficult. Strive to limit exposure to screens in the hours leading up to bedtime.


Stay off your laptop and phone for a couple of hours before bed. If you feel you'll be tempted, have a family member hide the items from you until morning.Try doing your homework before bed, as long as you're not too sleepy. This can prevent the temptation to play video games or watch television as there is a task that needs to be completed.If you really enjoy using your phone or computer to wind down, there are ways to block the lights from screens that cause a boost in energy. You can use sunglasses or download software for your laptop that blocks out the kinds of screen lights that effect sleep., Many teens simply do not understand the importance of a solid sleep schedule. Spend some time educating yourself on why getting enough sleep is important. This could motivate you to work on prioritizing good sleep habits.


Getting enough sleep promotes good memory and performance. If you want to succeed academically or at an extracurricular activity, working on your sleep can help.Poor sleep habits can cause irritability and a short temper. Not sleeping well for a long time can affect your relationship with others. If you don't want to alienate friends and significant others, sleeping better can help.