 If your baby has ringworm, he made have round rash spots on his skin. These rashes will be red or pink in color and have scaly and raised borders. The center of the rash may also be scaly or it may be smooth. The rash spots usually are between half an inch to an inch; however, they will slowly grow larger.You may notice that your baby is itching the areas where the rash is.
Ringworm may be confused with some kinds of eczema in infants.
Ringworm is more common in children in school than in babies.;
, If your baby has ringworm, the first thing you should do is take her to the pediatrician. The doctor can examine the infected areas and be able to diagnose the ringworm by sight. They can tell you if the rash is in fact ringworm or if it is another condition.You should make sure to take your baby to the doctor if the ringworm is on the scalp.
Never try to treat your baby’s ringworm at home first before taking her to the doctor. You might misdiagnose the ringworm or not use a remedy strong enough to get rid of it, which could cause the condition to worsen.
Not all medicines are approved for infants. Your doctor will recommend those approved for your baby.
Some cases of ringworm may present cause for immediate medical treatment. Seek medical treatment if your baby's ringworm has any pus coming from the rash or redness around the rash, the rash is still spreading after a week of treatment, the rash has persisted for more than four weeks, your child has additional spots popping up on her body, or your child’s condition worsens., When you go to the doctor, you should ask him questions. Ask him if the rash is ringworm or something else. Take notes on what the doctor tells you about your baby's infection. Ask for clarification on anything that doesn't make sense to you.


If your doctor doesn't tell you which cream to use, you should ask him to recommend or prescribe an antifungal cream.
Make sure to write down your doctor's instructions for treating your baby carefully so you can treat it correctly at home.

