 From bottom to top, there's the bell, lower joint, upper joint, barrel, and mouthpiece. The silver band that holds your reed to your mouthpiece is called the ligature.






;
, You can begin with any portion, but I find it easiest to put together the joints first. Remember that the joints have a silver button and ledge that interlock to help you to play certain notes. Be sure that these two parts are interlocked properly.
 It attaches to the lower joint fairly easily, be sure to push with enough force to get it on properly, but not enough to break it. Most people will twist the bell as it goes on.
 This can be the hardest part to put on the clarinet, and if your clarinet is new, be sure to use plenty of cork grease on the upper joint. This will allow you to easily remove the barrel when you're done playing. Push down the same way you did with the bell, twisting if you think it's necessary. Remember, it's okay to leave a couple of millimetres between the lip of the barrel and the upper joint for tuning purposes.
 The mouthpiece is very delicate and can be expensive to replace, so always grip it around the bottom, not the top. Twist back and forth to get onto the barrel, but make sure the flat top is in line with the keys. If it's not, you'll get lopsided when playing,








, Hopefully you've had your reed in your mouth and have been wetting it. This lets you get a good sound on the clarinet and avoid chipping the reed. If you haven't, give yourself a couple minutes to suck on your reed until it's nice and wet. Unscrew your ligature so that there is room to tighten. Then, put the reed against the mouthpiece so the flat side is against the opening. Cover the reed with the ligature and tighten the screws. If the reed is crooked or too high or low on the mouthpiece, unscrew slightly to adjust.
 Let your fingers firmly press over the holes on their pads, but be sure to give yourself the ability to move from note to note. Your first second and third fingers should be covering the front three holes. The pad of your thumb should cover the back hole.
 Hook your right thumb underneath the silver hook that is designed to help you hold the clarinet easily. Similar to the upper joint, your first second and third fingers should be covering the holes with their pads. In the case of this half of your clarinet, your pinkie finger will be dealing with the other keys below the basic holes.
 Hold your arms at a little less than 90 degrees so that the clarinet comes up to you and not the other way around. Allow the bell to be pointed out slightly, but avoid the Kenny G position.
 Think of your airway as a straw. If it kinks or bends, you won't get good airflow and your sound will suffer. Bring your clarinet up to you, and set your stand so that you have to look up ever so slightly to see your music and conductor. Keep in mind however, that a little bit of a chin tilt is a good thing. Find a happy medium.
 No crossing your feet or legs. This makes your hips twist and can alter the way your breathing works. This is a guarantee for bad sound. Try to avoid this as much as possible to keep away from forming bad habits.
 If you breathe through your nose, fill up as much as you can. Do the same through your mouth if that's your preference, but try to take discrete breaths. You don't want to be in the middle of a performance and look like a guppy in a fish tank. Remember to keep your shoulders down at all times!

, To be sure you're getting good breaths, do some breathing exercises before warm up or whenever you can. Sit with your shoulders still and in proper playing position, but with one hand over your stomach. Think about filling your stomach up like a water balloon, and focus on making your gut expand so your hand moves away from you. This allows you to take in more air than "pillar breathing" where your stomach doesn't move. Practice this way of breathing until you can get as much air as you can in one beat, then less. When you're beginning to master this, apply it to your playing.

