 Start with a card that says all the words you need to. Put your messages where you want them to go, so you know where your center design will go. Make sure nothing you want to be visible will be underneath your centerfold design.;
, Picture a spot around the centerfold that you want to be covered by flowers. Draw a rough outline around this spot so you know what spots it will cover. It should start at the bottom of the card and extend upwards and outwards, like the shape of an ice cream cone.
 You don't want your centerfold flower to be wider than your card. Fold your card shut and measure the width.The widest part of the pop out flower should not be more than this amount.
 The top dimension should be no wider than your card's width (when closed). You can make a centerfold design much smaller than this, however. As long as your design is not wider than the width of the card, folded, you can place it at any height on the centerfold.
 This is where you use markers or construction paper to create a design. It is advisable to make it symmetrical, but you don't need to. Keep track of the design you will want to cut out of the top once you have finished drawing the design.


After you're done, cut any excess paper from the top and sides.
Erase and pencil marks you made to plan for the centerfold design.
Fold your design in half.
 Lay out your card and your centerfold design. Line up your centerfold design with the crease of your card. Rubber cement will hold your centerfold the best, but standard glue will work as well. It will make your card more secure to fold an inch along edges of the triangle so it doesn't come off the card., You want to fold the triangle the opposite direction of the way the card folds. In other words, if you open the card, the triangle should pop out toward you. Now glue the flowers on the triangle. If they are going over the center crease of the triangle, fold them as well so they will not get damaged when the card closes.
 Once the glue holding on the triangle and flowers have dried, carefully close your card. When it is opened again, the flowers will pop up. The centerfold flower is different from the regular pop out flower.

