 Choose a sturdy, hard-shell crate to transport your cat. This style crate will be much easier to safely secure with a seatbelt in the backseat. A secure crate will also move less during the trip, making it less stressful for your cat. This can also reduce the risk of injury or harm to your cat if an accident were to happen.Keeping your cat in a crate will also prevent your cat from escaping through a window or door when the car is stopped. It will also keep your cat out of areas in the car where she could get stuck, like under one of the vehicle's seats.
Before your big trip, try taking short rides around town with your cat to help get used to traveling in the crate., Don't feed your cat for 2 to 3 hours before starting your trip. This can prevent potential stomach upset for your cat during the car ride. You can offer a little water before the drive. While you're in the car, don't put any food or water in your cat's crate. If the water or food spills during transport, it can get very messy which can be uncomfortable for you and your cat.Each time you stop for a break during your trip, offer your cat a small amount of water.
 You can put your cat at ease during a long car trip by bringing along a few familiar items for your cat to ride with. For example, if she typically loves to be around you or a family member, bring along a shirt or sweater belonging to you or the other person. You can place it in the crate for your cat to snuggle during the ride. You can also bring her favorite toys.Don't forget to pad the bottom of the crate with a towel or blanket to make your cat more comfortable during the trip. A small litter box can be added to the crate so that your cat can use the restroom as needed during travel. You might want to put pet pads down on the bottom of the crate, so if your cat misses the litter box, you don't have a mess.
Your cat may enjoy privacy when using her litterbox, so keep the privacy flaps of the crate or carrier down., It's important to keep your cat inside the car when traveling, since you'll be passing through unfamiliar areas. If your cat escapes your car during the trip, it's unlikely that she'll be safely returned.You should also avoid opening any windows or doors if your cat is not restrained. Watch to make sure your cat doesn't get out when the car is moving or parked.


If you find your cat won't use the litter box in her crate, try putting her on a harness with a leash. Let her get out of the car in order to eliminate.
Never leave your cat alone in the car. If it's hot outside, your cat is likely to overheat, even with the windows cracked or open. If it's cold outside, your cat could become hypothermic while she waits for you to return.

