 Keep a daily journal and take note of the specific times of the day when you feel fatigued. Fatigue is one of the most common symptoms of MS, with 80% of people with MS experiencing fatigue and lassitude. Lassitude is a severe type of MS-related fatigue and manifests itself in the following ways:Fatigue typically occurs on a daily basis.
Fatigue is exacerbated by heat and humidity.
Fatigue onset can occur early in the morning, even after a good night’s sleep.
Fatigue interferes with daily activities.;
, One of the first symptoms of MS is numbness or tingling of the face, arms, legs, or body. If you experience numbness, consult a doctor immediately. While this is a symptom of MS, it is also a symptom of other conditions which may require urgent treatment.This numbness could range from mild to severe.
If you experience severe facial numbness, take extra precautions when eating or chewing, since you may accidentally bite your tongue. If you experience severe numbness in other parts of your body, be careful around sources of heat, like fires or boiling water.
 With MS, you may feel lightheaded or feel like the room is spinning around you. However, conditions other than MS, like a middle ear inflammation, could cause these symptoms. Consult with your doctor for proper diagnosis., The pain and distress associated with MS can lead to persistent anxiousness or extreme irritability.Depression is another common symptom of MS. If you suspect you may be depressed, be it because you feel down, hopeless, or have little interest in doing things, visit the Mental Health America website at for a free depression screening.
 These could range from blurry vision to pain when moving your eye to double vision. There are different management approaches for each of these vision symptoms, so check with your doctor for the appropriate course of action to take., MS can cause cognitive changes. These changes are the first symptom of MS for many individuals affected by the disease. You may experience foggy memory, difficulty processing information and concentrating, slowed verbal fluency, or difficulty retaining new information., Some symptoms of MS typically arise in the latter stages of the disease. These include muscle weakness and sexual, bladder, or bowel problems.