 Most schools typically choose dark neutral colors like blue or black for your cap and gown. You'll want your outfit to match. Wear something sleek since your robe will already be bulky. A loose, free flowing dress is a great option, especially in bold, bright colors. For guys, a classic dressy look without a suit coat jacket can make a great look. A tie is a must. If you are celebrating after graduation with a party or dinner, know whether you'll have time to change. If you won't, wear an outfit you'll also be comfortable in without the cap and gown. Check the weather. You'll want to prepare for the temperature and bad weather.
 You aren't going to be able to wear a bag or purse on stage and you may want your keys, wallet and phone nearby. This can also be useful to keep your phone to take pictures of your friends to remember the day.
 You'll likely wear a graduation cap, but you can still choose a unique style that will look great whether your cap is on or off. If your hair is longer, you may be stuck in a warm, cramped environment so you'll likely want to keep your hair off your neck to help stay cool. A simple pony-tail, side-braid, or your hair up can be great ways to keep cool and look good once the cap comes off. If you are using some sort of product of hairspray, make sure to use a heat protectant spray and primer so it can handle the heat under your cap. This definitely applies for guys who may want to avoid wearing any sort of hair product that can sweat down. Find a picture of the hairstyle you want.That way whether it's your hairdresser, barber, or friend, they can clearly see the vision you have in your head for how you want to look.
 The cap will draw attention to your face so make sure your skin and things like eye-brows are exactly how you want them. Also, the cap will case a shadow on your face which can give you the appearance of dark circles, even if you don't usually have them. Adding a little extra concealer, particularly under your eyes, can help this. Avoid any overly heavy make-up that may sweat off or make your skin feel suffocated.
 Virtually the only thing people will be able to see are your shoes. You'll want to choose a dressy pair but also something that is comfortable. You may have to walk from the staging area to your seat and of course across stage. While a pair of stilettos may be inappropriate, you'll want to avoid being overly casual like a pair of flip flops. , Since most of your outfit will be hidden, and you have little choice over the cap and gown you'll wear, finding some accessories like jewelry can be a great way to personalize your look. A classic necklace like a string of pearls can really personalize your look as well as your favorite earrings.


Sometimes there is custom jewelry made and sold by your school for the occasion. This can be a good way to commemorate the event with a piece of jewelry you'll always have.

