 Dating to your parents might mean something very different than what it means to you. If you are both talking about the same thing you will be much more likely to have a productive conversation.


If by dating you mean going out on group dates with your friends on the weekends and being home by ten, your parents may not have a problem with you dating.
If, on the other hand, you want to see, or talk to, the person you are dating every day and go to their house, then you parents will need to know that is what dating means to you.
Telling your parents more about the context of what is going on in your life with dating, it may help them understand you and why you want to date. For example, if many of your friends have been dating for the past four years and you haven't dated yet, you may want to tell them that.
 Going through the details of what dating is going to look like for you will give your parents an idea of what to expect with dating. Talking through the details can clear up any misconceptions about what you want from dating; and it might bring up things that you need to negotiate, like the time you are expected to be home or how you will get home from your date.


If you think that your parents might be okay with you dating the person you are interested in, tell them about what the person you are interested in, how you know that person, and maybe even why you like that person.
Tell them what it will be like when you go on a date. Explain who you will be out with, what you will be doing, where you will be going, how you will get there, and what time you will be home.
If you plan on hanging out with the person you are dating on a frequent or regular basis, let your parents know how that will look. Let them know where you will be expected to be, the adults or people that will be there with you, and how they can contact his/her parents, if something comes up.
 It may feel awkward at first but your parents may respond better than you expected. You may have some false assumptions about how they feel or what they think about sex. You can say, "I know it is awkward to talk about sex with your parents, but I think it it is important that we talk about sex." Some parents are going to be okay with you having sex, as long as you use protection and are old or mature enough. Other parents don’t want their children having sex until they are married. And there is a wide range between those two parent types.
Finding out how your parents feel about sex will help you decide how to have the conversation. For example, if your parents do not want you to date because they do not want you to have sex, you may want to think about asking to go on group dates before you ask to go on dates alone.
If your parents are concerned about pregnancy, let them know that you want to be safe. Consider learning more about sexual health by going to sexual health clinic, like Planned Parenthood, or by talking to your doctor about sex. Let your parents know that you are knowledgeable and prepared. If you can talk to your parents about sex in a healthy and informed way, this may show them you have matured more than they realize. If you are not sexually active and do not plan to be sexually active, tell your parents that you have decided you are waiting to have sex! This will probably make your parents relieved, if they are concerned about sex. , Your parents may not have a set answer to this question, which may work out in your favor. You can ask them how you could show that you are ready to date to them. Maybe if you take on more responsibilities or improve your performance in school, they will feel like you are ready to date.


If your parents are concerned about your maturity, make sure you come home when you are supposed to, send them texts telling them where you are, and act responsible about whatever it is that they typically get on you about. Your parents will be more likely to let you date if they see you acting maturely, consistently.
If you are much younger than they want you to be to date, you may want to think about ways you can happily live single while you wait. The link here talks about how to have fun living the single life. If you are close to the age they want you to be, ask them if they are willing to negotiate and let you go on group or family dates.
 This is important information to know, because you may assume that you are allowed to date someone who is out of high school, while your parents think that you should only date people your age. If you don't clear up this confusion, you may end up accidentally upsetting your parents later.


Find out how old your parents think is too old for you to date, or young. Ask them if they have any other specifications of who you are (not) allowed to date.
If your parents are not okay with you dating someone based on gender, skin color, ethnicity, class, ability, appearance etc., this may because some of their attitudes are discriminatory and not about keeping you safe. See step 1.2 for more information about what to do in this scenario.

