 Roll two large lemons on a hard surface, applying pressure with your palm to break up the membranes inside the lemon and encourage it to juice more easily. Cut the lemons in half. Holding each half over a bowl, squeeze them and catch the juice in the bowl, making sure to keep the seeds separate.


If your lemons aren't yielding much juice, trying poking at the membranes with a fork.;
, Decide which sections of your hair you want to highlight. Usually, you want to focus on the top layer of hair — the layer that is visible when your hair is down. Do you want to create highlights all around your head, or do you only want highlights that frame your face? Use clips to separate the hair you want to highlight from the hair you wish to keep your normal base color.


You might want to pull the remaining hair into a braid or low ponytail, so it doesn’t mix too much with the hair you’re trying to highlight.
 Dip an old toothbrush that you don’t need to use anymore into the lemon juice, and use it to transfer the juice to the hair that you want to highlight. Make sure you apply the juice along all the hair you wish to highlight — you might want to highlight the entire strand, or you might want to have your hair highlighted toward the crown, then taper back into your natural color toward the bottom.


Undo the clip holding back each section of hair, and only work one section of hair at a time.
When you’ve finished applying the lemon juice, pull the hair back up into a clip. This is to keep the lemon juice from getting onto the hair you wish to keep your natural color.
Work your way through all the sections of hair you wish to highlight.
 Before moving on to the next step, the lemon juice needs to dry completely in your hair. If you’re in a hurry, you can speed up the process by blow-drying your hair on hot. However, if you have time and want the best possible results, go sit outside in the sun and let the lemon juice air-dry in your hair.


The longer you sit out in the sun, the lighter your highlights will grow.
Sit out in the sun for at least 20 minutes for a noticeable difference.
Blond and brown hair will lighten slightly in shade, whereas red hair will lighten by taking on a blonder tone. Black and dark brown hair will not change noticeably through this natural method.
 Take a shower, and thoroughly shampoo and condition your hair to remove all remaining lemon juice from your hair.

