 Work on pushing yourself and incorporating the whole body by doing a squat jump then going immediately into a lunge. Start by lowering into the squat position. When you are there, push through your hips and drive through your heels as you jump up in an explosive movement. Make sure to jump as high as you can.Land with your knees bent and continue back down into the squat. Then, go immediately into the lunge by putting your right leg in front of you, bending at the knee. Then, lunge with the left leg. This is one rep.
Make sure to stay in proper lunge and squat form. Your knees should never get in front of your toes and you should keep your weight in your heels.
Try doing 10 to 12 reps in eight sets. You can also combine this with other full body workouts into a short 10 to 15 minute workout.
You can do this with hand weights to add some arm work to the exercise.
 To perform this exercise, start by doing a squat with hand weights. Your feet should be shoulder-width apart as you go into a low squat, holding your dumbbells low.


Straighten up with your arms bending into a bicep curl. Lift the weights toward your chest by bending at the elbows and bringing your weights towards your chest. Your wrists should be near your shoulders, your elbows by your side.
Then perform an overhead press at standing. Extend your arms straight up in the air, following a straight line from your elbows through the wrists and hands and up to the ceiling.Lower back to a squat, lowering your arms back into a bicep curl, and then fully extending the arms at the bottom of the squat.
Try 10 to 12 reps, for five or six sets.
 Burpees are a great high-intensity full-body combo exercise. They work muscles in the legs, arms, and core. Burpees offer strength training and cardio, and they are considered high intensity moves, perfect for a short workout.


Start with your feet shoulder-width apart. Bend your knees into a squat position. Then bend at the hips and put your hands on the floor. Push your legs straight back and end in a plank position. Jump forward so that your feet are back under you and you are in a crouching position. Straighten yourself as you go into a squat. Jump up with your hands above your head.
You can add a push up to the burpee for additional intensity.
 Plank rows can be great for intense, full body exercise. For a plank row, you should use hand weights. Get into a plank position, holding the hand weights in each hand. Position your hands on the ground under your shoulders. Lift one arm as you draw your elbow towards the ceiling. The hand weight should be pulled to chest-height. Lower the weight back to the ground and repeat with the other arm.Try to keep your core stable. Your arms should be the only thing moving.
To add one more motion and increase the intensity, after you’ve lifted the hand weight with each arm, push yourself into a downward dog position.
Try eight to 10 reps for three sets.

