 Even if you are doing the world's most boring algebra in math, try to figure out what the teacher means. Don't be afraid to ask your teacher if you don't understand something. They will be sure to explain more fully!

, Disobeying rules are the quickest way to get in your teacher's bad books. Rules are there to be obeyed, and you might find yourself in detention if you disobey them.
 Being friendly is the best way to make new friends. But don't overdo it, you'll end up being a creep or the weird girl/boy of the school. Just remember, act natural and be yourself!

, It'll make others feel intimated and they'll start judging you or just avoid you completely all together.
 That way you'll be more organized. For example, always keep a diary on you!

, It'll motivate you even more.
 It may seem ridiculous, but it can make the difference between a good year in that class or a bad year! Just remember, you will have that teacher for a year! And being friendly can make people view you differently.
 I'm sure by now you will have found many new friends, so hang out with them! Suggest games that you are certain that everyone will enjoy, and smile a lot! Smiling lets people know you are enjoying their company, and they will want to spend more time with you. Plus, everyone looks better with a (genuine) smile.
 Jokes and funny stories can gain you, friends, very quickly. However don't make fun of people behind their backs, or in front of them unless you are teasing in a friendly way and they know it. It's very mean to make fun of someone in a cruel way. Also, keep within the rules. If jumping off the cafeteria table and shouting: "I hate this food! Get me something else!" will make your friends laugh, it's better not to make them laugh. You want them laughing with you, not at you.
 That is a motto for some schools, and it will really please your teachers if you follow this simple rule! Your personal best is all they're looking for, not the best in the class.
 It may seem like High School is the most annoying thing and the worst part of your life, but it's not.

