 Before you start explaining SEO to your client, consider how much your client knows about the internet. This will help you determine what tactic you should use when explaining SEO. The last thing you'd want is to confuse your client by using unfamiliar terms, or insult your client by using too simple explanations. For example:


If your client is unfamiliar with the internet, including websites, search engines, blogs, links, and so forth, consider using more analogies and comparisons. Terms such as "search results" and "links" may confuse your client.
If your client is familiar with the internet, he or she may already have an idea of how searching for things on the internet works. Terms such as "search results" and "links" will probably get the point across, and you won't have to use as many analogies or comparisons.
If your client is very familiar with the internet and how it works, a simple definition might be all it takes to get him or her to understand SEO.;
, Different people learn things in different ways, so you may have to employ various techniques to get your point across. There are three main learning styles: verbal, visual, and physical.You may have to use a combination of two or all three styles to explain SEO to your client.


Some people learn new concepts better through discussing them verbally over the phone or in person. Consider setting up a meeting with your client to discuss SEO with him or her.
Some people learn new concepts better through visual means. This could be as simple as sending your client an email with a definition of SEO to as extensive as providing them with a chart or diagram.
Some people are physical learners, and need something demonstrated for them. Consider drawing a chart when discussing SEO, and pointing out parts to the client while speaking. You can also show them how it works physically on a computer.
 If you have a client who is completely new to the concept of SEO, he or she may never have heard of it before and may not know what it stands for. In this case, you will simply have to say: "SEO stands for 'Search Engine Optimization.'"

, Your client may not understand the importance of "Search Engine Optimization" until he or she understands what it does. You may have to explain to your client what SEO does. For example, you could say:


"SEO helps your website appear on the first few pages of the search results."
"SEO helps your website appear sooner when someone searches for..." (You then will list the terms someone might use to find your client's business).
"SEO makes it easier for people to find your business/website."

, Knowing what your client does and what his or her website is about may come in handy for when you have to use analogies, comparisons, or scenarios. Consider using some variation of your client's name, website, or line of business in your analogies, comparisons, or scenarios.

