 Home births come with many benefits. At home, you will be in comfortable surroundings. You will be able to remain with your partner and children throughout labor, and there will be no rush to the hospital before you give birth., You cannot be administered epidurals at home, and if there are complications, you will have to be transferred to the hospital. Keep in mind that transfers to hospitals may take time during vital medical emergencies.There is a higher rate of complications for home births, and a higher risk of infant death.You may need to be transferred to the hospital if:


You develop high blood pressure.
You begin to hemorrhage.
You experience a cord prolapse.The baby experiences any problems, such as abnormal heart rate or breathing problems., Your doctor will review your health conditions to make sure that a home birth will be safe for you. They may tell you what specific risks you may face during a home birth.You should not have a home birth if:


You require a C-section or are at high risk for needing a C-section.
You have had a C-section in the past.
You have preeclampsia, diabetes, hypertension, a seizure disorder, or any other chronic disorder.
You are pregnant with multiples.
You are earlier than 37 or later than 41 weeks along in your pregnancy., When choosing a home birth, you want to make sure that you will be taken care of. There are two types of midwives that receive certification.


Certified nurse-midwives (CNM) must have experience in both nursing and midwifery before passing a rigorous exam for certification from the American Midwifery Certification Board (AMCB). A graduate degree is required for certification.They sometimes do home births, although they are more frequently found in hospitals and birth centers.The North American Registry of Midwives (NARM) regulates certified professional midwives (CPM). These midwives are often trained through apprenticeships, and they may or may not have a college degree. These midwives participate more in home births. Licensing for these midwives varies state by state., You will need to prepare a plan if something goes awry. Set up in advance which hospital you will be transferred to if something goes wrong. Make sure that this hospital is close as you may not have much time to reach it. You should also prepare transportation to the hospital if needed; ambulances are expensive and may take too long to reach you.