 Go through the music for your song and, bar by bar of music, write out the chord progressions that will be used throughout the song. From these chords, you're going to find the relative minor pentatonic of each one.


The relative minor pentatonic scale of each chord will only contain notes already in the chord. This means its notes will sound pleasing in your solo.
You may want to leave some space between chords when you write them out. This way you can write the relative minor pentatonic beside the root chord.
A pentatonic scale is a scale is limited to five notes, with each note of the scale usually being a strong harmonic complement to the chord off which it's based., The general rule when soloing with a pentatonic scale is to use the relative minor pentatonic scale, which will nearly always sound good with the original chord. The relative minor of any major scale is three half-tones below the root note.


On a guitar, three half-steps will be represented by three frets on the neck of your guitar, with each fret standing for a half step.For example, if the root of a major chord is C, the relative minor would be A. For an F major chord, D would be its relative minor., Traditional western scales have eight notes, but your pentatonic scale(s) will only have five. To transform your relative minor scale into a relative minor pentatonic, you should remove the second and sixth tones from your relative minor scale.For example:


The relative minor of C major is A. To form a pentatonic scale in A minor, remove the second and sixth intervals from the root. This yields a pentatonic scale of: A, C, D, E, G.
The relative minor of F major is D. D minor's pentatonic scale, therefore, would be: D, F, G, A, C.
If you want to create a pentatonic from a major scale, you can do this by removing the fourth and seventh tone from the scale., Using the notes you've identified for the relative pentatonic minor scales of your chords, play your solo. Since the relative minor pentatonic scales only use notes already part of the original chords, the solo notes you play will complement the chords.