 It is recommended using creative, but survival would work too. Just be aware that you would need a lot of wool for this! If you pick survival, you should have a sheep farm to make things easier.;
, In order to get lots of sheep for survival, try breeding. The funny thing is... you can breed babies to their fathers and mothers when they grow! Try that funny glitch for Minecraft and soon you will have lots of sheep.


The dye is important too. Although you can do creative, and ignore this whole part.
 Rainbow Dash, Twilight Sparkle, Fluttershy––which is your pick? Be aware that certain characters are different. For instance, Fluttershy has a longer tail and mane. So she has to have more pink blocks.


Look up pictures of them to get the colors and specials right.
 Take about, 12 blocks for each leg. Remember, last step covered the colors of the wool. Of course, you can use any blocks. But wool is best and easiest to get. Make a four block base, and build up two. So you should have a 2 wide, 3 high, and 2 deep pillar of wool. Do the same 1 block over to the right. Now you have the front legs!

, The bottom part is finished.
 Build it 3 high, about a 7 wide, 3 high, and 5 deep roof on top of the legs. The body is finished.
 It should be a roof of 4 wide, 5 deep, 5 high platform halfway on the front of the body.
 Then add 2 by 1 black wool in the eyes. There, boom. Eyes. That's the main body and legs and head and eyes done!

, Then add the mane. Should be pretty self-explanatory, have it coming down the back of the head on to the body. The same with the tail, add it in on the back, having it droop down to the ground. There, the pony is basically done!

, As stated earlier, specials are the special unique thing about the pony. For wings, add a 4 by 2 extra wool on the sides. And add a horn if you want, a 1 by 2 pillar on top of the head should do. It will look okay. The specials are like this:


Applejack has a hat. Add that if you're trying to replica Applejack.
Derpy has derpy eyes. Add that if you're making Derpy.
Fluttershy's tail is longer.
Celestia is taller. The specials can be made by you.
 Specials make the pony unique. So add some to your custom pony. Easy enough.


Fillies have to be made smaller. Take off 1 block from every number. But if the number is originally one, keep it. Again, pretty easy!

