 If your couch has dirt, crumbs, or other debris, you need to vacuum it. Use the soft brush attachment on your vacuum cleaner. This is also important before you clean it with any cleaners to remove any loose dirt before you start scrubbing.Vacuum your couch once a week to keep it clean.
Don’t use the power attachments. This can damage the fabric.
 To clean any stains, use water and a mild detergent, like dish detergent. Make sure that whatever soap you use does not have any bleach in it. Dip the rag into the water and soap mixtures and make sure to wring out the excess water so the rag is just damp.To make the solution, drop a few drops of detergent in a bowl of water.
 With your damp rag with the soap and water mixture, rub the stain on the couch. Make sure to rub it gently. Rinse the rag often of the dirt that you pull from the couch. You may also place the mixture in a spray bottle and spray it on the couch so you don’t saturate it.Make sure that you do not wet or soak the couch. If you get too much water into the couch, it can be very difficult to dry due to the way the microfiber fabric is made. Make sure you are only using a damp rag. Even if the stain is stubborn, don’t pour more water onto the couch.
 If your couch has gotten too wet during the cleaning process, you need to dry it. To do this, use a hairdryer on the coolest setting possible. Don’t use the high heat setting because it could damage the fabric., If your fabric is washer and dryer safe, you may be able to remove the covers and wash them. Wash them on the gentle cycle. Use a gentle cleanser, like Woolite. Dry the covers on the no heat setting., Baking soda may help get stains out of your couch. Combine baking soda and water to make a thick paste. Spread the paste over the stain. Let it sit for a few minutes before wiping the paste away. The stain should be better., After you clean the fabric on your microsuede couch, you may find that it is hard and stiff. To get it back to its original softness, use a brush to gently brush the area. This will help remove any leftover cleaner and make the fabric soft again.You can use a nailbrush or a toothbrush.

