 An important aspect of academic success is good nutrition. Children cannot study effectively if they are hungry, or if they only eat unhealthy snacks. Set your child up for study success by making healthy snacks available.Good choices include hummus and carrots, peanut butter and apples, and popsicles made from 100% juice.
Be sure your child stays hydrated! Provide lots of water to drink.
 Kids will study much more effectively if they can focus on one thing at a time. As a result, it is crucial to avoid as many distractions as you can. Perhaps the number one distraction to avoid is television during your study time. Go ahead and turn it off. Even leaving the TV on in the background will limit both you and your child’s ability to focus., Whenever your child has a big exam coming up (or especially if it is multiple exams), it is a good idea to let all members of the family know. This way, everyone can be supportive, and try not to create additional stress for that child.For instance, you might say to your other children, "Alex has his exams this week, so I really need your help making him feel supported. Let's cut him a little slack this week, OK?"

, Sleep is absolutely crucial for exam success. At least one week prior to the exam, be sure that your child gets at least 8 hours of rest each night. Of course, this is particularly important on the night preceding the exam.If your child does not have a regular bedtime, consider establishing one.
Likewise, it is important for healthy sleep cycles to wake up at the same time each day, too!

, You may be tempted to bribe your child into studying or doing well on a test. This method should be avoided, however, because it sets up a false system of external rewards. You want your child to study and do well in school for the intrinsic value of doing well, not for the candy or money you will give them. If the work for intrinsic value, this will ensure greater academic success over time., Of course, no matter which methods you choose, you should always practice patience when studying with your child. When you are calm and patient, it will help your child to cope when they become frustrated, and ultimately to study more effectively.


Instead of becoming angry when your child does not want to work, try offering solutions.
You might say, "How about if we set the timer for 20 minutes and just do our best to study until the timer goes off?"
You might say, "I noticed you're getting a lot of these wrong. Why don't we give the quiz a break for today and look at flashcards instead?"

