 We're going to do our best not to lose any data, but as Murphy's Law will tell you, things happen. It's better to be ready with a little precautions than to risk losing all your data.


Copy your information onto an external hard drive or use another form of backup like online backup prior to removing your current hard drive. If your hard drive has failed and your data has been lost, skip this step.;
, You're going to need to get inside the computer, and it'll be a lot easier if it doesn't hang up on wires or suddenly turn on and electrocute you. Unplug the power source, monitor and any other devices.
 Each computer model is manufactured differently. Opening your specific case may involve removing a side panel with a screwdriver or pushing a button to open the case in a clamshell fashion. The owner's manual that came with your computer should detail the manner in which the case is opened.


If your owner's manual is missing or you did not receive one, don't despair. Look carefully at your computer case and you'll probably be able to figure out how to remove it. Most older computers are secured with Phillips-head screws on the back.
 Within the computer, the hard drive could be placed in a cage that's either fixed to the tower or removable, or it could be placed on a set of rails. The hard drive is a rectangular metal box the size and width of a small book.


By convention, most computers locate the hard drive near the front of the case, near other drives (like your optical drive). If you look closely, your hard drive will be clearly labeled as such - don't go pulling random stuff out of your computer if you're not sure what it is!

, Now that you've located the hard drive, you need to figure out how to remove it.


You will need a screwdriver to open the cage and handle the drive if the hard drive is in a fixed or removable cage.
Newer, more modern cases will often be "tool-less", meaning that you just have to push a simple lever or switch to be able to remove the hard drive.
 Hard drives will often sit on a set of rails towards the front of the computer case. Using both hands, carefully slide it outward.


Pull carefully - if you encounter any resistance, stop! Nothing in a computer case should require any substantial amount of force - if you're pulling or pushing hard, you're probably doing it wrong.
The hard drive will have two or more cables connected to it. If those are impeding on your ability to take out the hard drive, remove these cables first.
 This is a broad, thin, usually gray ribbon running from your motherboard (or hard disk controller if present) to your hard drive.


The cable may be connected to the hard drive with glue, but you should be able to work it out of place without much hassle. Carefully remove as much glue as you can and work the plug back and forth gently to break the glue.
 This will be a plastic, rectangular connector with one or two latches (depending on the level of power your computer's motherboard provides to the hard drive).


This connector will usually be a lot more snug than the IDE ribbon cable. Make sure you're disengaging the latches on the plug and pull firmly on the connector. Take care not to bend any of the thin metal pins inside the plug.
 "Naked" hard drives removed from a computer are very sensitive to damage from moisture, dust and electrical shock. Anti-static bags are a cheap method of protecting your hard drive.


Anti-static bags can be cheaply purchased at most office supply or computer stores. If you're throwing out or recycling your hard drive, you can skip this step.

