 Depression correlates highly with a risk of suicide.Symptoms of depression should be taken seriously. Be on the lookout for the following symptoms associated with depression:Apathy
Excessive guilt
Sadness
Hopelessness
Social withdrawal
Loss of energy
Difficulty concentrating
Memory loss;
, A sudden change in behavior can indicate thoughts of suicide, especially if the behavioral changes are dramatically different than normal. Behavior changes can include:Decreased school/work performance
Decreased time devoted to social relationships
Decreased involvement in activities such as sports or hobbies
Increased irritability
Anxiety
Exhaustion
Erratic behaviors (such as drug use or dangerous activities)
Self-harming (such as cutting)

, If your child can’t seem to get out of bed all day, or if your child has stopped sleeping, these are concerns. Sometimes teens have a different sleeping schedule than adults or children, preferring to stay up late, but be conscious of what your teen does if he stays up late and whether the activities are positive., This can include loss of appetite, or overeating. Both overeating and undereating can indicate problems with mental health. Assess when the changes began to occur, and if any other changes occurred around the same time., Risk factors are any associations that can contribute to an increased risk of teen suicide. Common risk factors include:Previous suicide attempts
History of mental health diagnosis (having Schizophrenia, Depression, Anxiety, Bipolar Disorder)
Alcohol or other substance use
Aggressive behavior
Recent/serious loss (death, parents' divorce, broken romantic relationship)
Confusion or lack of support with discovering sexual identity
Being bullied or being a bully
Family history of suicide
Family history of domestic violence

, Don't brush off any suicidal threat. In some instances, the threat of suicide is a cry for help, one way of saying "I don't know how to cope". If ignored, the teen may choose to act on the impulse. It is better to err on the side of caution when dealing with a human's life.
 If he is actively threatening, crying, pacing, and/or yelling, try talking to the teenager in a very caring, calm tone. You do not want to escalate the situation. Be conscious of staying calm, and try to de-escalate the teen to feel calm as well.
 Ask your teen to talk about what is going on and what feelings he is experiencing. Don't be afraid to use the word suicide. Listen closely and don't interrupt; let your teen express all he has to say. Don't dismiss his problems or get angry, it's his time to talk. Let him express the negativity he is feeling. Ask him what he needs in his life that will help him keep living. Remind him of the positive things that he has in his life, or events coming up that he can look forward to experiencing. Tell him that his life matters to many people. Remind the teen that he is loved and supported, and that you will be there for him.DON'T blame your teen or make any accusations. This is your turn to listen and refrain from judgment. Be supportive. The teen's safety is the first priority.
 A plan is the way that he wants to carry out the suicide. If the teen has plan, follow up with asking if he has the means to carry out the plan (pills, gun, etc). Then ask when the teen intends to carry out the suicide, and finally, ask if he truly intends to follow through on the suicide., After asking questions about intent, plan, and means, assess the teen's risk of committing suicide:Low – Expresses some suicidal thoughts, does not have a suicide plan. Says he won't commit suicide.
Moderate – Expresses suicidal thoughts. Has a vague plan that isn't very lethal. Says he won't commit suicide.
High – Expresses suicidal thoughts. Has a specific plan that is lethal. Says he won't commit suicide.
Severe – Expresses suicidal thoughts. Has a specific plan that is lethal. Says he intends to commit suicide.
 If you determine that the threat is serious and his life is at risk, do not hesitate to call emergency services. Especially if he is admitting he is suicidal, he may need more help then you can give him at home.You can drive the teen to the Emergency Room, or if he is uncooperative, request an ambulance.
 A hospital provides a safe environment that can monitor your teen and give any immediate care he may need. Medical and mental health professionals will work with him to feel better. The hospital can and will keep him safe and de-escalate the situation.
 Most hospitals will help the teen create a plan to deal with suicidal feelings in the future, and ways to cope now. Be clear on discharge instructions and follow through with hospital orders. It is common to refer back to the teen's physician or to a mental health worker for follow-up continued care.
 The risk of suicide increases dramatically when teens have access to firearms at home, and nearly 60% of all suicides in the United States are committed with a gun. Safely keep all guns in the home unloaded, locked, and kept out of the reach of children and teens., Access to means can increase the risk of teen suicide. Keep alcohol, knives, and any potentially lethal medications locked away if you are concerned about your teen using them as a means for suicide. Use a lock on a cabinet in the kitchen for alcohol and knives, and use a safety deposit box for medications.
 Seek out a therapist to help your teen learn coping skills for depression and thoughts of suicide. Family therapy can be helpful so that family members can understand the teen's feelings and how to support the teen in the future. Some teens may start taking medications, which can be prescribed and monitored through a psychiatrist.

