 There are a variety of file managers available on the Google Play Store. Some devices may come with a file manager app already installed, usually labeled "My Files" or "File Manager".
 The interface varies from app to app, but usually you'll be shown a list of folders and files stored on your device.
 Tapping on a folder will open it so that you can view the contents. You'll usually see your current location at the top of the screen. Tapping the location at the top of the screen allows you to move back to previous folders.


You won't be able to access the "root" folder unless you have root access for your device. Most users won't have to worry about this though, as files like pictures and videos are stored in the "storage" folder, which any device can access.
 Any picture taken by your camera or other camera app will be stored in the DCIM folder.
 If you've downloaded a file using a web browser like Chrome or Firefox, your downloaded file will likely be located in the Download folder. Certain apps may place downloads made with that app inside the app's folder instead of the Download folder.
 One of the main benefits of a file manager app is the control you have over your files. Press and hold a file to select it. You can then perform a variety of different tasks, including moving, copying, or deleting the file. When you select to "Move" a file, you will be given the opportunity to navigate to the location you want to move it to.


Press and hold a file and then tap additional files to add them to the selection. You can then manipulate or move all of the files at once.
 Tapping a file will allow you to open it. You'll be shown a list of apps that support the file if you haven't opened that file type before.


You may be able to select "Open as" from the file's menu, which will allow you to choose a different app to open the file with. This can be really useful if you are trying to use an app that isn't showing up on the regular list of compatible apps.
 Another popular use for file managers is their built-in ZIP support. Most file managers can extract ZIP files so that you can access the contents. You can also usually select multiple files and create a ZIP archive from the selection menu. This is great if you need to send multiple files to someone.

