 Though not getting punched is your best option, if you're fighting, it's likely that you will get punched at some point, so it's better to know how to avoid it. To take a punch to the head, move toward the punch, tightening your neck and clenching your jaw to minimize the impact. Aim your forehead at the punch, so your opponent ends up hurting his hand instead of hurting your nose, cheek, or jaw.Leaning in toward the punch instead of away will actually minimize the impact of the punch, because your opponent will have less time to gain momentum.
 If a punch is coming at your stomach, you should tighten your stomach muscles without sucking your stomach in. If you can, try to move around so you get hit in your sides instead of right in your stomach, which can damage your organs and cause enough pain to double you over.Avoid holding your breath or you will literally have the wind knocked out of you. Instead, try exhaling slightly before the punch, which will naturally tighten your stomach.
 If your opponent tries to tackle you, then he'll come low to the ground and will wrap his arms around your waist and hips as he tries to knock you off balance. Don't try to grab his head, though this may be tempting. Instead, move your hands forward and grip his hips or upper body, trying to push him away.After that, you've created enough distance and regained your balance, so you can try to kick your opponent in the groin or stomp on his feet.
 If your opponent is on your back and has you in a chokehold, don't try to bend your knees and toss him over your back. This will actually tighten his grip and it could cause some serious damage, especially if you're not strong enough to hold his weight. Instead, turn the choke by grabbing the opponent's arm that's around your neck, tilting to the side to create some space between the two of you until he slides sideways off your back.


If you tilt sideways enough, you may even make your opponent fall to the ground. Once you've got him down, you can try to pin him to the ground on his back.
 If your attacker has you on your back, don't turn away from him and try to get up. Looking away from him is a way to guarantee that you will be hit right away. Instead, keep looking at your attacker and raise your legs, trying to kick him as hard as you can to his shin, knee, or groin. If he's low to the ground, go for his face. Once you've caused enough damage, you can pop back up.Once you've kicked or hurt your opponent, making him spring back, roll to the side and then use your arms to support your body weight as you regain your footing.
Continue looking at your opponent, even when you try to get up. You may think he's hurt, but he can come right back at you while you're still struggling to stand.
 If you're on the ground with your opponent, you need to prevent him from mounting you, or getting on top of you at all costs. Get on your side or belly -- your chances of escape are better than if he has you pinned on your back. Once you've assumed this position, try to scramble as fast as you can to get up and away.


If he has you pinned to your back, he'll be easily able to pin you down and punch you in the face. Avoid this maneuver at all costs.
 If you want to get out of the fight as soon as possible, just yell your heart out as you're fighting. This makes it much more likely that someone will come along and scare off your opponent, thus bringing you to safety. Even if you're in a place that feels deserted, try yelling as loudly as you can anyway, in hopes that someone will come along. Yelling will also throw off your opponent because he won't expect you to yell in the middle of a fight.


Even if no one comes to your rescue, yelling can disorient your opponent and scare him into thinking someone else will come along.

