 Your ex-friend may try and get back on your good side or get back in touch with you. If they do, remind them of the boundaries you set and ask that they respect them. They may be dealing with a lot of anger and may lash out at you in person, online, or within your group of mutual friends. Your ex-friend is just trying to get a reaction out of you or just blowing off steam. Don't respond to this type of behavior at all.It may take some time, but they will accept it.
 Know that this is probably easier said than done. Remind yourself that you ended the friendship for this exact reason, because you did not want to have to deal with the drama they bring into your life. This behavior is part of the reason they made a fake friend in the first place. Take comfort in the fact that your decision to end things was the correct one. Watch out for the following behaviors:


Constant texts, calls, emails, or social media messages.
They may say mean things about you to others or try to turn mutual friends against you.
Making fun of you or gossiping about you.
Making you feel as though you are responsible for their choices or behavior.
 Even though you were the one to end the friendship, realize that a friendship still ended.You may be feeling a mix of emotions including relief, freedom, guilt, sadness, anger, or hopelessness. Let yourself grieve the end of the friendship and cope with whatever emotions or mix of emotions come your way.One good way to deal with the emotions is to write about them. Spend some time writing all the things you are thinking and feeling about the break up, and why those might be coming up for you. Journaling about what you are going through will help you identify how you feel as well as help you process through the emotions and constructively get them out.
 Especially if you are in school, you may have mutual friends that you share with your ex-friend. Breaking up your friendship potentially puts these mutual friends in an awkward position.They may feel that they have to pick sides, or they may not know how to act around you in regards to the other friend. In an informative way, talk to them about what happened. Don't gossip, and avoid going into detail if you can.


Try something like, “I know you and Ashley are friends and since you and I are also friends, I just wanted to let you know what happened. Ashley and I are not friends any longer. We talked about it and I think we each got to say what we needed to say. I'm only telling you this because I don't want you to feel uncomfortable about it, or put in the middle.”

