 Light colors give a cheerful, happy, and fresh look to spring fashion. Dark colors, however, tend to feel like winter. Ditch the black and navy items and go for something yellow, blue, or green instead.


Pastels are always a go to in spring fashion. Sea foam green, lilacs, and pale yellows add pop to any outfit.
Imagine wearing the color at a picnic, or out on a walk in the garden, and ask yourself if the colors fit the scenery.;
, Spring is all about color, but you need a good stock of neutrals to match things with. Neutral tops also carry over well into other seasons, making them a worthwhile investment.


Neutral colors include tan, gray, navy, white, and brown.
Use white for a classy spring look. It can be dressed up with sweaters and accessories, or you can play it down as a casual piece by keeping it unadorned.
 Spring is characterized by quickly changing temperatures, so be ready for whatever nature throws your way. Always bring a sweater, cardigan, light jacket, or pair of leggings handy -- it is always easy to take off layers if you get hot.
 The increasing heat means you need to ditch the heavy winter clothes for something more comfortable. While cotton is always popular, you have several other options for spring fashion as well.


Tropical Wool
Chiffon
Linen
Hemp

, When the flowers come out, people love to see more flowers. Big floral dresses, shirts, and even pants are in style come March no matter where you live.
 As the weather gets better, more and more people start losing layers. Spring fashion takes advantage of this with exposed shoulders, shorts and skits, and open back or v-necks. This will not only keep you cool, it will make you stand out on the street.
 Spring is often the rainiest, wettest season of the year as spring rains come and old snow melts. Invest in an umbrella, have a light raincoat at the ready, and keep some rain boots at your front door. Even the best dressed spring reveler can have their outfit ruined by a surprising April shower.

