 You may numb your feelings to avoid the psychological impact of the battering. This may include feeling depressed or cut off from loved ones, repressing feelings or memories, or denying that anything horrific happened.You might tell your friends and family that everything is great, even when you know you are hurting. Or, you might make excuses for the person’s behavior by lying or minimizing their actions. You may be afraid that if you talk about the problems, people may respond in shock, even if you feel like it’s not a big deal.


If you have a difficult time confronting your emotions, you may want to speak with a therapist.
Talk about your feelings with your therapist. You may feel overly emotional or completely numb. Either way, a therapist can help you come to terms with how you feel.;
, Learned helplessness refers to the seemingly open opportunity to leave an abusive relationship or to protect yourself or your children, but instead staying in the relationship. This may occur if passivity seems to be the only way to placate the abuser or to create stability in the home. You may even act passively as a way to protect yourself or children from violence or harm.You may feel that any efforts to leave or change the situation are futile and that you are trapped where you are at. For example, if a friend or family member suggests a way to escape, you may think of a million reasons for why it may not work. Ultimately, you might feel trapped in your situation whether you like it or not.
 If you’ve been battered, you may be highly vigilant, or on edge for potential threatening behavior. When faced with a violent situation or perceived violence, you may be extremely watchful. Perhaps you keep one eye out for violence at all times, or sense when people may get upset.Even in safe situations, you might feel constantly suspicious of other people’s behavior.


This type of hyper-awareness may alert you to perceived danger, but it may also wear you out. You may be on overdrive, even when you are in safe situations.
Your friends may pick up on signs and say, “It seems like you’re always looking for threats” or “Why don’t you ever relax?”

, In addition to being overly alert, you may notice more symptoms of anxiety.Some common symptoms of anxiety include constant worrying, apprehension, dread, expecting the worst, muscle tension, insomnia, feeling jumpy or irritable, and feeling restless.For example, you may lose sleep or suffer from insomnia if you cannot fall asleep or stay asleep due to your worries. You might constantly replay thoughts such as, “Will they find me here? Am I safe? Am I protected here? Will I ever feel safe again?”
Talk to a therapist about your anxious feelings. For more information on anxiety, check out How to Know if You Have Anxiety.
 Some women experience flashbacks or nightmares related to the abuse. You may experience the abuse as though it is happening, even if it is not.You may close your eyes and see flashes of violence or feel overcome by fear.


Even if the relationship ended, you may still have the sensation of your abuser’s hand on you or have their voice stuck in your head.
These flashbacks are a symptom of post-traumatic stress disorder, and can be treated by seeking help from a therapist.
 Battered women tend to seek medical care much more frequently than others. You may go to your physician and never disclose the abuse or battering. However, you may have increased medical problems or complain of pains or problems. Some common medical complaints include headaches, stomachaches, insomnia, pelvic pain, back pain, chest pain, and drug abuse.Perhaps you mask the emotional pain and instead experience medical problems related to the abuse at home.
If you find yourself lying to your physician about your injuries or symptoms, think about who you are protecting. It’s okay to be honest with your physician and seek proper medical care.
Serious complications can arise if physical Injuries, especially head trauma, and other medical problems that are the result of abuse go untreated.
 You may try to distance yourself from how the battering has affected you by using avoidance. Perhaps you avoid certain places, people, or activities.You may go out of your way to avoid these things or experiences. For example, you may drive completely out of your way to avoid seeing your abuser at the grocery store, mall, or at restaurants, or avoid certain places where the person hurt you. Your friends may notice your behaviors and see them as over-the-top or unnecessary. Yet to you, they may seem necessary to not panic.


You may even avoid your own emotions. For example, you may begin to feel happiness or sadness, then push it away or avoid feeling it.
You can talk about your avoidance with your therapist to help you identify and work through these behaviors.
 You may experience difficulties with being sexually intimate with someone. Perhaps you fear being touched or associate sex with feeling unsafe, used, or hurt. Being intimate with someone can feel threatening and you may avoid sexual intimacy.Uncomfortable feelings may arise when sexuality is expressed, and you may feel uncomfortable or try to get away.
You may also struggle with body image distortion following the battering.It’s okay to seek therapy around issues of intimacy and sexuality. It’s important to feel safe and loved in intimate relationships, and it can take time to heal.
 To get a better idea of the abuse you’ve been through, write down your experiences. First, describe the first abusive situation you can remember. Then, write down the worst occasion, the last abuse that occurred, and what a typical incident involves.This can give you a better idea of your own experiences and the potential danger you may encounter in the future.


You may still be in a relationship with the abuser. If so, find ways to be safe, such as contacting the police, staying with a friend or family member, or talking with a therapist.
 As a result of the battering, your interpersonal relationships may have suffered.Perhaps you feel so isolated in your experience that you’ve been completely unable to share your experience with others. It’s common for relationships to suffer for women who have been battered.


Think about your relationships before the relationship began and how they’ve changed over time. Do you feel the same closeness to your friends and family? How have the relationships changed?
Perhaps your abuser did not allow you to interact with friends or family and now, reconciliation is challenging.
 Battered woman syndrome is considered a subcategory of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Some women have symptoms of PTSD in addition to being diagnosed with battered woman syndrome. If you think you may have PTSD, get treatment as soon as possible. PTSD may make you feel like you’re constantly on edge and in danger. For more information on PTSD, check out How to Tell if You Have PTSD. Look out for these common symptoms:Re-experiencing the trauma
Avoiding reminders of the trauma
Higher emotional arousal
Guilt, shame, blaming yourself
Feeling betrayed
Depression, suicidal thoughts

