 Lots of wipers skip and squeak because the windshield isn't quite wet enough. Check your fluid level and top it off when necessary. This way, your sprayers are ready for action if squeaking occurs., Windshield wipers are designed to follow behind the motion of the wiper arm. If your blades are stiff and don’t trail behind the arm in a back-and-forth motion, twist the arm with your hands to loosen the stiffness.


Blades that are too tight won’t be able to alternate back and forth to trail behind the wiper arm smoothly, which causes chattering and squeaking.
Wiper blades should never appear to "dig" into the windshield or remain vertical as they sweep across the windshield., Stiff wiper blades can also cause chattering and squeaking. Some blades may be stiff fresh from the box, others may become stiffen through exposure to the elements. Blades that are a year old should be replaced; blades that are newer can be softened with:


ArmorAll. Apply a liberal amount of ArmorAll to a piece of paper towel. Using circular motions, work the ArmorAll into the rubber of the blade to soften it.Rubbing alcohol. Dampen a paper towel with rubbing alcohol. Gently buff the rubber of the blade with the rubbing alcohol dampened towel.
WD-40. Use this technique sparingly, as too much WD-40 can dry out rubber. Spray a little WD-40 on a paper towel, lightly apply it to the rubber of the blade, then wipe it dry., Check to see if your blades or the wiper assemblies under them are too loose or too tight. Too little or too much tension between the glass and wiper can create chattering or squeaking, too.


Generally, fasteners can be tightened with a wrench by turning them clockwise and loosened by turning them counterclockwise.You may need to experiment with the tightness to find what works best. Ideally, the blades should be held firmly in place, but should still be loose enough to sweep back-and-forth across the windshield.
 Common automotive surface protectants, like Rain-X or certain kinds of wax, can cause chatter or squeaking. Remove the product an eliminate obnoxious wiper noises with an application of normal car polish.


The film left behind by certain automotive surface products can increase the friction between the wiper blades and the windshield, creating unpleasant noises, like squeaking.