 Take the stiffener or interfacing and fold it in half lengthwise, to make the strip half as long. Then use a sewing machine or sew by hand to create a seam about ¼ inch (.63 cm) in from the edge that connects the shorter, raw edges of the interfacing.


Do the same for the brim piece, so that you are left with two loops.
 Take the loop you made from your brim piece and cuff it in on itself to make it half its original width. This should leave you with a cuffed piece of cloth that has a folded edge on one side of its length and raw edges on the other side., After cuffing your brim piece, fold the raw edges of the brim piece inward about ¼ inch (.63 cm). Make sure to fold them over to the inside rather to the outside to hide the raw edges.Iron the brim piece, paying special attention to press the area you just folded over.
 Turn the brim piece inside out so that the seams are visible. Then tuck the stiffener or interfacing into the ¼ inch (.63 cm) “cuff” that you made by tucking in the raw edges. Sew by hand using straight stitches or use a sewing machine to sew the two fabrics together., Adjust your sewing machine’s stitch length and the machine’s tension to the highest setting. Then place the edge of the circular cloth under the needle of the machine and sew all the way around the circle, about ½ inch (1.25 cm) from the edge. This will create ruffled pleats in what will become the puffy top of the chef’s hat.Adjust the stitch length and tension of your machine back to the usual settings after you finish.
If you don’t have a sewing machine, hand sew using long, straight stitches and pull tightly after each stitch to create pleats.
 Slide the ruffled top part of the hat into the “cuff” of the brim piece you made, so that ½ inch (1.25 cm) of the ruffled hat top is inside the open part of the brim. Pin all the way around the top of the brim to keep the top part of the hat in place., Hand sew or machine sew all around the brim where it overlaps with the ruffled top piece, about ¼ inch (.63 cm) from the top edge of the hat brim. When you remove the pins, you will be left with a handsome chef’s hat that can be used for a costume or worn while cooking!,