 A gas cooktop will require a gas line to bring fuel to the burners. If you are replacing an existing gas cooktop then you should already have a gas line installed.


If you do not have a gas line then you should hire a professional to install one for you. It is particularly important for a gas line to be installed properly because leaks can cause fires and be dangerous for people breathing in the gas. , Removing the doors and drawers can help make it easier to access the space under the cooktop. You will also need to remove any items from the cabinets to access the gas line and hose.


To remove cabinet doors you can unscrew the hinges holding them in place. , There will be a small valve where the flexible hose of the cooktop attaches to the built-in gas line of the house. Turn this valve so that it is perpendicular to the hose, or so that it sticks out to the side.


If you do not close the valve properly, it will release gas when you unhook the hose and can cause suffocation and/or fires.
When the gas line is open the handle on the valve will be pointing in the direction of gas flow. It is very important to turn this valve 90 degrees to close the valve. , Many gas cooktops have power cords to provide electricity to light the burners. You must unplug this power cable from the outlet before proceeding. , Even though you have switched off the gas valve, there may still be gas trapped in the hose. Turn on all the burners to release this trapped gas. Do not light them. This will release all the extra gas after a few minutes.


Turn on your range hood while you have the burners on to disperse all the gas that is released. , Take one wrench and set it on the nut of the flexible gas hose and take the other wrench and set it on the nut on the wall hose.


Hold the wrench connected to the wall hose to keep it in place.
Turn the wrench attached to the flexible gas hose counterclockwise to unscrew. Continue turning counterclockwise until the hose is completely detached from the wall pipe.
Some wall pipes will have a special fitting that goes between the wall gas pipe and the flexible hose pipe. Make sure you leave this fitting in place when unscrewing the hose., Remove the burners, screens and any other removable pieces before proceeding. This will make it easier to move the cooktop around.
 Unscrew the brackets from the underside of the existing cooktop.
 Remove the cooktop from the counter and place it somewhere safe. Don’t forget that the hose is still attached when you are pulling it out of place.


Place it upside down when you are setting it aside to keep it from being damaged. , If you will be reusing the hose for your new cooktop then you should unscrew it from the old cooktop. Use two wrenches to unscrew, attaching one to the cooktop and the other to the nut on the flexible hose.


Turn the wrench attached to the flexible hose counterclockwise to unscrew.
 Apply pipe sealant to the threads where the hose attaches on the cooktop. Brush the sealant liberally on all the threads but be careful not to get any sealant inside the hose. Use the wrench to screw the hose to the cooktop.


Make sure the threads on the cooktop are completely covered with sealant because this will prevent gas leaks later on.
Some cooktops come with a regulator to make sure the gas pressure remains constant. If there is one you will attach the regulator to the cooktop threads and the hose to the regulator. Make sure you apply sealant to the threads before screwing the regulator and hose into place. Use a small paintbrush to apply the sealant if your container does not come with one.
 Slide the cooktop into place carefully making sure you do not damage any of the valves on the bottom. You should also put the hose through the opening before sliding the cooktop into place. , Apply sealant to the threads on the fitting on the wall pipe. Then screw the flexible pipe into place using a wrench. Make sure you tighten the pipe securely.


Make sure you get the sealant spread all the way around the threads to prevent leaks., Make a solution of half dish soap and half water to test if there are any leaks. Stir the mix well and then either spray on all the connections or use a paintbrush to apply to all the connections. Turn on the valve to the built-in pipe by turning the valve so that it points in the same direction as the flow of gas.


Check if any bubbles are forming at any of the connections. You should also make sure that you do not smell any gas. Both of these would signal that there is a leak in the connections.
If there is a leak then immediately turn off the valve. Unscrew the connections, apply more sealant, and then reconnect. Test again using the soapy water mixture.
Check several times to make sure there really are no leaks. You must also make sure you check every connection that you have made. , If there are no leaks from your soapy water test then try turning on the burner. It may take a few seconds for the gas to come through and light because you first need to push out the air in the hose.


You may smell a little gas before it lights so make sure the range hood is on before lighting.
If it doesn’t light after 4 seconds, turn off the burner and wait a few minutes before trying again. , Now that the cooktop is definitely working, reattach any brackets to connect the cooktop to the counter. Your gas cooktop is now fully installed.Reattach any cabinets or drawers that you previously removed and replace all the items inside the cabinets.

