 Use a sewing needle to weave heavy-duty thread through a series of eight sequins. Create three to four dozen strands.


Push the thread through the same side of each sequin in the strand. Then, repeat the process by knotting the thread and weaving it through the opposite side of each sequin.






The sequins should be flat against the thread when done.






Use gold and silver sequins. You can either create solid strands of gold and solid strands of silver, or you can mix the colors on each strand.






Use light or clear thread for the best results. You could also use metallic thread that matches the color of the sequins.






If you would prefer an asymmetrical look, you can alternate the number of sequins on each strand, varying the length from 6 to 10 sequins.






The exact number of strands you need will depend on how large your chandelier will be and how full you want it to appear.





;
, Create varying strands of clear glass ornaments by tying heavy-duty thread, fishing line, or clear jewelry line to the top wire of each ornament.


Attach the thread to the top wire of the ornament, where the hook would usually go. Knot the thread to hold it in place.






The number of ornaments to a strand should vary from about two to six per strand. Create more strands with two to three on them since these will go around the outer edge.
 Use spray paint to paint the frame white.


This is only optional. If you like the current color of the frame, you do not need to paint it.






You could also paint the frame black, gold, or silver. For a brighter, less traditional appearance, you could paint the frame any color that matches the décor of your room.






Only use spray paint that is approved for use on metal.






Make sure that the wide part of the lamp shade frame is large enough to fit over the existing ceiling light base you plan to attach the chandelier to. The frame will be turned upside-down when hung.
 Turn the frame upside-down. Tie and knot the sequin strands to the wide part of the frame and the ornament strands to the small ring and "Y" wire stretching across the smaller ring.


Arrange your sequin strands in whatever order you would like. For a nice, full look, you should position the strands so that the distance in between each one is slightly smaller than the diameter of each sequin.






Arrange the ornament strands so that the shorter strands are attached to the ring while the longer strands are attached to the "Y" wire.
 Measure a length of ribbon to fit around the wide ring of your metal frame. Cut and sew the ribbon over the ring.


You can use any color ribbon you want, but it should be opaque enough to conceal the ends of the tied sequin strands.






Attach the ribbon to the wire using a needle and thread. Place the ribbon over the wire. Pull your threaded needle through the ribbon, around the wire, and back through to the front of the ribbon. Repeat this process until the entire ribbon is attached.






If necessary, you can temporarily hold the ribbon in place with craft glue or hot glue as you sew. You should not rely on the glue permanently, though.
 The process may vary depending on how your existing ceiling light base is set up, but these instructions apply to a standard base.


Start with a light base that currently has light bulbs in it. Since there is no light source in this chandelier, you will need to rely on an existing light source.






Make sure that the light is currently "off" to prevent yourself from getting shocked.
Cut a length of heavy-duty wire that matches the circumference of the light base. It should be able to fit beneath the light base snugly.
Attach four or more strands of heavy-duty fishing line to this wire circle. Attach the other end of each strand to the wide ring of your chandelier beneath the ribbon.
Unscrew your light base slightly. Slide the wire ring you created under the base and screw the plate firmly in place over the wire.
Check the light fixture and the chandelier to make sure that both are firmly held in place.
This completes your chandelier.

