 Make sure everything is done correctly, so your Bengal cat feels loved from you.


Make sure you feed it a food that is healthy for them. Choose whether to feed your cat dry food or wet food. Consider asking your local vet for advice about feeding it the correct type of food. Make sure the ingredients are appropriate for your cat to eat.

You may feed your cat chicken, but make sure there isn't any dressings or other foods on it. Make sure that the chicken is washed and free of debris. Tuna is also a nice snack, but reserve chicken and tuna fish as special treats. Feeding chicken and tuna to them exclusively detracts from their overall health. A healthy diet keeps your cat happy since they won't get diseases or become sick.
Never feed any of the following foods:

Chocolate
Candy
Grapes
Onions
Garlic
Wheat




Give your Bengal cat fresh, clean water every day. Place it in a water bowl, or purchase a water fountain from your local pet store.
Exercise your Bengal cat. Get a laser pointer and have your cat chase it. You may not want to point it at the ceiling or high walls around your house, as your Bengal cat may jump high and hit a wall, which could injure it. You can also tie a string to a toy feather and hold onto the string, while the cat chases the feather. Move it so your Bengal cat will pounce and run. Make sure the object your cat is chasing is perfectly safe and cat-friendly.
Walking your Bengal on a leash. Bengal cats are territorial by nature, They need to roam through the open spaces in their territory. The outdoor activity is a major stress reliever for your Bengal.;
, Toys used for exercise can be great things for using for play time. You can still let your cat play with other toys too, such as a ball (make sure that it's too big for your cat to swallow!). Play with your cat for 30-60 minutes, but don't tire it. If it lies down for a rest, don't force it to play. It may be exhausted from playing so much. Do not give it anything dangerous to play with such as:


String
Yarn
Sharp toys
Toys with loose objects on them
Small toys
Toys with things that can fall off

,


Keep the litter clean. If you do not do this, you and/or your Bengal cat may get sick. Scoop out the feces and throw the dirty litter away in a trash bag. Clean the litter box with a sponge and scrub dish soap on it. Rinse it off with water. Dry the litter box with a clean towel, and make sure the litter box is completely dry before pouring in new litter.
 Look out for vets that act strangely, as if they want to kill your cat. If you find the vet acting this way, do not choose him/her. Make sure the vet includes Bengal cats . Some vets will not cure Bengal cats.


You may want to see how he/she cares for other animals to see how the vet does, but do not snoop too much.
 This may actually make the cat not like you anymore. Never hit your Bengal cat. This may wound the cat, and it may start to ignore you. Yelling at your Bengal cat could cause it to ignore you too. Instead, say "No" firmly for what they've done wrong.
 Pet it on its favorite places of its body, but don't pet anywhere it doesn't like to be petted. Scratch its head if it likes it, and if it purrs or nudges you, it may mean it likes you!


Don't scratch the Bengal cat too hard, or push down too hard while petting. This may hurt it.

