 Some people are bath people while others are shower people. No matter which you are, it is hard to deny the comfort of a warm bubble bath with a cozy drink and a good book. If you’re stressed out, try curling up in your bathtub for a while. The warmth will relax your muscles, and help to soothe away your stress.
 When we get stressed and anxious, it’s easy to push hobbies to the side and focus on ‘priorities.’ However, by leaving out any free time for yourself, you may be making yourself more stressed. Return to a lost hobby by playing your favorite sport, picking up your art journal, or heading out for a hike. You’ll feel refreshed and better able to deal with your stressors when you’ve given yourself time to do something you love., If you don’t have any old hobbies that you want to continue, or you never had any in the first place, try out a new activity you’ve been interested in. It’s never too late to learn a new trade. Try auditing a class at a local community college, or find other classes in your area. Better yet, teach yourself something new, such as a language or crafting skill, and practice to get better. Learning a new activity forces your mind off of your stressors, making it easier for you to relax.
 Sunlight is a natural cure for depression, which is tied to stress and anxiety.Even if you aren’t able to get sunlight, mother nature provides excellent stress relief via the great outdoors. Walk through a park, hike up to a mountain, go for a fishing trip - whatever interests you. It’s hard to be stressed when you’re witnessing the beauty of the natural world, while putting your body to work at the same time., Laughter is the best medicine, so they say. Laughing may seem difficult if you’re stressed and anxious, but incorporating it into your life will make a marked difference. Turn on your favorite sitcom, look at funny YouTube videos, or get together with a funny friend. Smiling and laughing release stress-relieving hormones in your brain which will have you feeling better in no time., Tea-drinkers have shown to be less stressed over time than non-tea drinkers, making this a great activity for reducing stress. Grab a cup of black tea for the best results, but any tea will do. Having the warm cup to hold onto will help you to relax, while the flavor will give you something sweet to focus on.
 Massages aren’t just great for your body, they actually release feel-good hormones in your brain as well. The next time you’re feeling stressed, call up your favorite masseuse and schedule an appointment. Getting your tension worked out of your muscles will help to work the tension out of your mind as well. Better yet? Have a loved one give the massage for you. The combination of your partner or spouse giving you the massage will release extra hormones, practically demolishing whatever stress you had., You can practice any of the different forms of Yoga for stress relief. Try Hatha yoga, which combines stretching, breathing techniques, and meditation. It soothes your distressed mind, refreshes your thoughts, tones body muscles and generates new awareness like never before.You can make the benefits of yoga last longer when you practice it regularly. Early morning is the perfect time, but you can practice it whenever you feel stressed out. If you are pressed on time, combine it with an exercise routine you are already following as your warm up or cool down practice.
 Practicing meditation has proven to relieve stress remarkably. Various meditation patterns can help you get rid of stress and calm your mind for better focus and clear thinking. You can practice either of meditation such as Zen, Tibetan, Transcendental Meditation (TM) irrespective of your religious affiliation.If you are a beginner it’s best to take on a guided meditation program under an expert. You can get a hold of good books and videos on meditation for regular practice.

