 If you are looking to quickly get the word out about your business, a direct mail campaign might be a great option. Working with a marketing firm or on your own, you can create an advertisement that will go directly to your prospective customers in less time than it takes to develop a print, radio, or television ad. This can be a flier, brochure, or coupons. Because you will use lists of potential customers from a marketing directory, direct mailing campaign also allows you to quickly target groups of people who will be more amenable to your product. A direct mailing campaign will be in the mailboxes of your potential customers in a couple of months, while TV and radio advertisements can take six months or more to hit the airwaves.
Direct mail is also much cheaper than other forms of advertisement.;
, If your business has the resources, you may consider advertising your business on a billboard. These large, public advertisements are an easy way to attract a customer’s attention. With the right location and appealing media, a billboard can garner your company new business. Be sure to consider the importance of location. The right spot is the most important factor to think about when purchasing a billboard. Does the location have heavy automobile or foot traffic? Is it a residential or commercial area?
If you do not want to develop the media on your own, work with a public relations firm to create what you want on your advertisement.
Traditional billboard space is one of the most important facets of the out-of-home marketplace.
 An advertisement in a local newspaper or trade publication can help you garner attention for your business. Be clear about what it is that your business does and how prospective customers can contact you. Include your telephone number and website in the advertisement. Depending on your resources, you may want to work with a marketing firm. Although more expensive than doing it yourself, a marketing firm will have graphic designers and other professionals who will improve the quality of your ad.
 Contact your local radio station about advertising on their airwaves. A radio advertisement is a great option if your business is located in a market where people commute to work. The commuters going to and from work every day are a prime audience for your radio advertisement. Radio is also a cheaper alternative to TV but more expensive than a print ad. Radio stations will generally work with you to develop your advertisement, which is factored into the negotiated price. However, you have creative license with the advertisement.
 Work with your local television station -- or independently if you or someone you know have some cinematic skills -- to create a roughly 30-second spot. Film an ad that highlights your business and is clear about what you do. Although expensive, a TV commercial will help you reach a much larger audience than other forms of advertising.A television commercial can cost upwards of $2,500, so make sure it fits your budget.

