 This part can be complicated and confusing. You will want to refer to the Pub 17 if you have anything but the standard dependents. To take an example, a single woman with a child lives with her mother. Both adults work and make enough to file, but the mother pays more than 50 percent of the household expenses. Under all the obvious conditions, she could claim both the daughter and the daughter's child. Not so. When the daughter files, only she can claim her child.


There are also separate rules for what are known as Qualifying Child and Qualifying Relative.There are 6 conditions that must be met in order for a child to be your Qualifying Child: see the IRS Pub 19 at page 29.Relationship--son, daughter, or their descendants, sibling or descendant of any, halves and adopted included.
Age--younger than 19 on December 31, younger than 24 if a full time student, younger than you or your spouse if you are MFJ, and/or permanently disabled (regardless of age). You can't claim a step-child that is older than you, even if s/he is 18.
Residency--must live with you 6 months out of the year.
Support--you pay more than half of his/her support. The Support Test is always the same. More than 50 percent.
Joint Return--the Qualifying Child cannot be married and filing a joint return.
Special Conditions for a Qualifying Child of more than one person. If another person can claim this dependent, the person who meets all of the first 5 tests claims the child. Tie breaker rules will identify who can take the exemption. Tie breaker rules are residency and support oriented. This is why detailed records are so important. If the child lived with you 183 days of the year, but you can't prove 50+ percent support, compared to the other parent, you may lose the exemption.


There are four conditions that must be met in order for a person to be a Qualifying Relative:

Cannot be a Qualifying Child,
Member of Household or Relationship--must be a member of the household or qualify by relationship. Some exceptions are allowed to this rule. The exemptions can be found on page 33 of the IRS Pub 17. These Qualifying Children are very often claimed with the Head of Household filing status.

Gross income--must be less than the established maximum for that year.
Support--must contribute more than 50 percent of his/her support. See Pub 17 for dollar and/or percentage amounts. If neither person contributes more than 50 percent of his or her support a Multiple Support Agreement, Form 2120, must be filed.

Note: A Qualifying Child or Qualifying Relative can work and file his/her own return, but s/he can not take any dependent exemption. The filing is only to claim income and receive a refund. Also, if someone else can claim you, you can file to report your own income and get a refund, but can not take any dependent exemptions.



