, Signs and symptoms to be aware of in babies include:


Fever
Unusual sleepiness and/or irritability (such as constant crying)
Swelling in the fontanel (the soft spot on the top of your baby's head)
Poor feeding
Neck stiffness

, This is because the faster that medical treatment can be received, the better, both in terms of preventing spread and reducing your risk of dying from it. It is important to seek immediate medical care if you or someone else exhibits any of the following:


Neck stiffness in addition to flu-like symptoms. Neck stiffness is one of the cardinal signs that often differentiates meningitis from a general flu-like illness; if you or someone else presents with this symptom, it is important to see a doctor immediately.
Flu-like symptoms that seem more severe than normal.
It is important to understand that bacterial meningitis can be very serious and even fatal if not treated immediately.
If in doubt, seek a professional medical opinion sooner rather than later.
 This is especially important if the affected person was diagnosed with bacterial meningitis.
 Your blood will be examined for an elevated white blood cell count (a common sign of an infection), and your blood will also be cultured in a specialized dish to see what microorganisms (such as bacteria) grow.


If microorganisms such as bacteria are found in your blood (in what is called the "blood culture"), your doctor can confirm the presence of an infection and can know which bug is responsible for it.
Your doctor can also test the bug that has grown in the dish for its "antibiotic susceptibility." What this means is that he can see which antibiotics are or are not effective at killing the specific microorganism that has infected your body.
 You will most likely receive this through the Emergency Room, to ensure that you get it quickly.


The purpose of the CT scan is to evaluate for any unusual swelling in your head area, and to check that it is safe for your doctors to proceed with what is called a "lumbar puncture" (the one test that can confirm for sure whether or not you have meningitis).If there is excessive swelling or inflammation, it may be too dangerous to perform a lumbar puncture (a spinal cord tap) due to the risk of what is called "brain herniation." This is when brain tissue gets compressed, which can lead to death.
 After a CT scan has been performed to ensure that it is safe, your doctor will insert a needle into your spinal canal to get a sample of "CSF" (cerebrospinal fluid). Your CSF will then be tested for the presence of bacteria and other microorganisms, among other things.


If you have meningitis, your lumbar puncture will most likely show the results of low glucose (sugar), elevated white blood cells (immune cells), and increased protein.
Your doctor can also culture your CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) to see if any bacteria or microorganisms grow.
If so, your doctor can perform "susceptibility testing" to determine which antibiotics (or other antimicrobial agents) the bugs that are present are susceptible to (i.e., to determine the most effective choice of treatment for you moving forward).
 This is because bacterial meningitis can be very dangerous and even fatal if not treated promptly. Therefore, doctors are trained to err on the side of caution and to give you the antibiotics until further test results become available.


If a bacterial meningitis is confirmed, your doctor will likely choose a more specific antibiotic for you moving forwards.
The choice of antibiotic will depend upon the results of the "susceptibility testing;" in other words, on which antibiotic was shown to have superior efficacy at treating the specific strain of bacterial meningitis that you have.
 These are immune suppressing agents that can reduce potentially dangerous inflammation in the brain area and meninges (the specific area that meningitis affects).


Note that, in more severe cases, anti-convulsant (anti-seizure) medications may also be needed.
This is because the infection and subsequent inflammation surrounding the brain area can lead to seizures in some of the more severe cases.
 Elements of supportive care that will be offered and/or recommended by your physician include:


Stopping all daily activities such as work and other things, and resting in bed until you show enough positive signs of recovery.
Drinking plenty of fluids to keep your hydration levels in a safe and appropriate range. IV fluids may be given in a hospital setting if oral fluids alone are insufficient.
Receiving pain medications to reduce your fever and body aches as needed.



If it is determined that you have viral meningitis, the mainstays of treatment are supportive care, as well as plenty of rest and ongoing medical supervision and check-ups until you recover.
If you have viral meningitis caused by HSV (the herpes simplex virus), you may receive antiviral treatment. However, all other causes of viral meningitis do not currently have treatment available.

