 Find a shelter that treats their cats nicely, and where the rooms where the cats are kept are clean and smell good. It's also good for the shelter staff to know about the cats and their backgrounds.;
, While you're looking at the cat you want to adopt, give it a self-examination.



Face: The cat should have bright, clear eyes and a cool, damp nose. Neither the nose or eyes should have any discharge, and there should be no third eyelid visible.

Ears: Should be clean and smell nice. If there is a dark brown waxy discharge, the cat has ear mites, which are curable, but still a bit of a hassle.

Stomach: The stomach should not be swollen, and there should be no bump around the navel.

Genitals: The anus and vulva area should be clean, without any redness, discharge, or hair loss. Note the difference between hair loss and shaved hair in this area, because where hair loss is an indicator of infection, shaved hair is the indicator that the cat has gone through a recent surgery (likely being spayed/neutered).

Fur: Should be fluffy, shiny, and healthy-looking. There should be no mats or bare areas.
 The cat should have straight legs, and if it's young it should easily jump and pounce (older cats will be more hesitant to do so, which is natural). It shouldn't limp, stumble, or sway while walking.
 You don't want a stick-thin cat, but you don't want an overweight one either, as overweight cats often require a special diet to help them get back to a healthy weight. Find a cat with a nice healthy weight.
 This is very important, as this determines whether the cat will fit in well with your family. If the cat is well-socialized, it will enjoy being petted and will purr. Confidant cats will appear eager for attention, will enjoy being picked up, want to sit on your lap, are eager to play, and will follow you around. Less social cats will shy away from you, will not enjoy being picked up, will not go sit on your lap, and enjoy being independent. Decide whether the cat you like will fit in well at your house; for example, if your house is full of people and is loud and crazy, a timid cat will not fit in well here, but a more confidant cat would. If your house only has a couple people in it who are away at work or school during most of the day, a quiet independent cat would fit in nicely, whereas a playful cat wouldn't get the attention it craves.
 Before adopting the cat, ask the shelter staff questions about its health. They should be able to answer you confidently. Ask if the cat has been examined by a veterinarian, if it has been vaccinated against feline leukemia, treated for worms and fleas, etc. and if it has any health/medical problems. Even if some cats appear healthy on the outside, they might have health issues inside their bodies, meaning they might require a special type of food, which is a good thing to know before you adopt the cat.

