 Depending on your location, the address will vary. Enter amazon.com in your browser’s address bar if you’re in the US.


The Amazon website will usually detect if you are from outside the US, and will point you to the appropriate site.;
, You’ll find this near the top of the screen, between the search bar and a banner of various deals and products offered through the site., You might be able to find an answer to your question through these help topics and not need to contact Amazon.
 After clicking on “Contact Us,” you’ll be taken to a page asking for your credentials. You’ll need to enter the e-mail address used for your Amazon account with your password.


If your internet browser signs in to Amazon automatically, you may not need to perform this step.
 This section lets Amazon narrow down the reason for contacting them. This facilitates your communication with them and ensures your inquiry gets to the right person. The options in this section should read:


An order I placed. Choose this for problems such as late packages or damaged items.
Amazon devices and Kindle apps. This selection will let you contact Amazon about problems with a Kindle or Amazon’s mobile applications.
Digital services. Amazon offers more than retail services; choose this option if you have a problem with another of their services (such as Amazon Video).
Prime or something else. If you have an issue with your Amazon Prime account, or your query doesn’t fall within the other three categories, choose this one., This menu is found in the “Tell us more about your issue” section. The list will vary depending on the source of your inquiry. For example, if you chose “An order I placed”, you’ll find options that include “Payment issues”, “Change an order” and “Where’s my stuff?”.


Choosing the right option will let Amazon know exactly what issue you’re experiencing. This will ensure your inquiry reaches the right person.
Depending on the option you choose, more drop-down menus may appear: “Select issue details” and “Select additional details”. Choose the right options, based on your inquiry.
 This field will appear after having selected the nature of your inquiry.


Note that the “E-mail” option may be greyed out in certain situations, as Amazon might prefer you contact them by phone or chat. Consider these options to resolve your problem, or choose a different inquiry if you’re determined to e-mail Amazon.
 You can choose to follow the template, or delete the entire text to start from scratch.
 The message you entered will be sent from the e-mail address linked to your Amazon account.Keep an eye on your e-mail, as you’ll receive Amazon’s reply there directly.

