 Though it may be nearly impossible to feel positive when you hear that you have HIV or AIDS, you have to remind yourself that you have not been given a death sentence. In fact, some recent research has shown that the gap between life expectancy between people with or without HIV or AIDS is smaller than ever. This means that though you will have to be making some changes, your life is not over. This will most likely be the worst news you have ever received, but if you work on adjusting your attitude, then you can get through it. According to the study, the average person with HIV in North America lives to be 63, while the average positive gay male lives to 77. Of course, this depends on a number of factors, such as preexisting conditions, the strain of the virus, the transition from HIV to AIDS, and the diligence in taking medication and reactions to the medication.Back when Magic Johnson found out he was HIV positive in 1991, many people thought it meant that his life was nearly over. Well, over twenty years later, he's still living a healthy, normal, and an incredibly inspiring life.;
, Don't expect to get a new lease on life in the next few weeks, realizing that you've been living life the wrong way and that you have to turn everything around to find real happiness. You won't be a ray of sunshine. You may not be impressing your friends and family with your ability to stay positive during this difficult time. But after giving yourself time to see that your life isn't over, to let the idea that you are positive sink in, you will feel better. Unfortunately, there's no magic number (three weeks! three months!) that can tell you when you will begin to feel "normal" again, but if you stay patient with yourself, you will feel better.

That's not to say that you shouldn't immediately seek treatment once you find out that you are positive. It just means that you should be patient with yourself mentally.
 There are many ways to contract HIV, the most common of which are sex, sharing needles, being the child of a positive mother, or coming into contact with the blood of a person with HIV, which can happen more commonly in the medical profession. If you contracted AIDS through reckless behavior and now blame yourself for it, you have to let go of that. Maybe you had sex with someone you shouldn't have had sex with, maybe you shared needles you shouldn't have shared -- whatever you did, that was in the past, and all you can do is move forward from it.

If you did get AIDS through reckless behavior, it is important to come to terms with whatever it is you did, but once you do, you have to move on from it. There's no point in saying "coulda, shoulda, woulda…" because that won't affect you in the present.
 Another way to feel mentally stronger is to tell the people who care about you about your condition, from your close friends to your family members. (It's also incredibly important to tell your current or previous sexual partners: more on that later.) Be prepared for the people to feel angry, afraid, or confused, just as you did when you found out about your condition. Telling them initially won't be easy, but if they do care about you, they will be on your side, and having people to talk to about your condition will make you feel much better in the long run.If you plan on telling a close friend or family member, then you have to make a game plan about telling them instead of springing it on them. Pick a time and place where you can have privacy and the opportunity to really talk, and be prepared with health information and whatever answers you can give, because it's likely that you will be faced with a lot of questions.
Though you may feel so upset that you can't possibly share your situation with anyone, it's important to tell a friend or family member as soon as you can, so that you have at least someone who can vouch for you in the event of a medical emergency.
Know that you are not legally obligated to tell your boss or coworkers about your positive status unless it interferes with your ability to do the job. Unfortunately, you cannot be deployed if you have HIV or AIDS if you are in the armed services in certain countries, so you will have to inform your bosses in that case.
 Though getting support from your loved ones can go a long way in helping you find mental strength, sometimes you may want to find support from other people who are going through the same struggle you are facing, or people who are well-informed about your condition. Here are some other places where you can find support:Call the National AIDS Hotline (800-CDC-INFO). This hotline is operational 24 hours a day and can provide you with someone who can help you feel stronger and arm you with knowledge.
Find a support group in your area. For example, UCSF's Alliance Health Project offers many support groups for people who are positive; these groups are tailored for the stage of the experience, whether you're a new positive or have been living with AIDS for years.You can also check out this helpful site from the Health Resources and Services Administration that can help you find clinics, hospitals, and other HIV/AIDS services in your area.
If you're not ready to openly talk with other people yet, go online to find people like you. Find a helpful site like the Poz Forums, and talk to other positive people online., If you already have a strong relationship with your faith, then this is a great thing to turn to during a difficult time. If you're not religious, it may not be the time to suddenly start going to church (though anything can help), but if you already have a religious background, you can try to attend services more often, be more active in your religious community, and find comfort in the thought of a higher power, or a meaning greater than the sum of the parts of your own life., Unfortunately, many people have preconceived notions of what it means to have AIDS or HIV. They can judge you for thinking that you must have done something wrong if you got HIV or AIDS. They can be afraid of being near you because they'll think that they can contract the disease just from breathing your air. If you want to stay tough, then you can't let these people get to you. Get as knowledgeable as you can about AIDS or HIV so you can set the record straight with these people, or if they're just haters who don't want to hear it, remove yourself from the situation.

You're too busy worrying about your own well-being to care what other people think, right?

, It's perfectly normal to feel severe depression after you get your diagnosis. It's obviously a life-altering piece of news that even the most thick-skinned people would have trouble dealing with, so you may need some more help than your friends or loved ones, or even support groups, can provide. Having someone to talk to about your situation who is not close to you can help offer an alternative perspective and make you feel more in touch with your situation., If you find out that you have AIDS or HIV, then it is incredibly important to tell your doctor as soon as you can and to start treatment (if your doctor isn't the person who told you, of course). The sooner you get treatment, the better you'll feel, and the stronger and less susceptible your body will be to disease. Once you tell your doctor, it is very important to see an HIV/AIDS specialist. If your doctor is not a specialist in HIV/AIDS, then he must refer you to one so you can begin treatment., Your doctor won't just throw a cocktail of drugs at you and tell you to go home. He'll run a series of tests to see exactly what your body needs before you get correct treatment. Here's what the tests will include:Your CD4 count. These cells are a type of white blood cell that is destroyed by HIV. A healthy person's count varies from 500 - over 1,000. If you have fewer than 200 CD4 cells, then your HIV has progressed to AIDS.
Your viral load. In general, the higher the amount of virus in your blood, the worse you may fare.
Your resistance to drugs. There are different strains of HIV, and it's important to see if yours will be resistant to some anti-HIV medications. This can help you find the medication that will work best for you.
Testing for complications or infections. Your doctor may also require you to take tests for other conditions that can help you see if you also have other STDs, hepatitis, liver or kidney damage, or other conditions that would make treatment more complicated.
 You should start following your doctor's orders and take your medication if you have severe symptoms, a CD4 count under 500, are pregnant, or have kidney disease. Though you can't cure your HIV or AIDS, using a combination of drugs can help block the virus; having a combination ensures that you aren't immune to all of the drugs you are given. You will most likely have to take several pills at different times of the day for the rest of your life, once you find the best combination for yourself.Do not stop taking your medication on your own under any circumstances. If you have incredibly bad reactions to your medication, talk to your doctor about it immediately and see what course you should take. If you stop treatment on your own, however, this can have drastic consequences (much worse than you may be feeling).Your medication may include transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), which disable the protein HIV uses to copy itself, reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), which are faulty versions of building blocks used by HIV to replicate itself, protease inhibitors (PIs), another protein HIV uses for replication, entry or fusion inhibitors, which block HIV from entering your CD4 cells, and integrase inhibitors, which are a protein used by HIV to insert genetic material into your CD4 cells.
 Unfortunately, the side-effects of the medication can be unpleasant, but if you find that a combination is really not working for you, you can talk to your doctor about making adjustments. It's better to be mentally prepared for some of the physical symptoms that you may feel. Know, however, that it does vary from person to person; some may have severe symptoms, while others may feel almost no pain at all for many years. Here are some symptoms you may feel:Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Abnormal heartbeats
Shortness of breath
Rashes
Weakened bones
Nightmares
Memory loss

, You should test your viral load at the start of your treatment, and then during every 3-4 months during your treatment. You should also check in on that CD4 blood count every 3-6 months. Yeah, if you do the math, that does add up to a lot of doctor's visits every year. But this is what you have to do if you want to make sure the treatment is working and to live with HIV or AIDS as best as you can.If the medication is doing its job, then your viral load should become undetectable. This does not mean you have cured your HIV, or that you can no longer transmit it to others. It does mean that your body is in better shape, though.
 If you are HIV or AIDS positive, then you have to take extra precautions when you're around other people. Yes, you can still hug the people you love, casually touch people, and live a relatively normal existence, but you may have to take extra precautions, such as always using condoms during sex, and not sharing needles to generally be more conscious around other people.If you know that you have AIDS or HIV and sleep with a person without telling him or her that, then you are breaking the law.
 It's important to tell anyone you have slept with after you were diagnosed, anyone you are currently sleeping with, and yeah, any future romantic possibilities.It will be unpleasant, but if you want to protect the safety of anyone you've been with, you absolutely have to take this precaution. There are even websites that can help you tell the person anonymously if you've had casual sex or really just don't want to talk to that person.It's important to get that information out there, because many people are unaware of their HIV positive status., A healthy diet can help almost any situation, including your HIV or AIDS positive status. Healthy foods help keep your body and immune system strong, and will give you more energy to face your daily tasks. So, make sure to eat at least three healthy meals a day, which include healthy carbs, proteins, and fruits and vegetables. Eat snacks whenever you're hungry and don't skip meals, especially not breakfast. The right diet can also help you process your medications and get the nutrients your body needs.Some great foods include lean proteins, whole grains, and legumes.
There are also certain foods that you should avoid because they can cause illnesses that will be more severe because of your positive status. These foods include sushi, sashimi, oysters, unpasteurized dairy products, raw eggs, or raw meat.
 Getting regular shots against pneumonia or the flu can help you stay healthy. Your body will be more prone to these diseases, so it's important to take precautions against them. Just make sure that the vaccines don't actually contain live viruses, or that can make you more susceptible to the diseases., It's all about maintaining a healthy lifestyle that can help you stay strong and make you less susceptible to disease, which can lead to complications because of your HIV status. So, make sure to get at least 30 minutes of exercise a day, whether you're running, doing yoga, biking, or power walking with your friends. This may sound irrelevant when you're facing an AIDS diagnosis, but it will make you feel better, both mentally and physically.If you really want your body to be as healthy as possible, then you can quit smoking and minimize your alcohol habits (or even quit all together, as it will not mix with many medications). Smoking can make you more prone to diseases normally associated with smoking if you have HIV.
It's perfectly normal to feel depression after an HIV or AIDS diagnosis. Exercise won't cure that, but it can help you feel happier for sure.
 If you're in the unfortunate situation where your HIV or AIDS symptoms are so severe that you can no longer work, then you should see if you qualify for employer paid disability, or government sponsored disability, such as Social Security (in the United States) or Statutory Sick Pay, Employment and Support Allowance, or Disability Living Allowance (if you're in the UK).

To qualify for disability, you have to prove that you have HIV/AIDS and prove that you are too sick to work.
For more information about the benefits your government can offer, you can contact the legal services in your county, call an AIDS hotline, or visit the government's websites about disability insurance.