 Soldiers jump into the war with a 4/20 Rocket Launcher, useful for knocking someone far away (Primary), a 6/32 medium ranged Shotgun (Secondary) and a Shovel (Melee).;
, The Rocket Launcher is a very powerful primary weapon. It can be used in all ranges.


At close range, shoot it at an incoming enemy for instant death.






Shoot it at an enemy's feet! An enemy is less likely to dodge a rocket attack if you shoot it at their feet. Keep this in mind, especially at close range.






At medium range, shoot it at an enemy for a very strong attack that lowers their health exponentially.






At long range, shoot it at an enemy for a shot that can deal much damage to your enemy. Remember that it helps to try to predict an enemy's movement before shooting because it can be easily dodged. Use your rocket against enemy snipers. While, as said before, they can dodge quickly, the rockets deal a surprising amount of splash damage.






Watch out! You can injure or kill yourself with your own rocket shots!







, When you are unable to use your Rocket Launcher, you may want to use your shotgun. It provides adequate power that can chip away at enemy health to help deliver a finishing rocket blow or pick off retreating enemies with low health. Using the shotgun for longer range can guarantee damage is being dealt, whereas the rocket launcher may be too slow to reach any foes in your sight. Enemies on elevated ground are also valid shotgun targets, because your rockets can't be aimed at the ground in front of them to deal damage. Also, use this against Scouts, because it can be nigh impossible to hit them with your very slow Rocket Launcher.
 As with all melee weapons, the shovel is very fun to use, but only use it when you are close and have a clear shot. One misstep and you can be dead.
 With your Rocket Launcher, you can create a "shield" which your teammates can hide behind. Watch out when you take on many enemies, for they can attack you while you are reloading.
 Rocket-jumping is a technique used by many Soldiers. Rocket-jumping allows you to jump to huge heights. You can use it to escape, attack, get to a place, or just for fun. To Rocket-jump, you need to jump, then shoot and crouch at the same time. You should be in the air in no time. Remember that this will injure you. It is sometimes a good idea, if you have the time, to get a nearby medic to beef you up to 150% health to lower the health lost.
 If used effectively a medic soldier combo can be even more deadly than a heavy medic combo. If you like having high DPS have your medic try the kritzkrieg, if you are a heavily mobile soldier have your pocket medic use the quick fix. Shoot rockets at any oncoming enemies while the Medic heals you, and you have a huge rocket shield. Be sure to protect your medic!!!

