 A urine test is designed to detect the presence of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in a woman’s urine. This hormone is produced in a woman’s body shortly after a fertilized egg attaches to the uterine lining.You can take a urine test at the doctor’s office or at home using a home pregnancy test.
A home pregnancy test is both convenient and inexpensive.;
, A blood test is designed to detect the specific levels of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in a woman’s blood. This hormone is produced in a woman’s body shortly after a fertilized egg attaches to the uterine lining.A blood test can tell you if a woman is pregnant earlier than a home pregnancy test but it is more expensive and takes longer to receive the results.Taking a blood test is a good idea if you want accurate results.
Make an appointment with your doctor to schedule a blood test. You should schedule your test no earlier than six to eight days after ovulation., The qualitative blood test determines whether the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is present in a woman’s body. This hormone is a sign the woman might be pregnant because hCG is produced in a woman’s body shortly after a fertilized egg attaches to the wall of her uterus.A qualitative blood test only checks to see if hCG is present in your body. A qualitative blood test also does not determine the exact levels of hCG in a woman’s body., This test is useful for determining the exact levels of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in a woman’s body. It is a good idea to take this test to monitor any potential problems during a woman’s pregnancy.


The quantitative blood test is a useful test because it can rule out miscarriage. It can also help to determine if an ectopic pregnancy is present, but an ultrasound is still needed to confirm an ectopic pregnancy. A quantitative blood test is also useful for monitoring the levels of hCG after a miscarriage., Many home pregnancy tests claim fast results but it’s better to wait a few days for hCG levels to build up in the woman’s body. Make sure to wait at least one day after the woman misses her period before taking the test. The exact timing of ovulation or when a fertilized egg implants in the uterus is impossible to determine. It is recommended to wait a week for the most accurate results., Determine what level of sensitivity your test should have. Each test has a different sensitivity to the levels of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), which is the hormone that indicates whether a woman is pregnant or not. Go to the local pharmacy and buy a home pregnancy test or purchase tests online. These tests can range in price from $8 to $20.It’s possible to buy pregnancy test strips in bulk online if you are trying to conceive and want to save a ton of money. Some of these tests may not have applicator strips, but will work just fine.
Ensure that the test is in a sealed box and shows no sign of damage. Always check the expiration date on tests, too.
Most tests are only accurate about a week after the woman has missed her period. You can get a false positive or false negative result if you use the test too early., Read the instructions included with the home pregnancy test carefully. Different manufacturers have different specifications for their tests. It is important to follow the instructions precisely to avoid inaccurate results.


Make sure you have clean hands and remove the test from its wrapper.
Decide whether a urine sample will be collected or whether you will hold the test in the woman’s urine stream.
Hold the test in the woman’s urine sample for a certain number of seconds.
Wait a certain number of minutes for results.
 Always make sure the pregnancy test is not expired before using it. It is recommended to use a test that is as new as possible to ensure the highest levels of accuracy.


Throw away a home pregnancy test that is expired or that was purchased months before but has not been not used. Don’t take any chances by using an expired test, which will likely give inaccurate results. Using an expired test could result in a false positive or false negative result., Take the home pregnancy test in the morning when hormone levels of hCG are highest. Use one of the following techniques:


Place the test in a woman’s urine while she urinates.
Collect urine in a sterile container and dip the test into it.
Collect urine in a sterile container and use a dropper to drop the woman’s urine onto the test., Consult the instructions of the test if it is not clear how long the test requires before it gives results. Some tests take only one minute while others take upwards of ten minutes.


Place the test on a clean surface.
Wait several minutes for results.
Take some deep breaths if you are anxious while you wait.
A negative result may mean that you took the test too early.
Take another test if the woman doesn’t get her period in a few days.
 Determine which symbol the pregnancy test uses. Familiarize yourself with the way these symbols work.


Many tests use a line or color system that changes depending on your hormone levels.
Some tests will show you a plus sign or a negative sign.
Some tests will display the words “Pregnant” or “Not Pregnant.”, Make an appointment with your doctor as soon as you can if you receive a positive result. A positive result means the woman is pregnant, even if the symbol on the test has only changed a little bit. Talk to your doctor about what to do next and discuss how to begin prenatal care., Make an appointment with your doctor to determine whether the woman is actually pregnant or had a false positive result. False positive results are very rare but may be the result of using HCG injections for fertility. There is no pregnancy with a false positive result.


False positives can occur if you take a pregnancy test shortly after taking a fertility drug that contains hCG.
False positives can also occur during menopause or if the woman has problems with her ovaries., A negative result may indicate that the woman is not pregnant, or that she tested too early. Take another test if you are not sure about the results of the test or if any of the following apply:


You took the test too early in the woman’s pregnancy.
You didn’t correctly take the test.
You mistakenly used an expired test.
The woman consumed too much fluid before taking the test.
Certain medications the woman is taking inhibit a positive result.