 How might you rewrite one of Pacino's monologues from Scent of a Woman to make it comedic? What if you had to rewrite Quint's story in such a way as to suggest that he might be a liar? Comic writing is difficult because it has much less to do with the content of the writing and much more to do with the presentation of them.


As an exercise, try rewriting "angry" monologues to play them up for humor. Comedy and drama share borderlines, making this more do-able than it may seem.
Gabriel Davis is a modern playwright with a great talent for humor and witty scenarios with humor built into them. A woman who eats her divorce papers? A man who decides to have a bar mitzvah at the age of 26? Check. Check out his frequent use of monologues for comedic effect.
 A good monologue won't necessarily be all funny or all serious. Like you want to vary the anger-level of a fight scene, putting funny content into an otherwise tragic situation will leaven the drama with a laugh and help to make the audience feel something complicated. That's what good comedy does.


The films of Martin Scorsese are often notable for combining extremely funny moments with moments of high tension. Jake LaMotta's monologues while preparing to go on stage in Raging Bull are simultaneously humorous and heartbreaking.
 Successful comic monologues generally won't involve toilet humor or bodily functions, unless the other aspects of the drama somehow dictate it. Building in a sense of irony, sarcasm, and some sort of complexity into the humor will make it much more successful and interesting to the general audience.
 Before you write a monologue, decide where it will start and where it will end, even going as far as to write the first and the last sentence; have some idea of how long you'd like the monologue to be, and then filling in the middle space.How would you finish the following first and last lines of a potential monologue?


Your dog is dead. / Wipe that stupid grin off your face!
What is your mother's problem? / I'm not going to Skype with a cat in the room.
Where's the godforsaken half-and-half? / Forget it, forget it, forget it, I'm taking the horse.
Come on, just this once. / I'm never going back to church.

