 Although it may feel as though you've lost your soul mate, realizing that there are other people out there can help you move forward. Don't get stuck thinking that you've lost the only love that you will ever have. Knowing that you can find love again will help you move past your old breakup and into a new and fulfilling relationship.


Although the idea of a "soul mate" is a romantic one, it's not realistic.
There are plenty of other people out there that you can build a new and fulfilling relationship with.
 Although the old relationship came to an end, it can be helpful to remember that new possibilities have opened up as a result. Once you've accepted the breakup and moved beyond it, you'll be ready to openly explore new and rewarding relationships and experiences.You'll now be free to pursue interests that you may have been unable to while in your old relationship.
Staying positive and focusing on the benefits of your breakup can help you accept it and move beyond it.
 There will come a point when you feel much better about your breakup. At this stage, it can be easy to stay in your comfortable space and avoid getting out there and meeting new people. You may have also become comfortable feeling bad about your situation or angry at your ex. At this point, you should examine your current actions and your past relationship in an effort to help you move fully beyond the breakup.Avoiding new people or social situations can be a sign that you are still holding onto the pain caused by your breakup.
If you feel like you are holding onto the aspects of your old relationship, it may be time to let them go.
Accepting that the relationship is over will be the final step in moving beyond it.
 After a serious breakup, it's likely that the only thing on your mind will be the pain caused by the breakup. Because of this, it can be helpful to stay busy and enjoy some of your favorite hobbies. By focusing on your hobbies or other interests, you can help keep your attention off of the painful loss and back onto something you enjoy.Your hobbies can give you a familiar and comfortable focus.
Exploring your hobbies and interests can help reignite old passions that may have faded due to your old relationship.
Creative outlets, such as painting or writing, can help you express and come to terms with your feelings.
 If you are truly struggling with your breakup, don't be afraid to ask for help. Talk with your therapist if you feel that you need professional help to accept the breakup and move beyond it. Your therapist will be able to help you deal with any painful feelings you might still be having, understand why you feel them and get you started on the road back to yourself.A therapist can offer insight into your feelings and thoughts that you might have missed by yourself.
It's not an admission of defeat to see a therapist.
Therapy can take time. You'll need to be prepared and dedicated to work with your therapist and move beyond your breakup.
 Before you enter into the world of dating again, you'll want to make sure that you are fully comfortable with the idea. Dating before you feel you've totally moved past your loss and old relationship can be difficult. Make sure you can say some of the following things about yourself before dating again:You should feel totally over the past and your old relationship.
You shouldn't feel resentful or bitter about your past relationship.
You should feel confident about the way you look and present yourself.
You'll want to be in a good place mentally and be ready to share your good mood.
Don't rush to enter into a new relationship. Take your time and make sure you genuinely enjoy someone's company before getting serious.

