 Plenty of energy goes to waste because of leaks in the home. Even if you are renting, there are plenty of easy ways you can prevent heating or cooling from leaving your home. Use weatherstripping for your doors and windows. This can prevent any leaks of heating or cooling to the outside.
Outlets and light switches can also have insulation added to them. It may be an especially good idea to insulate them if they're on an exterior wall.
If you own your home, make sure you have adequate insulation in the walls and ceiling.If you have an unfinished attic, for instance, lay down insulation between and over the floor joists. You may also want to insulate the rafters and the access door., Power strips can use a lot of energy, even if nothing is plugged into them and running. If you're not using a power strip, turn it off or unplug it. You can also turn power strips off when you're not using them. However, they can still draw some energy just by being plugged in.
Buying a smart power strip could also save money. Smart power strips cut energy to devices that are not currently in use and only charge those devices currently being used.
 Lights do not use a lot of energy, but it's good to only keep them on when you're in the room. If you leave for the day, make sure all the lights are off in your home.Whenever you leave a room, check to make sure all the lights are off. There's no need to light a room that no one is in for long periods of time.
Keeping lights on a timer may also be a good idea. You may want some lights on during the evening, especially if you're returning to your place at night. You could also try exterior lights that are motion-sensor so they will only turn on when someone approaches.
 that isn't essential. While some appliances you want to keep plugged in all the time, others don't need to be plugged in unless they are being used. If they don't need power to operate all the time, consider unplugging some appliances.Some appliances drain energy even if they're not being used. This is especially true for media devices, such as computers and televisions. Try unplugging them any time they are not actively being used.
Keep essential appliances plugged in. Anything that could cause damage or be potentially unsafe, such as fridges or alarm systems, should be kept plugged in.
 You can save a lot of money on your electric bill by staying vigilant about energy waste. Building habits to prevent energy waste can be very useful for lowering your utility bills.


Try using an energy monitoring system to track and record specifically what uses the most energy in your home. Some systems may also tell you peak times of use along with how much energy is being used.Do a nightly check of your energy usage. Look at all power strips, appliances, and lights to make sure they are only plugged in and running if necessary.
Look for any leaks near windows or doors. Insulation can erode, so replacing when it starts to go is important.

