 You can use language learning websites and smartphone apps to help you master Russian quickly. Consider a Russian language learning website. Most of these websites are free. You can go onto most of them and click the links to find vocabulary, verb conjugations, the alphabet, helpful phrases, and so on.The trouble with using a website instead of a class is that you have no clear instruction about where to start and where to go next so that you’re not learning in a logical, organized manner.
Language-learning websites are free, but they can be confusing.
 There are both free and paid Russian classes available online. Some of them are low cost, and some are available through online universities. Some universities that offer Russian courses include Cornell and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).UCLA offers business and literature podcasts in Russian. These are good options for increasing your exposure to spoken Russian.
 There are several apps for smartphones and tablets that claim to teach Russian, and many of them are free. For example, the app AccelaStudy claims to teach Russian in a very short time frame.Other apps include Duolingo, Memrise, and Learn Russian.Apps make language learning mobile.
 Use technology to its advantage. Find someone to teach you Russian over teleconference. If you already know someone who speaks Russian, just ask them to start video chatting so you learn from them. You might also look for a language partner in online forums or social media.


For example, you could ask your friends on Facebook if they know anyone who speaks Russian who would be willing to teach you on video chat.
 You could join a group on on Facebook or in Google plus, or any social media platform that has groups. You might be able to find a group of people who are also interested in learning Russian. Go to the search bar in any social media and type in “Russian language groups.”


Join the group, and as soon as you have permission, post a public message about your desire to learn Russian from someone in the group.

