 Apply to your body in a circular motion to exfoliate during a bath or shower.


Pour 1 cup (201g) of white sugar, ¾ cup (112g) of chopped cucumber and ¼ cup (52g) of softened coconut oil into a blender. Add basil or mint leaves for scent.
Blend for 45 seconds.
Place the result in a canning jar and store in the refrigerator for up to two weeks.;
, Place the mixture in bags and wrap around feet or simply use a large flat bin. Leave on for five to 10 minutes before rinsing.


Add two sliced cucumbers, two tbsp. of lemon juice and two tbsp. of olive oil to a blender.
Blend well. Place in a large bowl.
Heat the ingredients in a microwave until warm., Add it to a warm bath along with a cup of milk, oatmeal and/or green tea. Soak for 15 minutes and slather with lotion when you get out.


Grate a cucumber and place it in cheesecloth. Squeeze to extract the cucumber juice.
Add one cup of witch hazel to the bath if you have a sunburn., This lotion is best used on irritated, dry or sunburned skin.


Grate a cucumber. Place the gratings in cheesecloth and squeeze the juice into a bowl.
Combine the cucumber juice with ¼ cup (59ml) of coconut milk and ¼ cup (59ml) of Aloe vera juice in a spray bottle.
Spray on burned or sensitive skin., Massage two tbsp. of the mask onto your face and neck in circular motions. Leave it on your face for 30 minutes, or until the mask is dry, before rinsing with cold water.


Blend ½ cup (75g) of chopped cucumber with ½ cup (75g) chopped avocado, 1 egg white and two tbsp. (8.5g) of powdered milk.
For a cooling sensation, place the mask in the refrigerator for a half an hour before applying.
Make this mask fresh every time.
You can also use a mixture of cucumber and yogurt in place of the avocado, egg white and powdered milk. , Apply it over the face and neck. Wait for 15 minutes and rinse it off.


Grate a cucumber. Place the gratings in cheesecloth and squeeze the juice into a bowl.
Combine 1 tbsp. (15ml) of cucumber juice, ½ tbsp. (7ml) of Aloe vera gel, five drops of tea tree essential oil, three drops of lavender essential oil and two tbsp. (8.5g) of full fat milk powder.
Mix well until it forms a paste. Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days., Mix it up and place it in a spray bottle. Store it in the refrigerator to keep it fresh and cool for up to one week.


Brew a cup of green tea. Place it in the refrigerator to cool down.
Grate a cucumber strain it through a sieve or cheesecloth to extract the juice.
Mix the tea and cucumber juice with one tbsp. (15ml) of Aloe vera gel and several drops of peppermint essential oil in a spray bottle. Shake well to mix., Apply it using a cotton pad to cleanse pores.


Chop a medium cucumber. Add it to a blender with two tsp. of honey.
Puree the mixture well. Pour the paste through a sieve.
Store the juice in a bottle for up to a week., Place a slice of cucumber on each eye while you rest. Leave for 30 minutes and remove.