 It’s the belief in the existence of a god, gods, or the God. It is independent of religion (although inclusive of most). If you believe in an all powerful, all intelligent being, you are a theist.;
, Since Theism is a belief about the supernatural, the challenger will assert that you cannot be justified in believing in supernatural beings. This assertion will take the form of “It isn’t justifiable unless it is a logical truth, quantitative truth, or a conclusion made by using the Scientific Method” (they dwell on the Scientific Method). Start by demanding that they prove that those are the only sources of truth and have them prove that there can’t be any other way to know something. You can remain skeptical and they can’t meet the demand, but usually all of this is skipped (it’s implicit). It’s up to you if you want to slow them down and take them back to what they’ve assumed. (Though if they know anything about the Burden of proof, this will be refuted easily.)


Usually they’ll talk a lot about how reliable science is and that it is based on “hard facts”, and they will demand that you offer any such “hard evidence” for the existence of God or a god. “Hard evidence” means something that can be experienced with one of the five senses.
Either, you can build an argument that says that by looking closely at a number of aspects of our universe (including not just complexity, but inter-dependency, inter-related systems, order, balance, life dependent on life, depending on a supporting planet , etc.) the best conclusion for these is that there is an intelligent designer of it all and logically it would have to be a prime mover (non-contingent being).
 Actually is simple life not simple at all:


Why are there no cells without parent cells, for all observed living cell(s), and all with detailed behaviors, DNA, RNA, assembly line controlled by genes with precise genetic and epigenetic codes to self make oneself, self replicating of traits, chromosomes, cell division, not dividing into half a life, but a whole vital life -- with a cause?
Why did such a cell ever begin and "then" reproduce that life form with coded, defined actions, needing and making amino acids, making protein, using many minerals, doing thousands of precisely inter-related chemical reactions, all within the one tiny, microscopic cell?
How did life just happen to start within a needed semipermeable protein-based cell membrane (or in viruses with a semi-crystalline structure/membrane), with required internal cytoplasm (specific cellular fluid), purposeful digestion, required to utilize digested material to build, grow and/or to have energy, having organelles (microscopic, organ like features), some having internal skeletal-like structures and motility/mobility by appendages such as flagella, or cilia, all in a one cell life?

, Their notion of "Hard evidence" ("empirical" evidence) is supposed to give that evidence higher value than other evidence. Your “other” experience is marginalized and you need to demonstrate that it is in fact justification for your understandings. For example, your experience of the deity is like someone who is looking at a rainbow. His friend who has never been able to see is demanding to know how it smells, tastes, feels or sounds. What can you say? Explain to them that by demanding evidence for one of the five senses is not only impossible for you, but also would fail to do anything to portray your experience. You might discover faith by science using common experience and thoughtfulness?


Or you can assert that theism is a matter of understanding and judgment, such as reasoning by a form of knowledge and information called faith, perhaps by faith alone (if that is possible). Since they are claiming that you are doing something wrong by believing without being justified by “hard evidence” and the Scientific Method, they are making an ethics decision to make that claim. You can challenge the ethics of their epistemology by supporting the fact and virtue of faith. They, also, decide what to believe based on their own judgment (resulting in scientific statements alone), you do the same and have the faith to believe in someone that you don’t usually experience with your five senses (resulting in scientific statements and theistic beliefs). If you want to move into the ethics of epistemology you can ask them who made it more virtuous not to trust in anything but science, and since their answer will be a person or people, you can assert that it’s more virtuous to have faith than not and your answer will be just as good as theirs since you’re a person and you share these beliefs with a group of people. This will likely lead you down a long rabbit trail.
The most simplest way to explain it, however, is to tell them in these words "If you do not believe in an intelligent force/creator, then you're basically saying that none of your beliefs about the universe are based on intelligence". This would not be intended to insult, but would be to point out how relevant the ability to put facts together (intelligence) is when it comes to the truth. Make sure you let them know that God is not a specific thing, God is characterised by the abilities that are portrayed in his creation. The existence of facts alone proves his intelligent capabilities.

