 Sometimes recommendations from friends or family members can be your best options when you're looking for an attorney. These are people who understand you and the specifics of your case.If you know anyone near you who has recently filed for bankruptcy, ask them which attorney they used and whether they would recommend them.
Ask questions about their experience to get a better idea of whether that attorney might work for you.
You also might want to ask any attorneys or accountants you know for recommendations. Even attorneys who don't practice bankruptcy may know good bankruptcy attorneys, particularly if they regularly have clients who have filed for bankruptcy.
For example, bankruptcy and divorce unfortunately often go hand-in-hand, so a family law attorney probably knows bankruptcy attorneys they can recommend.
Because accountants may frequently interact with bankruptcy attorneys, they also may have recommendations for you – or at least be able to tell you who you should stay away from.
 Even if you've managed to score a good recommendation or two, you still should look for possible attorneys yourself. Hit your state or local bar association's website to start and use their searchable directory.Many bar associations have a bankruptcy section which includes attorneys licensed to practice in your area who specialize in bankruptcy.
Typically attorneys must complete additional tests and submit professional references to be able to say they specialize in a particular area of law. These will be the strongest bankruptcy attorneys who practice in your area.
Check each attorney's professional website as well as doing a general internet search for reviews from clients. There are multiple websites that allow current and former clients to provide reviews and ratings of attorneys.
You should value client reviews more highly than any awards or "best of" lists, as these typically are voted on by fellow attorneys who may agree to vote for each other as a professional courtesy.
 Bankruptcy attorneys typically offer a free initial consultation. Take advantage of this to talk to at least three or four attorneys. This way you can get a feel for each attorney's background and practice style and choose your best fit.Call the office of each attorney in whom you're interested and try to schedule the initial consultation within the next week or two.
If an attorney is too busy to see you within this time, it may be that he or she is too busy to represent you effectively or pay enough attention to your case. If you want to avoid going to court, you need an attorney who has sufficient time and energy to devote to your case.
If you're scheduling more than one consultation on the same day, make sure to leave several hours between appointments. For example, you might schedule one in the morning and one in the afternoon.
 The attorneys you interview won't be able to provide you much direct advice on your case unless they have a good breakdown of your financial situation. The more detail you're able to provide each attorney to evaluate before your initial consultation, the more you'll get out of the meeting.The attorney may have forms to fill out before your consultation, or a checklist of documents or information you need to bring with you.
Find out how far in advance of your consultation you need to provide this information. But don't wait until the last minute. Send the information as soon as possible to give the attorney plenty of time to look over it.
If you're mailing documents to the attorney's office, clearly mark each page with your name and the date and time of your initial consultation. Include any reference or confirmation number the attorney's office has given you.
 Attorneys often have a basic script of information they provide to prospective clients during a free initial consultation – but that may not include information that's important to you.Specifically, you need to find out how much experience each attorney has handling bankruptcies similar to yours.
Since it's important to you not to go to court, ask each attorney if you will be required to attend any court hearings, or what ways there are to avoid having to go to court. Make sure the attorneys understand that this is a priority for you.
You also want to find out about the attorney's practice style. Ask what ways are best to communicate with the attorney – for example, whether the attorney prefers an email or a phone call – and how quickly they return messages.
If the attorney is part of a larger firm, find out how much of the work on your case that attorney will personally do. If someone else will be doing the lion's share of the work on your case, ask if you can meet them too.
There is no "right" answer to any of the questions you ask, particularly those that evaluate the attorney's practice style. Different attorneys have different styles and methods and can be equally effective – the true question is how the attorney's work style will work for you.
 After you've completed your scheduled consultations, take a look at each attorney's characteristics. Pit them against each other to decide which can best represent you in your bankruptcy proceeding.Since you're filing for bankruptcy, you have limited funds and may consider an attorney's fees paramount. However, attorneys who handle bankruptcy cases know this, and typically are willing to work with you on fees.
For this reason, don't allow fees to be the only – or even primary – reason you choose one attorney over another.
Instead, concentrate on each attorney's experience and their ability to help you achieve the goals you have in filing for bankruptcy.
Above all, it's important that you feel comfortable and at ease with the attorney you choose. One attorney you interviewed may have had far more experience and lower fees than the others. However, if he or she intimidated you or made you feel like a loser for filing for bankruptcy, do not choose that attorney.
 When you hire an attorney, make sure you get a detailed contract that outlines the terms of the representation. Have the attorney explain it to you, and question anything you don't understand or with which you don't agree.Even though it may not seem this way when the attorney hands you the retainer to sign, this agreement is negotiable.
It won't hurt you to ask for something – the worst the attorney can do is say "no." However, keep in mind that most attorneys are willing to negotiate various terms of their retainer agreement.
Likewise, if something you talked about in the initial consultation is not covered in the retainer agreement, ask the attorney to include it.
Typically the attorney will be willing to give you time to look over the retainer agreement before you sign it. You may want to have a trusted friend or family member look it over as well.

