 If you want to date casually, make sure your new fling knows that you’re not looking for anything serious. Being honest about what you want will give you the opportunity to have some fun and date around without hurting anybody’s feelings. It will also eliminate the possibility of getting locked into a relationship that you don’t want.


Establish whether you want to be exclusive or non-exclusive with somebody you’re dating. It’s best to have this conversation in person so that both people are on the same page.;
, Going on dates in public places will help you to avoid the sense of intimacy that is often cultivated on a date in somebody’s home or an isolated environment such as an empty beach or park. Instead, try mini-golfing, bowling, dinner at a restaurant, a carnival, or a concert. This will keep things light and casual.
 Don’t introduce somebody you’re dating casually to your friends, and avoid letting yourself getting dragged into your new fling’s friend group. The more intertwined somebody becomes with every aspect of your life, the more you will be seen and thought of as an exclusive couple.

http://www.askmen.com/dating/player_150/169_love_games.html</ref>, Space out your dates so that you’re not seeing somebody every night of the week. If you see somebody too often they might get the impression that you’re interested in something more serious. Try to only see somebody once every week or so, and in the meantime take some time for yourself.


If you are seeing somebody casually and it seems like there is the possibility for something more to develop, keep an open mind. Don’t discount a relationship just on principal.
 Copious flirting will lead people to believe that you’re interested in them. Keep your interactions platonic by not engaging in common flirtatious behavior such as touching the other person, teasing them too coyly, or making prolonged eye contact., Being in a relationship often involves sharing personal details and having deep conversations with the other person. Of course, do not be rude or uncaring to the other person, but try to focus your relationship on having fun, rather than getting to know each other on a deeper level.


Keep the topics of conversation light, like common interests, sports, movies, and food.
If you want to talk about more personal topics with this person, it might be a sign that you want something more than a casual relationship with them.
 If your partner expresses interest in a relationship with you, tell them that you don't want a relationship. Be clear about your expectations for your current involvement, and be nice if you end up refusing the other person.


You can say something like, "I'm flattered, and I have a lot of fun with you, but I don't want to be in a relationship right now. I'd like to continue to see you, but I can also accept that that might not be enough for you."

