 Look for two sacs on either side of your dog's anus, at the "twenty past eight" position on a clock face. The sacs should each be the size of a small grape and sit just underneath the skin.


Your dog's anal sacs drain out onto his feces through small ducts. When your dog needs to toilet, the squeezing action forces a few drops of the smelly secretion out of the sacs and onto each bowel movement.;
, You'll probably notice that your dog is uncomfortable, especially when he needs to defecate. Common signs that your dog is impacted or has an infection include:


Irritation around the anus: Your dog may stop and suddenly look at his rear end, or sit down and start licking his bottom.
Pain during defecation: Your dog may yelp or try to stop while he defecates if he feels pain. The anal sacs become hot and tender during an infection.Change in behavior: With an infection, your dog might become grumpy if you try to look near his rear end or he might refuse to eat. Your dog is in pain and fears you will touch the tender area.
Stickiness around the anus: If the anal sac ruptures, you'll see foul-smelling blood-stained pus that might be yellow-green. Once this bursts, your dog will probably start feeling more comfortable since pressure is released, although your dog will still need antibiotics from the vet.
 If you notice your dog dragging his rear end along the ground (scooting), he may be trying to relieve irritation. This may mean that your dog has perianal irritation instead of anal sac problems.Dragging his bottom or scooting might also mean your dog is suffering from allergies, parasitic infection or migrating tapeworm egg packets.
 Your dog may be suffering from advanced untreated anal sac cancer if you notice hard swelling near the anus. This hard swelling can push against the side of the rectum, making it difficult for your dog to defecate. Your dog may strain, and spend a lot of time emptying his bowel. If your dog has anal sac cancer, he may lose weight (because of secondary tumors in the liver) or cough (because of secondary tumors in his lungs).Swelling and difficulty defecating can also be caused by constipation or prostrate problems. It's best to get your dog thoroughly examined by the veterinarian if you suspect cancer.
 If you think your dog has anal sac problems, the veterinarian will need to examine your dog's rectum. The vet will check for signs of pain or swelling by gently applying pressure. This will empty the sacs and the vet can check the secretion for symptoms like abnormal yellow-green or smelly discharge.


If your dog is experiencing the early stage of infection, it might be difficult to make a diagnosis. The vet may have to send a sample of the secretion away for bacterial testing., Once you've determined your dog has an anal sac problem, check for impaction which is the most common problem. Impaction happens when the anal sacs make more secretion than they drain away. This also increases the pressure in the anal sac.Check the dog's secretion for small pieces of a waxy substance. This waxy secretion can block the anal gland duct, causing pressure to build up. This stretches the anal sac which is uncomfortable for your dog.


Impaction can happen when your dog is secreting normally, but for some reason it's not secreted out onto the feces (which might happen when your dog has diarrhea)., You'll probably notice that your dog becomes sensitive about having his rear end touched or looked at. When you do look, you may notice foul discharge. If the infection gets worse or is left untreated, a painful abscess (collection of pus) will form in the sac. Pressure buildup may cause the abscess to burst through the skin. If this happens, you'll see blood-stained pus around your dog's bottom and raw skin where the skin has split or ruptured. Get veterinary care if this happens.


Infections are commonly caused by bacteria that travel through ducts connecting the rectum to the anal sacs.
 The early stages of cancer are often symptom free, but your vet might notice an unusual anal sac during a routine check up. A cancerous sac might be larger or harder than a healthy, softly swollen sac. If cancer is suspected, the vet will sedate or anesthetize your dog before taking a gloved finger to gently examine the inside of the rectum. This lets the vet compare the size and consistency of the sacs.


X-rays and ultrasounds are used to check the chest and abdomen for secondary spread of cancer.The vet will remove the suspicious anal sac and send it away for testing to confirm if your dog has cancer., While you're waiting for a veterinary appointment, you can comfort your dog by applying a warm salt water poultice to the area. Only do this if the skin has not broken. Since the area is sore, don't be surprised if your dog tries to bite or is distressed when you try to apply the poultice. If he is distressed, stop and wait for the appointment.


To stop your dog from licking this sensitive area, cover his bottom with a pair of boxer shorts or put a buster collar on him.

