 Maintaining a normal body temperature will also help a great deal in feeling less thirsty. The first step is staying out of the heat so you don’t become too hot. Overheating starts a chain reaction in which your internal AC unit kicks in to cool you, creating sweat. This causes you to lose body fluids and become thirsty. Because the sun is at its strongest between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., try to rearrange your schedule so that you're not outside during these times, particularly during hot periods of the year.


Run your errands in the early morning, for example. Have lunch delivered to your office rather than getting into your sweltering car twice – once on the way to lunch and again on your return.
If staying out of the heat isn’t possible, try to limit the length of each outing as much as you can.
Use buildings and trees to provide shade from the sun.
And don’t forget that air conditioning was created for a purpose – to keep you cool.
 Sometimes we simply can’t avoid being in the heat. Another way to make adjustments, however, is to choose clothes that will reduce the likelihood of becoming overheated. When it’s very hot out and you cannot avoid it, or when you know you’ll be in an environment that will make you sweat if not properly attired, pick your clothes wisely.


If outside, wear lightweight, light-colored cotton or linen clothes. Light-colored clothes will reflect, rather than absorb, the sun’s rays. Cotton and linen are both fabrics that breathe, so they won’t trap heat like polyester, acrylic, nylon and rayon fabrics will.If you can avoid layers, definitely do so. They will only trap in heat to a greater extent, creating more sweat and less room for its escape.
Stay away from tight-fitting clothes, too, unless they are specifically designed for breathability and to wick sweat.
 Working out raises the risk of dehydration – if not adequately replenished – because your core body temperature rises, causing you to sweat and to lose body fluid. Controlling your body temperature, then, is critical, particularly if you do not or cannot adequately replenish the fluids lost.When you do exercise, a) wear only one layer of both lightweight and light-colored clothes when exercising outside and b) if your clothes become wet from sweat, change as soon as possible.
And remember, a brisk walk on a hot and humid summer day can cause quite the sweat, too. When it’s humid, the moisture in the air stops sweat from evaporating from your skin, leaving you baking inside.
 If you’ve gotten too hot, one of the most effective ways of lowering your temperature is by taking a cool shower or bath. Make sure the water temperature is cool, not cold. It should be just below body temperature. If it’s too cold, when you get out your body responds by generating heat to warm up, which is not the effect you want.You can also try putting ice cubes in a thin towel and placing it for about two minutes at a time against your neck and on your wrist, two pulse points that you can reach conveniently throughout the day. This works because pulse points are areas in which blood vessels are close to the surface of the skin, therefore allowing for the transfer of cold through the body.Another option is to soak the base of your head and neck in cool water for 5-10 minutes. Here again, this area has a large concentration of blood vessels close to the skin’s surface and will help cool you down quickly., When you put food into your stomach, you get a boost of energy. Your metabolic system kicks in to digest the food and deliver the nutrients to other parts of your body. This process requires energy, which generates heat in your body – it’s called the Thermic Effect of Food (TEF).Large and heavy meals cause more energy to be created, making your internal temperature rise. So stick to eating smaller, more frequent meals.

