 How you pack the food is an important part of preventing the spread of contaminants from one food to another.


Pack all meats separately from ready-to-eat foods. Juices from the meat could spoil food like cheese and vegetables, so be sure to wrap securely.
Pack dairy produce on its own, inside a cooler.
When you bring food back home, discard any food that has come into contact with other food; this includes shared dishes that have had forks and the like stuck into them, as you have no idea what guests had on their utensils.
 Anytime you touch raw meat clean your hands before touching food, both for preparation and for serving. Clean them again after touching the food.


Use moist towelettes thoroughly to make sure that you don't transmit germs or bacteria onto other foods or utensils. Provide plenty of spare towelettes and antibacterial cleanser for guests to use too––place in an obvious spot.
Wipe down everything before you serve.
Use only clean utensils for serving and eating with.
 This doesn't mean buying it from the pricey vendors; it means stopping at the nearest supermarket before you enter the tailgate party, stocking up and placing the foods into the appropriate containers at the supermarket carpark. If you can reduce the travel time for the food, so much the better.


Avoid purchasing more than what will be eaten––that way, there will be no temptation to hoard leftovers and eat them later, when they have turned bad.
Take your cooler bag into the supermarket. Place food items straight into it from the refrigerator shelf, then open it at the cashier for purchase and ask that it be repacked straight back into the cooler.
 When grilling, only remove the amount of meat that can fit on the grill. Leave the rest in the cooler until it's time to cook the next round. After grilling food, serve immediately. Anything that is not eaten straight away should be kept hot or placed into a cooler.


Grilled food left outside for more than hour should be discarded.
Refer back to the section above for the heating temperatures required.

