 Since dog pack dynamics are more complicated than competing to be alpha, a form of training called operant conditioning has become preferred over dominance or punishment-based training. Operant conditioning is when you use rewards, like treats and verbal encouragement, to modify your dog’s behavior.For example, when teaching your dog command words, like sit or come, you should first say the command, then physically guide your dog into the appropriate position, and immediately give it a treat. Repeat the process around twenty times per training session, eventually substituting the treat for exaggerated verbal praise and petting.
The key when giving a treat to your dog is to do so in the exact moment it does something correctly. If it sits and you immediately offer a treat, it will come to associate following the command with a reward.
 Consistency is the most important consideration when setting rules for your “pack.” For example, more trainers and behaviorists now advise that allowing a dog to lay on your bed or sofa is a personal choice that won’t really affect the dog’s general discipline. However, if you do choose not to allow your dogs on furniture, you should stick to the rule and never allow an exception.Likewise, if you don’t want your dog to beg for food, don’t give it any attention whatsoever if it begs while you’re eating. Don’t make any exceptions that might make it expect food off your plate.
While consistency is essential to establishing social dynamics and house rules, punishment is less effective. Humans can associate an action with a punishment regardless of time, but dogs cannot. If your dog has an accident inside or chews something up, punishing it after the behavior will have no effect. It can’t make an association between the bad behavior and you yelling or spanking it, even if just several minutes after the fact.
 One of the most effective and easiest ways to control your dog’s behavior is to spay or neuter it. This will reduce its aggressiveness, territorial instincts, and urge to urine mark. You should consider spaying or neutering especially if you have children or a multi-dog household.While spaying or neutering and other forms of preventive care can be costly, they’re typically more affordable and convenient than dealing with a pregnancy or health condition. If cost is an issue, call your local animal shelter and ask them, “Are there any local financial aid programs that can help me get my dog spayed or neutered?”

, One of the most common nuisances associated with pack or social dynamics is urine marking. Your dog is territorial, and if you have a human or animal visitor in your home, it might respond by urinating indoors. Clean up any marked spots with a pet odor eliminator, and keep items it’s likely to mark, like your guest’s belongings, in a room with a closed door.If you notice your dog lifting its leg or marking, get its attention by shouting or clapping, and tell it, “No! Don’t do that!” It’s important to stop it in the exact moment the marking or accident occurs so the dog understands your intentions. Take it outside if it hasn’t had a walk in a while and needs to relieve itself.
Remember that punishment after the fact won’t have any effect. If you’ve come home and found your dog has gone to the bathroom inside, it won’t understand why you’re rubbing its nose in the spot or yelling at it.
If your dog is potty trained but begins to routinely empty its bladder (as opposed to mark with a little urine) or defecates indoors, there might be a more significant issue. Take to the vet for a checkup, and ask the vet about possible incontinence or anxiety issues.
 Generally, dog trainers and behaviorists suggest that aggressive behavior has less to do with your dog trying to assert itself as an alpha. Instead, your dog is more likely responding to conditions it’s come to associate with danger or stress. Alternatively, it could be acting in a way that has resulted in a reward in the past.Try to pay attention to specific conditions when your dog misbehaves. It might take time and patience, but if you can identify why exactly your dog misbehaves you’re more likely to offer a long-term solution.  
Try to apply the methods of operant conditioning. For example, if you can safely ignore your dog when it’s barking or showing aggression, do so. When it displays calm behavior in response to something new, offer a small food treat or pet it and offer plenty of encouragement. Over time, it will associate barking or jumping with being ignored and calmer behavior with attention., Aggressive or unruly behavior could be due to a history of neglect or abuse. Your dog might have previously had success warding off a threat through aggression.


If this is the case, try to limit exposure to new animals and people. Try to offer it plenty of positive reassurance with a reassuring tone of voice.
Ask its vet if they recommend medication for anxiety, and consider seeking help from a professional trainer if aggressive behavior persists.

