 A 45 mph (72 km/h) speed limit is often a net speed of 30 mph (48 km/h), sometimes a lot less, in an area with traffic signals. The fact that you're moving along at 30 mph (48 km/h) in a 45 mph (72 km/h) zone should make no difference to your travel time, especially if you are almost never stopping.;
, On sections of road where this is true, once you are moving with the flow of traffic, maintaining a given speed will usually get you through without stopping.
 This is the opposite of what most people think, but absolutely works. A green light can be totally unpredictable. It might stay green right up until you're almost committed and then turn yellow. Green will betray you. A green light will tempt you to speed toward it and force you to slam on your brakes. When you are approaching a signal that is red, you are covering ground instead of idling at the signal. Well coordinated signals will typically be red as you approach then turn green shortly before or after you arrive at the intersection.
 You know you'll stop at a red light, which makes it predictable, but it might just turn green, so if you slow down enough approaching it, you might never stop. At the very least, you won't have worn brakes and burned fuel keeping the car moving fast. Now it's only a matter of trying to work out how long it will remain red, and how long it will be green after that, and moderate your speed to be moving at the right rate when you reach the intersection to follow the other cars through without stopping at all (though not so fast that you can't stop if they stall, the signal doesn't behave like you wanted it to, or whatever other unpredictable things happen). You may also be able to tell from where you are that even though the light will turn green about when you get there behind the traffic, that you won't be making it through, and plan accordingly.
 This takes 'fuzzy' experience, because it's different for most intersections and is different for different cars.
 You can often tell fairly precisely what the next light will do after the current one changes.
 If it's green or only just started flashing red, your green light is still 'fresh', and you might make it.
 If you see these things, your green light will in all probability betray you.
 If you have a green light, and the turn signal facing you just turned green, and there are still cars turning, your green light may be 'fresh' enough to make.
 More often than not, you can't.
 Each signal will likely be phased for a particular day and time, so pay attention to learn what each signal does on your commute.
 Many parking lots have multiple entrances on different sides. With a lot on the left, if your traffic light has turned red, or is going to turn red, consider taking the a left turn instead of proceeding to a later entrance. If it's fresh and green, maybe proceed ahead to an uncontrolled left turn lane (depending on traffic) to avoid waiting for the signal to cycle all the way through to a left turn. Similar when approaching a lot on the right, especially if you are in a 'right on red' jurisdiction. Mind the pedestrians, though.
 Most American cities are laid out like a grid. There are multiple paths/doglegs to take to reach the same destination, on or off freeways. Often some of these paths have fewer signals, or more 'friendly' signals. Balance this with the knowledge that every turn is usually a stop. At certain times of the day or week, an otherwise 'impassible' industrial zone with relatively few signals can be absolutely deserted.

