 You should be honest with your doctor about your smoking habits. Smoking can cause certain conditions and interfere with medications.Medicines that need to be metabolized by the liver may be negatively affected by smoking. This includes cholesterol medicine, hormones, acetaminophen-based medications, and some asthma medications.
Lying about your smoking habits also makes it more difficult to have your doctor help you quit by offering you medications or other methods.
 When your doctor asks, you should be honest about how much you drink. Alcohol may interfere with certain medications, lead to conditions like high blood pressure, or be a cause for weight gain.Your doctor needs an accurate account of your drinking habits. This means you need to tell your doctor if you drink a glass of wine every night, a few beers a day, or only drink alcohol when you go to bars on the weekend.
 Your doctor may be concerned about your diet and exercise for diabetes, cholesterol, heart disease, or another condition. Your doctor may suggest lifestyle changes to your diet and exercise program to treat a condition. You should be honest with your doctor about your diet and exercise during both your initial visit and during any follow ups.If your doctor tells you to stop eating fast food, highly processed foods with sugar, or fatty meats, don’t say that you have stopped eating those foods if you continue to eat them. If your doctor suggests you get 30 minutes of cardio exercise five days a week, don’t pretend you do that when you only get one or two days.
If your doctor suggests that you eat different foods, don’t lie and say you have made the changes. This can negatively impact your treatment and progress.
If you lie about diet and exercise, your doctor may think you are making the right lifestyle changes but your body isn’t responding. This could lead to unnecessary tests and medication.
 You may face the temptation to lie about your sexual history to your doctor. This can lead to an incorrect diagnosis or your doctor not being able to catch a problem.Your doctor may ask about how many different partners you have had in the last year — be honest about the number.
Inform your doctor of any unprotected sex you had.
Remember, all information you share with your doctor is confidential. You shouldn’t keep important sexual information from your doctor that may influence a diagnosis or treatment.
 Though you may feel uncomfortable checking the box on the medical history form you are given at the doctor’s office, you should be honest in the examination room when asked about recreational drug use. You can ask your doctor to discuss it off record if you are concerned.Recreational drug use can give your doctor a wider picture of your lifestyle choices. It may also help your doctor diagnose conditions and decide on treatment options.
 Sometimes, treatment plans depend on patient availability. There are treatments in which you have to be at the doctor’s office once a week to be treated. Some people cannot undergo treatments like this due to work, child care, or other scheduling conflicts. Make sure to talk to your doctor about your schedule and time commitments.Some medications may also require certain scheduling or lifestyle demands. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be have trouble dealing with the scheduling demands of treatment or medication.

