 There is no bigger turn-off in any relationship than dishonesty. If you're afraid that being honest will backfire, then don't even get yourself into situations where honesty could be painful. If you make it a point of having no reason to lie, honesty comes naturally.;
, If you say you'll be there at 4:00, be there. If you arrive too early -- or worse, too late! -- it can make the situation very uncomfortable. It's always good to write down appointments, meetings, and get-togethers on a calendar or planner.
 If there is something you need to get done, don't procrastinate. Do it, and do a good job of it. If you keep putting off reading your Bible or calling the dentist to schedule an appointment, don't wait any longer. When you have self-discipline and know you can get things done, it becomes natural. The more you do something (like reading your Bible) the easier it will become and you'll likely come to enjoy it!

, Evaluating your life (honestly!) is a good way to see who you really are. What are your strong points? What do you need to work on? How can you do this better? Asking good questions of yourself can get you thinking.
 Find something you really believe in. Get involved at an animal shelter or food bank. Pray to God daily. Set an example for those around you.
 Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, "We are always getting ready to live but never living." You aren't really living if you don't try new things, set goals, and challenge yourself.
 When you say you'll do something, do it. Be there when someone needs help or is going through a rough time, and you can expect the same from other people.
 Paul, who wrote many of the Bible's books, said, "Don't let the sun go down while you are still angry." If you went to far or are in the wrong, apologize sincerely. Don't hold grudges. Forgive. You don't have to entirely trust that person anymore, but forgiveness is necessary or both of you will suffer.
 When a dog learns a new trick, it connects pathways in the brain so he is able to learn harder tricks in a smaller amount of time. In the same way, the more you learn, the more you can learn.
 Don't get mad at every small thing. Chose your arguments wisely. Exercise compassion and mercy.

