 Ideally, you should try to meditate in the same general area every day. Locate a spot that feels serene to you and one where you are comfortable. Your haven could be your bedroom, the kitchen, or even the attic. Make sure that it is somewhere safe, too., If you find that your haven is a bit disorganized on a certain day, it may help to spend a few minutes tidying everything up before starting to meditate. It may calm your mind knowing that your environment is orderly.
 If you are too cold, then you will likely lose focus and your mind may wander a bit. You may also fidget or experience the chills, which are equally distracting. If you are too warm, then you may sweat or itch. Pick a temperature that is as close to unnoticeable as possible. Move the thermostat up or down each day until you find the best temperature for you.
 Many people prefer to sit on the floor to meditate, sometimes with their feet crossed. However, you can also try sitting with your legs stretched out, sitting upright in a chair, laying down on your back or on your stomach, or even walking around. Rotate through these positions until you find one that works best for clearing your mind.If you choose to sit down to meditate, it might help to add a soft towel or light blanket to sit on.
 Create a calming atmosphere by installing dimmer bulbs in your meditation haven area. Or, turn off the lights in the room and light a few small candles. If you find yourself getting distracted, focusing on the flame will help to center you.
 When you are finished with a session, don’t just jump up and immediately throw yourself back into your work. Instead, stand up and take a long, relaxing stretch. Maybe take another short walk. Gradually build-up to your normal level of activity., Make meditation a normal part of your daily routine. It is easiest to clear your mind in the morning, but a daytime or evening session are also good options. Stick to the same general timeframe, so that your mind and body get used to the process.