 Are you a freshmen or a sophomore? If so, now may not be the best time to move off campus. The dorms provide you with a lot of opportunities for socialization, especially early on in college.


In the dorms, you're living with many different students your age. People may be eager to make new friends. There may be get togethers hosted by your dorm, where you'll have an opportunity to meet fellow students. You will also eat in the cafeteria with other students, allowing you to bond over food.
If you're an older student, however, you may already have an established friends group. If you feel confident you will still see your friends off campus, you probably won't miss out on much by leaving the dorms. If anything, you'll get the chance to experience something new.
Off campus apartments are open to the general public, so you are going to be living with people of all ages. There will be families with children, elderly, people working overnight jobs so you might want to think twice before you have guests over, partying, etc.
 Do you like having get togethers? If you're the type to host things like game nights, movie nights, and other festivities, you may want to consider an off-campus move. Dorm rooms are generally small, and may not leave you enough room to have guests.There are also frequently more restrictions in dorms than apartments. Entertaining may be more relaxing if you're living off campus.
 Older students may already have a large social circle. If you're a junior or a senior, now may be a good time to try off campus living. You have likely met people through the dorms, which has led to other friendship.Many people enjoy living off campus once they feel socially secure. If you feel like you have a solid social circle, off campus life may work for you.
If you're a freshman, you may feel you have a solid social circle. Maybe you have a lot of high school friends attending your school. However, keep in mind college is traditionally seen as a chance to branch out and make new friends. Living off campus may limit your opportunity to meet new people.

