 You’ll need to determine who God is to you in order to confidently talk to God. Who is, and how do you define, God? Do you know God as a fatherly or motherly figure, a teacher, a distant -- or a close friend, sticking closer than a sister or brother? Or, is God an abstract spiritual guide? Is your connection to God rooted in a personal, spiritual relationship you have with God? Or, do you follow the form and order of your religion to understand who God is to you? Whichever is true for you will dictate how you view and talk to God. And, however you see God determines how you will approach God to talk to Him as ______ (as you see Him).;
, It’s easier to talk to someone when you persist to establish a speaking relationship with a person that really cares.So, your telling God your burdens and joys helps bond your relationship with God. Figuring out that God wants to hear from you and to share all your joys, pains and thoughts with you is the first step to establishing that relationship. And you can build on it by reading about how much God cares in spiritual literature or religious texts, such as the Bible, Quran or Torah.
 Talking to God as a tremendous friend is different from just praying to God as a need or duty. As with a friend, you expect back-and-forth communication by noticing how God answers, helps or teaches you. While prayer may be more of a one-way transaction, talking implies a conversation.


You can talk to God out loud or inside your mind, whichever feels most effective to you.
It may be best to find a quiet or private space you can occupy in order to concentrate while you’re talking. If you can’t, it’s okay to talk silently to God while you’re standing in the checkout line at the grocery store, sitting in a waiting room, or while you’re at work or school, etc.
 Talk to God similarly as you would, if a physical person were standing in front of you. You can talk to God about your daily troubles, your thoughts at the moment, your hopes and dreams, and even tell Him (and tell yourself) the things for which you’re thankful. You can tell God about casual or hard topics just as you would with a concerned friend.


Let’s say for example you were having an ongoing argument with a friend. You could say, “God, I’m not sure what else to say to Charlie. We’ve been arguing for almost two weeks now and we still can’t come to an agreement. I don’t want to think we can’t get through this, but I don’t know what more to do or say.”
Ever been amazed by a crazy, beautiful day? Talk to God about His gifts to you. “Wow, God! It’s so beautiful outside. I’d love to spend the day reading in the park.”
Maybe you have a difficult relationship with a family member: “I hate that my mom and I don’t get along. She just doesn’t understand me, and she refuses to listen when I try to tell her how I really feel. I pray that she would try to see things from my point of view sometimes. And, help me to to be patient, listen and understanding to her.”

, You may not get an audible response like you would, if a friend were physically standing in front of you. But you can receive a response from God in the written word of God or from the sermon of a minister. Anticipate it to also come in the form of an intuition, an inspiration, a scripture, a situation or an event that directly or indirectly relates to what you’ve been talking about to God.
 You may not find what you want when you want it, but He does everything for His reason.
 But, realize that whatever happens may be a result of a "third person(s)" involved in their self-centered, personal actions/inaction, or their doing the opposite of some of your ideas and needs. God does not necessarily contravene or interfere with the behavior of disagreeable parties -- Why? They, having free will as you do, might not follow love, good morals, the purposes of God, nor stop their misconduct that can involve you. Events could, thus, depend regrettably on their dangerous/uncaring intersections with your hopeful and peaceful path. Even in dire events one can talk to God, in the darkest day or when you pass through the valley of death. You need not fear, but may cry out to Him while trusting God, come what may.

