 Before you begin to sew your animal, you’ll want to use straight sewing pins to pin your two pieces of fabric to each other.This ensures your fabric pieces stay lined up correctly as you begin to sew.


Pin your fabric inside out. This means that you’ll want the two finished sides of the fabric facing inward toward each other.
Use the pins horizontally around the perimeter of your animal. You want your pins to be about half an inch apart all the way around.
 You can make your homemade stuffed animal either with a sewing machine or with basic hand stitching. Before you begin to sew, thread a need, and knot the end of your thread. Use thread that is the same color as your fabric or use a contrasting color for decoration.


Sew about a quarter of an inch to a half-inch from the edge of the fabric.
Whether you are hand sewing or using a machine, leave about an inch left unsewn so that you can stuff your animal. This often works well at the end of a leg.
After you finish sewing, remove all the straight pins from the perimeter of your animal.
 Using the hole that you left unsewn, pull your fabric through, and turn it inside out.It may take a bit of work to pull all of the fabric through your whole.


When you turn it inside out, the raw stitching should be hidden, and the good side of your fabric will now be visible.
 Once you turn your fabric, you’ll need to begin filling your animal. You’ll want to make sure it’s full but that there is no strain on the stitching. You can find stuffing at local craft stores.


Use the end of a wooden spoon, dowel, or chopstick to help push the stuffing in all the corners of your animal., After you’ve stuffed your animal, you’ll want to sew up the small hole you used to put in the stuffing. Doing this should not take very much thread. Use the same thread that you used for the perimeter of your animal.


Knot the end of your last stitch so it stays in place. Trim any excess threads.
 Once you finish sewing your stuffed animal, you can add more character with various kinds of decorations. These will make you animal come alive. Feel free to use items you have on hand, or pick some decorations up at a craft store.



Sew buttons on for eyes or a nose. If you are giving your animal to a small child, be wary of buttons, as they can become choking hazards.
Use fabric paints or markers to draw in details. This can be a good option for smaller children, as they can’t pull of small pieces of decoration.

