 You can also appear more intelligent in class by actually increasing your intelligence. Reading is a great way to increase your intelligence. You can read more by committing to a reading goal. Tell yourself that you will complete a book once a month. You can also subscribe to magazines or journals like National Geographic, The Economist, or Scientific American to increase your reading of relevant topics and material. Read the articles in these magazines that interest you. If something comes up in class that is related to the article, you can bring this up in a class discussion.


You could say, "The concept of cultural shock reminds me of an article I read in National Geographic about a American photographer who traveled to Japan in the 1960's."

, Increase your intelligence by challenging yourself. Challenge yourself by learning something new, like a new language, a new topic of study, or a new activity, like painting. Often times challenging yourself means stepping out of your comfort zone. Therefore, once you have mastered a task, like Sudoku, for example, move onto something else to keep your brain guessing.Other examples of challenging yourself are learning to cook a meal, instead of purchasing it; reading the whole book instead of a review of the book; or, instead of giving up if you do not understand something, like how to play chess, push yourself to try to understand it.
 Instead of relying on technology to do things for you, learn how to do things on your own. For example, instead of relying on your GPS to get you places, learn how to get somewhere on your own. Learn the roads and how they connect. Learn how to determine which way is north, south, east, and west., By believing that you are smart or that you have the capability of being smart, you will be able to convince yourself that you can learn new things. Remember that attitude is everything. If you are sitting there telling yourself that you have learned everything you need to know, you have just set up a major obstacle for yourself. Be open to new ideas and things by learning something new like how to write or how to locate constellations in the sky, for example.

