 You can use any combination of leafy greens you want, as long as they make approximately 1 cup (237 milliliters). Choose from spinach, kale, collards, romaine, Swiss chard, and dandelion, just to name a few. These provide the nutritional base of the smoothie., Liquids are important with a smoothie. If you don't add a liquid, your smoothie will be much too thick. You can use something as simple as a cup of water. However, you can also use almond milk or soy milk,as well as coconut milk or water.You can even use regular milk or coffee.Use the same amount of liquid as you use greens, 1 cup (237 milliliters).
 Fruits give the smoothie flavor and sweetness, and they also add additional nutrients. You can use any combination of fruit you want, including bananas, strawberries, blueberries, mango, orange, apple, pineapple, and avocado.You'll need about 1 1/2 cups (355 milliliters) of fruit.
Consider adding both a creamy fruit and a flavorful fruit. For instance, avocado, banana, and mango are all creamy, while orange, pineapple, and strawberry add a punch of flavor.Frozen fruit is a great addition to smoothies. It's cheap, and you can just throw it in frozen. However, be sure to use about equal parts frozen and fresh fruit, as you don't want your smoothie too cold or thick., You can also add power-house toppings for other nutrients and protein. For instance, you can use chia seeds, flax seeds, almond butter, hemp seeds, or acai powder. Add a dash of cinnamon or cocoa powder for flavor.You can also use oats that have soaked overnight or fresh ginger.
Cardamom, nutmeg, and tumeric can all add nice flavors. Don't forget a small dash of salt to brighten flavors., You can really use any sweetener you want, if you prefer your smoothie a little sweeter. You can add honey, agave syrup, monk fruit sugar, regular white sugar, stevia, or even just a splash of fruit juice. You'll need to do sweeteners to taste, as it's really up to you how sweet you want it.
 The liquid goes in first so that everything else has something to blend in. Pour it in the blender, and then add all the other ingredients on top of it. Remember, your liquid and greens will be a one-to-one ration, so you'll need about a cup of liquid if you're using a cup of greens., Chopping up your produce may seem counter-intuitive when you're about to blend it up. However, if you don't have a very powerful blender, this step will help you get all the bits blended up easier. Chop them into about 1-inch (about 2 1/2 centimeters) pieces or smaller., The fresh fruit should go in with the liquid. If you're using any frozen fruit, save it until a bit later. Add in the chunks of both the creamy and flavorful fruits you're using; you don't need to distinguish between the two.The greens should go on top of the fruit, as it will help keep it from bogging down the blender.Some people prefer to mix just the greens and liquid first until smooth, then add in the fruit. You can experiment to see what works best with your blender.Add any other ingredients on top of the greens.
 Start by just pulsing the mixture to help get it going. This can help break up the fruit and such, so that it won't get as bogged down. After you've pulsed it several times, you can move on to blending it., Now blend the mixture. Start on low at first. Like pulsing first, a low speed helps mix the ingredients together without getting them stuck to the sides. Once you've blended on low for about half a minute, you can move on to blending on high. Keep blending until everything is smooth.If you're having trouble getting your smoothie blended, add in some more liquid, which will help it blend more smoothly.
 If you like your smoothie extra cold, you can add a bit of ice at the end. This point is also when you should add frozen fruit. Blend it all together on high until it's a mostly homogeneous mixture., Your smoothie may come out too thick or too thin if you didn't get the adjustments exactly right. If you find it's not pourable, add in more liquid. You can make it thicker with more frozen fruit or even greens. Blend again until you've got the right texture.You can also add a bit of sweetener now if it's not sweet enough.
 Pick a green of your choice, then add in some tropical flavors. You could use banana, clementine, and coconut water for instance, or mango, pineapple, and coconut milk. The tropical combination is a refreshing start to any day., Collard greens are often overlooked, but they are just as nutrient-packed as kale or spinach. Plus, they're sometimes cheaper since they aren't as popular. Mix collard greens with mango, green grapes, and a couple of tablespoons (30 to 60 milliliters) of lime. Add water or coconut milk to make it thin enough to drink., Another winning combination is ripe pear and a small chunk of fresh ginger. Ginger will make it fresh-tasting and a bit spicy. Add in kale for the greens and a bit of banana to make it sweeter. For the liquid, try citrus kombucha or even a ginger tea., Grapefruit has bright flavor that will wake you up in the morning, plus it's a heavy hitter when it comes to nutrition. Mix it with spinach, a sweet variety of apple, and a bit of banana if you want it sweeter. Use water or a milk alternative to thin it out., Another option is to make berries the star. Use blueberries, cherries, strawberries, and/or blackberries, along with another fruit like apple or banana to sweeten it up. Try it with spinach and coconut water or water. You can also add a small handful of nuts or seeds for protein.