 Nobody is perfect and even the models have cellulite, air-brushed photos and feel guilty for not doing enough to help make the world a better place. You're beautiful just for being you.;
, Smiles are the one thing that always get returned, well, at least about 99% of the time. They cost nothing but they mean everything. Practice wearing one more often.
 Avoid overdoing the makeup and always prefer natural, light and unclogged looks.
 Singing and humming quietly when it's a cloudy day, when you feel down and need to feel up, or when you just need to keep calm, is a really great thing to try.
 A person who neglects their own needs ceases to be beautiful as they become embittered and self-involved. Paying attention to your needs some of the time makes you a more balanced, giving, and forgiving person with everyone else. Always make a little time for yourself amidst your good deeds and treat you once in a while too.
 Don't start fights and don't get involved in fights unless you need to stick up for someone. Even then, use pleasant words to disarm and never raise your voice or your anger to others.
 Don't be gloomy unless it's as bad as a divorce or funeral. Even then, you need to be ready to move on when the grief unfolds. Be glad of the presence of others and realize how beautiful everyone else is and the world around you. Optimism is a vibe that is catching.
 Forgive! Forgiveness and compassion are at the root of all good. We all have the power to forgive a person what they do to us personally and in letting go of past hurts, we let go of a powerful and negative hold that damages our inner beauty. Be ready to let go and think good of others.
 To not do so would not be human. The really important thing is to balance our emotions and to err on the side of respect, good faith, belief in others and optimism; with a good dose of reality checks where needed to prevent yourself from becoming anyone's doormat. Assertiveness is the word we're looking for here and it is a lifelong learning experience.


Emotional troubles and trouble makers are unavoidable in life. Hence it would be best to keep your reactions mature and to the minimum. When time goes by, you will have a better understanding of what went wrong and how well you avoided more drama.

