 You can find this in the upper-right corner of the AOL homepage, above the Weather icon. An AOL account provides you free web email and also allows you to use the AIM (AOL Instant Messenger) service.;
, You are asked for your first and last name. Your name will be displayed as the Sender when you send an email to someone.
 This is the name that you use to log into AOL, and will appear if you are using AIM. Your username will be your email address. AOL provides five suggested usernames based on your first and last name, or you can enter your own.


Your username must be unique or you will not be able to use it. See this guide for tips on creating an original username.
 Your password protects your account, so you should ensure that it is strong. A good password has a few numbers and symbols, and does not include any dictionary words. AOL will display the strength of your password using a meter to the right of the field. You will need to enter your password twice to confirm it.


See this guide for tips on creating a strong, memorable password.
 Use the drop-down menu to select the month, and then enter the day (dd) and year (yyyy). You will need to be at least 13 years old to create an account.
 AOL needs your gender before you can create an account. This is used to tailor the news stories that appear on your AOL homepage.
 While AOL doesn't need your whole address, they need your postal code in order to determine your general location. This is used for weather and local stories on your AOL homepage.
 Click the drop-down menu to choose a security question from the selection available. Type in the answer to the question you pick in the field below the drop-down menu.


Your security question will be used when you request a password reset or log in from an unknown location.
 You can use your mobile phone to help verify your identity when you're having difficulties logging in. Entering a phone number is optional.
 You can set a second email account as your alternate address. If you need to reset your password, instructions will be sent to this address.


You can use the email address provided by your internet service provider, or sign up for a free email account using another service such as Google or Yahoo.
Entering an alternate email is optional.
 Your account will be created, and you will be signed in to AOL. If you set up an alternative email address, you may need to open a message sent to it to verify the address.
 One of the main benefits of having an AOL account is using the AIM messaging service. You can chat with aim through the AOL Mail web interface, or you can download AIM as a separate program from AIM.com.


See this guide for tips on using AIM.

