 Ask your friends and family for any recommendations that they have for dog food brands they have used. Recommendations like these can be helpful for you to learn about brands you have not heard about before.


You can also ask your veterinarian for any recommendations, especially if your dog has health problems or you are concerned about their nutrition.;
, Many pet owners tend to be loyal to one pet food brand over time. Many larger brands offer a range of products that address a dog’s nutritional needs in different stages of life. Be aware that advertisements for dog foods do not mean that these brands are the best available, they may simply be larger brands with more money for advertising.


If you are happy with this brand, feel free to stay with it and continue purchasing their products as long as they meet your dog’s nutritional needs.
If there is a specific ingredient that you want in your pet food, like salmon or chicken, use this ingredient as a way to narrow your search between brands.
 It is easy to find reviews for dog foods online by searching things like “Brand (insert the name of the brand) Reviews”. Look for reviews that are well researched, extensive, neutral, and thoughtfully written.


Look to see whether the author mentions that they are sponsored by the dog food brand or if they have been paid for their review. This can help you to evaluate whether this review is biased or neutral.
There are several Internet sites that are devoted to providing reviews of dog food brands. These reviews may be user submitted or written by experts. Sites like Dog Food Advisor also provide information about products that have been recalled.Some larger review sites, like Consumer Affairs, offer accreditation for brands based on expert reports and ratings from consumers., Brands that have been independently tested and studied can receive accreditation from regulatory agencies. Many brands will feature their accreditation on their packaging and on their websites.


For example, the Association of American Feed Control Officials is a regulatory agency that sets standards for the ingredients and labeling of pet food. Brands that meet their standards for quality and nutrition are a great choice.These accreditations signal that the brand has devoted time and energy into testing their products and that the food meets quality standards.
 Like other food products, dog food can be contaminated and its quality can be compromised. Searching on the Internet is the best way to determine whether the brand has been recalled for any safety reasons.If the brand has been recalled recently, avoid this brand in your search for a new dog food.
If you see that your current dog food brand has been recalled, check the packaging information on your dog food container to see whether your product has been affected. If your dog food has been recalled, immediately dispose of the contaminated food and purchase new food.
 After you have decided on the brand and product that you wish to purchase, you should find an online retailer that distributes that product.


Some larger retailers, including large pet stores, will offer rewards for members on online purchases. If you are a member of one of these retailers and they offer the product that you’re looking for, use their site to purchase the product.
 The easiest way to find an online retailer is to search for the product in your browser. At the top of the list, there will be sponsored links that will redirect your browser to a retailer that sells the product. These sponsored links will usually be from the largest retailers because they have to pay to sponsor the links.


If you are familiar with a pet store that you’ve used in the past, search for that pet store in your browser and look to see whether they have a website. If they do, click the link and visit their website.
Look at their inventory. Their inventory will usually be under a page heading entitled “Shop” or “Online Shopping”, or something to that effect.
You can also search for the name of the dog food brand. Many larger manufacturers of pet food will have a website that you can purchase the product through. This can be a convenient way to buy the product without having to search for third party retailers.
 If the product that you intend to purchase can be found on multiple online retailers’ sites, compare prices and shipping costs across the different sites to find the best deal.


If price is not a factor in your decision making process, you can purchase the product from the retailer that offers the shortest shipping time, offers rewards, or has the easiest check out process.
 Since you will be entering and sharing your debit or credit card information, ensure that this website is reputable and secure.On most Internet browsers, look in the search bar where the URL is located. If a website is trusted by the browser, there will be a small lock icon. This icon tells you that the website is secure and uses security measures to protect your information.
 If you purchase a new brand of food that your dog doesn’t like or won’t eat, the online retailer may offer return options.


If you are uncertain about the validity of a website, find a different online retailer. Feel free to search for reviews of online retailers to see what other consumers have to say., If you have doubts about the website, or you would like to compare websites, search for online reviews for the retailer. Searching “the name of the website reviews” is an easy way to find consumer reviews.


Most people who submit reviews about websites are either very happy or very angry with their purchase. Take these reviews at face value and use your best judgment to decide how much weight you will give these reviews.
If you see a consistent theme in the reviews, like multiple people saying that the shipping takes much longer than the website says, or if the product arrives damaged, you may want to consider finding a new site to purchase from.
 Once you have found a website that is safe, secure, and offers the product that you want, you can purchase the item online.


When you find the item you would like to purchase, there will typically be a button along the lines of "add to cart". Press this button and you may then continue to checkout or continue browsing. If there are other products that you would like to buy, you can add them to your cart as well.
 After you are finished shopping, you can continue to checkout by selecting the “cart” icon.


By selecting the cart icon, you will be redirected to a page that shows you the items that you have selected.
Make sure that this is the correct dog food brand and that the package is in the size that you want (most dog food is sold by weight).
 Proceed to enter the information required to purchase the product. This will include your debit or credit card information, your billing address, and your shipping address.


Enter the shipping information of where you would like the dog food delivered. If your shipping information is different than your billing information, make sure you are putting the correct information in each section.
If the website does not ship to your area, which may be an issue if you are ordering from a manufacturer that is based in a different country, you may not be able to purchase this item.
If you have a coupon code or a gift card for this website, you can enter this information as well.
 If there is an option to select different shipment methods, determine how soon you will need the pet food. Shorter shipping times will often cost you more.


Some websites will offer free shipping if you spend a certain amount of money. Look at your purchase total to see if you qualify for free shipping.
 Once you have carefully entered your billing information and your shipping information, you are ready to purchase the dog food.


You can submit your information by selecting a button that is labeled “Purchase”, “Buy”, or “Review Information”.
Some retailers will have a “Review Information” page that will ask you to review your information to make sure it is correct before your debit or credit card is charged.
 Once you have submitted your information, you will see a page that says something like, “Your order has been submitted”. This means that your information has been submitted and you have ordered the product.


Your debit or credit card will be charged. If you can check your bank statement online, the charge from this retailer will appear in a few business days.
 Most large retailers will ask for your email address and will send you an email that they have received the order, and will email you again when your product has shipped.


If this email has a tracking number for your package, you can enter this number on the shipping company’s website to see where your package is during transit.
 Your order will arrive in the next few days or weeks, depending on the shipping option that you selected. Keep an eye out wherever you receive your mail for your shipment.


Once your product has arrived by mail, you can begin to introduce the new food to your dog. , If you have successfully transitioned your dog to this new food, or if you intend to continue your current food, you can arrange for an automatic delivery of food.


Many online retailers will allow you to choose a regular delivery schedule. For example, you can indicate that you would like one 25-pound bag of food each month. The site will charge your debit or credit card on file for the purchase and automatically ship the food directly to your home.This is a good option if you have a larger dog that goes through a lot of food quickly, or if you prefer the convenience of being able to schedule deliveries.
Depending on the website, you may receive a discount for automatic deliveries.