 Before you do anything, go through all of your stuff. Sort everything into four piles: keep, trash, give away and to decorate with. Keep everything you want to keep, trash junk, recycle papers, give stuff away to family/friends, and donate the other stuff to Goodwill or the Salvation Army. This is a pretty essential step, because it will help declutter your room as well as get rid of clothes that you don't want
, If you don't like the color of your room or just want a change of room color, go ahead and paint it another color. Some colors choices for teen girls could be purple, lime green, pink, yellow, blue, or even a mix of two. This will definitely make it look more your own.
 There are many ways to floor a bedroom! It all depends on what your teen and you prefer. It's conventional for carpet in the bedroom but it actually depends on the household. Pick a flooring that almost contrasts with the wall but still compliments the room.(e.g. spring green to peach tile).


Get some rugs to brighten up the floorspace. If you have a carpeted floor, this may not be as necessary, but a cool rug or two is never a bad thing to have in your room. If you have hardwood floors, rugs are a really good thing to put beside your bed so that when you get up in the morning your feet don't freeze on the hardwood floor. Remember, choose rugs that express your personality, and have fun with the designs and patterns.
 Do you really want that ABC dresser in your room? No way! Go out and get some new furniture. You'll need a bed (of course), a dresser, a bookcase, a bedside table, and a desk. Try buying all of your furniture in the same color so that your room doesn't look too crazy (unless that's your intention).


Look in thrift stores for bargain furniture finds. Just check there is no insect infestation before dragging it home though; if you're not sure, take a flashlight along and do a close inspection. This is more of an issue in some places than others, so ask your parents for advice.
Consider repainting old furniture for a completely new look that matches your color scheme.
Rearrange your furniture. Make sure you don't make it too cluttered. You need to breathe!

, Keep in mind of the size of the bed! Bedding should not draw your eyes away from the rest of the neat things in the bedroom! If the walls are plain, patterns would work for the bed. Also remember the pillows and placement of the bed! That may matter because of the size and whereabouts of the closet and doors.
 You don't want something lost under a heap of dirty socks and jeans. Make organization fun! Use baskets or trays in the book shelf that have a fun pattern to them!


Have a separate area just for schoolwork. Keep television sets and electronic appliances away from the 'school zone'. Have cups or small rectangular boxes to hold pencils, pens, and markers. Have an area to store backpack/school bag than seeing it in the middle of the living room. Keep a place to store paper or any other necessities she might need.
Make sure you have some storage space. Use space in your closet or make another spot in your room for keeping your stuff out of the way. Buy some storage bins and slide them under your bed. This keeps all of your stuff organized.
 You could also go to the store Bed, Bath and Beyond. Find some wall stickers to put on your wall. I especially suggest circular wall stickers. You could also go to Walmart or another store that is similar to this one and get some inexpensive posters and hang them up on your wall or even your ceiling.
 They can really liven up your decor. Put in stuff that you like and that gives your room personality! Art projects, sketches, whatever you want. If you're the artist type put up your drawings, or paintings. Make it yours; after all, it is your room.


Buy some picture frames with funny pictures on them. Try to get some that describe you so that you can add some extra personality to your room. Then hang them up on your wall. Put them next to each other or put them all across your room.
Add a few mirrors. Mirrors aren't just for girly-girls. If you love makeup, a good mirror will be handy when you're putting your makeup on. You can buy a full-length mirror so that you can see your outfits, too. Buy a mirror that has a cool frame, such as a mosaic with different colors of glass.
Get a cork board. Cork boards are really cool, because you can display photos of your family, you, your friends, your pets, as well as other things like concert tickets and postcards. If your cork board is ugly, paint it a color that goes with your room, but not a very dark color, or put some cool fabric over it. You can also buy cork boards with fabric over them already.
Hang pictures that you like on your walls. You could make your own frames by using cardboard and painting them. Show your creative side by painting or drawing and then framing your work on the wall. Printing pictures from the internet is also an option.
 It can't hurt to ask someone else about what your room looks like. Ask your mom, best friend or even a cousin what they think of your room. Don't rely on their opinions too much though because you want to have personality to your room too. Also if you like a piece of furniture, a wall sticker, a poster, and/or a picture and so on and someone else thinks that it looks ugly, keep it in your room anyway!

