 Some craft felt is very, very expensive. You’d never think felt would cost a pretty penny, but it can. Skip that aisle and go for the stiffer, cheap version that most craft supply stores have, too. You need it to be stiff anyway.


This shape of box has a taller bottom half and a shorter lid, hence the size discrepancy between the two sheets of felt. Of course, you can adjust these dimensions how you see fit.
 The box bottom is the sheet that’s 9" x 9”. Grab that sheet and your scissors. When you’re finished, you’ll be left with a sort of plus-sign, with triangular tops and bottoms. Here’s how:


Make cuts on the sides forming two 3” flaps that are 3” deep in the center of the paper. In other words, make a 3” inch cut at inch 3 and a 3” cut at inch 6 on either side.
On the tops and bottom, make lines at 3” and at 6” going all the way down to the center, where the flaps you just cut stop. At this point, you’ll have a cross or a plus sign shape.
At 1.5” inches on each side of the top and bottom lines, cut diagonally into the center, where the flaps stop. You now have a plus sign that looks triangular on the top and bottom.
 Grab your other sheet of felt – the one that’s a bit smaller. This shape is similar, but has slight, important differences. With your scissors in hand, here’s what to do:


On the sides, at 1.5 inches from the top and at 1.5 inches from the bottom, make a 1.5” deep cut.
From the corners, cut diagonally until you meet the other cut you just made, removing little triangles from the edges of your square piece of felt.
You’ll see a fatter plus sign (fatter than the one you just made, that is), also triangle-shaped at the top and bottom.
 There are two on the top and two on the bottom. Crease it at its base to make it stiffer and easier to assemble.


You’re essentially turning this odd shape into a plus sign, with little triangles on the left and right of each of the strips on the top and bottom.
 Take each “side” and fold it into the center. You’ll see how the very center of the felt sheet is a perfect square – that’s the bottom. You’ll also see that you now have 4 sides around the bottom – the sides of your box. Bring those up with the tabs on the inside.


When you bring the sides of the box up, the top and bottom tabs should be on the inside of the right and left sides of the box. These are the connectors that will join the sides together.
 Take your smaller piece of felt and follow the same directions. Crease the “tabs” on the sides of the top and bottom of your felt. Do you see the shape of the box and how to do it? It’s the same idea, just a slightly different size.


Fold the sides into the center, making the bottom distinct from the sides of the box.
Lift up all the sides, making sure the tabs on the top and bottom are on the inside of the right and left sides.
 You’re holding in your hands two box halves that are ready to go once you glue them together. You can use whatever you have on hand, though hot glue is easiest. Just dab a bit on the center of the tabs, making sure not to squeeze it outward and all over the sides of the box.


Let it dry for a few minutes, holding the tabs to the sides of the box. Then place the box top over the base of the box and marvel at your handiwork.

