 Achieving goals that seem insignificant can have a great impact on improving your general mood. Set these goals in accordance with other methods of self-care or self-improvement. For instance:


Go to bed earlier. Establish a regular sleep schedule, resisting the temptation to sleep in on days when you don’t have to get up early. Sufficient rest will improve your emotional stability, make you less susceptible to stress, be more productive, and make better decisions. While sleep needs vary, try to get from 7.5-9 hours a night., Be physically active in some way at least five days a week. Even moderate exercise can reduce depression and anxiety, and is recommended by health professional for improving mental well-being generally.Choose activities you enjoy, as you’re more likely to want to do them regularly.
 Motivate yourself to be active by learning about the mental and emotional benefits of exercise. These include:Improved memory and sharper thinking. Endorphins produced by exercise help you concentrate, and even stimulate the growth of new brains cells.
Higher self-esteem. Feeling yourself grow stronger and more fit can provide boosts in your sense of self-worth. Plus, you’ll feel a sense of achievement which each new exercise goal you reach.
Better rest and more energy. You’ll sleep better when you exercise during the day. Later in the day, stick to non-cardio, relaxing types of exercise such as gentle yoga or stretching. Earlier in the day is better for more active exercise, as it will help you wake up and get your day going both physically and mentally.
Mental toughness. Exercise to cope with challenges you face in your everyday life. This will diminish you reliance on less healthy coping mechanisms, and will boost your immune system, which is vital when stress may be detrimentally affecting your body.
 If you’re working so much that your job literally consumes your life, reduce your hours. Research indicates that those who value their time over money not only end up happier, but still do better financially!Set goals at work that are challenging, but not impossible to achieve. This level of engagement with their jobs makes people happiest.More immediately, finish any basic tasks that need to be done before concluding your work day, as this will improve your ability to relax and enjoy the rest of the day.

