 While greens are usually associated with spring, they can also do just fine for a fall wedding. Think moss or sage green, paired with a soft chestnut brown. These colors give the wedding a woodsy feel without screaming "fall."For instance, you could use natural wood vases with succulents. Then you could use brown chargers with moss green napkins.;
, Red and orange together are a natural for a fall wedding. They give a nod to the changing colors, and bring to mind the warmth of the hearth, as well. You can also add touches of white, so that the other colors don't get too overwhelming.These colors work wonderfully with flowers, such as orange and red roses. You could also use colored glass vases or red table runners.
 If you want to use pink but don't want your colors to feel too springy, try pairing it with copper. A soft pink lends a romantic touch, and the copper accents help to move the color scheme to being more fall-like.For instance, you could use copper chargers and napkin rings, along with vases that have copper accents. Then incorporate the pink in soft pink roses, napkins, or tablecloths.
 No matter what colors you want, choosing more muted tones can help them feel like fall. A bright, turquoise blue screams summer. However, mute that down to a soft grey-blue, and it starts to fit more with fall.For instance, you could pair soft grey-blue napkins with muted orange roses or fall leaves.
 Fall is the perfect time for a more rustic wedding. Rustic weddings lean heavily on country style, including using barns as the location. You can incorporate decorations like burlap table runners, pie bars, and hay bales to create a rustic feel., Fall means back to school, right? You can build a wedding around that theme. Try bouquets of pencils and old books tied up with ribbon as centerpieces. Use apples in your decor, such as poking sticks in them and using the sticks to hold photos. You can also add mini chalkboards to write wedding messages on., If your wedding is before Halloween, think about using that as your theme. You can use some of your favorite spooky characters as decoration or buy up Halloween decorations like skeletons and spider webs. For something a bit classier, you could try fake crows, white candles, and red flowers.Alternatively, have a Thanksgiving-themed wedding. You could go full-out Thanksgiving, with cornucopias and all the traditional Thanksgiving food. Plus, if you have it near Thanksgiving, it gives you a reason to celebrate with your family every year.
 Another option is just embrace the changing colors of fall. You could incorporate fall leaves throughout your decorations, including scattering them around the tables. You could also have vases with bare branches, and other harvest items, such as wheat bundles, apples, pumpkins, and candles.
 For simple elegance, garden dahlias are a good choice. They are understated, yet offer a rich selection of colors. Plus, they don't look like you tried too hard. In fact, you can even pick them from the garden if you have them around.Dahlias make a gorgeous bouquet all on their own. For centerpieces, try adding a few more pieces of greenery in a woodsy vase.
 Another good option for fall flowers is cymbidium orchids and calla lilies. You can find these flowers in peaches, oranges, and scarlet, perfect for a blend of fall colors. Plus, they make for a unique bouquet.You can stick to just the flowers for a bouquet. For a centerpiece, try going simpler. That is, have alternating vases of calla lilies and orchids, with just a few blooms in each vase.
 If roses are more your thing for flowers, you can still have a more autumnal bouquet. Simply add in some pieces that reference fall, such as red fall berries and crab apples.For a centerpiece, think about bringing it together in a pumpkin vase, made by hollowing out a pumpkin. You can use orange or white pumpkins, but the pumpkin will create a striking centerpiece, plus it really hammers home the theme.
 While fresh flowers make a statement in the spring and summer, the muted colors of dried flowers go perfectly with fall. You can even add things like dried eucalyptus, for instance, for a touch of muted green. As an added bonus, this option will usually cost you less than fresh flowers.Because you don't need to add water to these flowers, you can get more creative with the vases for centerpieces. For example, you could use baskets or even burlap bags filled with sand or glass marbles.
 This time of year, you have lots of options for decorative bouquets. For instance, wheat makes a nice addition to a bouquet, and it can even make a whole bouquet if you pair it with a nice ribbon. You can also use small branches with autumn leaves in your bouquet.You can make wheat stalk centerpieces that stand on their own. Just wrap them up in floral tape, then tie them up in a ribbon of your choice. Splay out the bottom so it can stand up. You can also add in some dried grasses for a touch of color., Pumpkins and decorative gourds are abundant in the fall, and if you're having a fall wedding, you'll likely want to make use of them. However, if the bright oranges of pumpkins don't fall into your color scheme, consider spray painting your pumpkins to match your wedding colors.Try using pumpkins in unique ways. For instance, you can hollow out pumpkins to make them into vases for centerpieces.
Another option is using white or dark green gourds to better match your wedding colors.
 Leaves are also a great addition to autumn decor. They can add variety and a wide range of oranges, reds, yellows, and even purples. Plus, they're much cheaper than flowers, so you can buy a lot more to make a big impact.You could also just gather leaves from outside to use in your wedding.
 Apples and pears can also work well in a wedding. You can use them as they are to make centerpieces, or you can spray paint some in metallic colors as a "neutral" color. Try piling them on pretty dishes as centerpieces, for instance.If you use pears, make sure to pick ones that are underripe. Harder pears will hold up better.
 For a more down-home flair, try incorporating hay into your wedding. For instance, you can use hay bails as seating at both your wedding and reception. Just be sure to warn your guests, as hay can be scratchy. You can also throw blankets or fabric over them for a slightly classier look., Another way to incorporate a fall theme is to use branches. You can have them along the aisle at the wedding and use them as centerpieces on your table. Try adding colored glass or red feathers to create the effect of leaves., If you're outdoors, your guests may need some help keeping warm, particularly if your wedding day is brisker than you were planning. Consider having shawls and blankets on hand to keep your guests warm. Plus, they can make a cozy decoration, if you roll them up nicely in a pretty container.