 The number will depend on how thick you want the frame. They should be about a foot long and 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) in diameter. Choose sticks that are relatively straight and free of knobs, forks, or other unsightly features.
 Make sure they're all the same length, about 11 inches (27.9 cm) long. Remove any leaves or branches. Wash the sticks if they're dirty. Then divide the sticks into four groups (of 1, 2, or 3), and lay each group of sticks out to form the frame, with one group of sticks along each side of the picture.









Lay the sticks in each group next to each other rather than bunched on top of each other to create a wider frame.
Make sure your picture will fit in the rectangle at the center of the sticks you've laid out.
 Use a hot glue gun to glue one end of the twine to the back of one corner of the frame (You can also use hot glue to initially fix sticks in batches together). Bring the twine diagonally across the front of the corner. Then bring it horizontally across the back of the intersection. Bring it diagonally across the front again -- this time it should fill in the other diagonal (so if the first time you went top right to bottom left, this time you'll go bottom right to top left). Wrap it across the back vertically this time. Again, wrap diagonally, and then horizontally, and then diagonally, and then vertically. At this point the front of the corner should show two wraps of the twine across each diagonal, so the twine should form a thick X. The back should have one wrap along each side of the intersection, so the twine in the back should form a thin square. Secure the end of the twine with hot glue.









Keep the sticks on each side flat and close together. Make sure the twine is tight throughout the knot so that the sides of the frame are secure.
If you want to experiment with other looks, try any lash to tie the corners. Try out a square or diagonal lash, or experiment with one of your own.Repeat this for the other three corners. When finished, you should have a strong and secure frame.
 Trim the photo to fit, if necessary. If you don't want to glue directly onto the photo, or if you want to be able to change the picture in the frame, glue a larger piece of paper to the back of the frame instead. Attach this piece of paper on three sides and slip the photo in through the gap on the last side.
 This piece of twine should be six to eight inches long, depending on the size of your frame. Attach it at each of the top two corners, again using a hot glue gun. You'll be able to hang the frame from this handle.
