 There are several sights and sounds in Fairbanks to enjoy.
 Most car rental companies don't allow their vehicles onto the Dalton Highway, so find an outfitter with vehicles to use. Alternatively, book a bus trip.
 The actual highway doesn't start right out of town. You need to take the Elliot Highway (also known as AK 2) north approximately eighty miles to reach the junction for the Dalton. Turn onto the road and start the adventure.
 The road is a state highway, so standard road laws still apply. The speed limit is 50 mph (84 km/h) along the entire length of the road. Drive with headlights on at all times. Trucks have the right-of-way along the whole road, so pull over when one approaches. Watch for ice, slush, and potholes, as all are common along the road. Only certain parts of the road are paved, so drive accordingly.
 You will drive through some of the most untouched, beautiful wilderness in the country, including wildflowers, boreal forest, ice-clad mountains, and sprawling arctic tundra. Wildlife abound, and hiking and camping opportunities await, so it makes sense to pull over occasionally for photos and fresh air.
 About 260 miles from Fairbanks, you'll arrive in Coldfoot, the main truck stop along the Dalton, at the foot of the Brooks Range mountains and the best stop to refill on supplies and gas. Visit the Arctic Interagency Visitor Center (milepost 175) to learn some more about the history of the area and of the Arctic. Staying the night is also a good idea. Be sure you are completely ready before leaving, as a long haul without services is ahead of you (see warnings below).
 Along the way, you'll cross the Continental Divide along Atigun Pass. The "Divide", is an imaginary line of high points which separates the flow of water into two great basins, mostly East-West. It follows the crest of the Brooks Range from the Seward Peninsula, then bends south into the Yukon and follows the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Madre Mountains south into South America. This divide separates the Pacific watershed from others. Here, rivers to the south head to the Pacific Ocean via the Yukon River and Bering Sea. North of here, rivers drain into the Arctic Ocean.
 Deadhorse is the industrial camp supporting the Prudhoe Bay oilfields. You'll find some shops, museums and lodging options. Feel free to browse around. You'll almost certainly need to stay the night here.
 While access to the ocean is restricted for security reasons, the Arctic Caribou Inn offers guided tours. Look in the links below for the BLM Guide for a toll-free number.
 This is the same as before, just in reverse. Remember the services shortage (again, see warnings below).
 You've just done an adventure few people do!

