 An essential step in your journey to bust acceptance is to check your bra size and get properly fitted. Research indicates that many women mistakenly wear the wrong size bra, which can make you feel and look less comfortable, confident, and attractive.Your bra size and needs also fluctuate as you get older, gain or lose weight, and have children. Asking an expert to determine your bra size will help ensure you get a bra that looks and makes your large bust feel great.
A professional bra fitter can also help address any specific concerns you might have about your bust, and find a style that suits your specific needs. For example, if you feel that your large bust size is causing back pain or discomfort, a bra fitter can select styles that resolve these problems and give you the support you need. If you would like to minimize cleavage, they can recommend a bra that will help accomplish this.
Most major department stores and lingerie stores offer free expert fittings. If you prefer to shop online, many online retailers offer resources and personalized bra-fitting tools and quizzes that can help you locate the appropriate bra for your bust.
 When clothes do not fit properly, you will not feel confident and the ill-fitting selection can draw negative attention to your large bust. Avoid clothes that are too tight or too baggy, so you can look your best and feel more comfortable with your large bust size.


More clothing stores and designers are introducing styles specifically for women with large busts, so look for these options when you are clothes shopping.
 Women with large busts often find it can be helpful to work with a good tailor who can alter clothes so that they accommodate and flatter large busts. Part of accepting your large bust might be admitting you need assistance with alterations since clothes are not always designed for women with larger bust sizes., In past decades, our culture celebrated women with full busts and clothing designers catered toward this body type. As a result, you might have luck shopping for clothing that flatters large busts in a vintage store.As a bonus, you’ll have clothes that are more unique and interesting than the ones your peers are wearing.
 Before your next shopping trip, do some online research on styles that are considered flattering on women with large busts. If you feel comfortable and attractive with what you are wearing, you will have a more positive attitude about your bust size. Here are a few options that style experts recommend:Open necklines such as scoop necks, V necks, sweethearts, or round necklines help elongate the torso and draw attention away from the bust.
Accessories such as a scarf, a pendant, or a larger necklace also elongate your torso and move the eyes away from the chest area.
Look for longer shirts because a large bust shortens the length of the top. Shorter shirts can appear too small or cropped.
Wrap dresses and shirts generally accentuate cleavage and highlight the waist.
 If you are uncomfortable with your large bust size and would like to draw less attention to your chest, try wearing dark colors. This will downplay your full bust.Light colors will make your bust appear larger.
 If you would prefer not to draw attention to your larger bust, avoid tops that have lots of embellishments, ruffles, trim, pockets, or large logos.Horizontal stripes also tend to emphasize a larger bust.
 Women with a large bust often find that button-up shirts gape between the buttons or pull across the chest. Try on shirts when you are shopping or make sure you can return ones that don't fit well.


You might also be able to secure the shirt with safety pins or fashion tape, so don't give up if you find one you really like. A tailor can also alter the shirt so it flatters your figure without gaping or pulling.
 While there are many theories and guidelines about how women with larger busts should dress, it is ultimately your decision and you should wear what you feel most comfortable and confident in. This will help you accept your large bust.

