 Being physically active can lower your blood pressure by helping to control your weight and manage stress.For the best results try to do 75–150 minutes of physical activity per week. You can choose what you like to do best. Great options include walking, running, dancing, biking, swimming, and playing sports such as basketball or soccer.
Do strength training, such as weight lifting, twice a week to maintain bone density and build muscle.
 Alcohol abuse is bad for your heart. Also, alcoholic beverages are high in calories and make you more prone to obesity. You can lower your blood pressure by quitting drinking or drinking only in moderation.Men over 65 and women should limit themselves to, at most, one drink per day.
Men under 65 should have no more than two drinks per day.
A 12 oz beer, 5 oz glass of wine, or 1.5 oz of hard liquor qualifies as a drink.
 Using tobacco can harden your arteries and cause them to become narrower, which will increase your blood pressure. Secondhand smoke also causes these effects. There are many resources available to help you quit smoking:Talking to your doctor or seeing a counselor
Joining support groups or calling hotlines
Using medications or nicotine replacement therapy

, If you think your medications might be causing high blood pressure, consult your doctor. Your doctor may be able to help you find a medication that is more suitable for you. Don’t stop taking your medications without clearing it with your doctor first. The following substances and medications may increase blood pressure:Cocaine, crystal methamphetamines, and amphetamines
Some birth control pills
Some decongestants and cold medications
Over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (Ibuprofen and others)

, While stress is an unavoidable part of life, you can use relaxation techniques to help you deal with it better. Common techniques include:Yoga
Meditation

Music or art therapy

Deep Breathing
Visualizing calming images
Progressively tensing and relaxing each muscle group in your body

