 Before you purchase any type of contact lenses—including colored lenses—you’ll need to visit your optometrist and sit through an eye exam. This will let the doctor measure your vision and write a proper prescription. Let the doctor know that you’re interested in purchasing color contact lenses—they may have recommendations concerning which brands to avoid.Let your doctor know that you’re interested in contact lenses specifically, as there may be additional tests that will need to be performed, that the doctor wouldn’t perform if you were only getting a prescription for eyeglasses.Never purchase colored contact lenses from a mall kiosk or other informal vending location. These are illegal, cheaply made, and could seriously damage your eyes., Colored lenses come in three different types, and each has its own advantages. Before you select a lens type, you’ll need to decide to what extent you want to mask or change the natural color of your own eyes.Visibility tint lenses are nearly clear, but with a slight green or blue tint added. The coloration is largely to make the lenses easier to see during insertion and removal.
Enhancement tint lenses are translucent, and meant to enhance and deepen your natural eye color. These lenses are recommended if you have light-colored eyes (light blue or green), and wish to deepen your eye color.
Opaque tint lenses are not translucent and are used to entirely mask your natural eye color. If you want to change your eye color completely, you’ll need to use opaque lenses.
 Many people choose to change their eye color to one of the other three main eye colors: blue, brown, and green. If you have lighter-colored eyes naturally, consider a lens that slightly darkens your eye color.If your eyes are naturally dark, choose an opaque-tint lens; otherwise, the lens color will be ineffective to mask your natural eye color.
Colored contacts are also available in gray. This color will mute and darken your natural color, but shouldn’t erase it altogether.
If you’d like to have a deliberately dramatic look, choose a colored lens dissimilar to your natural color.
 This will help your colored lenses appear more natural and flattering. If you have warmer skin tones (yellow or gold undertones), and lighter brown or blonde hair, consider lenses that are light brown, hazel, or honey colored. If your skin tones are cooler (blue undertones) and your hair is darker as well, choose a blue or violet lens.If you’re going to be changing your appearance by wearing a colored contact lens, consider where you’ll be wearing the contact lens. While wearing a bright-yellow cat’s eye lens may be appropriate for your social life, wearing one in a conservative workplace would be discouraged.

