 Sharks have several different attack methods. Sometimes they swim right up and have at it, sometimes they circle for awhile before lunging, and sometimes they sneak up from behind for a surprise attack. To be able to defend against the shark, you must know where it is, so make every effort to watch the animal, even as you're working out your escape., When you first spot the shark, chances are it will swim away without bothering you. You cannot out-swim a shark, so trying to sprint to safety may not be your best option, unless you're already very close to shore. It's important to keep your wits about you so you can continuously appraise the situation and figure out how to get to safety.


Move slowly toward the shore or a boat; choose whichever is closest. Don't thrash your arms or kick or splash while you swim.
Do not block the shark's path. If you're standing between the shark and the open ocean, move away.Don't turn your back on the shark as you move. Remember, it's important to keep the shark in view.
 If you can't get out of the water right away, try to reduce the shark's possible angles of attack. If you're in shallow enough water, keep your feet on the ground. Slowly back up against a reef, piling, or rock outcropping - any solid obstruction – so that the shark can't circle around behind you. This way you only have to defend attacks in front of you.


If you're diving near the shore, you may need to descend to find cover. Look for a reef or rock on the bottom of the ocean.
In open water, get back-to-back with another swimmer or diver so that you can see, and defend against, an attack from any direction.
 Playing dead won't deter an aggressive shark. Your best bet if attacked is to make the shark see you as a strong, credible threat. Usually, a hard blow to the shark's gills, eyes or snout will cause it to retreat.These are really the only vulnerable areas on a shark.


If you have a spear gun or pole, use it! A sharp object is a good way to inflict enough pain to scare away the shark. Aim for the head, specifically the eyes or the gills.






If you don't have a weapon, improvise. Use any inanimate object, such as a camera or a rock to ward off the shark.






If you have nothing around you, use your own body. Aim for the shark's eyes, gills, or snout (end of its nose). Fight with your fists, elbows, knees, and feet.
 Hit the eyes and gills repeatedly with hard, sharp jabs. Don't wind up before hitting, since this doesn't provide extra force underwater. You can also claw at the eyes and the gills. Keep doing this until the shark lets you go and swims away., Even if the shark swims away, you're not truly safe until you're out of the water. Sharks may leave temporarily and then come back to continue the attack. Get back to shore or back on the boat as quickly as possible.


If a boat is nearby, call out calmly, but loudly, for them to come to you. Stay as still as possible while waiting - as long as the shark is not actively attacking you - and get into the boat as quickly as possible once the boat reaches you.






If you are near shore, swim quickly, but smoothly. Thrashing will attract the shark's attention again and disperse your blood, which could draw more sharks. Do the smooth reverse breast stroke, which requires less splashing than other strokes.
 If you've been bitten, get treatment as soon as possible. Massive blood loss could occur, depending on where you've been bitten, so immediately take appropriate steps to stop the bleeding. Even if your wounds appear minor, it's essential to get yourself checked out. Remain calm until you get medical care so your blood does not pump faster through your body.

