 Different studies reveal that chronic exposure to environmental chemicals like dioxins can be a cause of endometriosis. Dioxins along with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are associated with an increased prevalence and severity of endometriosis.


The intake of these chemicals can be reduced by decreasing your consumption of animal fat, mainly high-fat dairy, red meat, and fish. Dioxin and PCBs both get collected in animal fat and it is through them that you ingest it.
 Data supports the fact that flavones, a group of plant chemicals, can inhibit aromatase, an enzyme that converts androgens to estrogens.Celery, parsley and capsicum pepper are good sources of flavones.
Dietary indoles also help in regulating the estrogen metabolism in the body. Vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, kale, Brussels sprouts, and bok choy are good sources of indole.
 Flaxseeds are high in lignans and fiber. Lignans are good in estrogen-related conditions because the bacteria in your gut converts them into metabolites that produce a weak estrogenic effect (meaning they can help to regulate estrogen-related conditions like endometriosis).


You should eat 3 to 4 tablespoons of unrefined flax seed every day to maintain healthy blood levels of enterolactone. Other sources of lignans are whole grains, sesame seeds, sunflower seeds, cashews, kale, broccoli and berries.
 Studies have found that omega-3 fatty acids may be beneficial for people with endometriosis as the fish oil contains two specific compounds, EPA and DHA, that can relieve pain by decreasing levels of an inflammatory chemical called prostaglandin E2.Omega-3 fatty acids are found in fish such as salmon, mackerel, sardines, and anchovies.
 Magnesium is a mineral that is believed to ease cramping caused by menstruation. It also helps in preserving water levels in the gut and can help combat constipation.


The daily recommended dosage is 600 mg.Foods rich in magnesium are spices, cocoa, nuts, tea, cereals and vegetables like green leafy vegetables.
 Calcium levels in menstruating women decrease 10 to 14 days before the onset of menses. Deficiency can cause muscle cramps, headache or pelvic pain. The recommended daily intake is 1200 mg.Calcium can be found abundantly in milk, curd, cheese, butter, egg, amaranth, and other dairy products.
 Vitamin C is well known for helping to boost the immune system and help provide resistance to disease. It helps in building and maintaining collagen in the body. It is important that your immune system is functioning properly so that your body can combat endometrial patches that form.The recommended dosage of Vitamin C is 1000 to 4000 mgand can be procured by consuming citrus fruits, lemon, papaya etc.
 Vitamin E plays an important role as it strengthens the immune system and reduces inflammation due to its antioxidant nature. It is also thought to be able to relieve menstrual cramps.The recommended dosage is 800 IU. Almonds, avocados, etc are rich in vitamin E.
Selenium when taken along with vitamin E helps in reducing inflammation associated with Endometriosis, and is also an immune system booster. Dosage is 400 mg., It is herb that may have anti-biotic, anti-inflammatory, astringent and immune stimulating properties. Goldenseal contains calcium, iron, manganese, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, B-complex, and other nutrients and minerals.


The astringent quality may help in cases of excessive menses and internal bleeding.
It can be taken as a tincture about 2-4 ml or 0.5-1 gm decoction made by boiling goldenseal., As its name implies, cramp bark may be useful in easing uterine cramps. Being a muscle relaxant, it is effective on other organs, like the intestines and the skeletal muscles.For dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation), cramp bark may work most efficiently when taken regularly. Begin with 1/2 dropperfuls every half hour till some effect is seen, then every one to three hours. Decrease the dosage as symptoms wane.