 Start by finding a comfortable place where you will not be disturbed for a while. Sit in a chair or in a yoga position on the floor.;
, On the in breath count to three (3), on the out breath count to six (6). Keep breathing in this way throughout the self hypnosis relaxation.
 Breathe steadily as mentioned above. Now raise your eyes slightly upwards, without moving your head. Keep your eyes fixed on the spot. Mentally say to yourself: 'As I count from three (3) down to one (1) my eyelids will feel heavier and heavier, when I get to one (1) my eyes will close and I will completely relax.'

, Starting at the top of your head continue to relax your body all the way down to your toes. Release all stress and tension from every muscle, every nerve, as you mentally repeat to yourself: “relax”, “let go”, “deeper and deeper relaxed”.
 Imagine a blackboard in front of you, pick up a piece of chalk. Breathe in deeply and then on the out breath see yourself write number three (3) on the blackboard, erase it and then write 3 again and erase it (repeat this 3 times).
 Write number (2) on the blackboard, erase it three times and then do the same for number (1). By the time you erase number (1) off the board three times, you will find yourself more deeply relaxed and absorbed in the experience of self-hypnosis.
 A place where you feel safe, comfortable and relaxed (the beach, the rainforest or your favourite room, etc). Feel the breeze through your hear, sense the sun on your skin, smell the fresh air. Whenever you picture yourself in your special, safe place.... you will be even more relaxed and ready to experience feeling motivated, focused, happy, content, calm and in control.
 Notice the chalk and the chalk duster in front of the blackboard. Pick up the chalk, feel how light it is in your hand, even smell the chalky smell. Now draw a straight line down the middle of the board, from top to bottom. On the left hand side write down in small letters anything related to your study nerves and anxiety, procrastination, stress about exams, as well as any other fears, worries or concerns. As soon as you write them down, immediately erase them off the blackboard. Let the negative thoughts fade from your awareness.
 This time look at the right side of the blackboard. Write down in big letters all your strengths, accomplishments, future goals and positive achievements. Write down all your resources and solutions such as: you are now calmly focusing and studying; easily recalling information; sitting calmly through exams; answering all questions easily. You remain motivated to study; are clear and focused; are calm and confident. Focus on how good you feel while you spend time writing down as many confident and positive thoughts and goals as you can think of. Take time in enjoying this pleasant experience.
