 One or more of the following signs may mean that a loved one may need the care a nursing home can provide:


Unsteadiness when standing, walking on getting onto or off of his or her feet.
Difficulty eating with utensils.
Readily gets tired from light to moderate activity.
Excessive weight gain or loss.
Unusually thirsty.
Urine odor on person or in the home, indicating incontinence.;
, Older people may suffer from depression or a more serious mental condition such as the after-effects of a stroke or dementia. Some of the signs that a senior may need the care of a nursing home include:


Decline in personal hygiene (wearing stained or smelly clothing)
Inattention to household tasks (unopened mail, unpaid bills, piles of dirty laundry, un-mowed grass, spoiled food or burnt cooking utensils)
Memory problems (frequently gets lost in familiar places, misses appointments, forgets to take medications)
Seems withdrawn or avoids contact with family and friends

, While your family doctor may be able to give the person a complete physical, it may be necessary to refer him or her to a someone with specialized training, such as a gerontologist, geriatric nurse practitioner or neurologist.
 If the senior is having problems in only a few areas, such as having difficulty in cooking and cleaning, but not in getting around, community programs available through local social service agencies, such as Meals on Wheels or cleaning services, may be enough. You may also need to make modifications to the home, such as installing grab bars or raised toilet seats in the bathroom, to help seniors with difficulty in standing and sitting.


Consider also the opinions of other family members and close friends, as well as your own ability to care for the senior. Being a caregiver can be taxing and at times frustrating; it may be necessary to put a loved one in a nursing home for your own well being as well as his or hers.
Another option to consider is hiring a geriatric care manager to provide in-home care or consultation, particularly if you live in another city or if there are few other available alternatives to a nursing home.

