 Your body needs rest in order to heal faster. When you are sick, call in sick if you can. Get comfortable in bed or on the couch and don't push yourself too much. Try to take plenty of naps during the day, since having a cold can make you feel run down. If you have trouble breathing while sleeping, elevate your head on a pillow to decongest your sinuses.


If you are home sick, it is the perfect time to drink the garlic soup. Have someone make it for you or, if you feel well enough, make it yourself. It will help you feel better and relieve your symptoms.
 There are other ways to help boost your immunity to speed up recovery from colds, such as taking more Vitamin C. This is found in many vegetables and fruits. Good sources of vitamin C include citrus fruits, strawberries, sweet peppers, spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and tomatoes.Try adding these vegetables to your broth to increase the immunity boost of the garlic soup. Add spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and tomatoes to your broth when you cook it to get the extra Vitamin C.
 Drink at least eight ounces of non-caffeinated, non-alcoholic beverages every two hours to stimulate the nasal passage and aid the thinning of mucus. This will help the garlic work better with your system, since the garlic helps break up congestion., Steam helps moisturize your nasal passages so they feel less irritated. The relaxing effect will also help ease your cold symptoms. Draw yourself a hot bath or start each day during the duration of your cold with a nice hot shower so you benefit from plenty of steam.


For a quick steam treatment, you can heat up a pot of water just shy of boiling. When it starts producing quite a lot of steam, remove the pot from the heat. Put a towel behind your head and hold your face over the pot for about five minutes, letting the steam bathe your face. Don't get too close or the steam may burn you.
Add a few drops of essential oil to the water to further decongest your sinuses and get the benefits of aromatherapy. Try peppermint, tea tree, or eucalyptus oil.
 Garlic is meant to be used as preventive care rather than a treatment. If you are experiencing severe symptoms of a cold or flu such as high fever, ear or nasal infection, nasal discharge, cough with green phlegm, or breathlessness due to asthma or another respiratory problem, you should go to a doctor immediately. You should also see a doctor if you have been previously diagnosed with any respiratory disease.Do not take garlic if you are taking blood-thinning medications, medicines to lower blood pressure, or certain over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medication for headaches, allergies, and colds. The combination of these medicines with garlic may cause dizziness and bleeding.
Garlic may possibly reduce the effectiveness of other medications and herbs. If you are already taking any medication or using remedies for another condition, be sure to ask for your doctor’s advice before using garlic.
 If you experience side effects such as bloating, fatigue, loss of appetite, muscle aches, vertigo, allergies such as an asthmatic reaction, skin rashes and skin lesions, stop using garlic and see your doctor immediately. These are the signs of serious conditions that need to be treated by a professional.

