 If you are blind or visually-impaired, it is important for you to be able locate the items in your kitchen. In order to do this, it is important to create an organizational system for yourself, so that you always know where to find things.For instance, you might store grains on one shelf of your pantry, and nuts and fruits on another.
In order for this system to work, it is also crucial to put items back where they belong as soon as you're done using them.;
, One of the most important ways to adapt your kitchen is to label all of your food items. This is especially true for canned foods that you can’t discern by smelling or shaking. Shop for non-perishable items once or twice a month, and ask a friend to help you affix labels.Create braille labels.
Use DIY tactile labels, such as varying numbers of rubber bands or pieces of sticky tape.
Print labels with large, dark text.
 Brightly colored pieces of sticky-backed rubber called "bump-ons" can be used as tactile markers for your temperature dials. Place these (or similar items) at these commonly-used temperatures on your oven or stove. Line these rubber markers up with your knobs to safely and accurately achieve desired temperatures.Bump ons can be used on other items as well, such as kitchen timers, food packages, and home thermostats.
 Anytime you are using the stove or other heated appliances, it is a good idea to set a timer. This reminds you to turn off the stove/appliance when you are finished.Keep a dial timer on your fridge.
Turn off stove, oven, or other appliance as soon as timer sounds.
 It is quite common for homes to have a shelf for spices and oils situated over the stove. For a vision-impaired individual, however, it can be dangerous to reach over the stove. Find a better location for herbs, spices, and oils.You might place them:

In your cupboard.
On a spice rack on your counter.
In a drawer.
 Anytime you reach for a pot or pan, protect yourself with an over mitt. You can hang an oven mitt on your refrigerator (with a magnetic hook) or keep one in a drawer near the stove.