 Most national competitive yoga organizations have a website where you can learn more about the organization and its competitive structure. From the website, you can find out about the organization's events and how to get involved.National yoga organizations also typically have information about recent events, as well as interviews with champions.
You may even be able to watch videos of recent competitions so you can learn more about the events and how each competitor is judged.;
, You should be able to find a calendar of events on the website of your national or regional competitive yoga organization. Events may include not only competitions, but also training and informational sessions.For example, the U.S. Yoga Federation has a calendar of nationwide events on its website, leading up to the annual national competition. You can view a list of events or check the calendar.
Check your local scene as well. If you've never attempted competitive yoga before and just want to try it out, you may be able to find an unaffiliated local competition or charity event that you can use to get your feet wet.
 Especially if you've never attempted competitive yoga before, take some time to familiarize yourself with the levels of competition and identify where new competitors should start.Typically you'll have local or regional competitions, with the winners going to the national competition. Depending on the population and interest in your area, there may be smaller, local events or additional intermediate competitions before you qualify for nationals.
If you're just starting out, you'll want to start at the lowest possible level of competition. This is usually a local or regional level, but in less populous regions you may start at the state level.
 Typically you must register as a competitor with your national organization before you can sign up for any affiliated events. Your national organization's website will have information on how to start the membership process.You may have to become a member of a state or regional organization as well before you can register for events. In some cases, state or regional membership may include national membership, or vice-versa. Check into both before you start the application process.
Typically you'll have to pay membership dues. For example, in the U.S. you must pay membership dues of $50 to register as a competing member of the U.S. Yoga Federation. Membership is seasonal, not annual.
Keep in mind that becoming a member of an organization typically does not automatically register you for any competitions.
 Once you've established the necessary memberships, you can begin the registration process for your first competition. From the national organization's event page, you should be able to get details on how to register for an event near you.Each event has its own eligibility requirements. Typically you must have practiced yoga for a specific length of time. You also may need a club or instructor to sponsor you.
For some events, you may be required to submit a video of yourself doing the compulsory postures or another list of postures. Those videos will be judged before you will be granted leave to register for the competition.
The national organization typically will have information for affiliated events. You may be able to register online, or you may have to contact a local chapter.
 Many national organizations have directories of yoga instructors who specifically assist practitioners interested in entering a yoga competition.For example, the US Yoga Federation has a directory on its website where you can search for coaches who are members of the federation and are located near you. You also can find profiles of former competitors who have started coaching.
Another way to find coaches is to look up competitors and find out who their coaches are. If you can watch videos of competitors, you can focus on those who have a style similar to yours to find coaches who might be a good fit for you.
You also might look for yoga studios or clubs that are members of your national or local competitive yoga organization. There typically will be instructors there who are interested in coaching competitors.
 Since there is no national or international certification process for yoga instructors, you need to research any coaches you find thoroughly – even if they are listed by your national competitive yoga organization.Look for an instructor who has logged many hours instructing and practicing yoga, and also has been involved in competitive yoga for a while. Ideally, you want someone who is a former competitor.
If you have the opportunity, try to talk to several students of anyone you're considering as a coach so you can learn more about their style and teaching or coaching methods. When you talk to the coaches, you may want to ask them for references.
 If there is more than one coach available in your area, you should talk to as many as possible so you can find the best one for you. Not only should coaching services fit within your schedule and budget, but you need to get along with the person you ultimately choose.Ask the coaches about their yoga practice, including how long they've been practicing yoga and when they started teaching or coaching. You also may want to find out what led them to become a coach or teacher and what called them to regular yoga practice.
When you're talking to the instructor, pay attention to how they make you feel. You should be comfortable and at ease with the person, or they probably won't be an effective coach for you.
You also need to be able to explain to any coaches you interview about your own yoga practice, your strengths and weaknesses, and what has drawn you to competitive yoga.
 Even after you've talked to a coach at length and researched their background, it's still a good idea to see if you can come in for a one-on-one session before you make your final choice. With even one session, you can learn more about the coach's style and whether you respond well to their instructions and adjustments.Make sure part of your initial training session includes the five compulsory postures that form the core of the competition. You can find out what these are by getting a copy of the competition rules for the event in which you plan to compete.
Keep in mind that the cost for individual training will depend on your location as well as how much training you need. After your first session, the coach should have recommendations for how much you should train and where your focus should be in the weeks or months leading up to the competition.
You typically can practice on your own, but you'll still need to have several sessions with your coach – especially early on – to correct bad habits before they become too engrained.
 The International Yoga Sports Federation (IYSF) has a lengthy set of rules that govern international competitions. National and regional organizations also may have their own rules that govern the competitions in which you want to participate.Make sure you have a copy of the rules for the competition for which you've registered. While the basics may be the same, there may be specifics that apply to specific events.
The competition rules cover everything from the postures and rules for judging to rules for competitors, including competition attire, conduct, and doping regulations.
Within the rules, you'll also find specific guidelines for the compulsory postures, including the specific elements that will be judged. Pay close attention to these and make note of anything that you need to improve with your training.
You also want to review the methods of scoring and deductions, particularly in light of your own strengths and weaknesses.
 If you have the opportunity, try to go to at least one competition as a spectator so you can become more familiar with the pace and flow of competition. This will help you have a better understanding of what to expect at your own competition.If you don't have the opportunity to watch a live competition in person before your own, go online and watch videos from past yoga competitions so you can get a better idea of the competition format and proceedings.
 Each competitor is judged on their form and ability to hold five compulsory postures, as well as two additional optional postures. The compulsory postures may differ depending on the event for which you've registered. Practicing all of these postures repetitively will ensure that you can complete them with grace and poise.You'll also need to choose your two optional postures. Depending on the competition, you may have to choose from a list, or you may have free reign to choose your own. In that case, you typically want to go with the postures that accentuate your strengths and which you enjoy doing the most.
Generally, you'll be judged on the quality of your form, as well as your strength, flexibility, and balance. Judges also will consider your grace, both within each posture and in transition to different postures.
Practice your competition postures every day. You want them to be second nature to you, as comfortable as sitting or standing.
 Even if you don't anticipate becoming a judge, if you're able to sign up for a judge's clinic it will give you a better understanding of how postures are judged and what the judges will be looking for.All judges typically must complete at least one judge's clinic before they are eligible to judge a live competition. Attending a judge's clinic can give you some additional insight into how postures are scored and why deductions are taken.
National and international competitive yoga organizations hold a number of judge's clinics each year. Additionally, you may be able to find a clinic taught online.
In addition to judge's clinics, competitive yoga organizations often hold webinars specifically for competitors that explains the rules and procedures for competitions more in-depth. One of these classes may answer any lingering questions you have about competitive yoga.

