 Maybe your parents are willing to say yes to you, so long as you are willing to compromise. Remember that they have the upper hand in this situation, so it’s probably best to not argue and agree to what they want. For example:


They may want to meet your friend and/or your friend’s parents.
They may want to drive you somewhere and pick you up, instead of you getting a ride from a friend.
They may want you home at a certain time.
 If your parents gave you permission, you need to hold up your end of the bargain. Do everything you said you would do. You are building up your level of trust with them, and they will be more likely to say yes to you again!


For example, if you said you would be home at ten and your friend Jamila was driving, get home at ten in Jamila’s car. It’s okay to be a few minutes late, but more than fifteen minutes might look like you are trying to take advantage of them.
 If they decided to say no, ask them why. Do it when you are calm (so probably not right after they tell you no, since you will likely be upset). Try to keep your emotions in check and not get angry with them.


You could say, “I’m trying to understand why I can’t go out with Jackson on Friday night. Why did you decide to say no?”
Ask what you could do in the future to get them to say yes.
See if there is an alternative they would agree to. For example, “Would it be okay if Jackson comes over here?”

, It is extremely disappointing when you are not allowed to do something. However, sneaking behind your parents’ back, as tempting as it is, is not the answer. Getting caught means breaking their trust and not being allowed to do something else in the future.


Think of other things you can do instead. Find other friends to do another approved activity.
Get some perspective. It seems like a huge deal now, but this is probably not something that will matter much down the road. Think back to a time when you were younger that was disappointing (like not getting invited to a birthday party, or not making the soccer team). How much does that matter to you now as you’re older?Remember that accepting their decision means that your parents will think you are trustworthy, which means that you will have a better chance of them saying yes next time.

