 There are plenty of fish in the sea, and there is some truth in the old adage, 'opposites attract'. Consider why you are looking for a significant other, and evaluate what it is you bring to the table. Don't eliminate the possibility of dating someone solely on the basis of whether you belong to similar fandoms or geek culture. Be prepared to keep an open mind.;
, If you can envision what kind of person it is that you want to be with, look at yourself and be sure that you are the kind of person that others would like to be around. It is super important to be yourself. Don't be someone you're not, but being mindful of your manners, hygiene, and attitude is key. Be willing to try new things, go new places, and look your best. Don't get discouraged if results aren't immediate, just continue to send out good vibes and good things will come back to you.
 Consider joining a club or activity for your favorite nerdy interests. Examples include book clubs, bands, seminar series, community service organizations, film clubs, etc. If you're in school, there are lots of clubs available for like-minded individuals of a similar age. Check out community centers, libraries, local coffee shops, and hang-out spots. If no such clubs exist, consider grabbing a few friends and forming one yourself, and be sure to advertise, open it up to others of similar interests. Speech and Chess clubs are the best to look into, as well as theater.
 Go to Star Wars conventions, start a weekly D&D party, or go to local video game tournaments. Nerds tend to be shy, so you should try to meet them where they're comfortable.
 Check out local museums, theaters, galleries, hospitals or even parks and donate your time to helping others learn more about the subjects you love. It's a great way to meet other volunteers and people with similar interests.
 Are you putting yourself in a position to meet other singles? Look at the times in which you are going out. Most people have work or school, and are relaxing on the evenings and weekends. Of course you should still be making time for your friends and family, but if Friday night is board game night, or Saturday evenings are devoted to movie marathons, on top of your regular obligations, thus you are kept away from meeting others, consider adding a little change into the mix, or organizing outings with friends to new places.


Furthermore, are you approachable? Going to a restaurant, or even the library are great ways to meet people, but looking at your phone, bringing a friend and being 100% invested in them, might have others who are interested in talking to you second guessing themselves, or worse making it appear you aren't single or looking for love.
 Once someone has caught your eye, try spending time in groups or just as friends first to develop a base relationship. Don't scare them, just be friendly, but not too pushy. They really like it better if you're kind, share their interests, and care to listen to them. Bond over shared nerdy interests, and feel free to explore them. "Oh you enjoy classic literature? Do you get into philosophy? I'd let you borrow my copy of Camus' The Stranger to get your opinion on it." "Oh you play The Elder Scrolls Online? Let's play together sometime!" If things continue to go well, consider asking them out on a date!

, This of course has its own pros and cons. Be safe and be yourself when pursuing this option. On the bright side, it can act like one big filter that says "Here is who I am, here is what I like, and here's what I look for in a person." Lots of sites allow for chat rooms and forums filled with mutual interests.
 The worst thing someone can ever do is say no. And even the worst of dating experiences can be learned from. In many cases, you can learn to refine your own dating behavior, as well as assure yourself of what it is you do and don't like or want in others. Keep trying when things don't go your way and don't give up!

