 Avoid all contact with any bird that appears ill or dead. This applies to domestic birds such as poultry, as well as wild birds. Observe birds in the wild from a distance, and do not attempt to help a sick of injured bird.If you come into any contact with birds of any type, wash your hands as soon as possible. Use warm water and soap or hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.
Do not touch bird excrement. Avoid any surface or material that is has bird excrement on it.If you are walking and realize you have stepped in bird excrement, clean your footwear with soap and water.;
, Your government’s health department or wildlife agency likely monitors bird health in your area. Call a wildlife agency in your area to let them know if you find a sick or dead bird. These reports can be significant, as large numbers of affected will prompt the agency to investigate and ensure an outbreak of bird flu has not occurred.This is especially important if you find multiple dead birds together.
Local authorities may tell you to dispose of the bird’s body. If so, do not touch the bird’s body with bare hands. Use plastic gloves or bags to dispose of the body in your trash. Wrap the bird in a double plastic bag, and then place it into a brown bag to ensure it is wrapped well. If you are concerned about the source of the birds, then you can burn the dead animal also.
 Handle and cook poultry safely to kill influenza viruses and ensure your health. Use different utensils to handle meat before and after it has been cooked. Wash your hands with warm water and soap before and after you handle meat. Serve meat that is fully cooked and still hot.Ensure cutting boards and other items that touched raw poultry are cleaned with soap.
Use a thermometer to ensure poultry is cooked until it reached at least at least 165 °F (74 °C).
If you have any concerns about poultry in the country you are in or traveling to, then you might want to consider avoiding it altogether. Look into vegetarian options or other safe meat choices.
 Consuming runny eggs from an infected chicken can put you at risk of contracting bird flu. Be sure to cook your eggs all the way through so that the yolks and whites are firm.Bird flu may also be present on the surface of eggshells, so make sure to wash your hands thoroughly after handling eggs.

