 Initiate accuracy and run from your defender. Shooting guards should be quick and best runners. Learn to trick your defender by looking at his/her eyes. If his/her eyes is not towards you then that’s the time to move quickly to a vacant spot or position where you wished to shoot the ball. Ball handlers will not hesitate to pass the ball to you when they see you wide open for a shot. Be sure that the basketball ring is visible to your eyes and you are not very close to the other opponents to get rid of distractions, deflections and blocks.;
, Sometimes ball handlers can’t notice that you are wide open for a pass to shoot. Call for his/her (ball handler) attention by yelling or some other way of calling his/her attention for him to pass the ball.
 Be focused and watch the ball closely from the time it leaves from the passers hands. Be ready to catch the ball by raising your hands high in front of your chest with fingers spread open and pointing up. Thumbs should be an inch or two apart. If the ball is not perfectly passed towards you, move towards the ball so that other defenders will not deflect it. Bend your elbows slightly as the ball hits your open hand to absorb the pass to avoid wasting it.
 Once you have the ball, hold well the ball like you don’t want to it to let go. Look straight to the rim and never be destructed from your opponents. Imagine that it’s only you and the rim that is inside the court. If possible, don’t think of passing the ball to your teammates because this will only destruct you and even destroy your plan of scoring unless the defender knew where you go and caught you that instantly.
 Breathe deeply. Bear on your mind that the ball will shoot and never think that you will miss the opportunity of scoring a basket. Never look to your opponents, just focus on the ring. Most important is you are 100% confident that you will shoot the ball!

, There are two ways on how you will shoot the ball; it is either straight to the ring or through the board. The most important thing is you know how to measure the degree and locate the focal point before shooting the ball. It is best if you practiced shooting the ball many times so that you will know different angles for shooting the ball.
 This is now the most crucial step. Your team will depend on you and wish that you will make it. Even your coach will eventually pray for you to shoot the ball if it will be the last shot for the win. You will be crowned the hero if you made it and you helped your team won the game.
<br#Be sure you are in good position before shooting the ball. Hold the basketball correctly. There are some references in the internet where you can find fundamentals on how to hold the ball properly. Feet should be kept pointing the hoop all the times before and after leaping or jumping. Leap as high as you can when shooting the ball to get rid of block from the opponent or if you are a short-jumper, make use of quick release but make sure you practiced it so that you will not miss the shot. There are many references in the internet you can read about shooting fundamentals. The most important here is that you are confident enough to shoot the ball and stay focus to avoid distractions.

