 Most modern amps have standard RCA audio inputs (similar to the red and white inputs on a television) on the back. Both these and the output on your iPod or MP3 player are 3.5 millimeters, so they'll work with standard auxiliary cables.


Some old models of amps have 6.35 millimeter inputs, which match 1/4 inch headphone adaptors. These won't accept standard 3.5 millimeter auxiliary cables.;
, You can find these on Amazon or in any electronics store, like Radio Shack or Best Buy, for about $5.00. This cable allows you to attach your MP3 player or iPod to the "left" and "right" audio inputs in the back of your amp.If you have an amp with a 6.35 millimeter input, purchase a 3.5 millimeter auxiliary cord and a 3.5 millimeter to 6.35 millimeter adaptor. You can also find these on Amazon--they start at around $4.00., The RCA to 3.5 millimeter cable you'll use for a modern amp should already be assembled., This way, you won't encounter any electrical issues while trying to play your iPod or MP3 through your amp.
 You are now ready to plug your media player into your amp!

, This cable should go in the same output as your headphones would.
 Though the input location will vary based on your model and style of amp, it will normally entail two 3.5 millimeter input holes--one red and one white, to match the RCA cables--under a name such as "AUX-IN" (for auxiliary). You can also plug into the "CD" or "VCR" inputs if there is no "AUX" option.If you're working with a 6.35 millimeter input, the large end of your cable should plug into the headphones jack in the front of the amp.
Make sure you're plugging your cable into an input slot, not an output slot.
 Make sure everything is on before turning on your iPod or MP3 player.
, If you can't hear anything initially, turn the volume up on your iPod or MP3 player before cranking the volume on your amp.
 Do this gradually so you don't hurt your ears.
 For example, if your amp has a distortion feature or a bass-boost, turn these down or off to ensure the clearest audio signal possible.
 Your iPod or MP3 should now be playing through your amp!

