 Start with using half of the butter your recipe calls for, and substitute applesauce for the rest. The more applesauce/less butter you use, the denser your muffin will be. If you don't mind an extra-dense muffin, then feel free to switch over completely to applesauce.Don't have any applesauce? Try using a plant-based oil, such as canola, corn, sunflower, or extra-virgin olive, instead. Use 25% less oil than you would butter., Much like with applesauce, the more whole wheat flour you use, the denser your muffin will be. If you are just starting out, try using half white flour and half whole wheat flour.If you use all whole wheat flour, and cut the all-purpose flour entirely, you will need to add 1 to 2 tablespoons of liquid, such as: buttermilk, fruit juice, or vegetable oil.Don't want to use whole wheat flour? Try rolled oats, cornmeal, or buckwheat flour instead!ref>https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/muffin-makeover/</ref>

, You decrease the sugar by however much you want, but keep in mind that the muffins will be very bland if you use no sugar whatsoever. Try starting out with 1 teaspoon of sugar per muffin. This means that, if your recipe yields 12 muffins, you should only use ¼ cup (55 grams) of sugar. Remember, you can always sweeten the muffins back up after baking with a little bit of honey or jam.Cutting the sugar by 25% won't affect the flavor or texture by a noticeable amount.Can't bare to part with the sugar, or want an even healthier option? Try brown sugar or agave nectar instead. You might want to use less brown sugar and agave nectar than the recipe calls for due to the intense flavor.Adding some spices, such as cardamom, ground cinnamon, and vanilla, can work wonders without adding unhealthy sugars and calories., Most health-hacks focus on taking away ingredients, but they rarely focus on adding ingredients. Fresh fruit (as opposed to dried) is a great option because of the fiber! Try adding ½ to 1 cup (50 to 100 grams) of some fresh, chopped fruit to your next muffin recipe. Keep in mind that you may need to bake your muffins longer, however.Don't have any fresh fruit? Try dried fruit or fruit puree instead.Raw vegetables can also add a dose of fiber to muffins, such as zucchini or carrot. Be sure to shred them well in a food processor first, however!

, You can use chopped nuts, a spoonful of nut butter, or a splash of nut-based milk. You can even replace 25% of your flour with a nut-based flour instead. You can buy nut flours in specialty supermarkets. If you can't get any, ground your choice of nuts into a fine meal using a food processor.Using nut flours and nut-based milks won't affect the texture too much, but they may give the muffins a slight nutty flavor.
 Eggs get a bad rep because of their high cholesterol levels, but they are also full of protein--and are very low on the calories. Folding an extra whipped egg whit or two into your batter will not only give you some more protein, but it will also make the muffins less dense—which can be helpful, especially if you are using applesauce or whole wheat flour., Try using low-fat Greek yogurt or low-fat buttermilk instead of whole milk. This will help cut back some saturated fats while helping retain moisture. You can also use soymilk for a vegan option.Using low-fat dairy products won't necessarily lower all of the fats. They will, however, reduce the bad, saturated fats., People usually just eat one muffin, be it a small one or a large one. A larger muffin will contain much more fats, calories, and carbohydrates than smaller muffins. If you need to count any of those, consider using a mini or regular muffin pan instead of a jumbo one.If you are using a standard-sized muffin tin, fill the wells half-way instead of the usual two-thirds of the way.