 Have a regular fitness program that you follow. Try to train as hard as you possibly can. Decrease the amount of rest between workouts and exercise. For example, instead of running every other day, you may run 5 or 6 days a week and have one rest day. If you are lifting weights, you may rest 30 seconds in between exercises instead of resting for 1 or 2 minutes.


Because you are pushing your body hard, it is important to eat a healthy diet and get plenty of sleep.
If you have not been exercising, speak to your doctor before you get started.
 If you only train indoors, you are limiting yourself to a controlled environment. When you go outside, you are challenging your body more. Train in cold and hot environments. Walk and run up hills and trails instead of being on paved, flat surfaces all of the time.You can also adjust your clothing to make the environment more challenging. If it is hot outside, wear long pants and long sleeves instead of shorts and a tank top. If it is cold outside, wear the least amount of clothes you can stand when you train.
Slowly increase the intensity. You do not want to hurt yourself. For example, you may train in hot weather with shorts and a long sleeve shirt. Once your body gets used to the long sleeve shirt, you can add the long paints.
 Your body will adapt to your training conditions. You must mix it up and do a variety of activities. Constantly push yourself to get to the next level. If running in cold weather is easy, try running when it is cold and raining outside. If you did 20 repetitions last time, try to get 25 this time.Do anything that gets you muddy and dirty.
Spartan races, obstacle courses, and adventure races are good options.
If you train with other people, always strive to be the best and outwork the other person.
 Pain is inevitable when you are pushing your body. Try to manage your pain yourself. Do not complain to other people about how you feel. Positive thinking will also help you deal with pain. Your pain is bringing you one step closer to being the man you want to be.


Tell yourself, "I can deal with the pain. This is helping me get stronger."
If the pain becomes so severe that you cannot do your daily activities, visit a health care professional to make sure that you do not have a serious injury.

