 Having roommates is good because if you choose them right they will split the cost of living with you, help around the house, and provide useful items for moving. Be warned: doing so is also risky. The person could stop paying their share of rent, whether by choice or because of financial instability. They could also not assist in purchasing necessities, such as groceries. They could also not help around the house. You should choose a very close friend if at all possible, someone who you know would have similar living habits.;
, Make appointments to view the places. Before your appointment, drive around to see what the area is like. Look for places you're going to need to go. Try to choose a place central to all these locations. Do not pick a place to live because it's convenient to your "friends" and their needs; this will be your home and must have everything you will need for a long time to come. Many teens move out and find a place because their "friends" like it and think it's cool, but your "friends" now may not be your "friends" when you pay your first month's rent for the place they liked.
 Compare the rate to the quality of the place and also to other rates. Do you want a cheaper place or would you rather pay more for a nicer place? If at all possible, bring a friend and a parent; both will provide you with different views of the place to help in your decision.
 Draft a letting contract (or buy one at a stationer's); read through, making sure it covers things like deposit (typically a month's rent)and responsibility for bills; and sign it. (The landlord will likely already have a contract established.)

, Take into account costs such as utilities, insurance, groceries, clothing, and the occasional night out or movie rental. Will your wage/salary support this? If you are living with other people, figure out the total income per month and discuss how costs will be divided.
 Parents are excellent sources of unwanted (for them) linens, crockery, pots and pans, bookshelves etc. Also try looking in thrift stores. Although these places may not appeal to some, you can purchase some cheaper stuff for the time being and replace it later. Try to buy as much as possible before you move in; that way you are not stuck without it.
 Anything that you don't need could be used by a roommate, so ask. Also, you could try selling the stuff you don't want online or at a garage sale to make some extra money. It isn't nice to leave all your old junk with your parents, so if you're not going to use or sell it, unless they are OK with you leaving it behind, do them a favor and take it to the junkyard.
 You can often pick up the previous tenants' accounts in a new name - ask the landlord. (Again this has likely already been done.) Deposits are generally required to set up the account.
 Living paycheck to paycheck is neither easy nor fun. Your monthly salary should be at least $1000.00 OR more than all your bills combined so you can be secure financially. Your parents may have made it look easy to provide for you...but it isn't. 65% of kids that move out end up back home or homeless in 3 months or less. Make sure you are ready to make the move in case your parents don't let you move back in. Do not leave your home on a bad note if at all possible; talk to your parents and work out any problems before you leave.

