 Children often grow used to their daily routines, so if they are pulled away from them, they may become grouchy and uncooperative. Try to schedule your family portrait during a time they are naturally playful and attentive.;
, Whether shooting your family portrait indoors or outdoors, it is important to watch the amount of lighting.


Outdoor portraits are often best near dawn and dusk, when the sun is not nearly as fierce as it is in the middle of the day. Shooting during the afternoon can cause deep shadows and squinting eyes.
Indoor portraits need sufficient light to see each family member's face, but should not be so powerful that it washes faces out.
 It is not necessary to wear matching outfits, however, wearing clothing within the same color scheme can help unify your family. Wearing complementary colors or patterns can also ensure family member's outfits do not clash with each other.


Stick with solids or simple patterns. Busy shirts create a distraction and may also make you look larger than you really are.
Avoid trendy or tight-fitting clothes, sleeveless shirts, and clunky shoes. These often appear comical when you look at family portraits years later.
Make sure each person's entire outfit matches. Some family portraits may include shoes and socks that are similar styles or colors.
Casual photos include lighter colors, while more traditional portraits gear toward darker colors.
 Allow your family to interact naturally with each other while the portrait is being taken. These casual shots allow your family's personality to shine through and will provide more natural photos of your family.


If having your portrait professionally taken, ask the photographer for candid shots. This way they will have their camera ready at all times, and not just when staging the portrait.
 The purpose of a family portrait is to capture the faces of your family. Plan backdrops, natural parks or outdoor environments, bedrooms, and other simple settings help prevent the background from becoming a distraction.
 This is especially important if children are in the portrait. Kneel down or sit on a stool or the ground. These eye-level pictures create more engaging and natural pictures.
 Lining your family up in a single line is not very interesting. Instead, stagger them or pair them up. Create interacting poses where family members have arms around each other or have a hand on someone's shoulder or knee. Mix it up.

