 You can also use a combination of bleach and water to address spider webs. This is best used for live webs rather than cobwebs. This will get rid of spider eggs and kill any spiders still living in them.









You can buy bleach at a local department store or online. Make sure to read any instructions provided before use. Always dilute bleach with water to the levels recommended on the container. For most homes, one gallon of bleach is all you'll need.If you're spraying bleach outside, you'll need to purchase some kind of bleach sprayer. You can do so online or at a local department store. You also may need a garden hose or adjustable spray nozzle.If you're bleaching in your home, a big sprayer might have too much force. You can simply mix bleach and water in a small handheld spray bottle. Make sure to wear protective gloves when handling bleach. It can be corrosive to skin.Always mix bleach with hot water, not lukewarm or cold water. Never mix bleach with other household chemicals., Before you begin the process, survey your home for webs. This will help you determine where you need to spray or wash.


When spraying outside, you should spray in 10 to 15 square foot sections. Look for areas that contain spider webs and decide how to break your home into sections.Watch out for things like exterior light fixtures or electronic components of your house. You should make sure you don't damage such areas of your home with bleach. You can try to manually remove spiders with a cleaning brush if you notice webs in such areas., As bleach can be harmful to skin and eyes, you'll need to put on protective gear before you begin spraying. You should have protective clothing, goggles, and gloves., Pump the sprayer towards areas infected by spider webs. Your sprayer's settings should allow you to spray bleach somewhere between a solid stream and a gentle mist. You might want to test the sprayer on sidewalk or cement before using it on your home.








Apply a generous amount of bleach water to any areas you notice that contain eggs or webs. As you notice the webs and sacks loosening, spray another layer of bleach and water.If webs are stuck on hard, use a cleaning brush to manually remove them., Once you've sprayed down any webs you found in your home, store the leftover bleach safely. Keep it in a secure container away from children and animals. Manufacturer's instructions should provide details on how to store or dispose of bleach safely.
 When cleaning with bleach in your home, make sure to let the bleach sit for a minute after spraying it on a web or infested area. Then, wipe the web or egg sacs away with a towel and spray on another layer of bleach. It's best to let the bleach air dry after applying it rather than recontaminating the area with a towel.








Keep children and pets away from areas in your home that you bleached recently.
If you feel dizzy, open the windows to provide ventilation.

