;
, If you can't imitate his physical appearance because you think that you might look weird, then try to imitate his good attitude. Attitudes build the true body of a character.


Get some sunglasses, a nice black leather jacket or two, some boots and always wear a tee shirt. You can also mix it up with a turtleneck. Remember to keep your colors dark! Black, white, brown, etc.
 Harima Kenji has secret talents and he is being defined as a skillful man in School Rumble. People might also call you a Skillful Man.
 Don't cut yourself off from civilization, but where ever you go (be it school, the mall, whatever) try to distance yourself from others. Add in a comment or two once in a while, but don't be afraid to speak your mind out loud if someone opposes you. Also, try to find the balance of remaining friendly, but stern.
 Even if you can't physically look like Harima, you can still have his demeanor. Kenji is very dramatic with his movements, and he doesn't really care who sees, so let go of that whole "what if someone sees me" thought first. Try talking with your hands a lot, and "thinking out loud" which is basically talking to yourself. Be melodramatic with everything you do.
 Harima's greatest hidden talent is his artwork. If you can't draw very well, start taking classes or looking through art tutorials. Once your art skill is good enough to make comics, start drawing out and illustrating little stories about how you wish your life could go.
 Harima's not only physically strong, but more importantly, he is mentally strong. As he told Eri, Kenji Harima always finds the strength to get right back up if he fails and gets knocked down. He keeps on trying to achieve his dream, even if it seems impossible to come true.
 Even if you don't have your eye on someone special, try to become a little more romantic, but of course, don't make it obvious that you are a hopeless romantic!

, Harima Kenji's fighting style is street fighting, but it would be best to learn some martial arts.
 Kenji is known for always riding a motorcycle around town.

