 The easiest way to meet people, even briefly, is to start a conversation. Research shows that communication, even when required, actually makes us happier and have a more positive outlook on people generally.Be assertive. Assertiveness is about talking about your thoughts and feelings in appropriate and respectful ways.Be honest. Be transparent with people about who you are. People can sense honesty, and it encourages them to trust you in return. Additionally, beginning a relationship with lies means those lies have to be maintained thence forth, and increases the risk of the lie being exposed, compromising the relationship.Ask open-ended questions. Get people to talk about themselves. Not only does this enable sharing, trust and intimacy, but it helps you guide the conversation toward topics that are comfortable for you., Listening is the first step to building a strong rapport with others.It shows that we value who they are as well as what is being said. Some keys to good listening are:Maintain eye contact: This doesn’t mean staring, but it does mean focusing your attention on the companion as opposed to your phone or a person across the room.
Maintain appropriate body language: Your body language can help reinforce confidence in your companion. Don’t fidget or check your watch. Nod when the other person makes a relevant point.
Don’t interrupt: Let the other person finish before asking “May I ask/add something?” You can, however, show that you are listening by nodding and making affirming noises, like "Uh-huh," or saying something like, "I see."
Keep an open-mind: Don’t let fear or bias guide your communication. Demonstrate that you respect the other person, in spite of points on which you do not agree.
 Think carefully about what your non-verbal cues say to others. Non-verbal communication reinforces and accents what we are thinking and feeling.


In order to appear confident in non-verbal communication, try to speak at a normal rate (not too fast or too slow), make frequent eye-contact (but don’t stare, look away sometimes), avoid shaking your legs or fidgeting, and try to keep an open presentation (e.g. no arm crossing)., Conflict, even between like-minded people, is inevitable, and when we are frustrated, it can be easy to say things and act in ways that reflect that frustration and not our values. In order to resolve conflict constructively:Avoid aggressive body language (such as pointing in someone's face, standing too close, rolling your eyes, etc.) or language.
Ask questions and present views fairly.
Refuse to name call or resort to character attacks.
Always remind the other person that you respect his views and the right to have them.

