 As long as the interval between sessions, of the lift that is in cycle, do not exceed three weeks you can still progress. Rest is the most important factor in dealing with lower back pain and the other main factors are workload, choice of exercises in your routine and form.;
, An example of a strength lift, not in cycle, is doing pull-ups or pull downs instead of bent over rows. An example, of an auxiliary exercise change, is to do recumbent cycling instead of cycling.
 Minimize warm ups set and reps for your lift in cycle and lifts not cycled.


If your set rep scheme is set 1 10 reps, set 2 10 reps, and set 3 (your top set) 10 reps, reduce your workload by doing just 5 reps for set 1 and 3 reps for set 2. All that matters is your top set, your personal record is for your top set and not your warm up sets.
If you do legwork exercises like running or agility drills, merely reduce the total time you spend on them. When in a few weeks, your are thru with your cycle, resume your normal routine of running and everything else.
Increase your poundage or reps in smaller amounts for your cycled lift. Improvise with smaller weights beside plates. Weight plates go as low as 1.25# making the weight jump 2.5#, so with improvised weights the advantage is to make the weight increases below 2.5# by using weight plates cut in half, wrist weights, fishing lead taped one, short pieces of chain etc. If using a fixed weight, repeat workouts with the same weight or do a partial, last rep.
 Check the long term effects of these medications. Do not rely on these drugs in the long term, unless you are an elite athlete or have factored in the risk/ reward of them.
 If getting a back massage, have it done sitting and as upright as possible. Virtually all positions where you are bent forward (or facing down) at the waist standing, sitting or lying results in back tension. If you are on a massage chair and leaning on the chair, the benefit from the massage might be cancelled by the back tension of leaning forward. Sitting, in a slightly reclined position, in a whirlpool bath is a better option.
 Have a balanced life and physical routine (strength, speed, agility, endurance, active rest and flexibility).
 Reach down by bending you legs and hips. Do not bend over only at the hips.
 Do stretching exercises that do not stress or cause pain to your back

, The muscles of the lower back require a long recovery time to grow - be patient. Having enough rest, is far more important than meticulously watching your protein intake. Investigate the negative effects of excessive protein intake.
 When your form degenerates, and it is not correctable, it should mark the end of your cycle. Read about the causes of disc herniation. Your lower back pain should be from long periods of stress and not from using incorrect form. See your internist and get referred to a specialist if you have spinal pain.

