 A key part of tackling combination skin is committing to a daily and nightly skin care regimen. This means using the same products 1-2 times a day for at least a month to let your skin get used to the regimen.Clean your face once or twice daily with a cleanser.
Exfoliate sparingly, sometimes only once a week.Finish with a moisturizer once in the morning and once in the evening.;
, With this skin type, you will need to focus on treating two skin types. You will need to moisturize the dry areas of your face and reduce excess oil on the oily areas of your face.Often, the oily area of your face will be your T-zone (your forehead, nose, above your mouth, and chin). Rather than treat your whole face with one product, you will need to treat specific areas of your face, based on the skin type.For example, if you are experiencing a breakout on your forehead, and you know the skin on your forehead tends to get oily, use a spot treatment to tackle the oil just on your forehead. If the skin on your cheeks tend to get dry and irritated, use a moisturizing product only on that area.
 Cleansers made from natural oils like coconut oil and olive oil are ideal for dry to very dry skin, and may only work well on the dry areas of your combination skin.Though oil based cleansers are not detrimental to your skin, they are not recommended for oily skin. You may want to try making several different oil based cleansers for a trial period. If you start to break out or have a negative reaction, you may want to consider using a professional cleanser that contains other ingredients to better treat oily skin. Start with a very simple all natural honey cleanser:You will need three tablespoons honey, ½ cup vegetable glycerine (available at most health food stores) and two tablespoons liquid castile soap.
Mix the ingredients together in a large bowl. Pour it into an empty bottle for easy application.
Apply a small amount to your face and neck. Use your fingers to massage it into your skin for 30 seconds to 1 minute. This will help to loosen any dirt or debris on the surface of your skin. Once finished cleaning, rinse your face with warm water and pat dry with a towel.
You can also try an oil based cleanser by using coconut oil or olive oil and a warm washcloth. Look for organic extra virgin coconut oil or olive oil to ensure you are using the purest natural products for your face.Use your fingertips to massage the oil on your face for 30 seconds. Then, wet the washcloth in warm water and press the warm towel to your face. Keep the oil on your face for 15-30 seconds and then gently use the cloth to remove the oil. Avoid scrubbing your face, simply wipe off the oil.
 You can exfoliate your skin to remove dead skin cells after you have cleaned your face, especially if you have areas of your face that are dry and clogged with dead skin cells. Exfoliating will also prevent blocked pores and dull looking skin. Start by exfoliating with a homemade scrub once to twice a week.Exfoliation is not recommended for people with sensitive skin. Use exfoliation sparingly. To test, try on a small patch of skin. If it does not hurt or irritate your skin, you can use it on the rest of your face.
Most homemade scrubs use brown sugar as a base, as it is considered gentler on your skin than granulated sugar. You can also use natural oils, like patchouli, tea tree, and lavender, to give your skin a healthy glow.
For sensitive skin, make a mixture of one cup brown sugar, one cup ground oatmeal, and ½ cup honey. Rub it on your face for 30 seconds to a minute to remove dead skin cells and give your skin a gentle scrub.
Make an exfoliant for oily skin by combining one tablespoon sea salt, one tablespoon honey, and a few drops of patchouli oil. Wet your skin and then gently apply the exfoliant with your fingers. Massage the mixture into your skin for 30 seconds to a minute and then rinse it off with warm water.
Create an exfoliating scrub by combining two tablespoons of brown sugar, one tablespoon of finely ground coffee grinds, and one tablespoon of lemon juice. Add a teaspoon of honey for an added benefit. Apply the scrub to your face for 30 seconds to a minute and then rinse it off with warm water.
 To treat blemishes in your T-zone area and prevent new acne from appearing in this area, try using spot treatments. This will allow you to target acne prone areas and avoid irritating other parts of your face. There are several good natural spot treatments, including:Baking soda: This is a cheap and effective spot treatment that is easy to make. Baking soda will reduce inflammation from a pimple and help prevent future breakouts. It’s also a great exfoliator and will get rid of dead skin cells that can build up on the surface of your skin. Take a few teaspoons of baking soda and mix it with warm water until it creates a thick paste. Put the paste on dry areas of your skin, or directly on a blemish. For the first several times of use, leave the paste on for 10 to 15 minutes. Increase the time gradually, up to an hour or overnight, as your skin gets used to this spot treatment.
Diluted tea tree oil: This essential oil is antibacterial and a powerful remedy for acne. But it must be diluted, as it can actually cause more damage to your skin if applied directly to a blemish. Make a tea tree spot treatment by mixing five to ten drops of tea tree oil with ¼ cup water in a bowl. Use a cotton ball to apply to treatment to acne prone areas or blemishes on your skin. You can leave the treatment on under your foundation and reapply it during the day.
Lemon juice: This spot treatment is based on the natural antibacterial and astringent properties of lemon juice. Use fresh squeezed lemon juice or packaged lemon juice from the grocery store. Put three teaspoons of lemon juice in a bowl and use a cotton ball to apply it to acne prone areas or a blemish. Keep it on for 15 minutes to an hour to let the lemon juice absorb into your skin.
Aloe: If you have access to an aloe plant, take advantage of the soothing properties of this plant and cut off a piece. Squeeze the juice from the stalk onto a blemish or an acne prone area of your skin. You can apply this gel to your skin several times a day. You can also buy organic aloe gel at your local health food store. Look for aloe products with little to no added ingredients.
 Apply a face mask once a week to freshen up your complexion and give your face a soothing treatment. Many organic, all natural face masks use a combination of fruits and oils to make a great paste for your face.


Throw a banana, half a papaya, two carrots, and a cup of honey in a blender. Blend the ingredients together until they form a thick paste. Apply this paste on your face for 20 minutes. Then, rinse it off with lukewarm water.Make a lemon yogurt face mask by combining one tablespoon natural yogurt, one teaspoon lemon juice, and two drops of essential lemon oil. Apply the mask to your face for 10 minutes. Then, wash it off with warm water.