 Excess weight puts stress on all of the joints and can increase the effects of elbow dysplasia. Ask your vet what a healthy weight is for your dog before beginning a diet or other weight loss plan. You don’t want your dog to be undernourished. Additionally, be careful with your exercise routine as exertion may further damage your dog’s joints. Sometimes decreasing food intake or removing treats from the diet is effective. In other cases, you may have to change to a weight management food. However, many of the dog foods specifically for weight loss include high amounts of protein that can damage joints, so check the ingredients first., In some cases, too much protein has been linked to elbow, hip, and other forms of dysplasia in dogs. Making use of dietary fatty acids can dramatically improve your dog’s bone and joint development and overall health. Ask a veterinarian for recommendations of foods that will provide an adequate combination of nutrients. You can also look for foods that offer benefits for joint health and improved flexibility.Weight management dog foods typically take your dog's joints into consideration. If you find a dog food that claims to help control weight, it will likely also provide joint support.
Look for dog foods that promote omega three fatty acids, glucosamine, and other anti-inflammatory ingredients.
You may also want to consider prescription dog foods from your vet for the best results., These treatments are completed by trained professionals and can include a combination of any number of exercise therapies, massage, and medications. Your vet may recommend physiotherapy as an alternative to surgery or to help you dog recover from more advanced surgical treatments.Like human physiotherapy, the goal of physiotherapy for your dog is to restore the full range of movement to damaged joint, muscles, or bones.
Your dog's physiotherapist may recommend alternative treatments like massage or acupuncture to relieve pain. Be open to these solutions.
Canine chiropractors often offer this type of treatment planning. Ask your veterinarian for recommendations, if your dog does not experience effective relief with more traditional treatment.
 If the problem is progressed, advanced medical procedures may be necessary to relieve the pain the animal is feeling. Not every dog is a good candidate for surgery. Most juvenile or adolescent aged dogs will be recommended for surgery, as they are likely to heal from the procedure. More mature dogs whose joints are no longer stable due to arthritic degeneration will also likely be recommended for surgery as stabilizing the joints is essential to regular daily function. However, if the mature dog’s joints are stable despite the presence of elbow dysplasia, surgery may make the situation worse and is typically avoided.Total elbow replacement (TER) may be necessary in the most severe cases. It is the complete replacement of the elbow to restructure the joint correctly.
Sliding humeral osteotomy (SHO) is necessary when there is severe inflammation related to osteoarthritis. It requires the cutting of the humerus and the connection of a bone plate that repositions the elbow to fit together properly.
Canine unicompartmental elbow replacement (CUE) is an alternative to SHO or TER for mature dogs who will not respond well to a more advanced procedure. CUE smooths the bone on the inside of the dog’s elbow where the lack of cartilage has caused pain, inflammation, or joint damage.