 Get familiar with the Tokyo metro and rail systems. Both modes of transport are modern, clean, efficient, and user-friendly. Station names are displayed and announced in English. The 13 subway lines that operate beneath the city are colour coded, and pictorial information at stations gives instructions to locate connecting trains. Various ticket options and day passes allow all day travel on board any train or bus in greater Tokyo.;
, The Yamanote Line that runs in an oblong loop around Tokyo offers the most comprehensive service and stops at 29 stations, connecting Tokyo's six city centers. Other surface trains servicing Tokyo run alongside and through the Yamanote loop. This is a perfect option for sightseeing and shopping, with department stores located at each station. However, you'll need to be aware of the idiosyncrasies of the surface rail system, such as stopping halfway to destinations at closing time. Get familiar with railway schedules prior to travel.
 Although almost everyone takes the subway, it may sometimes be convenient to travel by bus, especially when train tickets allow unlimited travel on buses as well. Bus route guides have a copy of the route map and time tables. Destinations are clearly marked in English on the bus and stops are digitally displayed also in English. As bus routes generally start and end at railway stations, it is not too confusing to use them.


Trams still offer optional transport services in the southeast, northeast and north central Tokyo, and many people use the tram system to discover interesting places in the city.
 Taxis are the most expensive way to travel around Tokyo and should be used only in an emergency and when trains and busses have stopped operating. The high fares are due in part to Tokyo traffic jams. However, taxis can be cost effective when shared. Hail a vacant taxi, marked with a red light on the front window, at an appropriate spot on the street. As Japanese taxi drivers are not known for their English language skills it is better to have the destination written in Japanese on a piece of paper prior to climbing aboard a taxi.
 Driving in Tokyo is almost impossible impossible and quite expensive due to heavy traffic, expensive toll roads, and the difficulty of parking. Avoid traveling by car if at all possible.
 As it is accepted to cycle along the pavement, many people use bicycles to get around the suburban areas of Tokyo. It is the cheapest way to get around the neighborhoods and to explore the immediate vicinity.
 Although all tourist destinations are accessible by some form of land transport, which is almost always cheaper and more efficient, some people take water buses simply to enjoy Tokyo from the water.

