 If you can think carefully about an interesting inciting incident, it can tell you unique things about your character.Thinking again about Walter White, the inciting incident in Breaking Bad is that Walt finds out he has very advanced cancer.
His reaction to this news is what drives the plot line of the entire series, but more importantly, his reaction reveals who is an a person.
 It is not uncommon to find certain types of stereotypical characters housed within particular types of stories. (Horror movies, for example, are known for having a virginal female character who lives, and a promiscuous one who dies early). You can widen the scope on your character’s personalities by straying from the convention of your given genre. Try to include some plot elements or details that are unique or out of the ordinary for the genre you’re working in, and see how that influences the way you write your characters.The film Gone Girl challenges the mystery-suspense genre, by supplying an unreliable narrator, and the unique character of Amy Dunne is created.
 Rather than writing a lot of exposition that explains who you character is, show who your character is through action. Place your character in a situation, and figure out how they act (or react). The more unique the situation, the more you push yourself to think outside of the box. You may surprise yourself with the unique details you come up with.The family dinner scene that happens near the beginning of Little Miss Sunshine provides each character with an opportunity for introduction and reaction.
This scene is an excellent example of how to introduce an ensemble cast through action.
 Real people are not stereotypes. You can check to see if your character comes off as stereotypical by trying to place them in the real world. Do they seem like a real, natural, three-dimensional person to you? Another approach is to base your character off of someone you know in real life., We are well schooled in clichés and stereotypes. As a result, some of our first instincts for characters fall into these categories. When you make a choice for you character, stop and consider doing the exact opposite. Doing the opposite may be a way to introduce something fresh to your plot, and give more dimension to your characters.