 If you're struggling to keep your cat out of potted plants, a barrier method may be your best option to keep him out of the soil. Some owners find using rocks or stones can be a fun, aesthetically pleasing option.


Lay the rocks around the base of the plant, making sure not to crush any stems or dig up the roots. When you water, the water should easily slip through the cracks of the rocks and get through to the soil. Your cat will not be able to dig or urinate in the soil as the rocks block her access.You can gather large rocks from outside. You may be able to order decorative rocks or gems online if you're going for a particular style or color scheme.;
, Seashells work similar to stones. You can line the soil surrounding your potted plants with seashell, creating an attractive barrier that water can easily pass through when necessary. You can collect them at the beach or buy them online or at a store., Pine cones can also work well for keeping your cat out of your plants. Line pine cones around the bottom of your plant. Like seashells or stones, this blocks your cat's access but allows water to get through to the soil. You can simply collect pine cones outside when you see them.


Pine cones may be flimsier than seashells or stones. Your cat may be able to remove pine cones if she wants to get to the plant.
 Most cats dislike walking on aluminum soil as it's slippery. You can try to lay aluminum foil over the soil surrounding the plant and lift the foil when you need to water. This is a fairly simple method to use. The main downside, however, is that many people dislike the aesthetic., Your cat probably won't like getting her paws sticky. If you dislike the appearance of aluminum foil, you could try laying double sided tape over the soil surrounding the plant. The tape might pull up some dirt, but it shouldn't uproot the plant too much. As with the foil, you can lift when you need to water.Some cats are prone to chewing or eating plastic. If your cat has been known to eat or chew on plastic bags or wrappers in the past, this might not be a great method for you. You wouldn't want your cat to eat the tape and get sick.

