 The website eBay has a feature that allows users to research the price of items based on the typical selling price of the item, or items that are similar.Go to the seller center, log into your user account, use the text field to search for your item, and click “look up”.


For instance, if you were to enter a search for “Spiderman suit,” the results would show an average price of $20.61, with Spiderman suits ranging in price from $0.01 to $199.
If you want to look at the different asking prices (and not what the item sells for), you can do a general search for the item and sort it by price. For example, if you type in “New iPhone 6,” the lowest asking price is $380 while the highest asking price is $699.;
, If your item is a more general item and not a rare collectible or antique, try using a search engine like Google. When you type in the item, it will often list similar items for sale, including new and used options. You can also use the "shopping" function to quickly compare items and prices.


For example, if you search “Men’s Nike Shox” the results page shows both pictures and prices, with costs ranging from $80 to $125.
 Look for online databases that offer pricing information for your item. Use your preferred search engine, type in your item, and then include the word database.For instance, if you search “antiques database” there are many results that list prices of collectibles. Kovels is an online database that offers a free subscription to its pricing guide.
 There are many sites online where professional appraisers or subject matter experts offer estimates on your items. Simply upload a photo and add descriptions. The site will typically respond within a week with a valuation of the item.Charges for this service vary, but price starts at a minimum of $10 to $30. Some sites have monthly memberships which give the user access to a database of sales records, and instant price searches.
Try sites such as What’s It Worth to You, Value My Stuff, and Worth Point.
If you’re searching for the tax-deductible value of items that have been donated, you can use valuation sites, tax preparation companies (such as Turbo Tax) or the Salvation Army.

