 You can use a metal file to distress certain pieces of the guitar. Be selective of which components you file onto. Never attempt to scratch or directly impact the pick ups. Don’t use too much pressure to avoid appearing obvious.


Apply this to the tuning pegs, bridge, or input jack.
 You can leave some of the metal parts outdoors to subject them to the forces of nature. This could cause rusting which is a popular aspect of a reliced guitar. Leave the metal parts outside for one to two days. Inspect the parts before using a different technique.


Again don’t leave the pickups or other electrical components of the guitar outdoors., You don’t need to search too hard to find a chemical that will create an aged effect on the metals. You can use a household bathroom cleaner. Use either a cleaner with bleach or ammonia, but never combine bleach and ammonia. Dip the pieces of metal into a bucket filled three parts water to one part bathroom cleaner.Let the components sit for about three hours and check on their condition. Repeat as many times until you reach the desired look. Some people will leave them soaking for up to 11 hours.
 This is an optional step since the sound of your guitar is at stake. You can only age your pickups if you have metal humbuckers (silver or gold) or you have single coil pickups. You’ll first need to remove the casing so you don’t damage the literal pickup. This will vary depending on what pickup you have.


For steel casing you will use muriatic acid. This is a bit of an intense finish so you’ll need to wear rubber gloves and use precaution to cover your mouth and eyes. Apply the solution to a cloth and spread a thin layer over the case. Wait about ten minutes for the case to dry. If you want to age the pick ups more, then repeat the process. The aim is to not age it too much.
For single coil pick ups, you can get away with soaking the casing in coffee for a aged look. Let the case soak for about thirty minutes and then let it dry completely before using again. Repeat if you didn’t reach the desired hue.