 Naturally, he’ll wonder why you’re asking. And if you’ve been showing him a lot of attention or flirting before throwing out this question, it will be obvious you’re asking because you like him. Even if you already know he’s single (because you may have asked his friends), you can still ask. Look at it as just another way to let him know you’re interested.


You can bring it up casually during conversation after you’ve talked for a while. If you’ve flirted with him and noticed him responding to you, you can be upfront and ask earlier. Especially if you sense the feeling may be mutual. You could ask him directly: “Are you single?” “Do you have a girlfriend?” Or you could ask in a more playful manner: “So where’s your girlfriend?” “Are you here alone?”
Be prepared with a follow-up response once he answers. If he says he is single, you can reply by saying “Good” and smile. Or if you’re feeling bold, you can lean towards him and say in a low voice, “I’m in luck then.” If he says he’s in a relationship, it’s best to be respectful and back away at this point. Instead of ending the conversation abruptly, and to keep the moment light, you can tease him by saying, “Darn it! I’m too late.”

, Rather than beating around the bush or throwing out hints, hoping he gets the picture, gather up the courage to let him know that you like him. Arrange a moment where the two of you can have time to talk privately. You can make this moment as serious or as lighthearted as you feel. What you say and how you say it all depends on how much you like him.


If you’re bold, be straightforward and say, “Hey, I like you. I'd like to be more than friends.” You’re essentially pinning him in a corner with this method. But you’ll know rather quickly if he also likes you or not.
Tell him you think he’s cute and suggest you both should hang out more. While this is also a direct way to let a man know you like him, it’s also a more casual way to express your feelings. It takes the pressure off of him to respond appropriately since you’re only suggesting you have more fun together. Try saying, “I think you’re cute and a lot of fun. We should hang out more.”

, If you’re confident, but still don’t want to directly express your feelings, ask him out on a date. You can do this either in person, over the phone, or via text. Let him know you really enjoy his company and would like to spend more time getting to know him better. You could say, “I’ve had a really great time with you lately. You’re a lot of fun. I’d love to spend more time with you. Just the two of us. Would you like to go out sometime?” Have an outing already in mind before you ask. You’re asking him out. You don’t want to turn the tables on him and have him do all the planning.
 Maybe you can’t yet muster up the courage to tell him face to face. Or maybe you fumble over your words when you’re nervous. That’s okay because texting is fine.


You can send him a text message expressing your feelings as if you were standing in front him. You can make your message either serious or lighthearted, depending on how much you like him. Here’s an example of lighthearted message: “I think you’re really hot. Want to go out sometime?” If you’re feelings are a little more intense, try this: “I have a confession: I can’t stop thinking about you. I think you’re really cute and funny. Maybe you feel the same? If so, let’s go out sometime to get to know each other better.”
If his feelings aren’t the same, he has the unfortunate ability to ignore your text all together, pretending he never got it. Be prepared for this possibility. And also be prepared for the awkward moments that may follow if you happen to run into him later. You may have to pretend as if you never sent it, or you’ll have to muster up the courage and confront him in person about the text message and your feelings.
 If you’re close to his friends, you can pick one to confide in about your feelings. They’ll likely be able to tell you if your friend may feel the same. And they definitely won’t hesitate to pass on the message for you.