 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is PvZ 2 with the app icon of a zombie’s face. Tap on it. The game will load with its splash screens.;
, On the welcome screen, tap the “Play” button at the bottom. You will be brought to the many different worlds inside Plants vs Zombies 2. You can swipe left and right to see all of them. Each world has its own theme. You will see: Ancient Egypt, Pirate Seas, Wild West, Far Future, Dark Ages, Big Wave Beach, Frostbite Caves, and many more to come.
 Tap the watering can button on the header menu. This will take you to your Zen Garden. The Zen Garden can contain a maximum of 12 pots. You can put and grow one plant on each pot.
 In order to grow a plant in the Zen Garden, you need to have sprouts. Sprouts are another type of currency and reward in the game, similar to gems and coins. Each sprout can be planted in a pot in the Zen Garden. You can see your total number of sprouts on the header, right beside the plant picture. Tap on an empty pot to plant a sprout.
 Each sprout you plant generates a random plant. You cannot control what plant comes out. Once the sprout is planted, you can see the plant appear.
 Plants in the Zen Garden need watering. A water droplet will appear beside a plant that needs watering. Tap on it, and a watering can will appear and pour water over it.
 After a plant is watered, the time until its next watering will appear. You can see the time in a black box in front of the plant. You need to water a plant in the Zen Garden twice before it fully matures and can be used. A water droplet will appear again on the plant when the time comes.
 Every now and then, you will see a bee flying over your Zen Garden, usually over the first row of plants. The bee has some magic that you can use to shorten the time required for the plants to grow. Tap on the bee, and it will be temporarily frozen in place.
 Plants that are still growing will be highlighted after you tap the bee. These are the ones that can benefit from a little bee magic. Tap on a plant, and the bee will go to the plant and sprinkle it. The time needed for the plant’s next watering will shorten.
 The bee can only use its magic one at a time. After it sprinkles a plant, it will go to its corner and sleep for a bit. You cannot apply its magic right away. Once the bee is re-energized, it will fly again. You can then tap it again to apply its magic on another plant.
 Continue growing plants and using bee magic until the plants have fully matured.
 After you’ve watered a plant twice and the required duration for its growth has passed, a picture of the plant with a bright orange background will appear in front of it. These are the plants that have already matured, and you don’t need to water them anymore.
 Tap on the picture of the plant, and a message will appear indicating that the plant now has a boost of Plant Food. Tap the “Boost” button. The next time you use this plant in your game, it will automatically come with a boost of plant food that will last for one level.

