 Your relationship is unique and so is your guy. Think about what he likes and what makes him feel good. Ask yourself what activities, events, places, hobbies and things he enjoys. Notice what he shows excitement for, is passionate about or makes him laugh.


If you are new to the relationship, you may be able to find hints by asking him during casual conversation. Try not to give your plans to come up with a way to surprise him away.
Consider asking a friend or family member of his for some ideas.
Go ahead and think of things you aren’t sure he would like but that there is a good chance he will.;
, You can get a lot of ideas by watching what he says, does and has conversations about—not only with you but with others as well. Keep an eye on what he orders at restaurants, the things he does for fun and what he watches on TV. Listen when he mentions something he really enjoys while you two are out or when cuddling together. Find out what makes him smile.
 Write down your ideas about what you know or think he likes. Try to write as many as possible so you will have a lot of ideas to choose from for future surprises as well. Writing ideas down will probably help lead to other ideas you should also write down.
 It is surprising when you do things you normally wouldn’t do because you care about someone. For example, you buy you and your partner tickets for a football game just because you know he enjoys it and wants to spend time with you—even though you may not like football or crowds. It’s ok sometimes to make reasonable sacrifices so you two can share an experience together that he may happen to like a lot more than you. Hopefully, he will return the favor one day and surprise you the same way.
 Remember that using only a minimum effort to create the surprise won’t be as impactful. Just buying something pre-made on Valentines  Day, for example, because it is expected won’t be as meaningful as something unexpected. If you can create a gift or experience that will be unique for just the two of you, that would be ideal. This is your chance to really show (rather than just say) how much the other person means to you.


The action that you take to create the surprise is actually less important than the idea that you want to introduce something unexpected or new. This is what creates the rush that makes the surprise so powerful.Know that your surprise does not have to be big or expensive. Little things can be meaningful too. Just make sure your boyfriend isn’t able to predict that you are going to do it.
 It’s important that you try to get a sense of the things your man prefers not to eat, do or places he doesn’t like to be. You don’t want to make your boyfriend a beautiful meal with asparagus and salmon if he can’t stand the way asparagus tastes. He may still eat it because he doesn’t want to ruin how thrilled you are with your surprise but it definitely won’t be as fun for him as you probably wanted it to be. So pay attention to his negative reactions to certain foods, experiences, events and activities as well.

