 Sure, you can just text your friends and invite them over, but if you want this to be a special party, put some time into making special invitations. You can buy pre-made Mardi Gras cards in some stores or online. But if you have the time, try making your own invitations.


Encourage your guests to dress up and wear masks in the invitation, so they have time to get creative with their costumes.
Try having a costume contest. Let your guests know they will vote on their favorite costume and declare the winners the King and/or Queen of your krewe.
You’ll want these to go out a few weeks in advance so your friends know about it and don’t make other plans.
 Mardi Gras is a musical celebration, and having the right sound will get you and your guests in the mood. Search around the internet for compilations and pre-made Mardi Gras playlists. Musical styles to look for include Zydeco, Brass, Bounce, and Gypsy jazz.To get a feel for what to put on your playlist, listen to some classic Mardi Gras songs in the video below.
 Having the right food and drinks will make this a unique celebration for your guests -- especially if they are not the things they normally encounter. Some customary Mardi Gras foods are King Cake, Po Boys, and red beans and rice. If your party will have alcohol, try making Mardi Gras Martinis and Sazerac cocktails.
 A great Mardi Gras party will feel like you and your guests have entered another world, one of music, celebration, and mystery. Invite your friends to wear costumes and their own masks, or supply them with craft materials to decorate masks at the party.


Find some beads, coins, or just about anything you want to decorate and turn it into your krewe’s unique throw.
 Decorate your house, or wherever the party is, with gold, purple, and green. Turn on the music just before guests arrive so that they will walk into a party atmosphere.
 If there’s no Mardi Gras parade in your city, maybe your party will be the first! Have the King and/or Queen of your costume party lead your guests around your neighborhood. Have your friends bring instruments, or bring a portable sound system along, and spread some Mardi Gras spirit!


Decide if you want to have a permitted parade or an unpermitted one. Both kinds happen in New Orleans.If you decide to get permits, you'll have to plan in advance and abide by your cities codes. If you decide to have an unpermitted one, you and your friends should know that there are risks associated with noise ordinances and other laws.
 No matter how beautiful your decorations or tasty your King Cake, Mardi Gras is about celebration. So have a good time and share some joy with your friends.

