 Since your color choices for the walls, bed, and curtains are going to create the main vibe of your room, stay away from pastel colors like pink and yellow. Pastels tend to create a "nursery" atmosphere. Go with darker and brighter colors instead.


Gender neutral colors to consider are purple, orange and green.Choose contrasting colors that look trendy, youthful and really pop, like rich dark purple with yellow.
Bright red also goes great with purple, and so does black.;
, Instead of a full color revamp, you could instead try playing off the color scheme that's there already. By updating and accenting the current color scheme, you can vastly change the appearance of your room.


For instance, if your room currently features a lot of pastel pink, update it by adding accent colors like fuchsia, hot pink and chocolate brown.If your room currently features a lot of pastel blue, update it by adding some royal blue accents and maybe even hunter green.
Whatever you end up going with, strive to choose colors that contrast and play off one another.
 Dark paint on all four walls can make your room feel much smaller and more cramped than it is.


Streamlining in any way that makes your room look bigger and less cluttered will make it appear more adult.
If your parents are reluctant to let you paint your walls, they will be a lot more willing to allow you to paint just one.
Make sure that the paint job is done neatly so that everything looks nice and crisp.
 Use that to your advantage! For example, if you’re really into music, collect all of your past concert ticket stubs and display them in a mountable case on the wall. Get rid of band posters unless they are nice enough to frame, then get nice frames for them.


You could also use a guitar rack to neatly display your instruments, and maybe even put a keyboard somewhere in your room as a final dash of style.
Check out your garage for cool items that you can re-purpose and display in your room.
For example, old surfboards, sporting equipment, and typewriters could be painted or hung, and even displayed as-is for a mature, vintage style., Get nice frames for anything hanging on the wall. If your walls look bare, try buying some art prints and putting them in matching frames. If you don't own a desk or bookshelf and there's enough room, get one or both of them.


Add a throw rug that matches your new color scheme. Throw rugs pull the look of a room together and look very adult.
Get a plant for your window sill. Choose something low maintenance, like a fern or potted aloe vera plant.
 Get rid of the teddy bears and firetrucks and go with patterns like bold stripes, simple plaids, or tasteful polka dots.


If you aren’t sure what kind of design works best, choose bedding and trimmings that are solid colors.
Add a dust ruffle to your bed that matches your new color scheme, which will hide any storage and clutter you might have underneath it.

