 These are yearly physical or pelvic exams with your gynecologist or family practitioner. You should see the doctor every year for a checkup, even if you are feeling fine. This is especially important as you age and your risk for developing certain cancers, including breast cancer, increases.


During the beginning of the exam, give your doctor an updated medical history. Breast cancer is often hereditary, so your breast exams will be even more important if there is a history of breast cancer in your family, particularly among a mother or sister.
 During your yearly physical or pelvic exam, your physician will do a manual check of your breasts for any suspicious lumps or other changes. If your doctor doesn't do this, ask for it. Physicians are trained in how to do a breast exam and will know what to look for and what should be cause for concern. This is why you should never try to replace this exam with your own self-examination.If you feel uncomfortable, you can ask for a nurse or family member to be present during the exam. If you’re a female patient seeing a male doctor, this is typically standard procedure.
 Your doctor will begin by checking the appearance of your breasts. You will be asked to raise your arms over your head and then hang them down by your sides while the doctor examines the size and shape of your breasts.


The doctor is not judging your breasts on any aesthetic qualities. She is only checking to see whether they are generally the same shape and size, or if there are any areas for concern.
 While you lie down on the examination table, your doctor will use the pads of her fingers to examine the entire breast area, including the armpits and collarbones. The exam should last for only for a few minutes., If you feel any anxiety, take a deep breath and remind yourself that this is a necessary part of maintaining and being proactive about your health.


Remind yourself as well that breast cancer has a higher success rate of being treated effectively when it is caught early and before it has spread to other organs, tissues, and the bones.
Remember that you can always ask any questions about why your doctor is performing certain motions or exams. If you feel stressed out or uncomfortable, talk with your doctor.

