 The word rojo is Spanish for the color red. To pronounce this word correctly, you must roll the "r." Learning how to roll the "r" can be difficult, especially if your first language is English.One way to get better with the rolled "r" is to say the word "butter" over and over again very quickly. Your tongue is in the same position when making the "tt" sound as it is when you make a rolled "r" sound correctly.
You also can start with an "l" sound, which puts your tongue in the right position. Try to gradually morph it into a rolled "r.";
, There are two different words in Spanish for "orange" – naranja, pronounced nah-RAHN-hah, and anaranjado, pronounced ah-NAH-rahn-HAH-doh.Typically, the word naranja is used to refer to the fruit, while anaranjado is used to refer to the color. While Spanish speakers may talk about the color orange using the word naranja, the word anaranjado would never be used to refer to the fruit – although perhaps you could speak of having an "una naranja anaranjada," or an orange-colored orange.
 You may be familiar with the city of Amarillo in Texas, but the city's name is given the English pronunciation. You may have to practice this one more to train your brain to produce the correct pronunciation.Other shades of yellow have different words in Spanish. For example, you might use the word limón (lee-MOHN), Spanish for "lemon," to describe a lemony-colored object, or dorado (doh-RAH-doh) for something that is gold-colored., The Spanish word for the color green is pronounced BIR-day. Remember that in Spanish, the letter "v" always makes a "b" sound, similar to the English words "bike" or "belt," although you don't close your lips completely as you would for an English "b."There are several shades of green that have a compound word to describe them. For example, lime green in Spanish is verde lima (BIR-day LEE-mah) and apple green is verde manzana (BIR-day man-ZAHN-ah)., You may be familiar with the English word "azure," which is typically used to describe a particular shade of blue in the sky. The Spanish word "azul" is related.Once you've learned azul, you may find it useful to learn words for different shades of blue. For example, in Spanish the word celeste (say-LAYSS-tay) is used to describe something that is sky blue, or baby blue.
 Purple in Spanish typically is translated as "morado," which is pronounced moh-RAH-doh. The "r" is not rolled in this word. Violeta is pronounced vee-oh-LAY-tah.The Spanish language also has another word for purple, púrpura (POOR-poor-ah).
These words may be used specifically to refer to different shades, depending on personal preference, or they may be used interchangeably by some Spanish speakers.
 The Spanish language has two words that are typically used to say that something is brown, although they typically refer to different shades of brown.Marrón, pronounced mah-RROHN, is typically used to describe something of a lighter brown, chestnut color. Remember to roll the "r" on this word. Café, pronounced the same as the word in English, is used to describe darker brown shades.
You also can use words for types of wood to describe something as brown.
 The Spanish word for "black" is pronounced "NAY-grow." Be careful not to pronounce this word the same as the English word with the same spelling.Gray is considered a shade of black, although you wouldn't say something was "light black," so you need to learn the word for "gray" in Spanish. Say gris, which is pronounced "GREESS."

, While white isn't necessarily a color, it still is considered a color description since it describes the absence of color. The Spanish word for "white" is pronounced BLAHN-koh.There technically are shades of white, such as cream, which in Spanish is crema, pronounced CRAY-mah, or beige, which is spelled and pronounced the same in Spanish as it is in English.

