 The education levels of human resources professionals vary by position title and responsibilities. Obtaining a bachelor's degree or a higher level of education is the best way to keep career options open.


Take classes in business management, psychology, law, finance, economics, statistics, and public administration. There is no prescribed major, as long as your curriculum is well-rounded.
Pursue an MBA if you plan to work your way up to become a Human Resources Manager, Director, or Vice President.;
, You will be required to work with employees at every level of a company, from the lowest paid worker to the CEO.
 You will likely work with people from all age groups, ethnic backgrounds, cultures, and religions.
 The Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM) is a group that helps human resources professionals stay current in their field. There is also the American Society for Training and Development (ASTD).


Look for opportunities to become certified in human resources areas. Professional organizations offer trainings, classes, and certifications for HR professionals.
Consider obtaining a Professional in Human Resources (PHR) certification from SHRM. As you gain experience in your career, go for the Senior Professional in Human Resources certification (SPHR).
Network with other HR professionals. The above mentioned professional organizations offer a multitude of networking opportunities and other resources for professional development.



Read publications and subscribe to e-newsletters provided by SHRM and other groups.
Keep up on current events concerning unemployment, hiring statistics, court cases involving employment law, and other matters concerning workers or employers.
 Most HR professionals are generalists.


Be a generalist if you would prefer to work for a small company and handle all HR matters. This career path will allow you not only to learn about all HR functions, but also to apply them on a daily basis.
Become a specialist if there is an area of HR that interests you more than others. HR professionals can specialize in recruitment, training, employment law, compensations, or benefits.
 This will help you understand the daily responsibilities of human resources professionals.


Develop relationships wherever you intern or work. This will help you when it comes time to move up into a position with more responsibility, or look for another job in a different company.

