 This will go a long way to knowing that all is well in heating land.


Check for moisture, dust and dirt under or around your equipment systems. Moisture or rust is a definite sign that you need to have a check-up done by a professional familiar with the equipment.;
, These are good things to be aware of and what they should read. Ask your servicer about what they should indicate and what to look for. A little knowledge of your heating system's working process goes a long way to preventing problems in the future.
 One of the most important things you can do to maintain a forced air heating system is a quarterly check of your air filter. If there is a slight build up of dust on the filter, change it or wash it, depending on what type it is. If you don't know where it is, call for a maintenance and have a technician show you, or a neighbor if you are not so mechanically inclined. This pays back in spades for efficiency, longevity and comfort from your furnace.
 This prevents such material from entering into the combustion process when your equipment is running.


Do not stick hoses or brushes of any type into the appliances while cleaning, as you may damage something.
 If, for any reason, you start to notice any pungent smells or see moisture on windows or walls in the vicinity of your furnace or anywhere else that is not normal, this could indicate a dangerous condition where sometimes old brick chimneys clog up or the inside of heating/hot water equipment has become blocked. If this should occur, call your local utility and or servicer and don't run the equipment until they confirm that it is safe to do so. This can be an emergency condition where you should not even be in the house. This isn't being alarmist but you need to be alert. This does not apply to an all-electric house.


Another very helpful protection to this is to have CO detectors on every floor of your home. This is not 100 percent protection but it goes a long way towards ensuring safety first.
 Look at reviews for heating companies, talk to their service manager. Find out rates, get comparisons. Try to find one who charges fairly by the hour, plus parts. Flat rate pricing does not always work out in your favor. Sometimes it sounds good upfront but in the long run, the price is usually fairer in time and materials.
 If your system is  20 or more years old (sometimes less), you are probably due for an updated heating unit. If it is an old cast iron boiler, they can go for 40 plus years, if kept up, although they are less efficient than the new high efficiency ones available today. Just bear in mind that with high efficiency comes more complex, more expensive parts to maintain and repair as they get to a few years old. Be aware that all new units are not all created equal. Some are much less reliable. Make sure whoever is installing the equipment services them also, this makes for a better installation as they know the problems that do arise with poorly installed equipment.
 A warm and comfortable house is a wonderful thing.  A heating system should not be problematic, should be quiet and not very noticeable when running. Although if you have an old heating system and are putting in a new furnace, the technician cannot be a miracle worker when he or she is just replacing the furnace (heart) and the arteries may not be optimum. The arteries are what get the heat out to the extremities––if they were not done well originally they will still not perform better than before the heart was replaced. This to be a good analogy of how a heating system performs. If you have all the pipes and ducts replaced, then you can expect a fully functioning system, as the the whole body has been redone.

