 Whether you’re in college, high school, or lower, think about the future. Consider your goals beyond graduation. Then think about how your current activities will reflect on you in light of those goals.


If you’re planning on applying to college or grad school, expect admission boards to look for long-term commitment. Only join a couple of activities. Stick with them year after year. Don't jump from one to the next every month or two.If you’re entering the workforce after graduation, think about how the experiences offered by each activity could strengthen your resume.Planning a food drive in school, for example, can demonstrate initiative, leadership, and organizational skills, which most employers will be looking for.
 Find out which activities promote advancement. Stand out from the crowd. Choose activities that will highlight your commitment by seeking more prominent positions and responsibilities.Leadership roles aren't restricted to titles like “captain” or “treasurer.” Volunteering to take on extra responsibilities is a great way to set yourself apart from other people who do the bare minimum. Evaluate each activity by how much room there is for personal initiative.
For example, Sally might have been elected vice-president of your National Honor Society based on popularity. But your NHS adviser will undoubtedly write you a glowing recommendation if you're always the first one to volunteer for extra work that needs to be done.
 Remember: just because something looks great on paper doesn’t guarantee that it will really be all that great for you personally. Don’t be afraid of trial-and-error at first. Use your freshman and sophomore years to explore your options. Once you have a firmer idea of what this or that activity actually involves, decide which one(s) you want to stick with.First and foremost, base your decision on whether you or not you truly enjoy this activity. If you love French in general, but start dreading each meeting of your school's French club, choose something else.
If you're in college, figure out ways to complement your major.For example, if you're a zoology major, think about volunteering at an animal shelter.
For high schoolers considering college, don’t worry about the subject matter. Admission boards are less concerned with the subject and more interested in your commitment to it. So If you really look forward to, say, the A/V club, stick with it even if you have no interest in becoming a cameraman or anything like that.

