 Plan some “lag time” into your morning routine so that you are just a few minutes too late to be able to get to school on time.Get dressed really slowly. Spill your breakfast on yourself so you have to change. Dress again… very slowly.
Pretend you can’t find something that you really need, such as one of your shoes or your required gym shorts. Find them, finally, but take five or ten minutes to do so.
Complain loudly about having a bad day; turn on the waterworks if necessary. If you are lucky, your parent might be sympathetic and let you stay home.
Be aware that your lateness affects others, such as your parents, who need to get to work by a certain time. Know that you may be putting their jobs in jeopardy, and decide if missing school is worth it.
 Missing the school bus might be an accident, or it might be planned. Either way, missing the bus just might get you out of class if your parents leave for work early in the morning or if they don’t have time to drive you to school.Get to the bus stop just after the bus usually leaves. You don’t want to be too obvious about planning to miss your ride. However, take a long time walking back home from the bus stop. If you are lucky, your parents won’t have time to take you to school by the time you get back home.If your parents aren’t home when you miss the bus, be sure to let them know after the point at which they might come get you and take you to school. Sound mildly disappointed about missing class so they don’t suspect you missed the bus on purpose. You could remark, for instance, that it's too bad you are missing the really cool experiment you were supposed to try in science class.
If a parent is still home after you miss the bus, they might offer to drive you to school on their way to work. Make a big deal about how you don’t want them to be late to work. Tell them that you are prepared to deal with the consequences of being late, but that you don’t want your lateness to affect their routine. Don’t come on too strong, though. Your parents are likely well skilled at telling when you are lying.
 You can’t go to school without your books or the flash drive with your homework on it, right? Search high and low for what you have lost. The messier your house typically is, the easier it will be to drag out your search past the time you need to leave for school.


The smaller the object, the easier to “lose.” For instance, your mom might find it difficult to believe that you lost your backpack or laptop.
The more important the object, the more it will be likely that you need to miss school if you can’t find it. Losing your glasses or a contact lens, for instance, is more significant than losing your notebook because it affects your learning ability throughout the school day (and, depending on how bad your eyesight is, possibly also affects your ability not to walk into things).
If you drive yourself to school, you could lose your keys. However, if you make this a habit, there may be tough consequences (such as your parents suspending your driving privileges and making you take the bus).

