 To ensure you preserve only the finest eucalyptus, harvest the branches when they are at their healthiest. This will reduce the time and effort you need to spend pruning the branches later.There are over 700 species of eucalyptus trees and plants, so it can be difficult to know what branches in peak condition look like. Generalizing about their properties at their peak is impossible.
For instance, one species (E. dundasii) has shiny green leaves throughout its life.Another species (E. caesia) has shiny green leaves only when young.Identify the species of eucalyptus you wish to preserve and check a botanical reference guide to find out what the species you're dealing with looks like during its peak.;
, Avoid collecting plants right after it rains, or early in the morning when they might have dew on them. If possible, collect your eucalyptus after several days of dry weather.Collecting damp plants could encourage mold growth and will make it harder for the plant to circulate glycerin, the preserving agent that you will use later.
 Stay away from eucalyptus plants whose flowers are brown or drooping. Healthy eucalyptus flowers are generally white, pink, or red. Healthy eucalyptus leaves should be free of holes and have an even green color., To preserve eucalyptus, mix a solution of one part glycerin with two parts water. Heat the mixture to boiling or near-boiling.You can obtain glycerin at your local arts and crafts shop or big box store.
 Once your glycerin and water solution is ready, pour the mixture into a stable, wide-bottomed vase. Place the eucalyptus branches in the vase with the cut end of the stem in the liquid. The liquid should reach about three inches (eight centimeters) up the length of the eucalyptus stem.To help your eucalyptus branches absorb the preservation solution more quickly, slice the bases of the stems a bit, or smash them once or twice with a hammer., Put the vase containing the eucalyptus somewhere with moderate humidity and a temperature of 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (16 to 24 degrees Celsius).Keep the branches out of direct sunlight as they absorb the preservation solution.Refill the liquid in the vase as need, since some will evaporate over time.
 Your eucalyptus branches will probably need to be in the preservation solution for about four weeks. However, the exact amount of time necessary for the eucalyptus branches to fully absorb the glycerin ranges from about three days to six weeks, depending on the size of your branches.Larger branches will take longer to absorb the glycerin than the shorter branches.
 Once you’ve placed the eucalyptus in a proper location, it will take time for the branches to absorb the solution. Plants that are ready to be removed from the glycerin solution will change color to black or gold, depending on the species. When all the leaves have changed color, the plant is ready to be removed., Cut the stems of the branches up to the point where they were covered by the preservation solution. Wipe away any excess liquid that might remain on the stems.If you plan on preserving more eucalyptus or other plants in the near future, refrigerate the preservation solution and use it again. Otherwise, discard it.
 Lay the eucalyptus branches in a warm, sunny, dry location with good air circulation. After three to five days, hang the eucalyptus branches upside down by their stems in a warm, dry, dark room. After two to three weeks, your eucalyptus plants should be ready to use.If you don’t intend to use your eucalyptus branches immediately, store them in a dry, cool, dark area.

