 Pour the oil into a large saucepan and set it on your stove over medium heat.


Let the oil heat up for 30 to 60 seconds before continuing to the next step. It should look glossy and should easily glide around the bottom of the pan when the pan is tilted. Do not let the oil begin to smoke, however.;
, Stir the onion into the hot oil and cook it alone, stirring frequently, for about 1 minute.


The onion should start to become fragrant and take on a translucent appearance, but it should not yet begin to brown.
 Stir the garlic into the onion and cook both, stirring frequently, until the garlic turns golden brown.


This should only take 2 or 3 minutes. The mixture should be fragrant and lightly toasted, but not quite browned.
Cook the onions and garlic carefully. If they start to burn, this burnt flavor will also taint the rice and make the dish less appetizing.
 Add the rice and the salt to the saucepan. Stir well to distribute the onion and garlic evenly.


Basmati and jasmine rice are recommended, but any long-grain white rice should be fine.
 Stir the contents of the pan until the rice starts to take on a lightly toasted appearance.


As you toast the rice, you will need to stir it frequently to ensure that none of the grains stick to the bottom of the pan.
 Add the hot water to the saucepan. Stir well, making sure that all of the rice is submerged.


For best results, use boiling water prepared in a saucepan, tea kettle, or microwave. Hot tap water will also work, but make sure that it is as hot as possible before adding it to the pan.
After adding it to the pan, let the water reach a boil before continuing to the next step.
 Cover the saucepan with its lid and reduce the heat to low. Let the mixture simmer for 20 to 25 minutes, or until all of the water has been absorbed.


If the water evaporates before the rice is tender, you can add more water to the pan and continue cooking it. Only add 1/4 cup (60 ml) of additional water at a time, though, to prevent the mixture from getting too soupy.
 The Brazilian rice is now finished and ready to enjoy.

