 At the risk of coming across as condescending or rude, do everything you can to ensure that your order is recorded and charged correctly. Say the whole name of the item, have your waiter repeat your order back to you, and be sure to highlight the price listed on the menu. Don’t be shy about gesturing or visually indicating what it is you want, especially if the menu is confusing or unclear.If the menu is written in a language you can’t read, point to the item you want to order and use what words and phrases you know to make your intentions apparent.
Ask the meaning of names and other terms you don’t understand.
 No one likes confrontation, but sometimes there’s no other choice than to have a higher authority intervene. Restaurant scams tend to take place without the knowledge of the owners and managers, who will usually do everything in their power to smooth things out for the customer. When speaking to a manager, describe what happened at length and look for ways to resolve the problem without resorting to storming out in anger.Emphasize that what happened is nobody’s fault, and that you’re only interested in resolving the dispute.
Threatening to undermine the restaurant’s reputation with a nasty review can often help you rectify problems more effectively than simply complaining.
 This is only recommended in situations where you’ve already discussed your concerns with your waiter and also spoken to a manager who’s proven unhelpful. If you get the feeling that you’re being coerced into paying for overpriced or poor quality food, and you haven’t already eaten it, you’re within your right to walk away. Make sure you let restaurant personnel know why you find their handling of the matter unacceptable.There’s an unspoken agreement that restaurants are expected to live up to certain standards of service. If they fail to do so, the cost is your business.
Don’t use fictitious complaints as a ploy to get free or discounted food. This just makes you the scammer.
 If the issue is bad enough, or it happens multiple times, it may be worth filing a formal complaint. U.S. citizens have the option of reporting the incident to the Better Business Bureau, while other frustrated diners worldwide can seek aid from an equivalent agency if one exists in their country. It may even be possible to file a lawsuit against a restaurant that actively seeks to rip off its patrons.Be sure to provide as much specific information as you can about the nature of the scam while filling out your report.
Seek the aid of an attorney in bringing legal charges against a conniving business.Filing a complaint won’t prevent a bad experience, but it may keep others from receiving similar treatment.

