 Using fish products in your cooking will work to thin your blood. Fatty fish contain omega 3 fatty acids that are responsible for intense blood thinning and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disorders.Fish that contain high amounts of omega fatty acids are mackerel, anchovies, salmon, albacore tuna, lake trout, and herring.Platelets have a tendency to stick to the wall of blood vessels to form clots, and omega 3 fatty acids reduce the platelet’s sticky properties.Omega 3s also make the clotting mechanism take more time, preventing rapid onset of a stroke or heart attack.Take a low dose to prevent any complications, such as bleeding and hemorrhagic stroke.
Taking more than 3g (3000mg) of fish oil per day may increase the risk of bleeding., To promote blood thinning, try drinking kombucha. Kombucha is a lightly fermented drink of sweetened black or green tea, produced by fermenting the tea using a symbiotic colony of bacteria and yeast.Kombucha has not been proven effective by medical science.However, a number of herbalists and home-remedy advocates cite a litany of health benefits associated with the drink.Kombucha, which is often home brewed, can do more harm than good. This is because people often get sick from contaminants found in the drink.You should reduce or stop drinking it a week before surgery.
Similarly, if you suffer from heavy periods, stop drinking kombucha a week beforehand.
Some side effects of kombucha include gas, stomach-ache, nausea, fatigue, pimples, rashes, diarrhea, or a headache., Olive oil is made from crushing and pressing olives. The polyphenols present in olive oil are responsible for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticoagulant benefits, and can help keep your blood from getting too thick.Extra virgin olive oil is the unrefined oil made from the first pressing and has the most delicate flavor and highest phyto-nutrient and antioxidant content.
 Red wine contains potent blood thinning substances such as proanthocyanadins and polyphenols. These substances are found in the dark pigment of purple grapes. They work by preventing premature blood clotting.A person should eat one small bunch of grapes or have one small glass of wine per day.
There is still an ongoing debate over the source of red wine’s health benefits. Some researchers point to the health benefits of the grapes while others point out that all alcohol seems to have these effects when consumed in moderation.Women can consume 1 alcoholic beverage a day to thin the blood, men can have 2. Women who are nursing or pregnant should never drink alcohol.
Recognize that consuming more than this amount of alcohol a day can result in negative health consequences.
 Pomegranate juice is also full of polyphenols, and it may also improve blood flow. It may also help lower systolic blood pressure.


There are concerns that pomegranate, like grapefruit, may interact with many medications (including Warfarin, ACE inhibitors, statins, and blood pressure medications). Speak with your doctor about your medications and whether or not they might interact with pomegranate.
Try drinking half a glass of pomegranate juice every day.
 Most people are dehydrated, and they don't even know it. Dehydration thickens the blood, increasing the risk of blood clots. Ensure that you have at least 8 glasses of water each day to prevent dehydration.