 You might know that you love the child, but that doesn't mean that the child knows it. Show your love for them in your words and actions.Use multiple ways to show love: words, actions, affection, spending time together, et cetera., Act with the assumption that the child is a good person who wants to do their best and make other people proud of them. This helps the child feel supported, and encourages them to rise to meet your expectations.


If a child is nonverbal and has no AAC, assume that they can hear and understand you, even if they don't look at you. Talk to them, and notice if they give a response in their body language. Nonverbal children can still be incredibly communicative, especially if you encourage them.
 Autistic children also need personal space, and need to be able to decline hugs, kisses, hand-holding, and other forms of touch. For example, instead of grabbing them and hugging them, ask if they want a hug, or spread your arms to signal an invitation to hug.


Some types of touch may be unpleasant or painful to an autistic child, especially if they are overwhelmed. If they seem unwilling to be touched right now, take that very seriously.
Give an alternate suggestion if you or someone else wants touch. For example, maybe the child can't handle hugs right now, but they can give high-fives or fist bumps. Ask if the child would like to do that instead. (Don't make it a big deal if they say no to that too.)

, The child won't always want to spend time with you, especially if they are overwhelmed or stressed. If so, let them have quiet time. They'll notice if you respect their boundaries, and will be more likely to trust you in the future.


Don't make the child play with children that they don't like.It's better to play alone than to play with fake friends or people who mistreat you when the adults turn their backs.
 Tell the child what is going to happen, and stick to your word. Don't make arrangements behind their back.If there is a sudden change of plans, be clear about it, and validate the child's feelings.


Avoid sugarcoating the truth. Instead, break it gently.
If there is something you absolutely cannot tell them, explain why.
 Autistic people love to talk about and do things related to their special interests. Ask about them, and show genuine interest. Their special interests can be a good topic for conversations, activities, and gifts.


If a girl loves cars, you could get out toy cars for her, so she can spin the wheels and line them up with you.
A boy who loves cooking might enjoy baking cookies with you.
A child who writes might love it if you ask them what they're working on.
 Put down your phone, stop worrying about other things, and don't focus on what you want the child to do. Instead, pay close attention to what the child is telling you (whether they're using spoken words, AAC, or behavior).


Work on validating their feelings more often.
Listen before you open your mouth. Avoid pressing your own agenda; instead, listen to the full story before speaking., Practice patience and understanding. Autistic children can be especially sensitive to criticism, so it's important to provide reassurance and clear direction instead of scolding.


Being gentle can reassure the child that they're allowed to make mistakes, and that messing up doesn't make them a bad person. Say this out loud if you think they're confused.
 Each child is different, and autistic children especially have many quirks. Embrace their uniqueness, including their autistic traits. After all, autism is a part of them.


Let the child make choices related to self-expression, such as wardrobe, bedroom decor, et cetera.
Don't demand that they hide their autism or pretend to be "normal." Let them do what works best for them.Assume that any stims or repetitive motions are important, even if you don't understand them., Keep being positive, encouraging the child, and doing fun things together.


Remind the child of fun things that happened. "Remember when we went down to the lake and caught dragonflies?" "Remember the silly books we read last weekend? Would you like to read with me more today?"

