 There are several circumstances in which you might create specific expectations. You may expect a certain dish to taste a certain way. You also might expect that someone to act a certain way. Keep a list of expectations in areas that cause you the most frustration (e.g. work). The list will help you identify which expectations are realistic and which ones are not. These expectations should be closely monitored to reduce frustration.For example, expecting a child to sit quietly through an entire movie is likely to leave you feeling frustrated when they start talking or moving around.
Talk to others about your expectations. They may be able to tell you if they're unrealistic, and they can give you a better idea of what you should actually expect.
 Try not to have too many expectations about your progress, goals, or situation. Adopt a ‘roll with the punches’ attitude to reduce frustration. By realizing that you cannot control the way that other people act, you can reduce how many expectations you have, and this will in turn reduce the number the chances of you have of becoming frustrated.You can also improve the quality of your life by approaching things with a neutral attitude. Then, when they go pleasantly you are more appreciative of the experience. For example, if you plan to go out to the park, you can appreciate a sunny day much more if you don’t expect that it will be sunny.
 Frustration often results when things aren’t going the way you envisioned. Placing specific expectations on a situation opens you up to being let down. Falling short of expectations usually results in sadness, anger, and frustration. Take time to notice your expectations in a given situation and note how they make you feel when the situation plays out.Then, take action. If you know you're going to be engaging in a situation that is usually frustrating, plan activities in advance to keep calm.
 Expecting the worst to always happen can cause you to avoid accomplishing your goals. Over time, it will increase your frustration instead of keeping it under control. If you find yourself thinking negatively, try to replace that thought with a more positive one.

For example, instead of thinking, "I've never done this type of project before. I'm going to completely mess it up," you can think, "This is a great opportunity to learn new skills."

