 You can use diamonds to automatically research and build things instead of having to wait an allotted amount of time. This can level you up much faster and increase your progress through the game. Limit the amount that you do this so that you can stock up on diamonds as you play through the game. The longer that you play the game, the longer things take to build and the more useful diamonds become, so it's good to have a supply of them. Do not waste diamonds during the early stages of the game.You can also purchase diamonds with real money.
 Your character starts with 30 diamonds initially. After that, you'll gain one or two diamonds per level. This will be used as your main source of diamonds, so spend them sparingly.You can also get diamonds by purchasing them with real money.
 If you login to Hay Day using your Facebook account, you'll get an automatic five more diamonds to start off with. Connecting your account to Facebook will also let you see your Facebook friend's farms., Purple tickets will occasionally show up next to the newspaper icon. Clicking these tickets will allow you to watch a 30-second game trailer. If you complete the trailer, you'll earn diamonds., As you play through the game there are different landmarks that you can achieve in order to gain more free diamonds. Achievements include completing 2,000 truck deliveries, helping visitors who come to your farm, and placing ads in newspapers., Your character can start mining at level 24. Unlocking the mine costs 26,000 coins. You can use shovels, dynamite, or TNT to reveal different ore and diamonds from the mine. Click on the mine, then click on the tool that you want to use to extract the diamonds. Getting diamonds through mines is relatively rare, so you may have to use your mine multiple times before you get any diamonds.You can ask Tom to look for mining materials, or you can purchase them at roadside shops.

Tom is the farmhand that you unlock at level 14. You can make him search for any items in the game that you need.
After an initial 3 days, you'll be forced to use diamonds if you want to hire Tom again., When a stream of stars comes up on your screen, you'll get a chance to open a mystery box. While these boxes cost diamonds to open, there is a chance that you'll also receive diamonds in the box. Also, there are things inside of mystery boxes that can help you increase your storage and expand your farm.