 Though you will make this bracelet through folding, you'll have to cut strips of paper in a 1:4 size ratio first. This means if you cut strips one inch (3 cm) thick, you'll need the strips to be four inches (12 cm) long. Along with your paper and scissors, you'll also need:


Binder clip or tape
Crayons or markers (optional)
Paper (normal size; multiple sheets)
Pencil
Ruler
Scissors

, Smaller strips will make a more delicate looking bracelet, while larger strips will be thicker and more sturdy. With your ruler, measure out equal strips from your paper that follow a 1:4 size ratio. For example, ½ inch (1.5 cm) wide strips should be two inches (6 cm) long.


Depending on how long you want to make your bracelet, you will need between 16 and 22 strips.
Decorate your strips with your own designs to add your personal flair!, First fold your each of your strips in half longways, then fold each vertically in half down the middle.This will help speed the bracelet making process along. Each strip will lock together using this pre-folded pattern as the base. , Each strip should open at the bend to form a crocodile mouth. Have one of the crocodile mouths clamp down on the other, and slide the clamped strip so that it is even with the bend of the one biting.
 The bitten strip will want to get away, so it's going to bend its tail to try and escape. Bend the top, open end of your bitten strip so that its outside edge meets and is even with the closest edge of the biting crocodile mouth. Then fold the tail so that it lies on top of the biting crocodile mouth., Turn your strips over and fold the bottom outside edge of your bitten crocodile mouth so that it is even with the biting crocodile mouth, then fold it to lie on top the biting croc.


If you let go, your folded tails will spring apart. Fasten these so they stay on top the biting croc with either a binder clip or tape., Open end first, slide your new croc strip into the loop until it is about half way through. Then, the same way you folded the bitten croc, fold the bottom and top parts of the "mouth" even with the outside edge of your weave and then on top of it. You should then be able to tuck the ends inside a pocket formed by your first two strips.Folding your open ends into the pocket formed by the first two strips will fasten your strips together without another binder clip or piece of tape.
You may want to leave a little extra space on the fold side of the croc-strip, as more loop space can be easier to work with, especially for children.
 Open side first, slip another strip into your loop. Again, you will fold the outside edges parallel with the horizontal section of your bracelet weave. Then fold that on top of the weave, tucking the loose ends into the pocket formed by the weave of your bracelet.


Add more strips to your loops until your weave is long enough to fit your wrist.
The design formed by this weave should be staggered, shaped similarly to stairs., When your bracelet is long enough, you should connect the ends together. Do this by carefully removing your clip or tape, using one hand to hold that end together. Thread the open ended side of your last strip into the loop at the very beginning of your weave. Use the same pattern as before:


Fold the tail so its outside edge is flat to the outer edge of the weave.
Fold that on top of the weave and tuck the remainder into the pocket.
Do the same for the other side of the croc mouth.
Add finishing touches by drawing with markers or crayons.

