 If you have the opportunity to do so, walk away from the fight. The best way to do well in a fight is to not fight at all. However, if you can't avoid being in a fight, acting like you don't care whether or not you fight can be a diffuser of sorts. Most of the time, guys who want to fight really just want someone to provoke. If you can't be provoked, they might lose interest.


At first act like you are not going to fight and let them take a few punches. Act like you couldn't care less and that it doesn't hurt. Sometimes this can make the attacker back away but sometimes it provokes them more.;
, Once you have successfully made it clear that you don't care whether you fight or not, your attacker might try to provoke you by laughing at your non-violent attitude. Make sure you are ready with many techniques and that you are prepared to feel pain.
 Even if you've never been in a fight before, you should still act confident. Confidence can actually be a good diffuser. Act like you've been fighting everyday of your life--you could couldn't care less whether you fought this opponent. As your opponent is getting ready, throw in a yawn then take your jacket and give it to your mate. (No matter how cold it is this technique works well with all attackers.)

, Roll up your sleeve and make sure you're prepared to feel pain. Imagine you're a brick and no punches or kicks can break you! Do not hit them first. Keep arms distance away and jump around smoothly and swiftly to confuse your component. If you see them go to punch your head.. Duck! Circle them and Dodge!

, Once you see them hesitate charge and punch them in the jaw, tensing your arm and using your shoulder for more power. Then quickly knee them anywhere you can, preferably in the back of the knee or stomach.
 When you opponent doubles over, do the moves that will end the fight. A few knees in the face or solid punch in the nose or eye usually puts them in too much pain to carry on. Take this opportunity to flee but don't run. Strut off but fast enough not to give your beaten up enemy a chance to recover. Avoid future conflict with this person and attempt to keep the fight quiet.

