 The color nail polish you pick is up to you, but make sure you choose a lighter color. You want the dandelion shapes you paint on to show up on your nails. Go for something like white or light pastel shades.Make sure the base polish is completely dry before proceeding.;
, Some people like to have a little glitter in their dandelion nails. If you want to add glitter to the background, wait for your light-colored polish to dry. Then, paint on a layer of glitter polish to add some sparkle.If you added sparkled polish, let it dry completely before proceeding.
 You can paint your dandelions using one color or multiple colors. The color or colors you choose are up to you, but here are some common options:Some people like to use a green shade for the stems and either white or yellow for the buds and petals. This makes a realistically colored dandelion.
Some people paint dandelion shapes in black. This shows up very well, especially against a very pale polish like light pink.
If your polish was slightly darker, such as a pastel blue, you can use white nail polish. However, very light dandelions do not always show up as well.
 To start, dip a thin nail art brush in the polish you're using to paint your dandelion's stem. Starting at the base of your thumb nail near the nail bed, draw a line stemming from one corner of the nail bend. Have the line slant diagonally slightly, moving in the direction of your other fingers.There is no strict rule for how long your stem should be, but leave enough space near the top of your thumb so you can create your flower. A line of approximately half a centimeter should work.
 Using your nail art brush, draw a small circle on top of the stem. This will be the bud of your dandelion. Keep it relatively small. Dandelions, unlike things like sunflowers, have fairly tiny buds. A small dot is all you need.You do not need to wait until the stem polish dries before adding the bud.
It's okay if your bud is not perfectly round.You will be drawing a lot of petals stemming from the bud. If it's slightly asymmetrical, this will not be noticeable by the time you're done with the look.
 Moving from the center of the bud outward, paint on your dandelion petals. For this step, take a new, relatively dry brush. Draw thin lines stemming from the bud of your flower. Dandelions have a lot of petals, so draw many lines. When you're done, your flower should begin to resemble a thick dandelion.To add extra volume, make your lines slightly angled and have some criss-cross with one another.
 Dandelions have fluffy petals, especially when they turn white. Use the tip of your nail art brush to add tiny dots to the end of each line. This will make your dandelions look thicker and more realistic.You can also add some dots within the body of the flower itself to thicken out your stems.
 If you want, add grass to the bed of your thumbnail. Using your nail art brush, use quick upward motions stemming from the base of your thumb upward to create blades of grass. Have the lines overlap slightly to create a thick, grassy appearance near the base of your thumb., You do not need to paint a dandelion on every nail. In fact, most people who go for dandelion nails stick to one or two dandelions per hand. Instead, paint small petals floating across each nail, as if wind has blown the dandelions across your fingernails. To do this, paint the same thin lines you painted when creating your flowers petals, Then, add dots to the end of each line.Make sure all your petals flow in same direction. The petals should move towards your other fingers and away from your thumb.
 If you want, you can paint a second flower on another finger. Which finger you choose is up to you. If you do choose another flower, however, make sure it bends in the same direction as the flower on your thumb. This will keep the wind look consistent.