 If you are having problems with a telemarketer, you may be able to file a complaint with the FCC. Keep in mind that certain organizations, like charities, political groups, and surveyors, will still be able to call you even if you are on the National Do Not Call Registry. Companies you have an existing business relationship may also be permitted to call you. However, you may file a complaint for one of the following reasons:If a telemarketer calls you between 9PM and 8AM.
If they leave a message without a callback number.
If you receive a call from a non-exempt telemarketing company after requesting to be placed on the National Do Not Call Registry (or the company’s internal do not call list).
If the telemarketing firm fails to identify itself.
If you receive a pre-recorded commercial message (robocall), even from a company you have an existing relationship with.
 Registering a complaint with the FCC is generally quick and easy, but you will need to provide some information so that they can investigate. You must include the following in your complaint:

Your name and address.
The number that called you.
The identity of the telemarketing company and any phone numbers they gave you to call.
A description of the call.
A statement of whether anyone in your house gave them prior permission to call.
A statement of whether anyone in your household has had financial dealings with the company in the past.
 The easiest way to file a complaint is online. Just go to https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us and follow the instructions on the web form. You will be asked to type in your contact details and the information you gathered.

You can also mail in your complaint. Send a letter the required information to: Federal Communications Commission, Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau, Consumer Inquiries and Complaints Division, 445 12th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20554
For general information on filing an action against a telemarketing firm, you can also call the FCC at 1-888-225-5322.

