 To access your screen saver settings, you'll need to open the "Settings" app; you can navigate to Settings from within the right-click context menu.


Alternatively, you can type "Settings" into the Start search bar and click the first result at the top of the page.;
, This opens the Personalization tab of your Windows 10 Settings app.


If you used the Start menu Settings shortcut, click the "Personalization" option.
 This is on the left side of the Settings app window, beneath the "Lock Screen" tab., You can find this option at the top of the Settings window.
 This should be in the bottom right corner of the Theme Settings window.
 Doing so should prompt a drop-down menu with screen saver options. If you've never used a screen saver on Windows 10, this bar should say "(None)".
 You can click any of the choices in this drop-down menu to set a Windows 10 screen saver; classic choices include the "Mystify", "3D Text", and "Photos" screen saver options.
 Of the default Windows 10 screen savers, only "3D Text" and "Photos" have additional options available:


3D Text - You can alter the text itself--e.g., what text is displayed--as well as its speed, the nature of its movement, and its graphical properties. You can also select "Time" to reflect your computer's clock.
Photos - You can change your photos' destination folder, as well as the slide show speed and whether or not your photos display in a random order (or "shuffle").
 In the field next to "Wait", you should see the number "15"; this is the default number of minutes that must pass before your screen saver becomes active. You can change this value by clicking one of the arrows (up or down) to the right of the number to increase or decrease the wait time.


You can also check the "On resume, display logon screen" option to lock your computer whenever the screen saver activates. This is a good option for shared or work computers.
 This will save your screen saver settings! If you leave your computer alone for your selected time, your screen saver should display.

