 Each bank develops its own policies for dealing with coinage. Your bank may only accept rolled coins, unrolled coins, or coins of a certain value. Ask a bank teller over the phone or in person before you start sorting your coins, to avoid wasting time on coins you won't be able to deposit.;
, Banks usually give these cylindrical wrappers out for free, at least in the United States and in countries that use the euro as currency, and they are also available for purchase at some supermarkets. The wrappers may be made out of paper or transparent plastic, and come in a different size for each type of coin.


These wrappers are usually labeled with the name of the coin, but there may be a color-coded system as well. For instance, in the United States, red wrappers are for pennies, blue for nickels, green for dimes, and orange for quarters., Gather your change and separate the coins by type. You can keep the different coins in rough piles for now; there is no need to stack them or count them yet.


If you have a large amount of mixed coins, you may prefer to look at the section on other methods for information on coin-sorting machines.
 Take your newly separated coins of one type, such as nickels or 25 euro-cent coins, and place them on a flat surface cleared of other objects. Spread them out with your hands until they form a single layer of coins.


A freshly made bed, a comforter stretched over a coffee table, or a similar soft surface makes it easy to pick up the coins, and to keep piles of coins separated in their own "dents" in the material., Work with both hands at once, counting to ten as you pick up one coin in each hand. Once you have ten coins in each hand, place each group of ten coins in its own separate pile. As you keep doing this, the task should become easier and faster.


You may be tempted to stack the coins instead of making piles, but this is usually a waste of time, since the stacks often fall over., Unfold one end of each wrapper if necessary. Some wrappers are sold as open tubes, in which case you can skip this step.


As with any task, this becomes faster with repetition. Opening all your wrappers at once will be faster than opening one, filling it with coins, opening the next, etc.
 Each wrapped roll of coins contains a certain number of coins, depending on the wrapper. You can calculate this based on the value printed on the wrapper, or refer to the following list:


Each U.S. roll contains 50 pennies, 40 nickels, 50 dimes, or 40 quarters.Each euro roll contains 50 one-cent, two-cent, or five-cent coins; 40 ten-cent, twenty-cent, or fifty-cent coins; or 25 one-euro or two-euro coins., For example, if you are picking up pennies, pick up five piles of ten pennies each, since 5 x 10 = 50. If you are rolling one-euro or two-euro coins, you'll need to pick up 2½ piles, or two full piles (twenty coins total) and half of another pile (five coins).


If you have small hands, you may need to pick up a smaller amount of coins and fill each roll in sections.
 Shake the coins gently in your hand, while using your other hand to arrange them in a sideways stack. Once finished, the coins will be standing on their edge, running in a line from your palm to your cupped fingertips. When you're rolling coins for the first time, make the cylinder of coins as even as possible, to make it easy to get the coins in the paper or plastic wrapper. As you practice this, you'll be able to work faster and make looser cylinders., If the wrapper is open on both ends, stick a finger from your other hand into one end of the wrapper, up to the first joint, to block it off. Then tilt your hand down toward the other open end, letting the coins slide down into the wrapper.


If the coins get stuck or fall out over the wrapper, slide all the coins out and repeat the process. This will happen less and less often as you practice., Place a finger on each end of the filled wrapper and move the coins from side to side until there is an equal amount of space on each end. Fold down each end of the wrapper to form a closed end.


For flat coin wrappers, fold the two creased edges down over the coin, then fold the two remaining points down over them. Repeat with the other side.
 Pick up another pile, form it into a stack, and pour it into the next wrapper. As you continue, you'll find this process getting easier and more automatic, allowing you to simultaneously hold a conversation, listen to a podcast, or perform some other task that doesn't use your hands.

