 There really isn't any point in playing against the computer unless you want to practice. You can play online at http://www.voobly.com/;
, The following is what you may want to do.
 The citizen (hero) is about the equivalent of four Greek villagers.
 Get enough so that you have nine (if you're playing against a human online) to seventeen (if you're playing against computers with others. Do this if the level of difficulty is Titan). You'll also need six (if it's against humans) to nine (if its with humans as allies against computers) for wood and gold (nine for each resource). If you're Greek, you may want to get three to four to pray at your temple for favor.
 An example would be worshipping the Norse god Freyja if you plan on training cavalry since her improvements help that type of soldier.
 Rushing is when you do not train any soldiers and attempt to advance quickly to the mythic or titan age. Then, you can research Secret of the Titans for a titan gate to build. Then, you would start your military. Also, since this is supremacy, you can win by building a wonder which allows you to win automatically in about ten minutes as long as it is not destroyed. An alternative to building a Titan Gate would be building a wonder. However, that would attract enemies even more and they would never stop attacking your wonder until it is razed.
If you don't want to take the risk, remain in the classical age for a while. Build some (that doesn't mean one or two) military buildings and attempt to train an army. Also, build ten houses and try to build two more town centers. In addition to that, train a ton of villagers. You should have at least thirty for a slow, but steady resource flow (Atlanteans should have about ten regular citizens). Following train about thirty or more troops or until your population is filled up, you're safe - at least for a while. Research all the improvements you can and advance to the Heroic Age.
 If your enemy has attacked while you're in either the Classical or Heroic Age, you need to replace the fallen soldiers until your population is full or you again have thirty or more soldiers. Once most or all of your improvements are completely researched, and you have an army, advance to the Mythic Age.
 You'll never know when you catch your enemy off guard! Also, if you want, you can try to prevent enemies for building a town center on top of a settlement(s). If your enemy has built a wonder, a good way to destroy it is using long ranged siege weapons (such as the catapult if you're Egyptian). Do the same if your enemy is trying to complete a Titan Gate.
 Supremacy is mainly a battle between who can gather more resources and convert them into an army faster or who can get enough resources to build a wonder.

