 Before you start to write in code, you'll need to know what your message is going to be. Depending on how much secrecy you want in your coding, you may not want to share your information with anyone around you. This means that you'll have to be careful that no one surrounding your desk will see your paper, as the code will quickly be broken.


If you don't think that you can write your message without it being seen, you can try to visualize it in your head instead. While this can be more difficult, it's best not to be found out by those around you, or your teacher.
 This is one of the easiest codes to begin with, especially if you haven't shared coded messages with anyone before.Take your initial message and write it backward, one letter at a time. Start at the bottom right hand corner of the page, so you're moving to the left and up, rather than down and right, like you would normally write. When you're finished with the message, write your punctuation at the end. This will dictate where your message begins and ends.


Make sure that you're separating each word in your message, even though they look a little funky and abnormal. If your letters blend together, then the message will be fairly unreadable.
 If you can without arousing suspicion, write your message on a piece of paper. Proceed to write your message backward, starting from the bottom-right corner of the page and moving to the upper-left. With each letter that you write, insert any number and letter between the letters of your code.


There's no exact science to the letters and numbers that you choose, so don't overthink it. "Hello how are you?" would be: "ua3og5ym9 e8lr1sa5h wr3of2ha7 of8lq2lc7ed2ho2".
 Another fun strategy in writing code is flipping your letters in reverse, so you're left with a strange looking, non-English code. You might want to practice this one before trying it in class. Write a letter in regular handwriting and study its form. You'll start from the right side of the page and move to the left, writing with your left hand. Each letter will be flipped in its form, so you'll be writing backwards while also drawing the shape of the letter in reverse.


After you've written your message, hold it up to a mirror. You will see it written in normal English. This is a fairly advanced code and may take some time to master.
If you're left handed, this one might be a bit more difficult to learn, but you can still try writing from right to left and mirroring the letters.

