 Mix the masa harina, salt, and flour in a bowl. Stir it together till it forms a paste-like dough. It should be smooth, not lumpy.If it's still too lumpy after stirring, add one teaspoon of water at a time and stir out the lumps till it's smooth. If it's too wet or sticky, add one teaspoon of masa harina at a time, stirring until it thickens and smooths out.;
, Leave your dough in the bowl and cover the bowl with a towel. Let it sit for 10 minutes., Divide your dough into 8 balls, about 2 inches wide.It helps to lightly oil your hands before doing this. This will keep the dough from sticking to your hands.
 Take a ball of dough and press your thumb into the center. There should be a little indentation. Place 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of white cheese into the indentation and cover the dough over it. Do this will all the other dough balls.The cheese should be completely sealed into the pupusa. Otherwise, it will leak out when you fry it.
 Flatten the filled ball between your palms. The pupusa should become circular and flat, about 1/4-inch thick.Don't squeeze or roll too much or the filling may leak out.
 Heat a frying pan or cast iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add just a few tablespoons of oil to lightly coat the pan. Add the pupusas and cook them for 2 to 3 minutes. Then flip and cook them for 2 to 3 more minutes.The pupusas should look golden in color when they're finished cooking.
 Serve the pupusas while they're still warm. Top with curtido and any sauces you like.
 Shred the cabbage, grate the carrots, and thinly slice the onion. Place them all in a large bowl and set it aside., In a small bowl, whisk together the apple cider vinegar, water, salt, brown sugar, oregano, and red pepper flakes. Make sure there are no lumps of spice or brown sugar., Pour the spiced liquid mixture over the prepared vegetables and stir really well. Make sure the vegetables are completely covered in the mixture., Cover the curtido and refrigerate it for at least 2 hours before serving. It'll be even better if you refrigerate it overnight before serving. This will give it a slightly pickled flavor., There are several kinds of cheeses that make good pupusa filling. Consider using: quesillo, queso fresco, Monterey Jack, or mozzarella.Consider mixing a small amount of cheese into the masa harina before you mix the dough. Try to use a dry cheese, like cotija., You don't have to just fill the pupusas with cheese. If you want to add another filling, just be sure to use a small amount or don't use too many different ingredients. You don't want to have trouble containing the filling while rolling out the pupusas. Try these fillings:cooked pulled pork
refried beans
jalapenos
diced bell peppers
ham
mushrooms
cilantro

, While curtido is the traditional coleslaw served with pupusas, you can also serve pupusas with salsa. You might also use something resembling a tomato or enchilada sauce to dip your pupusas into.


For even better flavor, warm the salsa or tomato sauce before dipping your pupusas.
 Add a little extra flavor and color to the pupusas by adding a garnish. Sprinkle with a little bit of whatever cheese you like, or serve with lime wedges.The acidic citrus will help cut the richness of the pupusa filling.

