 Infested fabrics that are able to be laundered should be placed in a clothes dryer set to high heat for 10 to 20 minutes."Dry-clean only" garments can usually go through a dryer cycle safely as long as they are completely dry at the start and the dryer is only set to medium heat, which is less than 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).
Heat is an effective way to kill bed bugs, but garments must be laundered at temperatures of 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees Celsius) in order for the heat treatment to be effective.
Avoid taking your garments to a dry-cleaner. Dry-cleaning your garments will usually kill the bugs, but your infested garments may cause a bed bug outbreak at the dry-cleaners.;
, Upholstered furniture, rugs, and other fabrics that cannot by washed or dried can be placed outdoors on a hot, sunny day.


Loosely wrap the item in plastic bag material. Any plastic will work, but dark colors absorb more heat, so a black plastic bag is ideal.
Place the wrapped item in direct sunlight. Choose the sunniest, hottest day possible.
Let the wrapped item sit in that position for at least 24 hours, if not longer.
The internal temperature of the bagged item needs to reach 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees Celsius) or higher.
 If your bed bug problem occurs in the middle of winter, you can use freezing temperatures to kill bed bugs, as well.


Wrap each infested item in plastic bag material. Sit it in a shaded area on the coldest winter day possible.
Note that this method will take longer than sitting your furnishing out in the sun. If the temperature is consistently at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius), you will need to wait two to four days. If temperatures reach up to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7 degrees Celsius), you will need to wait for about a week., A portable heating device designed to kill bed bugs can be difficult to find and may cost you $300 or more.A portable bed bug heater is large enough to treat items like suitcases, backpacks, clothing, sleeping bags, purses, pillows, and shoes.
Place your items on the support rack inside the device and follow the instructions to heat the interior.
The heat will automatically turn off when the cycle is complete.
Note that a portable heating device is ineffective at treating an entire room or large space.
 If you need to treat an entire room, hire a pest management professional to treat the room with steam or specialized heaters.


A professional steamer session can range in price from $300 to $1200. Steaming takes a long time to complete, and the temperature of the steam must reach 160 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (71 to 82 degrees Celsius).
One of the most effective treatments is the use of a whole room heating system. Industrial heaters heat the air inside an entire space to a temperature between 120 and 135 degrees Fahrenheit (49 and 57 degrees Celsius).
Ask your pest management professional if your beds and furniture must be stripped or moved before the company's arrival. Some companies will ask you to do so, while others like to inspect the items first.Note that turning up the heat in your home will not accomplish the same results as a professional heating session.

