 You don’t need paper for every cake recipe. Paper is recommended for long-cooking cakes, such as fruitcakes. For most other recipes, you can save time and money by using butter and flour instead, as described below.


Regardless of recipe, use paper if your your tin has a history of sticking,;
, This will help stick the greaseproof paper (parchment paper) to the sides of the tin, making assembly easier.Because the cake batter won’t be touching the tin directly, you don’t need to do a thorough job.
 Wrap a piece of string around the cake tin. Cut the string where it wraps fully around the tin.
 Unroll your greaseproof paper and place the string over it. Cut off a piece of paper the length of the string.
 Fold this in half lengthwise, to make a long, narrow rectangle. Crease the fold with your hand. Unfold and cut along the crease. You now have two pieces of paper that can fit around your cake tin’s sides. Set aside one of them for another cake — you’ll only need one.


You can use both to double-line the cake tin, but this is usually unnecessary.
 Take the long side of the paper and fold it over about 2.5 cm (one inch). Crease this fold.
 This small folded area will rest on the base of the pan. To make it fit smoothly without crumpling, cut from the edge to the crease at 2.5 cm (one inch) intervals. You'll end up with a row of flaps.


Cut at a slight angle from the edge to make a better fit., You've prepared the paper to cover the sides. All that's left is the base. Place the tin on the paper and use a pencil to trace around it. Cut out the outline to make a piece that will cover the base.


Since the outside of the tin is larger than the inside, stay slightly within the line you traced.
 Wrap the long piece of paper around the inside walls of the tin. Push the flaps down until they are all lying flat against the base. Place the base paper onto the base of the tin, over the flaps. Press down to make sure it lies flat.


You can leave up to 5 cm (2 inches) of paper above the upper edge. This traps the heat in and browns the cake sides if it rises over the tin. Trim off any excess above that level.

