 Supreme Court documents must be filed in booklet form, using page sizes and paper quality not freely available to the general public. However, if you are filing "in forma pauperis" you don't have to meet these requirements and can file your documents on normal 8.5 x 11 letter-sized paper.Before you decide whether to search for a legal printer, you should figure out whether you qualify to proceed in forma pauperis.
If you do qualify, you typically can print your documents yourself. However, you still may want to avail yourself of assistance with proofreading or filing and service.
Rule 39 of the Supreme Court rules discusses proceedings in forma pauperis. Generally, if you have been granted leave to proceed in forma pauperis in a lower court, you will qualify to proceed that way in the Supreme Court.
Additionally, if you had a court-appointed attorney in a criminal case, you typically qualify to proceed in forma pauperis. This also is the case if you are an inmate and are not represented by an attorney.
If you have questions about whether you would qualify to proceed in forma pauperis, make a call to a licensed attorney who has experience representing low-income clients in Supreme Court cases. You may be able to find out by talking to someone at the legal services organization in your area.;
, Unless you live in the D.C. area or another large city, you may have difficulty finding a legal printer that is well-versed in formatting and printing U.S. Supreme Court documents.However, most printers have websites and will allow you to send your digital copies of your documents for printing, so it isn't necessary to find a local printer.
The easiest way to find legal printers that will potentially meet your needs is to do a general internet search for "US Supreme Court petition printers" or "legal printers Supreme Court documents."
Most legal printers allow you to mail your documents or submit them online using email, so you don't need to worry about where the legal printer is located.
Look at several websites to start a list of companies you might want to use. Pay attention to the information offered on the website about the company and the printing services they offer.
 If you know attorneys who have recently filed petitions with the Supreme Court, you might call them and ask which printing service they use. Most attorneys or law firms that handle Supreme Court cases regularly have a particular printer they always use.If you don't know of any attorneys or law firms to contact, look on the websites of legal printer websites for a list of attorneys or law firms who use them.
You can count on a legal printer that has a strong reputation and has printed documents for major law firms or in landmark Supreme Court cases to produce well-printed documents for you that comply with the Court's rules.
Many legal printers also print reviews from prior clients. However, you should take these with a grain of salt. Keep in mind that businesses typically won't print negative reviews on their own websites.
 Legal printers do more than just print your documents for you. Many of them also have formatting and proofreading services that you can use, and some also will take care of your filing and service of process requirements.Take note of which services are included in the overall cost of printing your documents, and which the printer charges extra for.
For example, if you're able to send a PDF to the printer that you've formatted yourself, and don't need any proofreading or extra services, you may save a lot of money on the printing services.
However, many legal printers also provide formatting and proofreading services that can help ensure your petition isn't rejected simply for not meeting the Supreme Court's rules.
Keep in mind that the overwhelming majority of petitions for certiorari are denied. As long as you can afford it, you should do everything you can to make sure your petition is at least considered on its merits, rather than rejected for a technical reason.
 While you can expect printing services to cost several thousand dollars, some may be cheaper than others. Legal printers typically don't provide general estimates on their websites, but calling or emailing several printers for an estimate allows you to comparison shop.Keep in mind that the number of services you get will affect the price you're charged. Some legal printers may include these services in their basic price, while others will charge additional fees for each service beyond the basic formatting and printing of your documents.
How quickly you need the documents completed also can affect your price. Most legal printers charge an additional fee if you need the documents expedited.
You'll save money by getting started as soon as possible after the final judgment from the appellate court is entered, rather than leaving the project to the last minute.
 The Supreme Court publishes a handbook to assist people who are representing themselves – known as "pro se" litigants – that explains the formatting requirements for Supreme Court documents.The handbook is designed for those planning to proceed "in forma pauperis," which means you don't have enough money to pay the court fees and printing costs associated with your petition.
However, even if you don't qualify to proceed in forma pauperis, and plan to use a legal printer, you still can use this guide to format your drafts for the legal printer.
This will save you some money because you won't have to get the legal printer to format your documents for you. It also saves time, since the printer will send you formatted copies for approval before printing them.
You can find a PDF copy of the handbook by visiting the Supreme Court's website at www.supremecourt.gov.
On the search bar at the top of the page, enter "in forma pauperis guidebook" to pull up a link to the PDF.
The guidebook also includes fill-in-the-blank copies of forms the Court requires you to file with your petition.
 If you plan to format your documents on your own, make sure you understand the formatting rules, specifically those in Rules 33.2 and 34 that apply to preparing documents on 8.5 x 11 letter-sized paper.These rules are very specific and technical. You may want to create your own checklist as you read the rules, so you can make sure you understand them and have something in your own words that you can work from.
If you do not qualify, or are not asking to proceed in forma pauperis, you must follow the "booklet" formatting requirements contained in Rule 33.1.
Even if you've contracted with a legal printer to print and format your documents, you still should have a basic understanding of this rule.
 Before you start typing your documents on your word processing application, make sure the page size and margins are set to the Supreme Court's rules. While 8.5 x 11 paper typically will be the default, you may have to adjust the margins.Whether in booklet format or on 8.5 x 11 paper, you should have a margin of three-quarters of an inch along all sides of each page.
It's important to set your margins before you type your document to avoid going over the Supreme Court's length requirements.
If you're submitting your documents to a legal printer to print in booklet format, the legal printer will tell you how to set your page size and margins so it will print correctly.
Typically you set the correct page size for booklet format by adjusting your margins, not changing the page size of your document.
So, for example, if you are setting your pages for booklet format, you would adjust your margins so that the text field was 4 and 1/8 by 7 and 1/8 inches.
 The Supreme Court rules require your documents to be typeset in a Century family font. The most common in this font family is New Century Schoolbook, which is the font the Court itself uses. This font may be included in your word processing application.The font is included with most Microsoft products. If you're using an Apple machine and don't have a Microsoft word processor installed, you may have to download the font from the internet.
Century family fonts typically cost between $30 and $50. Before you purchase the font, check with your legal printer to find out their charges for putting your document in the correct font.
As with margins, typing in the correct font can help you ensure you're within the court's page requirements.
Set your font size to 12 points for the text and 10 points for footnotes. Make sure your text and footnotes are single spaced for the booklet format. You may want to double-space between paragraphs for readability.
The rules themselves refer to "two point leading" between the lines. However, this phrase dates back to the time when documents were manually type-set, and doesn't apply to documents types on a computer and printed digitally.
If you're submitting your document on standard 8.5 x 11 paper, you must double-space your text. Footnotes and block quotes in the text should be double spaced.
If you're using a legal printer, check their requirements as well, particularly if you're submitting a camera-ready PDF of your documents for printing.
 The Supreme Court rules limit the number of pages your petition or brief can be, as well as the number of words. When you file your document, you must include a certification page attesting that your document does not exceed these limits.Word limits are separate from page limits. Although not every word of your document is included in the word count, every page counts towards the page limit.
Your word processing application probably has a word counter that will give you the word count of the entire document, or a highlighted section of the document.
However, you'll have to go through the rule and exempt words that aren't included in the word count to get the correct number.
You can do this either by highlighting the specific sections included in the word count and adding them together, or getting the word count of the entire document and then subtracting the word count of the sections that shouldn't be included.
A petition for certiorari is limited to 40 pages if submitted on 8.5 x 11 paper. This page limit does not include documents contained in your appendix. Booklet-format documents do not have a page limit, but must comply with the word limits.
 Along with your petition for writ of certiorari or brief to the Supreme Court, you must include a certificate that verifies the document complies with the Court rules regarding formatting and length.You can easily find a form on the internet to use for this purpose. This form merely states your document's word and page count, and includes a statement that you certify it complies with the Supreme Court's rules.
If you have an attorney, they will sign this form. If you're representing yourself, however, you must sign the certificate in the presence of a notary.
While many banks offer notary services free to their customers, you generally should expect to pay a small fee to have your certificate notarized.
 Check the rules or the pro se handbook to determine exactly what documents you need to submit to the Court, and how many copies of each document you need.If you are an inmate not represented by counsel, you only have to file the original. No additional copies are required.
Otherwise, you must submit your originals plus nine copies of each document. However, you must submit 40 copies of any document submitted in booklet format.
If you're printing your documents yourself, pay attention to the paper you use. You typically will have to buy paper at an office supply store – regular copy paper will not suffice.
The cover of your petition should be card stock, while the pages should be 60-pound paper. This essentially is bond paper, although you may want to talk to a legal printer to find out what paper you should use.
 When you file a petition for writ or certiorari, you must pay a $300 docketing fee, similar to filing fees you'd pay for other appeals. If you cannot afford to pay this fee, you also must include a motion and affidavit to proceed in forma pauperis.The "Motion for Leave to Proceed In Forma Pauperis" is a document that asks the court to grant you permission to submit your documents under the more relaxed rules and not have to pay filing or docketing fees for your case.
The affidavit provides the court with details about your income and assets, as well as whether you paid filing fees in the lower courts.
The court will analyze this information to determine whether you can afford the court costs and printing fees for your case.
If the court grants your motion, you won't have to pay the docketing fee or any other fees associated with your case, and will be able to file your case using the simpler formatting rules outlined in Rule 33.2.
The Supreme Court's handbook includes forms you can fill out for your motion and affidavit. For your motion to be considered, make sure you complete all sections of your affidavit.
Your signature on the affidavit also must be notarized. The notary public merely verifies your photo ID to confirm that you are the person signing the document. They will not read or verify the information in the document.
 To file your petition, you must mail all documents and copies to the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court within 90 days of the date of the entry of final judgment from the last highest appellate court.Mail your documents to Clerk, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C. 20543.
The post-mark on your documents must be dated before the 90-day deadline. However, it isn't necessary for your documents to have been received by that date.
However, keep in mind that you must specify delivery within three calendar days for the post-mark date to apply as your filing date.
 After you've filed your petition, you must deliver a copy of it to all other parties involved in the lawsuit using an approved legal service of process method. The Supreme Court's Rule 29 addresses service.You must submit a proof of service with your documents that certifies that your documents have been served on the other parties as required by Rule 29.
Typically the easiest way to complete service is to mail the documents to the parties (or their attorneys) using certified mail with restricted delivery and return receipt requested. You must choose to have the documents delivered within three days of the date you mail them.
Rule 29 requires you to send each party three copies of the documents you're delivering to them, unless you're filing in forma pauperis, in which case a single copy is sufficient.
If the United States or any federal government department or agency is named in your lawsuit, you must have a copy delivered to the Solicitor General of the United States, Room 5616, Department of Justice, 950 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20530-0001.

