 There should be stores near you that offer photo printing services, such as CVS, Walgreens, or a large store like WalMart. There may also be specialty photo printing shops nearby. Conducting a quick search on a search engine should yield results for printing shops near you. For example, you can type “photo printing shop in Detroit, MI” into a search engine to pull up results for your area.
 There should be an area dedicated to photo printing. There should be sales associates available to assist you as well as a couple of kiosks (also known as a computer station) where you can upload your photos. Some kiosks will allow you to upload images directly from your smartphone or you can bring a flash drive with all of your images with you to the store. If you need assistance, a clerk should be available to assist you with your printing needs.


Select the format. In-store kiosks will often give you the option of making special prints, such as photo books, calendars, posters, and even mugs or T-shirts. Simply select the option that you are looking for, such as standalone prints. You can also do more than one format if you desire.
Choose the size and quantity. Once you have your images uploaded to the computer at the kiosk, you will be prompted to choose size and quantity of the images to be printed. This may be done one photo at a time and should allow you the opportunity to adjust or crop the images so that they fit the print perfectly.
Make adjustments such as zooming, color adjustment, changing the image to black and white and more, while placing your order.
Select either the one-hour or multiple-day option. This timeframe refers to when you will be able to pick up your photos. Most stores now offer a pickup time within the same day; however, if multiple-day rates are offered, they are generally less expensive.
 The system may already send the data to the printing clerks or it may issue a ticket confirming your order number. If you placed your order online for in-store pickup, print out and retain a copy of your order confirmation. You may also receive an email confirming your order if you entered that information while working at the kiosk.
 Your confirmation email or ticket may have the pick-up information but some places will send you an email when it is ready to be picked up. Most stores will have the order filed by last name, and that alone should be sufficient for pick-up. Having your redemption ticket or online confirmation handy will aid the sales associate if they have any issues locating your order.

