 Purchase or pick fresh mint leaves to start making your mask. Avoid dried leaves, which may not have the same benefits as fresh leaves and also may burn your skin because they are concentrated.


Find about 50 good-sized leaves, or the equivalent of ¼ cup of leaves.Buy mint leaves either as a plant at a local store or pre-picked and packaged at a grocery or produce store. You can also grow your own mint from the garden to make your mask.
Check the leaves to make sure they are not wilted, browning, or have any insects on them. This can help ensure that you get the most benefits from the mask.;
, Gently wash or wipe off the leaves you’ve purchased and then dry them. This can minimize the risk that you get pesticides or other chemicals or dirt on your skin.


Be sure to not douse or oversaturate the leaves with water to prevent any of the anti-microbial properties from leeching out.
Wiping the leaves with a damp towel can clean the leaves without oversaturating them.
Dab the leaves to dry them.
 Once the leaves are clean and dry, grind or chop them into a paste. This helps release the chemicals that can help get rid of your acne and makes it easier to apply to your face.Use a blender, mortar and pestle, or even a simple knife to grind your leaves.
Make a thick-ish paste that you can apply alone or mix with a soothing or healing product., You can use your mint leaves alone as a mask or mix them with another ingredient. This can help boost the anti-acne properties of the mint or provide other benefits such as controlling inflammation or moisturizing your skin.Some possible combinations you can use include:


Mix ½ mashed and de-seeded cucumber with the mint leaves, which can cool your skin and soothe inflammation.Add one to two tablespoons of plain yogurt to soothe and moisturize your skin.Combine mint with one egg white to help further unblock pores.Mix the mint leaves, 2 tablespoons milk powder, ½ tablespoon of honey and ¼ cucumber to soothe and moisturize your skin and boost the anti-bacterial properties of the mint., Gently rub the mask you’ve mixed all over your face or only to those areas on which you want to get rid of acne. Allow it to dry to get the most benefits from the mask.Do a small patch test on your skin before applying the mask to minimize the risk
Be aware the mint or other ingredients may cause some tingling or could cause a reaction. If it becomes uncomfortable at any point, rinse off the mask with cool water. Try and not rub it off with a washcloth, which may increase your sensitivity.
Apply the mask with your fingers or a clean cloth.
 Once the mask has dried, rinse it off with some cool water. Be sure to remove any residue so that you minimize the risk of irritating your skin.


Use a soft and clean cloth to remove any residue that rinsing doesn’t clear away. Avoid rubbing your skin too vigorously.
Use a water temperature that is comfortable for you. Cool water may feel especially good with the mint leaves. Be sure to not use water that is too hot, which can strip your skin of important oils and cause dryness and further irritation or acne.
 If you have any mask that you haven’t used, store it for a future use. The mask may stay fresh for up to a week in the refrigerator or longer in the freezer.Place the mixture in an airtight container. You could also put the mask in a covered ice-cube tray in the freezer.
 If you continue to have problems with acne, re-apply any leftover mask or make a new one to deal with breakouts. Avoid doing this too often to minimize the risk of irritating your skin.


Aim to apply the mask no more than twice a week., Remove excess dirt and oil from your skin by cleansing it regularly. This may minimize and prevent acne or breakouts.Wash with a cleanser that is gentle and has a neutral pH.Use an oil-free cleanser if your skin is especially oily. Try a glycerine or cream-based cleanser if you have dry skin.Avoid most bar soaps because their ingredients could clog pores. Using a neutral-pH soap with a moisturizing cream may gently cleanse your skin.
Wash with lukewarm water because too hot water may strip your skin of needed oils or cause irritation., Regular cleansing is important, but you don’t want to overwash your skin. You can irritate your skin, strip its oil, and promote acne by washing your skin too often.Cleanse acne-prone areas twice a day at most, unless you are very active. This is often enough to keep your skin clean and clear., Before you go to bed or exercise, take off your makeup. Not doing this can clog your pores and cause more acne.Remove every trace of makeup with a gentle cleanser or make-up remover.
Cleaning your makeup applicators regularly with soapy water can get rid of acne-causing bacteria., If you exercise often or are very active, shower when you’re done. Sweat may stimulate the production of oil or bacteria that could cause acne., Rub a skin-type specific moisturizer following your cleansing routine. Properly hydrating your skin may get rid of and prevent acne.Even oily skin requires a moisturizer. Choose an oil-free and non-comedogenic product.Talk to your dermatologist or doctor about your skin type and then buy products specifically formulated for your needs.
 Dead skin and debris can clog pores and cause acne. Use a gentle exfoliator on your skin to clear away acne-causing debris.


Understand that an exfoliator only scrubs away surface skin and cannot remove acne.
Choose an exfoliator with either synthetic or natural beads to minimize irritation. A soft washcloth can also gently exfoliate your skin.
 Apply a product to absorb excess oil from your skin. This may help remove oil that is clogging your pores, but also keep bacteria and dead skin that cause acne at bay.Apply an over the counter treatment of salicylic acid. Your doctor can prescribe one if your acne is more severe.Using a clay mask once a week in conjunction with your mint mask may further absorb excess oil and also help purify your skin.
Place an oil blotting paper on your face to soak up excess oil.
 Apply non-comedogenic products to your face. Skincare marked “non-comedogenic” won’t clog your pores and may help prevent breakouts and irritation.Look for products with the label “non-comedogenic,” which means the company has tested it for acne-prone skin.Consider using skincare marked “hypoallergenic” as well. This means the company has tested the product specifically for sensitive skin and it will not irritate your skin.
 It’s often tempting to remove acne pimples, but it’s important to avoid picking at your skin. Touching your skin can spread oil and bacteria that may cause acne or irritation.