 If you decide to ignore the non-compete agreement, your former employer may sue you.


Typically, the only way to fight a non-compete agreement is to go to court. If you are an employee (or former employee) who signed such an agreement, this means you must violate the agreement and wait to be sued.
It may be that your former employer has never sued another employee to enforce the non-compete agreement. However, keep in mind that each employee's circumstances are different, and the reasons the company chose not to sue other employees may not apply to your situation. The fact that your former employer hasn't sued other employees in the past isn't a legally valid reason to simply ignore the agreement.Usually the employer will be requesting a temporary injunction against you. This is a court order forbidding you from working until the final trial. You will have to go to a hearing before a judge will issue this order.In many cases the hearing on the temporary restraining order will be the only trial in the matter, because if the judge upholds the non-compete agreement you will be forced out of work and must find a new job that doesn't violate the agreement., An employment attorney experienced in fighting non-compete agreements may be best able to protect your interests.


A local attorney also will have a solid understanding of the judges in your area and the development of the law in your state. The attorney can use her knowledge of a judge's reputation to your advantage in fighting your case.
This is particularly important when dealing with a non-compete agreement, since so much of the outcome of the case depends on what the judge considers reasonable in terms of the restrictions the non-compete agreement imposes on you., If you are sued, you must file an answer to the lawsuit, typically within 20 days.


The complaint states the allegations your former employer is making against you, and why it feels it is entitled to relief from the court. In your answer, you address each of those allegations and tell the court whether you admit, deny, or don't have sufficient knowledge or the allegation to either admit or deny it.The answer is your opportunity to tell your side of the story, as well as to raise any affirmative defenses or counterclaims that have relevance to your case.For example, if through your research you learned that the non-compete agreement you signed was not supported by valid consideration, you could raise that point as an affirmative defense., During the discovery process, you have the opportunity to exchange information with your former employer as you build your case.


As a part of discovery, you have the ability to ask your former employer written questions which must be answered under oath, or request documents such as human resources records be made available to you.One important piece of information you may be able to find out through discovery is whether your former employer has sued any other employees for violation of the non-compete agreement, and what the outcome of any such lawsuits was. If prior employees have defeated the non-compete agreement and the agreement wasn't changed, you may be able to defeat it using the same arguments and principles.Depending on whether your former employer has requested the court grant a temporary restraining order prohibiting you from violating the agreement, you may have a limited time to obtain information through discovery.
 You can review previous cases decided in your state to analyze what judges have considered reasonable and what types of non-compete agreements judges in your state have refused to enforce.


Reviewing your state's law as well as prior decisions from courts in your state can give you a good idea of which of your defenses are most likely to succeed.
As part of your preparation, analyze the non-compete agreement you signed to determine if it meets the legal requirements set forth by your state's law., A neutral third-party may be able to help you and your former employer come to a settlement that allows you to pursue new opportunities without damaging your former employer's business.


Mediation allows both you and your former employer to have some control over the outcome of the case, which isn't possible if the case is presented before a judge.Additionally, mediation proceeds are confidential, which means your employer won't have to worry about the dispute over your non-compete agreement being a part of the public record.