 Choose moves that flow easily into one another. Use the notes that you have compiled while watching dances in your genre and by free dancing.For example, if you're doing a dance that requires you to lean forward and shake your hips, you should transition into another move that requires you to shake your hips. Maybe instead of leaning forward you lean all the way backward. Those two moves have now been paired together and can be incorporated into your dance.
 Common dance moves like the Twist for rock and roll music or the the two step and arm wave for hip hop can help you start to figure out what kind of dance you want to move.


The twist involves standing with your feet shoulder length apart and then proceeding to twist your hips while you shift your weight from one foot to another. Hold your arms away from your body. It's a great starting point for older rock and roll songs.
If you're trying to make up a hip hop dance, two step is a great options. The two step is easy, you bend over slightly with one foot forward and one foot back. You take one step forward from a low position and rock up, then step back and rock back. It's basically an exaggerated walking in place motion.
The arm wave is another good hip hop dance move. To do the arm wave you put both your arms out straight to the side, then lift your hand at the wrist while you keep the rest of your shoulders and arms level. Then let your hand drop and lift just your wrist. As you do this you want your fingertips to be roughly in the same line as your shoulder. When you lift your elbow it raises while your hand shoulder stay down. After this you move to your other shoulder - as the shoulder drops the elbow comes up, then your other wrist comes up, followed by your other hand. It might be easier to visualize rolling a ball from one hand to another. You do the same motion.
 Dividing the song into sections will help you remember your dance moves, but it will also help you come up with a better idea for what sort of dance you should be doing at each point of the song.


For example, if the song starts slow your dance should reflect that. Once the song starts to pick up speed, you could designate that as a different section and dance differently during that period of time.
 If you already know where you’re going to be dancing when you perform, consider placing down pieces of tape that designate the areas you need to be at certain points in your dance. Blocking is a word used in theater that indicates the location the actor is supposed to be on the stage. If you are dancing with many different people you can use different colors of tape for each person.


Take your event and audience into consideration when you’re blocking your dance.
 Just make sure that you are organized and clear enough that you are able to remember what means what.


Writing out your routine will help you make it clearer in your mind and you’ll also start to notice things like inconsistencies in the dance or if there are parts with too much repetition.
 Make sure your dance matches your music and the mood you want to convey. Slower dances may be more emotional and introspective, whereas if you are moving your hips quickly and moving around with faster motions you might bring a higher energy to the dance. Consider what you want to accomplish with your dance.

