 Creating a photo album online, such as through a social media site, might be a great way for you to collect all your photos in one place if you’re not looking to add another book to your bookshelf.Have friends and family in far away places? A digital album will make sharing the story of your engagement much easier.
You’ll want to arrange to purchase the digital files from your photographer if you had any professional shoots.;
, If you want to have something you can pull out for guests or showcase on your coffee table, you should consider a traditional physical album.


Physical albums come in all types so pick one that will fit you and your significant other’s style. Go for a fancy leather bound album if you’ve got photos from a glamorous shoot. Perhaps a fabric album is more your style if you’re the creative type.
You can always arrange to have your photos printed directly onto the album’s pages in a coffee-table style book., If you’re the crafty type and you have a lot of keepsakes from the engagement you’d like to incorporate with the photos, a scrapbook is a great place to document all these different media types.This could be a fun way for you and your significant other to spend a few afternoons reminiscing about your special day as you craft a remembrance of it.
 Did you have a friend hiding in the bushes to document the big question? A photographer on site? Did you take a selfie after the proposal? Grab those formal and informal photos for the album.If you didn’t have someone documenting your significant other on bended knee, don’t fret! You can take some photos yourself of the ring or the location of the proposal at a later date to document this moment.
 If you had an engagement session done, look through these photos and choose your favorites to include in the book. These professional photos will class up your engagement album!If you’re planning to make an engagement album, make sure your photographer knows so they can shoot appropriately.
 Find some photos of you and your significant other as a couple to fill out the album. Photos of you together with any pets, at your first home, on a first date, or other firsts will add your personalities to the album., Perhaps someone else caught some candids of you and your significant other at an engagement party. Call up friends and family and see if they have any photos of the two of you that they’d like to see in the album.
 Adding some keepsakes from the engagement throughout the album will help give it a special touch.


Was the proposal at a special event? Include the tickets from the event in your album. Was the proposal part of a scavenger hunt? Save the clues to include in your album. If you ran a wedding announcement in the newspaper, throw that in as well., If your album allows you to insert a photo on the cover, choose one that captures your engagement.


This would be a great place for a photo from the actual proposal or for a professional photo from an engagement shoot.
 Whether you choose to chronologically arrange your images or not, choose some sort of sequence. Throw them all out on a large table and play around with different arrangements.Maybe you include some solo photos first, then some couple photos, and then the engagement photos.
Intersperse candid couple shots or detail shots between formal engagement photos., Go ahead and use a different spread for each page and include images of different sizes. This will keep your viewer engaged and will be fun for you to design., You’ll have a million photos that you feel you must include. But sometimes a single statement photo on a page looks more striking than five or six crammed in.