 You won't be likely to fall asleep if you can't relax in the first place. Creating a bedroom that is the perfect environment for sleeping in can help you fall asleep and wake up feeling rested. Keep some of the following tips in mind when making your bedroom as comfortable as can be:Avoid having any TVs or computer screens on when sleeping.
Keep the room dark.
Close your bedroom door to help keep noises out.
Make sure the room is a comfortable temperature.
Turn on some white noise to block out any distracting sounds.
 Although it may seem counterintuitive, keeping your clocks hidden can actually help you sleep better. If a clock is too visible you may be tempted to keep looking at it, building stress because you haven't fallen asleep yet. Instead, set your alarm and keep any clock hidden from view as you relax and allow yourself to fall asleep., Although you may have a busy schedule, relaxing before bed can have a large impact on how well you will sleep. Try to find a simple activity that you find calming and do that before going to bed.Avoid working on a computer, reading something on your phone, or watching TV as the light can keep you awake.
Try to refocus your thoughts away from anything that you might be feeling stress over.
Taking a warm bath before bed can help you feel relaxed.
Reading is a great way to help you relax and fall asleep before bed.
Make your relaxation time a consistent ritual to condition your body and mind for sleep., Worrying about not sleeping will only make you feel more worried and prevent you from falling asleep. If you are having difficulty sleeping, don't compound the problem by becoming stressed.Spend no more than 20 minutes trying to fall asleep.
If you can't fall asleep or don't feel tired leave your bed and bedroom.
Do a relaxing activity until you begin to feel sleepy.
Return to your bedroom and try again.
 Eating too much food before bed can have an effect on how well you sleep or how easy it is to fall asleep. Drinking too much water before bed can cause you to awake frequently in order to urinate. Always avoid drinking or eating too much before going to bed to improve the quality of sleep.Going to be too hungry can also cause you to lose sleep.
Try to find a good balance of hunger and thirst before you sleep.

