 Depending on what look you want, you will need one twin-sized sheet, two twin-sized sheets, or one full-sized sheet. A twin-sized sheet will measure 66 by 96 inches (167.64 by 243.84 centimeters). A full-sized sheet will measure 81 by 96 inches (205.74 by 243.84 centimeters). Listed below are some options to get you started:Get two twin-sized sheets (one per panel) if you want very full curtains.
Cut a twin-sized sheet in half to make two panels, if you want skinny curtains.
Cut a full-sized sheet in half to make two panels if you want standard curtains.;
, If you lost the package and can't find the tag, use a cool wash cycle, and a normal dry cycle. Iron the sheets once they are dry.
 If you want to turn one bed sheet into two thinner panels, fold the sheet in half and line up the edges. Press the fold with an iron, then cut along the fold.
 Fold both raw edges inward, towards the wrong side of the fabric, twice by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Press the fold flat with an iron, then insert some iron-on hem tape inside the hem. Following the instructions on the package, press the hem flat again to seal it.


Because of the length you are working with, you might find it easier to insert and iron 10 inch (25.4 centimeters) long sections of iron-on hem tape at a time.When you are done, flip the curtain over so that the right side is facing you, and press the hems flat for 3 to 5 seconds. This helps seal the iron-on hem tape further., This will create the holes through which the curtain rod will slide––do not unpick any other part of the hem's seam, just the sides.


Consider leaving the top hem alone, and using clip-on curtain rings to hang the sheets onto the curtain rod instead.
 Press flat with an iron, but do not use any iron-on hem tape.
 If you decided to use curtain rings, simply clip them onto the top hem, and pass the curtain rod through the rings.
 If you have a very high ceiling, hang the curtains higher up, and pull them to the outer edges of the window (as opposed to the inner edges).
 To prevent fraying of the ribbons, cut each end diagonally.

