 Depending on what kind of nonfiction you have been writing, you may need to change your style a bit for fiction writing.


For instance, journalistic writing is very short and choppy. That style can work in fiction, but you might also try writing slightly more complex sentences.
Don’t be afraid to try different ways of starting a sentence. Varying length and structure will keep your reader more interested in the writing.
 Diction refers to the words you choose to set a mood.


For instance, “protest” and “objection” are listed as synonyms. However, “protest” has political overtones, while “objection” is sometimes used in court.
Therefore, their connotations, the meanings they have separate from their dictionary definitions, are quite different.
Choose the word the best fits your story and the tone you are trying to set.
 Starting out with short fiction can be a good way to dip your toes into the world of fiction writing.


In fact, you can begin with flash fiction, which is generally under 1,000 words (depending on who you ask).
Longer fiction takes more planning and development, so beginning with something shorter will help you learn the craft.
 Using writing prompts can be a good way to to explore fiction writing, without the burden of long plot brainstorming sessions.


You can find writing prompts online, or you can use a special object or an old photograph.
Use anything that will help get you started writing.
 Read all genres of fiction to get a broad understanding for what genres are included in fiction writing.


This will help you become a better writer, because you will be exposed to different styles of writing and different ways of telling a story.
 Though they may not be the most entertaining, they will help you hone your craft.


You can also find an ample amount of material on the internet to help you learn to write better.
 Workshop leaders will usually teach you about a particular style of writing.


You’ll also spend time writing in a workshop, in the style that they are teaching you.
Classes will help you delve more thoroughly into writing.
You’ll also find peers doing the same thing you are, which is invaluable; they’ll know what you are struggling with and can help you become a better writer.
 Workshopping is different from a workshop, as it is more focused on editing what you have already written.


In workshops, you may pass out your work beforehand or exchange it at the meeting.
You can find people to workshop with at your local library, in writing classes, and even online.

