 Chances are that your dog is spending a lot of quality time with you and your family in the living and/ or dining rooms. Checking for and removing any potentially dangerous items such as cords, toys, or other knick-knacks can prevent injury and even death.


Look for dangling wires from electronics such as TVs, DVD players, stereos, lamps, and telephones and put them in a place that is out of reach to your dog. You may want to consider covering electrical outlets and unplug items you are not using to prevent electrocution through chewing. Consider getting rid of frayed wires, which can also electrocute your dog.Keep spaces clear of children’s toys or knick-knacks, including items such as sewing tools. Your dog may see these as chew toys and ingest small parts that could choke her. She could also knock them over and cause injury to herself.
Cover all of the heating and air vents to prevent your dog from burning herself or getting too cold. Most home and pet stores offer different covers you can use.Move potentially poisonous plants to spaces your dog can’t access. This includes hanging plants onto which your dog can jump from nearby spaces.The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has a list of plants that are toxic to dogs that you can consult.Vacuum the space regularly to remove any small or undetectable hazards such as buttons, string, or toy parts that can choke your dog.;
, Even seemingly non-hazardous items such as shoes or sweaters can harm your dog if ingested. Whether or not your dog sleeps with you at night or simply has access during the day, keep your bedroom organized and free of tempting “treats.”Make sure any laundry is in a basket or other covered container. Hang and store clothing in closets and dressers that your dog can’t access. Clothing items often have string and embellishments such as drawstrings, buttons, and appliques that can cause serious harm to your dog’s intestines.
Store shoes in containers, a closet, or a shoe rack on the back of a door. Dogs often see shoes as chew toys and pieces can break off and choke your dog.Remove or cover any wires in the bedroom just as you would in other rooms.
See if there are any medications or other items such as lotion that your dog can access and which may harm her.Check to make sure you haven’t accidentally closed your dog in a closet or drawer whenever you open it., The kitchen can be a wonderful playground for a curious—and hungry—dog. Storing potentially harmful foods and chemicals and closing off containers and spaces can go far in keeping your dog safe.


Make sure your garbage can is secured with a lid that your dog can’t remove. An open garbage can provide your dog with otherwise forbidden food but can also expose her to other hazards such as bones from food or chemicals.
Keep food stored in airtight containers and in cabinets to which your dog can’t gain access. Put wrapped food in cabinets, too. Although the food may not be harmful to your dog, the wrapper could be.
Put any cleaners, medications, or other chemicals on high shelves so that your dog can’t access them. If this isn’t possible, consider putting childproof latches on lower cabinets so your dog can’t pry them open.Clean up any food that falls on the ground when cooking or eating. Make sure to vacuum and mop the floor regularly to remove potentially harmful substances or foods.
Make sure that sharp objects such as knives are stored in a drawer or cabinet that your dog can’t access.
Consider unplugging any kitchen appliances that you are not using. For example, you could unplug the toaster or microwave so that your dog can’t chew on the cords., Just like your kitchen, the bathroom can also present your dog with a playground and a place to grab a “drink.” Check your bathroom spaces for chemicals or potentially harmful items such as old towels, which can prevent injury and death.


Store any cleaners, chemicals or medicines either on high shelves or in cabinets that you’ve secured with childproof latches.
Use a garbage can that is covered to keep your dog from getting at chemicals, medications, or other items such as feminine hygiene products. You can also put the garbage can inside a latched cabinet with a cover.
Keep the toilet lid closed at all times to prevent your dog from falling in, drowning, or drinking water that may have chemicals in it. You can also use a childproof latch on the toilet to keep your dog safe., No matter if you have a designated laundry room or keep the washer and dryer in another space, it’s important to keep laundry areas organized. Storing detergents and putting away dirty clothes can keep your dog from ingesting potentially harmful substances.


Make sure clothes are in a designated hamper or closet where you dog can’t access them. Remember that seemingly harmless items such as string, buttons, or embellishments can harm your dog.
Put laundry detergent, fabric softener, dryer sheets and other chemicals on a high shelf or in a latched cabinet so that your dog can’t eat or drink them.
Make sure your dog hasn’t jumped into the dryer or washer each time you use them., In addition to bigger rooms, you should also check smaller areas of your home. Figure out if there are potential hazards in them that you should remove or cover. Some additional spaces you may want to check are:


Stairs, by making sure they are free of objects and safe for elderly or small dogs to climb
Closets and cupboards, which may store articles of clothing or chemicals., If your dog goes inside and outside, or simply stays outside, it’s important that she have a safe shelter from the elements at any time of year. Dogs are very sensitive to temperature and they experience the same discomfort in extremes that humans do. Providing a heated space in the winter and a shaded spot in the summer can go a long way in keeping your dog safe and healthy., Attached or stand-alone garages can also present dangers to your dog in the form of items such as sharp tools, chemicals, and even your car. Organizing your garage and putting potentially harmful objects in places your dog can’t reach can help prevent accidents or death.


Store chemicals in secure containers and place them on either high shelves or behind secure doors. This is especially important with antifreeze, which has a smell and taste that attracts dogs. One lick of antifreeze can kill a dog.
Make sure to clean the floor regularly, especially if you’ve been using antifreeze.
Store sharp objects, tools, and cords in a place your dog can’t access.
Consider keeping electronics or electric objects such as saws or screwdrivers unplugged to prevent the risk of electrocution or other injury.
Check under or bang on the hood of your car to make sure your dog hasn’t crawled inside for warmth., You and your dog can get a lot of enjoyment out of a garden. But it can also present dangers to your dog in the form of plants, pesticides, and parasites. Caring for your garden while thinking of your dog’s needs can keep her safe while she is outside.


Make sure your garden doesn’t have any plants that are poisonous to your dog. Some of the most beautiful flowers including daffodils and azaleas are toxic to dogs.Consult the ASPCA’s extensive database of toxic plants for dogs if you are unsure if a plant is potentially poisonous.Chemical fertilizers and insecticides can also be harmful or fatal if ingested by your dog. Consider organic gardening instead of chemicals to maintain your yard. You can consult your local county extension office for information on how to garden organically.
Parasites such as fleas, ticks, and worms can harm your dog. The easiest way to prevent them from harming your dog is by getting a broad range flea and tick or heartworm medication. Be aware that most heartworm medications can prevent other worm and flea and tick infestations.Keep your dog inside when mowing the lawn or trimming the hedges.
 Depending on where you live, consider enclosing your yard with a physical or invisible fence. This can keep your dog from running onto a busy street or protect her from other dogs or predators.


Consider your area and needs when deciding on a physical or invisible fence. If you live in a rural area with a lot of wildlife, a physical fence may be a better choice because it can keep out predators such as bears, cougars, and wolves. More suburban areas may be better with invisible fences. These don’t change the appearance of your home and still keep your dog from straying outside of your yard., Although most dogs can swim, they can still drown in pools. Putting a fence around your pool can prevent this or other injuries she may get from toys or falling objects. If you cannot afford to install a fence or gate around your pool, consider getting a hard cover for it, which may deter her from jumping in the pool., The best way to make sure you’ve effectively secured your home is by getting down to your dog’s level and putting yourself in her place. Check each area and space inside and outside your home and see if there are any problems you need to address. Ask yourself some of the following questions as you inspect each area:


What can I eat, drink or chew in this space?
Can I climb or use “ladders” to access forbidden items?
Can I get stuck in this space?
What items can fall on, strangle, electrocute, suffocate or otherwise injure me?, Because there are so many nooks and crannies in any person’s home, you may identify spots that could harm to your dog during your four-legged inspection. Take the appropriate steps to fix or remedy these spots as soon as you can. This can prevent injury to your dog and even death.
 You may still have questions after an inspection or dog-proofing session. In these cases, talk to your vet about how best to approach each situation. For example, you may occasionally give your dog table food as a treat. Ask your if what you give the dog can harm her and find out if there are alternatives she may like.


Get your dog to the vet if she does accidentally injure herself or ingest a chemical. Your doctor may be able to treat the problem and suggest ways to avoid injuries in the future.