 Expressing your desire to live with your boyfriend is the first step toward opening a dialogue about cohabitation. Telling him simply that you would like to move in together will leave little to no confusion in what you are saying. Set a time to sit down together and discuss the possibility of cohabitation.Timing is important. Don’t pressure him to move in early on in the relationship and try to bring up the conversation without conflict.
Allot a significant amount of time to this conversation. Not only will you have many things to discuss, but it will also demonstrate the conversation's importance.
Start the conversation by expressing your satisfaction with the relationship and describing what you would like to continue, such as “I love spending time with you and I want to do more of it.”;
, Explaining your reasons, now that you’ve opened up a clear line of dialogue, around why you want to move in together will help put this phase of your relationship in perspective. There are many reasons why couples move in together, like financial convenience, a step toward marriage or partnership, greater intimacy, or having children together.Give serious thought as to why you want to move in together. If it’s about finances, make a budget with both of your incomes. If it’s about moving toward marriage or partnership explain how you see moving in together is a step in the right direction.
Try to give specific examples, like “We could both save so much money by sharing rent,” or “I really want marriage and children in the future, and living together is the next step in realizing that goal.”

, Moving in together can also provide opportunities to experience missing elements in your relationship. Perhaps you both have busy professional lives and cannot spend much time together, have opposite schedules making quality time scarce, or your relationship is lacking stronger intimacy. Whatever the reason, explaining what you believe to be missing form the relationship and how moving in together can be a step in right direction will help your boyfriend understand your needs.


Use “I” statements when describing what you think is missing from your relationship. Instead of saying something like “You do not spend enough time with me” try something closer to “I think our relationship could benefit from us spending more time together.”

