 Before you start writing your obituary, you should make sure that the obituary will be printed in the local paper and you have all the information. Many funeral homes offer a printed obituary in the newspaper as part of the funeral package, so if that's the case, you'll need to call the funeral home if you need more information; if not, you should call your local newspaper. Here's what you need to know:


The cost. Most papers charge by the inch, but the word count can vary based on the paper's font and column width, so you should ask how many words are in an inch.
The deadline. Most papers have a 4 or 5 p.m. deadline for obituaries, though some make exceptions because it's a delicate subject. But be careful about handing in your obituary too long after the deadline, because that may mean that the editors don't have as much time to proofread and finalize your work.
The date it will be printed. You'll want the obituary to be printed as soon as possible so you can not only announce the death in a timely manner but also let everyone know where and when the funeral will take place.
If you'd like the obituary to run in papers other than the local papers, such as national papers if the person was notable, or other local papers in a town where your loved one spent a lot of his life, then you should call those newspapers as well.
 Pick up the local paper that will be printing your obituary and read as many obituaries as you can. This will give you a better sense of what a typical obituary looks like, and will also let you see if the newspaper has a certain style; it can be more formal or more free-flowing than the average paper.


Though there is a format for obituaries, it would help to see if your paper diverges from this format a bit or if it sticks to it rigidly, so you can match your obituary to the other ones you see. You still have some room to write what you want, but if your obituary falls outside the style guidelines of the paper, your work will be heavily edited.
 Before you write your obituary, you should write down some basic information about the person so you know what you'll have to include once you start putting the facts in sentence form. Here are some basic things to include in almost any obituary:


First and last name
Age
Birth date
Residence (city and state)
Partner's name
When and where the funeral, viewing, wake, or memorial service will take place

If you don't know when the funeral will take place yet, you can write the name of the funeral home so people can contact the home for more information. If you plan on running the obituary more than once, you can include this information the next time if you know it then.
 After you've written down the basics, you can write down some additional information about the person that can give more insight into who he was as an individual. Here are some things you may want to include:The names and residences of the person's children.
The names of the person's grandchildren. If there are many grandchildren, you can just say how many there are instead of listing all of their names.
The names of the person's parents. If the parents are deceased, you can say that the person you're writing about is "the son of the late John Smith."
Some information about the person's education. You can write the name of the person's high school, college, and even graduate school if it's applicable.
Information about the person's vocation. You can write down the person's profession or even where he worked.
The person's hobbies. If the person loved fishing, then write it down. If he just did it occasionally to pass the time, then it isn't necessary.
The names of any beloved pets of the deceased.
The birthplace of the deceased, or the names of other places where he lived if they were important to him.
Some information or anecdotes that show the person's quirks or personality traits.
Information about how the person died. If the person died in a particularly gruesome way or by suicide, you may want to use your discretion, but if the person died in a major catastrophe, at war, or after battling a long illness, you may want to include it.

