 With play, vibration may loosen screws and bolts in your guitar. Over time these can affect the sound of your guitar or your ability to play it. Check for loose screws before you store your instrument.Keep the appropriate tools in your guitar case so you can easily tighten any loose screws when necessary.
 The best way to adequately protect your guitar from the elements is to store it in a hard case or gig bag at all times when you're not playing it. Even having it on a stand or hanging on the wall means it could be bumped or damaged.A hard case generally is best, but if you don't have a hard case, a soft case or gig bag is better than simply leaving your guitar out and exposed to the elements.
 Your guitar is made of thin wood that can be warped or damaged fairly easily, so any kind of moist or humid conditions are not your guitar's friend. If you live in a humid climate, consider storing your guitar in an area with a dehumidifier.Ideally, you want to store your guitar in a place where the relative humidity is somewhere between 45 and 55 percent.
 Light and temperature also can damage your instrument. Leaving your guitar in direct sunlight could cause the finish to fade over time. Try to keep your guitar in a space between 72 and 77ʡF (22 and 25ʡC).A rapid change in either temperature or humidity can cause your finish to crack. While this won't necessarily affect the sound of your instrument, it can weaken the wood and make it more vulnerable to damage.
 If you frequently play your guitar hanging from a guitar strap, a set of strap locks is essential to maintain your guitar and keep it looking its best. Straplocks, as the name implies, lock your strap in place so that your guitar doesn't pop off the strap.Without straplocks, your guitar could come loose from the strap while you're playing and you could drop it as a result. Accidental falls like that can damage your guitar's finish or crack the body.
Strap locks are relatively inexpensive, and you can pick them up at any guitar or music store. If you know you're going to be playing your guitar on a strap, it's best to go ahead and get a set when you buy your guitar.

