 If you’re anxious about something in your relationship, make sure that you keep communication open and honest. This doesn’t mean bringing up every insecurity and fear you have or making accusations at your partner. Instead, if you notice something, show concern. For example, if your partner has been spending more time with friends and less time with you, say, “I’m starting to miss seeing you. Is there something going on?” Turn your attention to being a good listener and watch their nonverbal communication.Instead of worrying that something is wrong, just ask. Say, “You seem down. What’s going on?”

, If you worry about what your partner is doing or insist on seeing their phone, emails, or social media accounts, know that this type of fear and worry can deeply impact your relationship. Your partner may feel like you don’t trust them, even if their actions are completely trustworthy. Especially if you’ve been hurt in the past, it’s okay to leave the past behind and move forward in the present.Ask yourself why you feel the need to check their phone, email, or social media accounts. Is it because of past experiences in relationships? Or is it something you are doing out of fear? Take a moment to consider why you might feel like you need to have access to your partner’s private information.
Talk with your partner about healthy boundaries. Decide on what is and is not acceptable for both of you. Most importantly, stick to your agreements and choose to trust your partner.
Generally, stay away from monitoring your partner’s activity. This can create feelings of distrust and resentment.
 There may be certain situations that make you feel highly anxious. Let your partner know what triggers you. Whether it’s being late, feeling rushed, or crowds at the supermarket, your partner can know what situations make you feel anxious and be understanding when these unexpected events occur.Letting your partner know your triggers can allow them to be a support for you when you feel overwhelmed.

