 Grab a medium mixing bowl. Pop your water in the microwave or in a saucepan on the stovetop, and then heat it until it’s 110 degrees Fahrenheit, or 45 degrees Celsius. The water must be this warm for the yeast to work. Add the package of yeast and the sugar, and give it a stir. Let the mixture sit for about 10 minutes, or until it becomes a creamy consistency., After the yeast, sugar, and water has become a creamy consistency, it’s time to add the rest of the ingredients. Carefully pour in the flour, stirring the mixture as you add it. Then, sprinkle in the salt and add the olive oil.If you do not have bread flour, you can use all-purpose flour.
 Use a bit of elbow grease for this step. After you’ve added every ingredient, you need to beat them together until they’re completely smooth. Make sure to scrape along the sides and bottom of the bowl to get everything., With many pizza dough recipes, you need to let the dough rise for hours. With this recipe, you only need five minutes! Set the thoroughly mixed dough to the side, and set a timer for five minutes. Once it’s fully “rested,” you’re ready to go!, The great thing about pizza waffles is how easy they are to make. If you want to really make things easy, you can skip the homemade dough and simply buy some store-bought pizza dough. You can find this in the refrigerated section of your grocery store.
 Grab a chunk of your pizza dough and roll it into a ball, about the size of your palm. Then, use a rolling pin to flatten it. Rolled out, you want your pizza dough to be the size of the waffle iron and about half an inch thick. Spray your pre-heated waffle iron with a nonstick cooking spray and place the flattened dough on the iron., Once your pizza dough is on the waffle iron, spoon your marinara sauce onto it. Add about two tablespoons of sauce. Spoon it onto the center of the dough and spread it around, leaving about half an inch of dough uncovered around the perimeter. The sauce will spread out once you close the waffle iron, and you don’t want it to drip out of the sides., You can use grated or sliced cheese for this step. Sprinkle the grated cheese onto your pizza or place the slices over the dough. The cheese will melt once you close the iron, so leave a bit of room around the perimeter of the dough., If you prefer plain cheese pizza, you can leave your pizza waffle as it. Otherwise, start adding your favorite toppings. Layer pepperoni slices over the cheese, throw on a handful of onions, or add some spice with peppers.You can add as many ingredients as you want, but take care not to add too much of each. You don’t want to overfill your pizza waffle so that ingredients run out of the sides of the iron.
 Because there will be another layer of dough covering your ingredients, you want to add enough cheese and sauce to balance out the amount of “crust.” Once you’ve added the toppings that you want on your pizza, add another layer of the grated or sliced mozzarella. Then, spoon a bit more marinara sauce over that., To create the waffle, you’ll be sandwiching all of your yummy toppings within two layers of dough. Use your rolling pin to roll out another slab of dough the size of the waffle iron. Carefully place it over the toppings, so that everything is completely covered., After you close the lid, there will probably be excess dough hanging over the edges. Use a knife to carefully cut away this excess dough. Let your pizza waffle cook for about five to seven minutes. You may see cheese spill over the sides, which is okay. You can clean your waffle iron after it cools., After five to seven minutes, or once your pizza waffle is a nice golden brown, it’s time to remove it from the iron. Use a knife to carefully pop the pizza waffle out of the iron, and place it on a plate. Serve your pizza waffle with a side of marinara sauce for dipping.