 With a few household items, it's easy to see the principals of buoyancy in action! In this simple experiment, we'll demonstrate that a submerged object experiences buoyancy because it displaces a volume of fluid equal to the volume of the object submerged. As we do this, we'll also demonstrate how to practically find an object's buoyancy force with this experiment. To begin, place a small open container, like a bowl or a cup, inside a larger container, like large bowl or a bucket.
 Next, fill the small inner container with water. You want the water level to be at the very top of the container without spilling. Be careful here! If you spill any water, empty the larger container before trying again.


For the purposes of this experiment, it's safe to assume that water has a standard density of 1000 kilograms/meter3. Unless you're using saltwater or a different liquid entirely, most types of water will have a density close enough to this reference value that any minor difference won't alter our results.
If you have an eyedropper handy, this can be very helpful for precisely leveling off the water in the inner container.
 Next, find a small object that can fit inside the inner container and won't be damaged by water. Find this object's mass in kilograms (you may want to use a scale or balance which can give you grams and convert up to kilograms). Then, without letting your fingers get wet, slowly and steadily dip this into the water until it starts to float or you can just barely hold on to it, then let go. You should notice some of the water in the inner container spill over the edge into the outer container.


For the purposes of our example, let's say that we're lowering a toy car with a mass of 0.05 kilograms into the inner container. We don't need to know the volume of this car to calculate its buoyancy, as we'll see in the next step.
 When you submerge an object in water, it displaces some of the water — if it didn't, there wouldn't be any space for it to enter the water. When it pushes this water out of the way, the water pushes back, resulting in buoyancy. Take the water that spilled out of the inner container and pour it into a small glass measuring cup.The volume of water in the cup should be equal to volume of the submerged object.


In other words, if your object floats, the volume of the water that spills over will be equal to the volume of the object submerged under the surface of the water. If your object sank, the volume of the water that spills over will be equal to the volume of the entire object.
 Since you know the density of water and you can measure the volume of the water that spilled into the measuring cup, you can find its mass. Simply convert its volume to meters3 (an online conversion tool, such as this one, can be helpful here) and multiply it by the density of water (1,000 kilograms/meters3).


In our example, let' say that our toy car sunk into the inner container and displaced about two tablespoons (.00003 meters3). To find the mass of our water, we'd multiply this by its density: 1,000 kilograms/meters3 × .00003 meters3 = 0.03 kilograms.
 Now that you know the mass of both the object you submerged in water and the mass of the water it displaced, compare them to see which is greater. If the mass of the object submerged in the inner container is greater than that of the displaced water, it should have sunk. On the other hand, if the mass of the displaced water is greater, the object should have floated. This is the principle of buoyancy in action — for an object to be buoyant (float), it has to displace an amount of water with a mass greater than that of the object itself.


Thus, objects with low masses but big volumes are the most buoyant types of objects. This property means hollow objects are especially buoyant. Think of a canoe — it floats well because it's hollow in the inside, so it's able to displace a lot of water without having a very high mass. If canoes were solid, they wouldn't float very well at all.
In our example, the car has a higher mass (0.05 kilograms) than the water it displaced (0.03 kilograms). This lines up with what we observed: the car sank.

