 Naptime is essential to healthy child development. Toddlers and younger children under the age of 5 should be getting at least an hour nap daily. Plus, scheduling this rest period around the same time each day helps your child’s internal body clock. Sticking to a consistent naptime helps them fall asleep easier and rest better.


For older children, you can make naptime optional—they can either take a nap or work/play quietly in their respective zones., Waking up and going to bed at the same times each day help your children fall asleep at night faster. What’s more, when your children have a usual bedtime, you are more likely to receive a bonus period of quiet time each night after they’ve gone down.


Help your children adjust to a bedtime by creating a soothing, wind-down ritual each night. They will be in the mood for a restful night’s sleep after doing relaxing activities like taking a bath and reading a story., Older children may have a slightly later bedtime than their younger siblings, but you can still take advantage of some extra quiet time by getting them in their respective rooms before lights out. During this short period, they may read quietly or engage in non-stimulating play before bed.


Switching from stimulating activities like watching TV to trying to get your kids ready for bed can be a challenge. This evening period of quiet time can be the perfect transition to help them calm down before tucking them in for the night., You can protect your own nightly quiet time by ensuring your children aren’t popping out of bed every five minutes to use the potty or get a sip of water. Being firm with bedtime rules can help your children develop better sleep routines.


You can decrease a power struggle about bedtime or late-night visits by making the wind-down routine more pleasant for your children. Add bubble bath to their nighttime soak. Read to them before lights out. Or, give them a few minutes to work on a puzzle or play with a favorite stuffed animal.
In addition, you can also promote positive bedtime behaviors by coming up with incentives. Create a rewards chart where you give each child a sticker or star for good behavior at night. Once they reach a certain number, give them a special treat like extra time during the day for a favorite activity. 