 These kits contain solution designed for cleaning earrings. They are specifically designed for cleaning earrings, so you will know the product won't harm your jewelry.


Find a special cleaning solution at a jewelry store, state fair, department store, drugstore, or multipurpose store. Look at the instructions on the back of the bottle to ensure that the solution is safe for diamond jewelry.
Pour a small amount of this solution into a bowl. Soak your earrings in the solution overnight. Rinse the earrings with warm water. Dry and polish with a lint free cloth. Follow the instructions on the back of bottle instead of those listed above, if they differ.;
, You need to use a brush that has soft bristles. This is really important. If you use too harsh of a brush, it could damage the jewelry. And you need a cloth that will clean the earrings gently.


All you need is a toothbrush, but pick one with soft bristles. Make sure you don’t use a wire brush or a brush with harsh bristles, as this could damage the setting.
A child’s toothbrush would be a good choice because the bristles are really soft. You can also buy brushes specially designed for cleaning jewelry online or in stores.
Don't fall for the tip that you should use toothbrush to clean the jewelry, though. It can be too abrasive. There are better household products to use. Use a microfiber hand towel to dry the earrings. These are softer and will help you clean the earrings gently.
You also want to make sure you only use soft bristles on earrings with gold settings. If your diamond has a fragile setting or is an antique, you might want to skip the brush completely. , You don’t want to clean diamond earrings near the sink or chances are pretty good your earrings could end up in the drain. You think it won't happen, but ask any plumber: It often does!


Choose a table instead or any flat surface that is not near a sink. You need enough space for a bowl and towel.
You will also need a bowl or cup to put the earrings in. You may want to use rubber gloves, depending on the toxicity of the solution you choose.

