 Since many people who are shy feel alone in their struggles, it's nice to spend time with others who are feeling the same way. While it can be hard to get together with people who are shy since they are not as outgoing, if you're able to find at least one other person, you will see the benefits of it.
 Those people are likely shy just like you. While it may not be comfortable to approach them because of your shyness, try to get close to them. If you're able to strike up a conversation, great. If not, being in close proximity may lead to the other person saying hello.


When approaching someone, you can make it easier to say hello by making a joke about being shy. For example, "These social events are always so difficult because I'm so shy." Just saying this can help you accept your shyness.
Know that other people may not be at your level of acceptance of being shy, so don't say something such as, "So I see you're just as shy as me..." Focus on your shyness and if that person is too, he/she will say something about it.
 Make fliers to hang in libraries, Starbucks, and other public places and then show up at the time and place you’ve indicated on the flier.


This can seem outside of your element, but being able to step out of your comfort zone while still holding on to the fact that you are shy can help. Just know that all you have to do is say hello and ask people how they feel about being shy. You are just having a normal conversation with friends...ones who understand your shyness.
 Meetup.com is a great way to find new people to spend time with in your community. You can set up a personal profile and then a meetup one for your group. Be sure to describe the goal of the group when you're creating a meetup. People will want to know why they should join your meetup. Once you have a few people interested, you can plan to meet them offline.


You don't have to start your own meetup. There may be one already made for shy people. Search for one first before creating a new one.
 These online communities often have discussions about how it feels to be shy, how to overcome shyness, and how to help others who are shy. It's a great place to work on accepting your shyness and meet others who share in your struggles.


There are many websites and social media groups especially for shy people.Join forums on websites and groups on Facebook, LinkedIn, and Google+.
You can start your own group if you don't see one that you like. This might be a good alternative if you aren't ready to start a support group in your community or start a meetup.

