 If you plan on working with more than one color, choose one. You will want to have only one bottle open at one time. If you leave a bottle of nail polish sitting open for too long, the polish will begin to dry out and thicken.;
, This is in case the nail polish spills and makes a mess.
 It may be tempting, but this will cause tiny bubbles to form in the nail polish. These bubbles will appear once you put the nail polish on, and they may even cause the manicure to chip sooner.









If you must shake the bottle in order to mix the pigments, do so, but wait 30 minutes before continuing on with your manicure. This will give the bubbles enough time to rise to the surface of the polish., This will warm up the bottle and remove any clumping of the paint. It will also help mix the pigments together. Place the bottle on the flat surface and hold it. You will be less likely to drop the bottle or spill the nail polish inside. Avoid opening the bottle over your lap or in mid-air.
 Try twisting it counter-clockwise first. If it doesn't open, twist it clockwise. If it still doesn't open, then it might be stuck. Click here to find out how to open a stuck nail polish bottle.
 This will help get rid of any excess nail polish and prevent drips and globs.









Keep the bottle to one side where it you don't accidentally bump it or knock it over while you're painting your nails.
 If the neck of the bottle has nail polish on it when you put the cap on, that nail polish will dry and glue the cap to the bottle. When you are done doing your manicure, check the bottle. If you notice any nail polish on the threads, take a tissue or paper towel, and soak it with some nail polish remover. Wipe the neck of the bottle clean, and put the cap on.








Try hard not to get any nail polish remove into the bottle. It will cause the particles inside the nail polish to separate and degrade.If you have an unsteady hand, try using nail polish thinner instead; it will not ruin the polish.
Avoid using a cotton ball. If any gets suck inside the bottle, you will end up with fuzzy nail polish.