 Splash masks are a concentrated liquid that comes in a bottle. They contain lactic acid to help smooth your skin and glycerin to hydrate your skin. There are several different types of splash marks. Look for a splash mask that has added ingredients that will fulfill what your skincare needs.If you are looking to firm up your skin and improve its elasticity, look for a splash mask that contains fruits like berry. If you want to control any oily areas and reduce your pores, you may go for a splash mask that contains green tea.
If you’re looking to invigorate and brighten up your skin, try a splash mask that contains citrus and honey.;
, If possible, shop for the splash mask in person so you can smell it and try a little bit of it on your skin. This may be a good idea if you are prone to allergies and want to make sure your skin will not react badly to the splash mask. Ask the salesperson if you can try the splash mask on before you buy it.


Dilute the splash mask in water and dab a small amount on your cheek or the skin above your neck and leave it on for a few minutes. If there is no reaction, you are likely fine to use it on your face and skin.
 Splash masks can be found through skincare retailers online. The splash mask will come as a liquid in a bottle and can range in price from $45-$50 for a 200ml bottle. You may be able to order the splash mask in larger bottles, depending on the brand.


To try the splash mask, you may start with a small bottle. Over time, if you like the product, you may invest in a larger bottle.
 Before you apply the splash mask, wash your face with your regular cleanser. You can wash your face over the sink with warm water. Or you can wash your face in the shower to prepare it for the mask.If you are planning to use the splash mask on other parts of your body, such as your back or chest area, wash these areas in the shower to prepare them for the mask.
 To use the splash mask, measure out one capful of the liquid. This will be about 7 mL of liquid. You will then dilute it with 700 mL of water. Diluting the splash mask will activate the product and make it easier to splash on your face or body.If you wanted to stretch the product further, you can try cutting the amount you use in half, using only 3.5 mL. You can then dilute it with 350 mL of water.
 Once you dilute the splash mask and wash the area, apply the splash mask by splashing the liquid onto your face. Then, pat it into your skin with clean hands for quick absorption. The splashing action should take around 30 seconds.You can apply the splash mask in the shower, in a bath, or over the sink. Your skin should feel slightly damp after you pat it. The mask should then absorb into your skin, leaving it feeling soft and hydrated.
Use the splash mask once a day or if you feel like your skin needs a little pick me up. They can also be a good option if you want to do a mask on your face but do not want to spend too much time applying it.

