 Whether you're inside or out, making a kissing motion upward can help prevent jowls by toning your jawline. To do this move, all you have to do is tilt your head up toward the sky, then make a kiss shape with your lips.Warm up your neck muscles before you do this by rolling your head in a circle a few times.
Remember to breath deeply as you perform this move, holding the stretch for at least one breath. Inhale through your nose, then exhale through your mouth.
In addition to doing this upward, you also should do it to either side. Repeat the entire rotation five times.;
, Form a wide "O" with your mouth, keeping your brow smooth and your lower jaw relaxed. Bring your tongue out to your lips and slowly trace around them, remembering to breathe.This exercise can tone your neck and throat as well as your cheeks, and also eases tension in your jaw.
Trace 10 complete circles clockwise, relax your tongue for a breath, then trace 10 more circles counterclockwise.
 The neck lift helps tone your jawline and strengthen the muscles in your neck. This move can firm up a double chin as well as help prevent sagging. Before you start, you may want to do a few head circles to warm up your neck muscles.Sit or stand straight and tall with good posture. To start, pucker your lips to one side, just until you feel the stretch in your cheek. Then turn your head to the same side.
As you turn, lift your head at about a 45-degree angle. Turn just until you feel a good stretch in your neck. Stay there for about three seconds, breathing deeply, then repeat on the other side.
 You can do a very simple exercise to strengthen your cheek muscles. Strong cheek muscles will keep your cheeks full and rounded, rather than getting that hollowed-out look as you age.This is a simple exercise that you can do pretty much anywhere – you don't need to be in front of a mirror. Take a few deep breaths, then inhale deeply through your mouth, but this time, hold it in your mouth, puffing your cheeks out. Hold your breath for a few seconds (don't strain yourself), then exhale slowly.
Follow with a few deep breaths and then do it again, as many times as you like. This is also a great relaxation technique.
 If you've ever seen a baby bird being fed by its mother, you'll understand how this yoga exercise got its name. The baby bird will strengthen your chin and neck, areas of your face that may be the first to show age, as well as strengthening your jaw.Breathing deeply through your nose, tilt your chin up towards the ceiling as high as you can. Press your tongue to the roof of your mouth and swallow.
Lower your chin and relax for a breath, then repeat this exercise as many as 8-10 times.

