 Men like feeling like they've affected their partner in a positive way. If your guy goes out of his way to do something for you, don't let it go unnoticed! Compliment your special man. Let him know you notice his efforts and that he means the world to you.


Try to be genuine with your compliments. It's usually easy to tell when a compliment isn't sincere, so don't risk having this happen between you and your man. Giving him just a few genuine compliments is better than giving lots of forgettable ones.
Another way to compliment your man is simply to give him your attention. Focusing on him (especially when you're talking with each other) shows that he is important to you.;
, No one knows your special man better than you, so pick a fun activity that you're sure he loves. He will definitely appreciate your gesture. If you're feeling especially generous, you can even treat him to an entire night that's all about him. For example, you might try cooking him dinner — his favorite meal would be a good choice. You can put on his favorite songs while you eat together, then watch his favorite film together after that. Little details like this can really make him feel special.


Turning a small gift into a surprise can make it even more amazing. For example, try slipping tickets to his favorite sports team into his hands when both of you are having dinner. The gifts can be inexpensive, but with the effort that goes into planning a great surprise, they’ll make him feel like a million bucks.
If you treat your man to a night out, don't be afraid to pay — it's not a guy's duty to pay for his lady every single time. This being said, you don't need to spend a lot of money to make him feel special.
 Tell your special guy that you love him. Treat him to lots of hugs, kisses, and snuggling — whatever you know he likes. Remind him that he's the perfect one for you and that you couldn't ask for anyone better. If he knows you're being sincere, this will make him feel special.


If you're trying to make your man feel special, try not to be overly critical. If he makes a minor mistake, let it go. Bringing it up during a romantic day together can kill the mood. On the other hand, if he does or says something that's cruel or seriously disrespectful, you don't need to stay silent just because you were trying to make him feel good.
 A good relationship is about much more than physical appearances, but it doesn't hurt to look amazing! Your special guy will be proud to be around such a great-looking partner when both of you go out together. Dress up, smell great, and you'll look fab in his arms. Each time one of his friends or colleagues drops his jaw in awe of you, your man will be proud that he's dating a girl who’s as gorgeous and awesome as you.
 Guys love to feel loved and desired. One great way to do this is to flirt with him as if you were just getting to know each other — even if you've been together for years. There are lots of ways to do this. You can compliment his looks, give him little shows of affection and then play "hard to get," or even gently tease him. Again, however, being genuine is crucial.


Need some flirty ideas to get you started? See our article on flirting for easy instructions.
 Men love it when their partner makes them feel strong and important. You can do this by giving him chances to "prove himself." It may sound silly, but even asking your man to help with things you could probably do yourself can work here. For example, getting him to help change the light bulb or open a jar of pickles can make him feel like a valued provider.


Some men may not pick up on your gesture right away, so give him a compliment as he finishes the task. Even something as simple as "How strong!" accompanied by a kiss on the cheek can get the point across.
 Subtle touches can be better for communicating your love than words. Start by touching him casually whenever the opportunity presents itself. For instance, if he says something you disagree with, you can shove him playfully and say "Shut up!" As you spend more time together, touch him more often and in more intimate ways. Touch his shoulders and chest if you're standing up. Touch his leg if you're sitting down. Let your hand linger for a few seconds before taking it away. Start hugging him to greet him and say goodbye. Finally, if you're ready to move into serious territory, you can kiss him.


Whenever you touch, make sure you really mean it — a forced, insincere touch won't make him feel special.
The "limit" on your touching should be whatever you and your special guy are comfortable with. Don't feel pressured to move too fast. Stick to physical shows of affection that don't leave you uneasy and allow your relationship to progress naturally.

