 When you are charged with a crime, you're entitled to an attorney. You may be appointed a public defender if you have little income or assets. However, a private attorney typically is worth the cost if you plan to challenge the results of a field sobriety test.Keep in mind that public defenders carry heavy case loads and may not be able to commit the time and energy to your case that would be necessary to successfully demonstrate physical conditions that interfered with the field sobriety test.
You typically can find an attorney referral program offered through your state or local bar association to help you identify attorneys best suited to represent you.
Some of these programs can be found on the bar association's website. You'll have to answer a few questions to be matched with potential attorneys.
Research an attorney thoroughly before you decide to hire them. Make sure they have a good reputation and experience working in the city or county where you've been charged.
Most criminal defense attorneys offer free initial consultations, which can help you evaluate an attorney and decide whether they're right for you. Ask plenty of questions to determine whether the attorney understands your goals for the case and is willing to fight for you.
 The prosecutor typically will call the officer who arrested you to testify at trial. Since field sobriety tests rely on subjective observations of the officer at the scene, careful cross-examination can expose weaknesses in the officer's testimony.You might ask the police officer about the weather conditions when you performed the field sobriety tests.
For example, if high winds were blowing dust in your eyes, this could have caused your eyes to be bloodshot as well as decreased your ability to smoothly follow the officer's finger with your eyes in one field sobriety test.
If you mentioned any conditions at the scene, and the officer convinced you to take the field sobriety tests anyway, you can bring this up on cross-examination. Even though the officer said they would take that condition into account, they may not have or may not have known how to do so.
Officers generally are trained not to administer certain tests, such as the "one leg stand," to people over the age of 65, or who are more than 50 pounds overweight.
These conditions can limit a person's ability to successfully complete those tests. If either of those conditions apply to you, question the officer on their training and why the officer gave you those tests despite knowing they were problematic.
 If there were passengers in your car when you were pulled over, their observations may contrast with the officer's. You also may want to call expert witnesses if you are arguing that the results of the field sobriety test were skewed by a physical or medical condition you have.Your own witnesses can help establish physical conditions that interfered with the field sobriety tests, as well as explain why those conditions could result in your inability to successfully complete the tests.
Physical conditions don't necessarily have to relate to you personally – they could be conditions at the scene. In these cases, anyone else who was present can support your story that those conditions were to blame for your failed field sobriety test.
Keep in mind that any witnesses you call also can be cross-examined by the prosecuting attorney.
 When you are charged with a crime, you always have the right to remain silent. However, if you're challenging the results of a field sobriety test because of interference by physical conditions, it may be helpful to describe those conditions yourself.Your testimony may be necessary if conversation at the scene between you and the officer is at issue, or if you were unable to successfully complete the field sobriety test due to temporary conditions at the scene.
If you don't have any additional eyewitnesses, however, your testimony might not be advisable. In that situation, it would essentially be your word against the police officer's, and the jury will almost always side with the police officer.
Your attorney will discuss with you the pros and cons of testifying yourself. Your attorney may tell you what they think you should do, but remember that this is always your choice and your choice alone.
 When challenging the prosecution's evidence, you don't have to prove that your story is true. You only have to introduce a reasonable doubt that you committed the crime with which you were charged.It can be helpful to continually remind the jury of this burden. You are innocent until proven guilty. If even one jury has a single reasonable doubt that you were driving drunk, they cannot vote to convict you.
Because of this burden, you can even introduce various potential problems with the field sobriety test that might seem to contradict each other – what lawyers call "arguing in the alternative."
You're allowed to do this because you don't have to prove that one particular story is true, just show that the prosecution has not effectively proven that their story is true.

