 Once you have figured out what type of rash you have, head to the store. Your local drugstore can often provide the easiest way to get rid of a rash. Calamine lotion can help with itching after poison ivy exposure. Also, the steroid hydrocortisone comes in a cream form and can greatly reduce inflammation. These creams can also help ease the itching. If you are dealing with something such as diaper rash, there are specific creams that you can purchase that are safe for a baby's gentle skin.
Avoid using hydrocortisone cream on face or groin, axilla or under breast or thin skin areas. Do not use for more than two weeks.
Ask your pharmacist for assistance. Describe (or show) the rash, any other symptoms, and ask for her recommendation on products.
 There are many reliable home remedies that can help relieve itchy, irritated skin. Several of them contain items that you probably already have in your home. Once you've diagnosed your rash, consider treating yourself at home if you don't require medical attention.Use apple cider vinegar to relieve itchy skin. Simply put a small amount on a cotton ball and apply to your skin. You can do this several times a day to relieve your symptoms.
Aloe vera soothes sore skin and reduces swelling. If you have an aloe vera plant, remove a leave and cut it open lengthwise with a kitchen knife. Scoop out the gel inside the leaf and apply directly to your rash.
Oatmeal is also known to relieve skin irritation associated with poison ivy. Try adding 2–3 cups of oatmeal to your warm bath to reduce itching. This is effective for eczema, chicken pox, and poison ivy.
 There are cases where home remedies and time won't heal your rash. For example, if you have shingles, you need to get medication from your doctor. A shingles rash is typified by red, painful area in a specific area.Shingles can also come with chills, fever, and severe pain. Your doctor can provide antiviral medications and may also provide prescription pain medication.
If you suspect you have shingles, you should immediately contact a health care provider.
 Along with treating your current rash, there are many things you can do to avoid skin issues in the future. For example, you can get vaccinated. There is a vaccine to prevent the shingles virus. Doctors recommend that anyone over the age of 60 get the vaccination.Most insurance plans will cover the cost of vaccines, especially if your doctor recommends them.
Read labels. If you know that your rash is caused by an allergy, you can take steps to avoid having future reactions. For example, many people develop a rash after coming into contact with nickel. If your skin is sensitive, make sure that you avoid wearing jewelry containing this metal.Perfumes and dyes are also common causes of rashes. Avoid using cleaning products that have added scents or dyes.
Cosmetics might be the cause of your rash. Look for makeup that contains natural ingredients. Ask your dermatologist for recommended products.
 Your surroundings can cause skin inflammations. For example, heat rash is very common. To prevent heat rash, avoid spending prolonged periods of time in extreme heat and sunshine. Always wear clothing that allows your skin to breathe, and remember to stay hydrated.Hives can also be triggered by extreme cold. Make sure to dress warmly in cold climates, and go inside to warm up periodically.
Pollens can cause allergic reactions, too. When the seasons are changing, you might need to stay indoors on days when the pollen count is extremely high.

