 Your older dog will be more motivated to continue learning new commands throughout its life, if you use a positive rewards-based method. Training with verbal or physical punishment can scare your dog and make training sessions less fun. You can teach a variety of basic commands, such as “sit”, “down”, “stay”, and “come” to an older dog by using positive reinforcement.For example, teach your dog to “sit” by holding a treat in your hand in front of the dog. Then raise your arm up, causing your dog’s head to rise and bottom to lower to the ground. Say “sit” and then give the dog the treat.
You can also gently push your dog's bottom to the floor if they need extra guidance.
Repeat this exercise daily until your dog has mastered the command.;
, The four most important commands to teach your dog are "sit", "down", "stay", and "come." Always use a treat as a lure to help the dog perform the command and then provide them with lots of praise afterwards. Here are a few tips for teaching these commands:


To teach “come”: Put your dog on a leash and crouch down to its level. Say “come” and then gently pull the leash. When the dog gets to you, reward it with praise and a treat. Repeat with a leash until they understand the command without the pull. Then practice from further distances without a leash.To teach “down”: Hold a treat in front of your dog’s nose. Then move your hand down to the ground so the dog follows, and then slide the treat across the floor so the dog extends into a laying down position. Once in the position, say “down” and give the dog the treat.
To teach “stay”: Put the dog in a sitting position. Then hold your hand out in front of you, like a stop sign and say “stay”. Then take a step back. If the dog stays seated praise it and give it a treat. Repeat this and continue to increase the distance.
 In order to teach an adult dog basic commands, you will need to set aside a few hours each day to work on training. Older dogs, unlike puppies, can concentrate and focus for longer, however, they do not learn as quickly. As a result, you will need to be patient and consistent with your training. Do not get angry or frustrated with your dog and always keep training sessions positive and fun.Only work on one or two commands during a training session.
Always conclude training on a positive note. For example, if they are struggling with the “stay” command end the session with a command they have already mastered, like “sit”.
 Formal obedience classes are not just for puppies and they are an excellent way to teach your dog basic commands, especially if you have never trained a dog before. They also provide your dog with an opportunity to socialize with other dogs and people in a controlled and safe environment. If your adult dog has never had any formal training, then you should start with a beginner level obedience class.Obedience classes will provide your adult dog with mental stimulation.
They provide an opportunity for you to bond with your dog. This can be especially important if you have adopted an adult dog.
Search online to locate a dog training school in your area.

