 Unless you’re playing for amusement’s sake, some issue will normally be hanging in the balance. Maybe you’re trying to decide who gets the last slice of pizza, or who should be first in line to try out a new waterslide. In most cases, Rock, Paper, Scissors is played as a means to help make a choice or put an end to a disagreement. The idea is that both players have an equal chance of winning, making the game random but fair.Rock, Paper, Scissors can be used to decide anything from what movie you see with your friends to who should inherit a collection of priceless paintings.While patterns do emerge during gameplay, they are neutralized by the unpredictability of the other player’s choice.;
, For the game to play out correctly, there need to be two players. Stand facing one another a few paces apart. Place one hand flat out in front of you, palm up. Your other hand will be used to make the shape of the object you want to play once the game starts.Rock, Paper, Scissors can only be played by two people at a time.
 Agree on a cue that you’ll use to match shapes with your opponent. In the majority of games, the players throw their shape on the count of three (sometimes counted off by reciting each word of the game’s title). You can also count down by saying “rock, paper, scissors, shoot!” On the word “shoot,” both players reveal the object they chose.Tap your closed playing hand against your palm as you count down. This will help you and your opponent get synchronized.
Be sure that you’re on the same page as far as timing your plays.
 When it comes time to play, you and your opponent will each form one of the three objects—either rock, paper or scissors. You’ll then name a winner based on which object they played. Every game will be different, so stay alert! Both players must throw at the same time. If one player delays, the result isn’t trustworthy, and you should start the game over.
Don’t play the same object every time. Switch it up to fool your opponent.
 After you’ve both played an object, look to see who’s won. Each object wins against one shape and loses to another. For instance, rock “crushes” scissors but is “covered” by paper, paper “covers” rock but is “cut” by scissors, and scissors is “crushed” by rock but “cuts” paper. The player who picks the stronger of the two objects is the winner.If both players throw the same object, it’s a tie. In this situation, simply play again until there is a clear winner.
The loser of the game has the right to call for “best two out of three,” meaning that three rounds will be played instead of just one. This gives the losing player a second chance to come out on top.
 To play “rock,” simply ball your hand up into a fist when you and your opponent shoot. Rock beats scissors, but loses to paper.


Most people tend to throw rock more often than the other shapes, especially if they're inexperienced. Remember this when choosing which object to play.
Try to predict your opponent's next move by paying attention to their patterns.
 Throw “paper” by extending your hand palm down with your fingers outstretched. Paper wins against rock, but loses to scissors.


Paper is a good object to throw if you're undecided at the last second because there's usually more of a chance your opponent will play rock than scissors.
 For "scissors," use two fingers to mimic the shape of an open pair of scissors. Scissors has an advantage over paper but can be beat by rock.


If you find yourself losing when you throw rock, switch to scissors. This will help you overcome an opponent who relies on paper.
 Play Rock, Paper, Scissors the next time you need to resolve some disagreement in a flash. For instance, you could compete for the privilege of getting the window seat. And, of course, you can always play a series of games to give each player a fighting chance.Rock, Paper, Scissors is better than other games of chance, like drawing straws or flipping a coin, because there’s an element of control involved.
Both players should be willing to accept whatever the outcome may be.
 Rock, Paper, Scissors can also be handy for establishing what order things come in, like when you’re fighting with your friends over who gets to be in the front of the line. You can even play several games between three or more people to set up a final order in advance. After each player has gone up against everyone else, tally up your total number of wins, using tie-breaker games as needed.


A few rounds of Rock, Paper, Scissors can help you set up an order faster than talking it out can.
 Put your Rock, Paper, Scissors skills to the test in an organized competition. There, you’ll go head-to-head with other experienced players, learn to pick up on their tells and try to outwit them with superior tactics. There may even be a little bit of prize money or some other reward for you if you emerge the winner.Take a look at the World Rock Paper Scissors Society website for info on how to sign up for an official tournament, or start one of your own. Since you don’t need any special qualifications to enter, anyone has a fair shot at winning!Though it might sound strange, the simple hand game has gained a lot of popularity as a test of strategy and chance.
 Even if there’s nothing riding on the game, you can still play Rock, Paper, Scissors for your own enjoyment. Keep tally of you and your opponent’s wins and losses, and play until one of you reaches a predetermined number. It’s similar to Tic-Tac-Toe in that you can go through multiple games in a lightning-quick fashion. That spontaneity will help keep you on your toes!


Traditionally, playful punishments were devised for whoever lost a series of games, such as a slap on the wrist.