 While the oven is preheating, prepare a 9x13-inch pan by greasing it with a light coat of coconut oil or olive oil cooking spray.
 Put a pot of water on to boil. When the water reaches a rolling boil, pour the shells or penne noodles into it. Cook the noodles as instructed on the package, using the minimum cook time suggested. Once the pasta is al dente, drain it and rinse the noodles with cool water.


Feel free to use the more traditional elbow macaroni for this. You can use whole wheat or gluten-free pasta, as well.
 Measure out these ingredients. Add them to a large saucepan. Cook the ingredients, uncovered, over medium heat. Stir the mixture regularly.


Make sure the pumpkin stays submerged in the liquid ingredients.
You can use organic canned pumpkin, if you prefer. Use about one and a half 15 ounce cans.
 Keep the saucepan over medium heat, uncovered. Stir occasionally. After about 30 minutes, the pumpkin should be fork-tender. Remove the thyme sprigs.
 Once cooked, carefully transfer the mixture from the saucepan to your blender. Puree the mixture until it looks very smooth. It should have an almost velvety consistency.
 Spread the cooked noodles out evenly in the 9x13-inch pan. Pour the pumpkin-coconut milk puree over the top of the pasta. Fold the nutritional yeast gently into the noodles. Stir the mixture well until all of the noodles are coated with the puree and yeast.
 Use aluminum foil to cover the pan. Place the pan in the preheated oven. After approximately 30 minutes, it should be bubbly and cooked through completely. Remove the pan from the oven and remove the foil from the top.
 While the mac and cheese bakes, make the topping. Mix ½ cup of bread crumbs with the granulated garlic powder, sea salt and chopped kale leaves. Stir gently until well mixed.
 Sprinkle the bread crumb topping and remaining two tablespoons of nutritional yeast on top of the mac and cheese. Set your oven to broil. Place the pan, uncovered, back into the oven for two to three minutes.


Remove the dish once the top looks browned and bubbly. Serve it immediately.

