 One of the easiest ways to get a toddler to eat well and enjoy mealtimes is with creative foods. Even something as simple as a pancake or a sandwich can be fun if it is cut into a unique shape. A few simple cookie cutters and a sharp knife is all that you need to get started.
 To make their meal even more fun, add creative dipping sauces in plastic, toddler friendly bowls and let them experiment. Some toddlers like ketchup and some will be more adventurous- so try a few different dips and let them try them out. This is also a great way to sneak some more fruits and vegetables into their diet.


Make creations with sauces. Sprinkle them over the food in an interesting format. Draw a star, heart, write something, or make a smile. It's easier to do this if you put the sauce in a bottle with a narrow opening.
Pureed carrots are great for dipping. The bright color is alluring and the simple act of dipping the food is fun enough to encourage the toddler to at least try it for a bite or two.
Other dip suggestions include: unsweetened applesauce, hummus, thinned peanut butter and mild salsa.
 Another simple idea is to give the foods different names. A child who is very interested in dinosaurs might eat broccoli if you call it “dino-trees”.


Round out the meal with dinosaur shaped chicken nuggets and the child may be the first one to the table. It is alright if they play with their food, at least a little bit, as long as they eventually eat some of it.
 Make a mountain of grated food. In addition to giving the food a different and interesting shape, it will be easier for the child to pick up and chew.
 If children do not want to open their mouths to eat, you can make them more willing by turning the spoon into an aircraft or bird and the child's mouth into an airport or nest.
 For example, you could arrange carrot pieces on the plate to show the time, so their plate looks like a clock face. Ask them to show you three o' clock, six o' clock, etc.


Create a variety of facial expressions with the food to teach your child what emotions like sadness, happiness, and anger look like. Use sauces and pieces of food for the eyes and mouth. The plate or the piece of bread can be the face.
Teach your child to count by getting them to count how many pieces of food are in a dish and by asking them how many more bites are left until the end.
Teach colors by asking your child the color of a certain food is.
 Write the child's name on the food using some kind of sauce. Tell your child that you have made a special meal for a special child, intended only for him.
 Although a lot of toddler food comes in boring white and beige colors you can make things more interesting by adding a splash of color. Try to use natural colorings where possible, for example:


Pancakes can be turned green by adding spinach. Carrots can turn food orange, for example, you could add pureed carrots into some mashed potatoes. Beetroot can turn food into purple, etc.
 Play at being in a restaurant. Be the waiter and serve your toddler. Offer him a menu and explain what the specialty of the day is (which is whatever you've already prepared, of course).


Make a picnic. If you have a yard, you can set out a meal on the lawn. If you do not have a garden or the weather doesn't permit eating outdoors, why not make a picnic on the living room floor?

