 Try your local craft store first (think beading stores), as they will likely have the best selection in terms of size and color. Large retail stores such as Walmart will also carry a selection of craft wire.


Use wire in the 14-18 gauge range for fake lips rings. 18 gauge wire is thinner than 14 gauge and is easier to work with. It may be too thin for the look you are after, but the thicker the wire the more difficult it is to work with.
Packets of craft wire usually include 12 wires or so each about a foot in length.;
, This will make sure you are working with sterile material at the start.
 About two inches should do it. Snip off several pieces of slightly different lengths with the wire cutter. You probably will have to experiment with the length to find the right fit for your mouth. If the length is too short, the ring will be too tight; if it is too long, the ring will be too lose.
 The snipped ends will be sharp, and you don’t want them to scratch either the inside or the outside of your mouth. With a piece of 60 grit sandpaper, or coarser, sand away the sharp edges.
 If the wire is thin and malleable enough, you can bend it around your finger. But for a perfect, continuous curvature, bend it around something harder such as a plastic or metal rod that has the thickness of a finger.
 The circular shape can be changed into an oval or some other variation on a circle with standard pliers (or channel locks). Simply place the circular ring in the jaws of the pliers and gently apply pressure.
 The gap is the open area of the ring that allows you to slip it over your lip, and the flat is the area that nobody sees inside your mouth that can come into contact with your lower jaw and/or gum line. If you don’t create the flat, the lip ring will have a bulge that could irritate your gums.









To create the gap gently pry open the ring with your finger or the needle-nosed pliers.
To create the flat, straighten the wire at one of the ends by flattening it with the needle-nosed pliers. The flat area should be about 1/3 the length of the entire ring.
 After sliding the ring over your lip and into place, squeeze it only enough to keep it from sliding off on its own. You probably will need to make small adjustments to achieve the desired feel and look.









Make sure the gap is just big enough. If it is too small, the fit will be too tight and you could end up with a hole on either the front or the inside of your mouth. If the gap is too big, the fit will be too lose.
Depending on the fullness of your lips, you might have to adjust the overall shape of the ring. Some people like a tight fit that depresses the flesh of the lip. Other people prefer a looser feel and look.
 Although many people will be satisfied with the wire ring only, there are number of creative things you can do to make your ring more interesting and attractive.









Use the tiny metal ringlets from broken or obsolete jewelry to spice up your lip ring. Place the ringlets on the wire so they are visible only on the outside part of the ring. They will create a more complicated look, however, you don’t want these tiny bits of metal to end up on the inside of your mouth.
Create three or more rings and join them together with craft wire to form a lip ring cluster.
Use your lip rings in concert with snake bites or other body decoration around the mouth.
