 If online selling isn’t for you, you can sell unwanted items from your own front yard! You’ll want to spend some time preparing for the yard sale in advance. Ask your parents if they have some items they would contribute to your yard sale and be sure to get their permission to hold the yard sale.


Be sure to publicize your yard sale. You can post signs in and around your neighborhood (being sure to post signs on the main roads that lead into your neighborhood). You can also advertise your yard sale on social media (facebook, Twitter, and Instagram) or post some information about it on Craigslist.
You could also invite friends or neighbors to join your yard sale. A bigger selection of items will draw a larger crowd.
Consider also asking neighbors to contribute to your sale. You could offer them a percentage of the money you make selling items that they contribute.
 Ask your parents if they'll pay you for simple chores like washing the dishes, vacuuming, or dusting. You could even set up a weekly “rate” for these tasks. Consider what household chores your parents really hate and offer to do those each week for a rate that they think is fair.


If you already have weekly or daily chores, ask your parents for chores beyond the usual. Explain to them that you'd like to start saving money. These chores might be ones that are monthly instead of weekly, such as mowing the lawn, raking leaves, or washing the cars.
Go beyond the normal chores by suggesting more time consuming projects that only need to be done once but that might take a couple days. Ask your parents if they will pay you to organize the garage or attic, clean the gutters or baseboards, or plant a flower bed.
You could also ask your parents for an allowance increase if you complete an additional chore or project on a weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly basis. For instance, suggest mowing the lawn every weekend or every other weekend for an increased allowance.
 Ask your neighbors if they have any odd jobs that you could do (mowing, raking leaves, washing cars, dusting the house, walking the dog, and so forth). You can go door to door or distribute flyers in your neighborhood that include a list of jobs you could do.


Be cautious of people you don’t already know. It’s best to approach neighbors that you and your parents already know. If you choose to go door to door, ask one of your parents to go with you so that you feel safe. If you ever feel uncomfortable when doing work for a neighbor for any reason, leave immediately and talk to your parents.

