 There are a variety of reasons why you may feel like your life sucks. If you experience a lot of daily stress, you may feel anxious or depressed. You may even have physical symptoms such as headaches or insomnia.Common sources of stress include:Major life changes. If you're going through a period of upheaval, such as getting out of a relationship (or getting into one), changing your job, moving to a new place, etc., you're probably experiencing stress.
Family. If your family life is in disarray, you may feel upset, sad, or anxious.
Work/School. Work or school obligations are a huge source of stress for most people. If you feel unappreciated at work or school, or stuck at a dead-end job, you may feel like your life sucks.
Social life. If you're feeling isolated or disconnected, you may feel like your life sucks. Or, if you feel anxious about meeting new people or hanging out in social situations, you may experience stress if you have to do these things.;
, One way to figure out a possible cause for your feelings is to identify when you feel them. Keeping a journal will also allow you to identify what elements of your situation you have control over, which will help you stay positive.In general, you should remember that you cannot control anything other than your own actions and responses.


For example, you might notice that you feel most upset and sad when you're at work. You may feel unacknowledged and unappreciated. You may feel overworked. This situation sucks.
Ask yourself what elements you have control over. You can't control whether others appreciate or acknowledge your contributions. However, you might be able to be more assertive about owning your accomplishments. You can control whether you say "yes" to every project that crosses your desk. You can also control whether you look for a different job in a place that might be a better fit for you. Find ways to empower yourself, and you may find that you feel like your life sucks less.
Try to come up with a list of things that you can do to help you own your situation. For example, if you feel overworked, you might consider talking to your boss about your workload or negotiating a pay raise. If you don't feel appreciated, you might consider looking for a job in a place with a better corporate environment. Make a list of specific, concrete actions that you can take.
 Are you suffering from a major illness? Do you abuse drugs and/or alcohol? Have there been any major events in your life recently? Have you recently experienced the death of a loved one? Do you have any personal conflicts? Do you have a history of abuse or trauma? Are you on any prescription medications?If you answer yes to any of these questions, it could provide insights into why you think your life sucks.
 Many people are unable to figure out why they think that their life sucks.Research has shown that genetics play a role in depression. If someone in your family suffers from depression, there is a chance you may as well.Some medical conditions, such as underactive thyroid or chronic pain, can also cause depression.Women are twice as likely to become depressed than men.
Changes in hormone levels can also cause depression.Changes in the brain may cause depression. Studies of people with depression have revealed that the brain undergoes a physical change.