 A ride or die chick is eternally devoted to her partner and his life choices, no matter what those might be. The term derived from rap music in the 1990s, and it’s often used to refer to African-American women and gangster culture, although not exclusively.


The term essentially means that the ride or die chick is willing to lay her life down in the battle for her partner, participating in all aspects of his life. That means she will lie for him, help him, and stick by him, even if he’s engaged in dangerous and unlawful behavior.Sometimes, ride or die chicks are glamorized by the media, even though they have an outlaw connotation. For example, Bonnie in the robbery duo of Bonnie and Clyde is considered a ride or die chick. Indeed, some define the ride or die chick as a “hip hop spin” on Bonnie and Clyde mythology.On the even more negative side of the equation, ride or die chicks sometimes become witting accomplices in their partner’s amoral activities. Some people consider Adolf Hitler’s wife, Eva Braun, to be a ride or die chick because she committed suicide with the man who murdered millions of people. Don’t forget that Bonnie and Clyde ended up dying in a hail of bullets.;
, Some people interpret the term ride or die chick to mean loyalty to more than just another person or love interest. The term can also mean loyalty to something bigger than yourself.


A ride or die chick in this context embraces a political movement or other social cause. For example, she is willing to risk anything for the cause, even if it means arrest or other problems. The cause comes first.
She sticks by her community no matter what, always defending it, and always being its champion when the community is under attack, real or perceived.
An example of a ride or die chick would be Jane Fonda, who took her opposition to the Vietnam War to an extreme and controversial degree, despite personal consequences to her own career.
 A ride or die chick isn’t just at her husband or partner’s side when things are going great. She’s still there no matter what happens, even if he ends up incarcerated or broke.


The term can equally apply to males. When it does, it’s just called “ride or die.” The key point: These are women (or men) who stand by their partner no matter what he or she does, even if she or he is mistreated along the way.Someone might say, “That’s my ride or die husband for life.” The ride or die chick is the opposite of someone who just marries someone for their money or power and hits the road the second those things vanish.
 The ride or die chick is down for whatever her partner needs her to do. She isn’t just a passive observer to his lifestyle; she’s ready to participate.


The ride or die chick doesn’t have strong boundaries with her partner, and she lets him set the terms of the game. Being mistreated, though, never feels good.
The ride or die chick doesn’t have the power in the relationship. Her partner generally sets the couple’s boundaries and the terms. At the same time, some people consider the ride or die chick to be a liberated woman because she's joining her man in rejecting the rules.
The ride or die chick’s role in the relationship is as the accomplice. The partner’s activities take precedence over everything, and he may reward her for her trouble with money, jewelry or other gifts.

