 It is increasingly common for doctors to have invested in local testing facilities. These doctors will then refer their client to these facilities for their medical testing. The doctor might have an interest in testing for as many diseases as possible since each diagnosis may increase their profits.As a patient, be sure to ask for any possible financial connections between the facility and your doctor. Ask if you can choose your own testing facility.
As a doctor, research the facility. Even if you yourself do not own it, perhaps another doctor in your practice does. It is considered an ethical conflict of interest to do unnecessary tests on patients for the financial benefit of you or any other doctor.
 Some pharmacies and medical practices make money by selling patient data to pharmaceutical companies for marketing purposes. If you are a doctor or in charge of a practice, check your records. Make sure that there are no deals involving the sale of patient data. While selling data is legal in some places, it is not considered ethical by many. It may represent a conflict of interest to your patients.HIPAA that regulates disclosure of patient data without patient consent.
 If you are a patient looking for a new doctor, be sure to ask your doctor questions. Ask them about their financial interests. Before agreeing to a procedure, research it thoroughly. Get a second opinion if necessary. There are many questions a patient can ask to determine if the doctor is giving a treatment to make money.Do you own the facility where you perform tests?
Do you sell any of the equipment that will be used in the procedure?
Do you have a business relationship with the testing company?
Do you earn any bonuses for prescribing me this medication?
Do you sell patient data?

, There are many online programs available that gather data on payments and gifts to individual practices. You can search your doctor’s name to discover how much particular companies are paying him or her.Physicians are bound by medical ethics that require them to disclose potential conflicts of interest. If you cannot trust your doctor by online research and credentials, you should probably go to someone else.

