 FH has several symptoms, all of which are a result of high LDL levels. These symptoms include angina — the pain in the back, chest, jaw, neck, or arm that results when arteries become narrow due to high cholesterol — and heart attacks, especially at a young age.There are also a number of physical changes you might experience, including xanthomata — cholesterol deposits on the tendons of the backs of your hands or your ankles. These deposits may be as large as a marble and appear orange or yellow in color. They might appear in clusters or as individual specimens.You may also develop a corneal arcus (a white ring around your eye) or grow cholesterol deposits in your eyelids (Xanthelasmas).
 Only a trained medical doctor can accurately diagnose FH. Your doctor might suspect FH based on the symptoms you’ve exhibited, or based on information they know regarding your medical history. In any case, see a doctor if you suspect you have FH.If you suspect you have FH for any reason, see a doctor to get a diagnosis. If diagnosed with FH, you should be treated by a lipid specialist., Using information about a family history of FH or heart attacks could tip your doctor off to the fact that you might have FH. Answer all your doctor’s questions clearly and honestly. If you are unsure about your family’s medical history, tell your doctor, “I am not sure. I will try to find out and get back to you.”High LDL levels in one or both parents are another warning sign that you could have FH.
If you have FH, odds are that at least two others in your family also have FH., Blood tests can determine the cholesterol levels in your body. Since FH causes high levels of LDL cholesterol, if your doctor detects high LDL levels in your blood, you could have FH.Additionally, a blood test can reveal overall high levels of cholesterol and triglyceride levels.Triglycerides are the most common type of body fat. Overall cholesterol — a score that measures your LDL (“bad”) cholesterol against your HDL (“good”) cholesterol — can help doctors learn more about your health.
If you have high LDL as well as high triglyceride levels, or high LDL as well as overall high levels of cholesterol, you’re at greater risk of heart disease.
When getting a blood test, a phlebotomist (someone specially trained to draw blood) or nurse will draw a few vials of blood from your vein. Alternately, you might be able to get a much easier finger prick sample, which can then be analyzed on a desktop analysis setup.In either case, you’ll have to fast for 12 hours prior to having your blood drawn.
 Getting your genes examined is a relatively (75%) accurate way to know whether you have FH, though it is not always affordable or possible.When your doctor sequences your genes, they will find a mutation on chromosome 19, the one that carries information for the LDL receptor protein and clears LDL from the bloodstream.Check the laws in your local area. Some local laws require that genetic test results go to your insurance company or employer. This information could negatively impact your odds of getting a job or insurance. Talk to your doctor before getting a genetic test to find out how the data will be used and who will have access to it.Privacy laws in the U.S. prohibit the sharing of personal medical information, however.

