 A cooking club offers its members hospitality in its truest form. Our culture often misunderstands hospitality as entertaining in high style. But true hospitality is not about impressing people, or creating the perfect experience or the fanciest dishes around a Pinterest-worthy table. Rather, it’s about being authentically welcoming, making others feel comfortable.


Treat hospitality as your chance to express your love and warmth for others through sharing food, time and attention to each other. It isn't about who can do the better job at entertaining.
Be welcoming and gracious when hosting others in your home. Be willing to try new things and to share ideas together, so that you all make interesting discoveries about the art of cooking.
Enjoy the company of your friends as much as the food.
 This is not a place to compete or try to outdo one another. The group members should understand that the cooking club is a place of giving each other the space to learn and to share. As Niequist notes, "t’s about declaring your table a safe zone, a place of warmth and nourishment."


Encourage the club members to experiment and be supportive when their endeavors don't work out as they'd hope. Use the lessons you all learn together to improve your cooking skills and techniques.
 Take plenty of photos of the food you cook and the fun you are having together. Consider compiling an eBook of the recipes you make together and sending this around to each other. And if you like, share the photos (and recipes/tips) online with other friends and followers, on sites such as Facebook, Twitter and Google+. Readers will enjoy seeing the smiles and joy of club members, as well as learning something from your experiences.


Consider running your own blog for the cooking club. Either a passionate enthusiast of blogging could take on this role, or all of you could offer to do a write-up in rotation. The blog could report on club events, recipes tried, cookbooks reviewed, club members' wisdom, etc.
Pinterest, Indulgy and the like are good to use but avoid creating dishes and images for the sake of uploading. Use these sites as your club's tool to show what happened organically and without obligation, not as the mandatory directive for what your club should achieve.

