 Pinyin is a Chinese writing system which uses letters from the Roman alphabet instead of Chinese characters.


It is useful for Chinese language learners as it allows you to get started with reading and writing Chinese without the time involved in learning traditional characters. There are many Chinese textbooks and learning materials available in Pinyin.
However, it is important to be aware that even though Pinyin uses letters from the Roman alphabet, its pronunciation is not always intuitive to the English speaker. Therefore, it is important to use a proper pronunciation guide when learning Pinyin.
 Although the ability to read traditional Chinese characters is not necessary for learning Chinese, the idea appeals to many people and makes them feel more in touch with traditional Chinese culture.


Learning to recognize and read Chinese characters is no easy task. In order to read a newspaper, the average Chinese reader will need to be familiar with about 2000 different characters -- and that's just the beginning. It is believed that there are over 50,000 Chinese characters in total (though many of them are no longer in use).
The major benefit of learning to read Chinese characters is that you will have access to a broad array of other literatures, including Cantonese, Japanese and Korean -- all of which use Chinese characters (or a simplified version of them) in their writings, despite the fact that the spoken languages are very different.
 Once you have learned to read Chinese characters, you may be interested in learning how to form them yourself. Writing Chinese characters is a complex skill, which requires patience and a touch of artistry.


The first step in learning how to write Chinese characters is to learn the "radicals" -- these are the individual brush strokes that form the building blocks of each character. There are 214 radicals in total -- some can stand on their own as individual characters, while others are only used as part of a more complex character.
When writing Chinese characters, the order of the brush strokes is very important and you must follow a specific set of rules -- such as top to bottom, left to right and horizontal before vertical. If the stroke order is incorrect, the completed character will not be accurate.
 If you want to improve your Chinese reading skills, you'll need to practice a little reading for at least 15 to 20 minutes a day.


To begin with, you could try using some children's readers or workbooks (which are nearly always written in Pinyin) to practice your basic reading skills. You should also be able to find some good resources for reading Chinese online.
You can also try to incorporate your Chinese learning into your everyday life. You can do this by reading the Chinese labels on food products at the Asian supermarket, or asking your server for the Chinese language menu at a restaurant.
Once your reading becomes more advanced, you could try to get your hands on a Chinese newspaper (which are printed using traditional Chinese characters) and do your best to read through the articles. This is also a good way of familiarizing yourself with Chinese culture and current affairs.
 In order to practice your Chinese writing skills, you should try to write a little everyday, whether in Pinyin or in Chinese characters.


One option is to keep a small personal diary in Chinese, where you write down simple things like a description of the weather, how you are feeling that day, or what you did. If you're not to shy about it, you could ask a Chinese-speaking friend or acquaintance to look it over and check for any mistakes.
Alternatively, you could try to find a Chinese pen-pal to write letters to. This could be mutually beneficial, as you could get some practice writing in Chinese, while your pen-pal could practice their English. You could also ask your pen-pal to include the corrected version of your original letter when replying.
A last way of practicing your writing is to make simple lists in Chinese, like your shopping list, or to make Chinese labels for items around the house.

