 A pop-up, snap-on hood for your camera model may be an inexpensive solution. If your camera manufacturer does not have one available, you may want to try a generic one for a good fit––take your camera to the store to ask the retailer to fit it first.


Be sure to get a device that is simple to remove, as you'll want to be able to pack down your camera into its case without the shade in place, and you'll also need to be able to remove the shade for indoor shots and non-glare times.






Shoot photos using the shade device to see how it works for you. Some photographers find that it interferes with their usual photo taking approaches and need to find an alternative. You don't want to discover this mid-way through a professional shoot!





;
, This can be purchased from stores that sell digital cameras. It is a layer of film that can be applied to the LCD; it creates a polarizing effect to reduce some of the glare. While the lack of having something additional hanging off your camera makes this option seem more desirable, this may not be as effective as the digital display shade. Experiment to see if it works for you.
 The simplest solution is to position yourself in a place where there is less glare from the sun. However, as simple as this is, it may involve squatting down, sitting or changing where you want to take the photo from. Weigh up the benefits of a change of position for the sake of getting shade with the outcome for the photo that you're seeking.


Another drawback of standing in shade is the impact that the change of light will have on your photo quality. Take this into account when choosing the shade option.
 Some umbrellas have a clamp at the handle for attachment to your tripod or chair. You may also ask a friend to hold the umbrella for you. When a friend is not available, it is possible to prop the umbrella handle over your shoulder and support the canopy with your head, leaving both hands free for the camera. This also works well in bad weather.
 Your favorite baseball hat was designed with a long brim to shield your eyes from the light. Hold your camera close enough, and your cap will cast a shadow over the screen.


Instead of a baseball cap, look for a comfortable hat with a broad brim all the way around that protects your facial skin and provides adequate shade. If it's windy, choose a hat with elastic or ties to help keep the hat in place.
 Find a towel, bandana, or cloth that is dense enough to block the light of the sun. Place the towel on your head and drape it over your camera. Remember to keep your lens entirely uncovered.
 This is probably the least helpful suggestion because most people use both hands to hold the camera and shoot, but in a pinch, you may be able to manage both to hold the camera, cup one hand around the screen, and shoot. The effectiveness on this will be completely dependent on your camera size and your own dexterity. At least give it a try.


Some digital camera have a viewfinder in addition to the LCD screen which allows you to hold the camera to your eye thus completely eliminating glare. This may also increase battery life since the viewfinder draws less power than the LCD. There is usually a button on the back of the camera to toggle between the LCD and the viewfinder.

