 If you are looking for a more hands on gift, you may decide to take a common item and adapt it so it is nerdy or geeky. This could be taking a pair of dice and adapting them into fun earrings or painting a pair of shoes so they become Doctor Who inspired or Star Wars inspired. Consider what the person enjoys and try to turn an everyday item into something nerdy and fantastic.There are many DIY nerdy crafts online that you can follow and create for the person. Depending on your skills, you may decide to sew a gift for the person, like a Darth Vader hoodie, or craft an item for the person out of materials, like a Captain America shield made out of a frisbee, tape, and glue.
 If the person loves nerdy shirts and clothing, you may decide to create a custom nerdy t-shirt or clothing item for them. This could be a graphic that you create on your computer of their favorite comic book character or television show or a graphic that you find online. You may print off the graphic onto an iron on adhesive and place it on a shirt yourself or go to a custom online shop who will print the graphic onto the shirt for you.Look for a graphic that is bright, bold, and high quality. You want it to print off properly and look good on the t-shirt or clothing item.
 If the person has a favorite nerdy or geeky character, you may decide to create a bunch of small DIY items as a tribute to the character. You could create a small model of the nerdy character as well as themed items like a mug, a bath towel, a t-shirt, or a hat. Put all of these items together in a gift basket and you have the ultimate tribute gift to their favorite nerdy character, film, or show.
 If the nerd in your life loves board games and playing games in general, you may want to surprise them with a nerdy board game. This could be a nerdy version of an existing game, like Star Wars themed Monopoly or Twister, Doctor Who style. Get creative and repurpose a game you know the person enjoys by adding on a nerdy twist.You may also want to create a board game for the person from scratch. Maybe you use their favorite comic book as inspiration and create a treasure hunt game, where the players all play different characters from the comic book. Or, you use their favorite nerdy film to make a trivia game to test their geek knowledge.

