 You should not wait until you have finished school to start looking for a job. Take advantage of the career placement services that your school offers.


Internships are another way to get experience and make connections. Many internships are unpaid, so you may want to intern while you are still in school.
Volunteering at a place that you would like to work or asking to job shadow an experienced medical coder can help you gain experience and network.Update your resume before you start looking and have someone give you feedback.
 If you are unable to find a job as a medical coder, you can always look for other options in the medical field to get your foot in the door. Consider working at a front desk or in the medical records department. Your training as a medical coder makes you a good candidate for these positions. You can ask the doctors, nurses and other people you meet about any open medical coding positions., The AHIMA and AAPC are great sources for jobs. The AAPC has a job forumand program that helps newly certified coders find employment.You must be a member of AAPC to get full access to these resources.


The AHIMA offers career prep webinars, a career prep workbook, and a list of open positions., Medical coder jobs can be found on general job search sites such as Monsterand CareerBuilderor healthcare specific websites such as Health Career Web, Biohealthmatics, and HealthJobs NationwideAlthough hundreds of jobs are posted on these websites, do not underestimate the power of networking and word of mouth. Let people you know that you are looking for a medical coding job. These large search engines should not be the only method you use to find a job.
 You should prepare for your job interview by researching the company and being prepared to answer questions about your training and experience. You should also demonstrate how your skills would benefit the company and why you want to work there.You may be tested on medical terminology, electronic medical records, claims processing, and and coding software that you are familiar with.If you are not already certified, discuss any plans you have to become certified and your career goals.
Give a firm handshake, make eye contact,and dress professionally (i.e. dress pants or skirt, blazers, suits, dress shirt or blouse) for your interview.
 Some potential employers may require you to take a skills assessment. There is no standardized test that all companies use. The skills test will test your speed, accuracy, attention to detail, and your ability to assign the proper codes.

You should ask how long the test will take and if you need to bring your own coding books.

