

Let your new mate have a chance to get to know more about you and the great things there are to love about you. Don’t change yourself to fit their likes and desires.Remember if they didn’t like the real you, they wouldn’t be in a relationship with you.

Be honest about the things you do and don’t like or agree with.
For example, if you don’t like basketball, don’t fake enthusiasm for March Madness.
If you enjoy sketching, share some of your drawings with your significant other.;
, Although you know enough about your partner to be in a relationship with them, there’s a lot you don’t know and a lot they don’t know about you. The more you know about each other, the more you will understand each other and the stronger your relationship will be.


Talk about everyday things like how your day was, funny things your friends did, your plans for the weekend.
Talk to your significant other to learn more about their dreams and goals. Share your hopes and aspirations with them.
Discuss your fears, worries, and even your mistakes with each other. Sharing these things will form a bond between you two.
 You will learn a lot about your mate by talking to them, but a great deal of what you learn will be from observing them and paying attention to other hints about them. Notice what types of music, movies, and TV shows they prefer. What situations make them laugh? What makes them angry? What types of things do they like or comment on online?

,

Because you are individuals, you and your partner will have some things in common as well as different interests, opinions, etc. Be open to doing things their way every once and a while, you just might discover that you like it or learn something new.Let them introduce you to their hobbies, and teach you how to do them. (Everyone loves to feel like an expert.) You can teach them to do your favorite activities too.
Listen to and think about their opinion on where to go, what to do, how to do things, etc.
Don’t feel pressured to do anything you really don’t want to do. You can try new things without giving up your morals, values, or beliefs.
 The best way to get to know each other is to spend time together. Try to interact with each other in a variety of settings so that you can experience the different sides to each other.

Spending time one-on-one gives you a chance to pay attention to each other without distractions.
When you do things in a group setting, it allows you to see how they interact with others.
Don’t just pay attention to how great they look, but also what seems to make them comfortable or uncomfortable, what types of activities and settings they enjoy, etc.
 Although you will probably want to be around each other all the time, it’s a good idea to spend some time apart.Doing things outside of your relationship means you have something to talk about when you are together. It also gives you time to reflect on your partner and the relationship.


Do things and go places without each other. You had interests before you started your relationship. Continue to do those things.
Make time for your friends and family. Even though you are in a relationship, the other people in your life still need you and want to spend time with you, too.
Make sure you are making time to take care of your other responsibilities (clean your room, finish your work, feed the fish, etc.).

