 Aromatherapy is generally delivered through essential oils, which are distilled from the leaves, stems, flowers, bark, or roots of specific plants.There are a wide variety of essential oils that can help you relax. Choose one with an appealing scent to you or mix several for a personalized essential oil. Some of the best essential oils for relaxation are:


BergamotChamomile
Jasmine
Lavender
Marjoram
Rose
ValerianVetiver;
, Every essential oil has different properties. Some may not be ideal for helping you relax. Reading the label of any essential oil you choose can alert you to potential contra-indications and prevent potential problems.Find contra-indications and any other warnings by reading the label of the essential oil. For example, you should see a warning about using valerian if you are pregnant or breast feeding.If there is no label, consider another brand.
 Essential oils are very powerful and you should avoid using a “neat” or undiluted oil on your skin. A carrier oil reduces the potency of an essential oil. It also moisturizes your skin.Use a mild carrier oil. Some excellent options are coconut, olive, avocado, safflower, and almond oils.
Mix seven to12 drops of essential oil to each fluid ounce of carrier oil, depending on how strong you want the aroma.Don’t dilute your essential oil with water or other liquids. These won’t make the mixture mild enough to use on your skin.
 Before using your essential oil, it’s important to check that the mixture doesn’t irritate your skin. Dab one to two drops of the oil on the inside of your elbow. If you don’t notice a reaction after 24 hours, you can use the essential oil to help you relax., Massages are a great way to relax. Adding aromatherapy to your massage can help you relax even more. Make sure you’ve mixed the essential oil with a carrier oil and done a patch test before you start the massage.Massage yourself lightly so you don’t stimulate your circulation. This could make it harder to relax.Start at your feet and work towards your head in a pattern that you find relaxing. Target your wrists, feet, legs, or temples during the massage. These areas can help heighten your massage experience and relaxation.
 Warm baths are an excellent way to relax your body and mind. Create a comfortable and relaxing mood in your bathroom to heighten the effect of the aromatherapy bath. This spa-type experience can let your melt into a paradise of relaxation.Fill the tub with water that won’t burn your skin. Check the temperature with your hand or a thermometer. The best water temperature for a relaxing and safe bath is 37 and 39 degrees Celsius (98.6 to 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit).Pour your oil mixture into the water. Consider holding it under the tap to distribute the oil mixture through the water.
Dim the lights in the bathroom or light some candles. Burning aromatherapy candles or scent lamps can boost your relaxation.You may want to put on some soft and soothing music.
 Let your thoughts wander as you soak in your aromatherapy bath. Using bath props and soaking for the optimal time can boost your relaxation session.


Stay in the bath for 15 – 20 minutes. This can ensure the most relaxation benefits without drying out or damaging your skin.Using bath props to heighten your relaxation. Try items such as pillows, flower petals, or a warm washcloth over your eyes.
Avoid ingesting the bathwater or getting it in your eyes. This may make you sick or irritate your eyes.
Seal in relaxation moisture by wrapping yourself in a warm towel after the bath.
 If you have sensitive skin and don’t want to apply aromatherapy directly to your skin, consider spritzing your linens, including bedding and towels. This can help you relax for a longer period of time without irritating your skin. Get a clean spray bottle. Mix 30 – 40 drops of your chosen essential oil with 1.5 ounces of distilled water in the bottle. You can increase the number of essential oil drops if you want the scent to be stronger. The more drops of oil you use, the stronger that the scent will be.
You only need to lightly mist your towels to get the benefits of essential oils. Dousing your towels may irritate your skin.
 Another great way to relax with aromatherapy is by diffusing the scent with candles, humidifiers, and scent diffusers. These delivery methods offer similar calming effects to baths or massages.Look for candles containing natural, pure fragrances. Choose a candle made of beeswax, soy or another vegetable-based wax. These are the best way to reap the relaxing benefits of aromatherapy by candle.Light candles for 30 minutes to help the scent circulate for a relaxing environment.
Disperse your chosen scent through the air with a scent diffuser. A humidifier or cold-air vaporizer will also diffuse the scent throughout your home.Consider building your own diffuser by putting your oil mixture in a bowl of hot water.Diffuse your oil for up to 15 minutes every hour. This provides optimal relaxation results.Extinguish candles and scent diffusers any time you are not present. This can prevent fires.
 Most essential oils are safe for use, especially if you’ve done a patch test. In some cases, you may still have a bad reaction to your chosen aromatherapy treatment. Watch for the following signs of an allergic reaction and seek prompt medical attention:


Redness of the skin
Skin that is warm to the touch
Hives
Blisters
Itching
Scratchy throat
SwellingRed eyes
Trouble breathing