 When starting out, opportunities may be hard to come by. With limited experience, it can be difficult to land a job. You may have to start out doing part-time or unpaid work.


If you're still in school, look into an internship that involves writing or editing. An internship looks great on a resume and gives you invaluable professional experience.
You can also take small freelance gigs. You can apply to such jobs on places like Craigslist. Often, employees are looking for copywriters to do a single article or blog post for them. You may get a paid a very small fee, but it can help build your resume and gain contacts for the future.
As previously stated, volunteer copywriting is also a good idea for early experience. Writing for a local charity's newsletter or web page may not pay. However, you'll gain something to add to your resume., If you can, get coffee dates with creatives. Writers or designers, it doesn’t matter. Ask them to describe their days, what they love, and what they hate. Everyone loves to talk about themselves. Ask them how many hours a week they work.


Ask them to email you a creative brief. A brief is the bible. Among other things, it contains concise, exact descriptions of audience, strategy, and mandatories (stuff you have to shoehorn into the concept or at least into the copy). A kid coming in knowing what a brief is will impress a creative director.
If you talk to a copywriter, ask for a copy document. Format any copy in your portfolio like the agency document. This makes it look like you know something about the business.
One note: briefs and copy documents are internal documents. Ask politely and make clear it’s just for you to study.
 If you're ready to begin seeking full time copywriting work, you'll need a resume. A resume is an invaluable tool when it comes to marketing yourself to potential employees. There are some specific considerations to keep in mind when making a copywriting resume.


You should follow typical resume format when it comes to things like basic layout. Choose a professional, easily readable font. Any choices you make regarding things like spacing, bullet points, and use of bold and italics should be consistent. Always include contact information, like your name, e-mail, and phone number, near the top of your resume.
Emphasize your skill set first. Include a section in which you list your copywriting experience. This is where you would include things like past publications, your blog, and any areas of expertise you have. You can include technical skills, like experience with sites like WordPress. You should also include what kind of copywriting you typically do, like whether you've done brochures, online ads, social media copy, and so on.List only relevant jobs. Jobs in marketing, sales, advertising, or business are appealing on a copywriting resume. Jobs in creative writing and journalism may not look as great, however. While both career-paths include writing, copywriting is mostly focused on marketing and sales. An employer may be wary to take a chance on someone whose experience is mainly rooted in non-commercial writing.Keep your education towards the bottom. While many traditional resumes have the education section listed at the top, a specific education is not necessarily important for a copy writing job. Prioritize your skill set, publications, and experience over your education., In the event you're called in for an interview for a copywriting position, make sure you practice solid interview skills. A successful interview can help you land the right job.


Always research the business before going into an interview. You want to have some sense of a company's history, ethics, and atmosphere. Do some research on a company's website and browse their social media profiles.Dress up for an interview. While you're on the job hunt, have a few go-to interview outfits ready. For men, a button down shirt and tie with dress pants is always a good choice. For women, a nice skirt and blouse, a suit, or dress pants and a nice top can work. Make sure to wear dress shoes as well. You don't want to offset a professional outfit by wearing sneakers with it.Arrive a few minutes early and try to make a good impression on everyone. Be polite to the person who checks you in and offer a smile to anyone you see in the hallway. Use body language to convey confidence when first meeting the interviewer. Give a firm handshake, make eye contact, and smile and nod during the interview to show you are listening.Ask questions at the end of the interview. You should not merely ask questions of logistics, like, "When can I expect to hear back?" Ask open-ended questions that convey a genuine interest in the company. For example, ask something like, "What's your company's culture like?" or "What do you like about working here?", Many current copywriting positions entail remote work. Copywriters often do temporary or freelance work for a client and the hiring process may involve a brief phone conversation. Learn how to navigate a phone interview in addition to an in-person interview.


When you know the call is coming, make sure you're in the right place. Find a quiet place, free of distractions. If possible, you want to be at your own home or apartment as it's easier to minimize outside noise.If you need any documentation, have it ready to go. Keep your resume close by during the reference, as well as any other information the interviewer asked for. For example, if the interviewer wanted to know your hours of availability, have your schedule in front of you during the interview.Smile while on the phone. Even if it feels silly, smiling can actually subtly change your tone of voice. You may sound perkier or more interested if you smile during a phone interview.Follow up in writing. When the phone interview is complete, send an e-mail the following day. Thank the interviewer for taking the time to talk to you and express your continued interest in the position., Nonprofits are often a great route for copywriters just starting out. They're always on the lookout for quality writers to write brochures, press releases, web copy, and more. You also may find this work more fulfilling as you're helping a worthy cause rather than just selling a product. If you're looking for work as a copywriter, browse the websites of some organizations you support. See if they're currently hiring copywriters., If you can't find a stable position at first, you can keep your resume free of gaps by freelancing. You can work with individual clients on a case-by-case basis, charging a fee for your services.


Crowdsourcing sites, such as Copify, often have posts looking for freelance copy writers. You can start contacting potential clients through websites like this, e-mailing out your resume and portfolio.You can also go to local businesses and see how much they typically pay for copywriting. You can develop a competitive rate from there and provide them with your resume and portfolio. Tell them to give you a call if they want to hire you as a freelancer for a job.Keep in mind you'll probably have to have another job on the side if you're freelancing. Freelancing work is not always reliable and you may not be able to count on freelancing alone to pay all your bills and living expenses.