 Having a conversation with a judgmental family member can cut you to the core. Take this opportunity to figure out why it does. Examining the cause of your feelings may help you to deal with issues and emotions you didn’t know you had.


When you’re reeling with hurt, ask yourself, “Why does what this person said bother me so much? Do I think it’s true? Do I value their opinion that much?” Once you take the time to examine the reason for the hurt, you may be able to let go of it and move on., Perhaps hearing what a judgmental relative has to say bothers you so much because you know there is a grain of truth in what they have to say. Or maybe you realized you value their opinion much more than you originally thought you did. Whatever the reason, use this is a chance to better yourself.


For instance, if your relative tends to point out a character flaw you often exhibit, take time to work on that flaw and change it for the better. If what they say hurts so much because you care about what they think of you, maybe it’s time to reevaluate the relationship and what you see in that person.
Perhaps you’ll find that they aren’t who you thought they were and you’ll learn that their opinion isn’t as valuable as you once thought, which may make things easier on you., Critical people are often the way they are because they are unhappy with themselves. As such, they take their hurt out on others. After you receive a lashing from your relative because they have an issue with something you do, simply remind yourself that it’s not you, it’s them.


After you talk to the person, tell yourself, “The way they just spoke to me wasn’t appropriate, but I don’t have to take it personally. What they said isn’t true and they are simply unhappy with themselves, so they took it out on me. Don’t get down about it.” Having this little pep talk may prevent you from becoming upset and can help you to look at the bigger picture., If unresolved issues between you and family members are significantly impacting your life, it may be practical to talk to a professional. You can do this alone if you simply want to get closure about an estranged relationship, or if your family isn't willing to work on the relationship. If they are willing to attend counseling, going as a group can help improve your communication with one another.