 Use a sharp knife or a pair of scissors to cut a small wedge out of the entire roll of tape – from the outermost edge to the innermost end. This way, you'll tear the tape off in the same spot every time, and you may have less trouble finding the edge in the future!, When you are done using a roll of tape for the time being, stick a toothpick underneath the adhesive about a half-inch from the edge. This way, when you return to use the tape again, you will be able to easily identify where to begin. This method is especially useful for clear packing tape.In theory, you can use almost anything to mark the end of the roll: paper, a paperclip, a twig, a card. Use anything that isn't too bulky and sticks cleanly to the edge of the tape. Improvise a solution using the materials you have lying around your home or office.
 Fold the sticky end of the tape back into the roll—not far, just a centimeter or so—to make a "pull tab" for the next time you use the tape. You can fold the tape directly in, or you can fold at a 45-degree angle for a triangular fold.
 Consider buying a dedicated tape dispenser. These devices usually include a spool (which you can continually refill with new rolls of tape) and a serrated tape-cutting edge. When you stretch the tape over the serrated edge, it slices cleanly and naturally. The edge of the tape sticks there until you need it next.


Consider buying a "tape gun" for packing tape. This device is a convenient, handheld version of the standard tape dispenser. Run the tape gun along the surface of a box, and you will seal the box without losing the edge of the roll.You can find tape dispensers online or at office-supply stores. Be aware that many standard tape dispensers are designed for use with Scotch tape

, It is easier to find the edge of a roll of patterned tape, as you can visually parse out the breaks in the pattern. If you consistently have trouble finding the edge of a roll of tape, consider making a habit of buying patterned tape for the sake of convenience., Some tape is designed with black lines on the sides to denote where the adhesive ends. This way, you will not need to find the edge of the roll – you'll be able to pull it up at any point! Look for this specialty tape online or in large office-supply stores.