 Currently there are 63 traits in the game and also split into categories. To view a full detailed list with descriptions, you can click here.


Mental: Artistic, bookworm, can't stand art, computer whiz, excitable, genius, green thumb, handy, insane, natural cook, neurotic, photographer's eye (World Adventures only), and virtuoso.






Social: Charismatic, commitment issues, dislikes children, easily impressed, flirty, friendly, good sense of humor, great kisser, grumpy, hopeless romantic, inappropriate, loner, loser, mean spirited, mooch, no sense of humor, party animal, schmoozer, and unflirty.






Physical: Athletic, brave, clumsy, couch potato, coward, disciplined (World Adventures only), heavy sleeper, hydrophobic, light sleeper, lucky, neat, never nude, slob, unlucky, and shy.(late night only.)






Lifestyle: Adventurous (World Adventures only), ambitious, angler, childish, daredevil, evil, family orientated, frugal, good, hates the outdoors, hotheaded, kleptomaniac, loves the outdoors, over-emotional, perfectionist, technophobe, vegetarian, workaholic and star quality.(late night only.)





;
, Each age span receives a certain amount of traits. Toddlers get 2, children get 3, teens get 4, and young adults, adults, and elder all get 5 traits. Baby and toddler traits can also be inherited from parents' genetics. If they grow up well, you will be able to choose a third trait when they grow up to be a child. A fourth trait may be attained if the child is grown up successfully to become a teen, and so forth.
 A Sim can't have opposite traits, such as good and evil or athletic and lazy. If you choose a trait such as "dislikes children", then "family orientated" would be grayed out. Also, if you want to have a relationship with another sim, it is harder to build the relationship up if they have contradicting traits

, Traits can also grant Sims different abilities or specific actions. Along with meat related foods, vegetarians can also cook vegetarian foods. If your Sim is hydrophobic, they would never be seen in a pool. In order to boost their social skills, insane Sims may have a conversation with themselves.

