 Although it can be very intimidating to make eye contact with someone you don't know, you need to do your best to maintain a calm demeanor. Nobody likes being looked-at with nervous, intense, or over-anxious eyes.The person you may wish to make eye contact with may be nervous as well. If you maintain a calm demeanor, you might be able to make them feel more at ease.
Intense or anxious stares may suggest hostility or anger--the opposite of what you are trying to convey.
 This may sound silly, but if you aren't in the practice of making eye contact with people, then you might not be in the practice of producing a gentle gaze or smile. You may not actually be "staring" at someone, but the look on your face may suggest otherwise. This can make people feel very uneasy.


Being stared at makes people feel uncomfortable and will make them want to avoid eye contact. Be sure to avoid making facial expressions that would suggest you are examining or critiquing a person.
Practicing your smile in the mirror will also help you get over any feeling of intimidation of shyness that you may experience when making direct eye contact.
 Get used to making direct eye contact by practicing on a few portraits. This may feel awkward at first, but that is the point. You want to continue to work through any feeling of awkwardness that you may experience while looking people in the eye.


You can even do this while flipping through magazines or while browsing the internet.
 Follow their eyes as they move around the screen.
 It is a lot easier to make and maintain eye contact with an individual when you are listening instead of speaking. Furthermore, being part of a group may help alleviate any anxiety.Practice making eye contact with someone delivering a speech or public address.


Even when the speaker is not looking at you directly, practice looking at their eyes.
 Maintaining eye contact for a long period of time can be uncomfortable or difficult, so start with short conversations with the grocery clerk, your neighbor, even a co-worker.The point is not to engage in a deep or meaningful conversation, but to practice making eye contact with a real person for short periods of time.


As you feel more-and-more comfortable, try increasing the length of the discussions.
 Practice looking your friends or people that you feel comfortable with in the eyes. Make this a priority when you are speaking to your friends and family.


In some cases, it may be easier for you to look at another spot on the person's face. If you pick a spot close enough to the eye they will not be able to notice that you are not looking at them directly., If making eye contact with a person continues to be a difficult task, you may want to consider taking a preliminary test to see if you may have social anxiety disorder.Social anxiety disorders can be identified as an extreme and constant fear of being judged, scrutinized, or critiqued.This could be the cause of your fear of making eye contact.

