 Book your flight tickets, hotel rooms, and anything else you need to reserve at least a month or two in advance. If you need to get a passport, pay bills ahead of time, or call your credit card company, give yourself plenty of time to do those things as well.If it is an option for you, then you might even consider hiring a travel agent to make the arrangements for you. They will also take care of any mishaps along the way, such as cancellations or issues with your accommodations. This will save you time and energy and it may help to make the trip seem less stressful for you.


Make a list of everything you need to do before you leave, and cross items off as you complete them.
Your trip will start on a sour note if you’re stressed about making arrangements at the last minute.
Once your preparations are completed, give yourself a few days to relax before you leave.
 It’s all too easy to run into unforeseen difficulties while traveling, so give yourself more time than you think you need to get places. Arrive at the airport at least three hours early, and allow extra time for driving through unfamiliar cities or taking public transportation.Make sure to bring some comforting and distracting materials with you, such as a book, music, and headphones to keep you from getting overwhelmed by your surroundings.
 Reduce your anxiety about the unknown by using technology to get acquainted with your destination before you arrive. Map your driving routes ahead of time, use Google’s Street View feature to explore areas where you’ll need to walk, and look for photos of your hotel and other places you’ll be going.You can use the Street View feature by going to Google Maps and dragging the orange figure in the bottom right corner onto the street you want to look at.
 Bring everything you’ll need to be comfortable, but don’t overdo it. Packing too much can make navigating airports and other public spaces difficult and stressful.If you’re flying, pack any necessities – such as medication, snacks, or earplugs – in your carry-on bag before you board the plane.
 If you are bringing any medications across international borders, keep them in the original prescription bottles. Check the laws in the countries where you’re traveling to make sure your medications are legal there. You may need to declare your medications at customs.Before you travel, consider getting a note from your doctor about any medications you’re taking.

