 If you choose to be on the floor, lay out a soft, large towel. Remove any accessories he is wearing such as a collar or dog clothing.;
, Then turn him over on his back and brush her chest, under her armpits, and on her "under" legs. Brush his legs too. Pay SPECIAL attention to his face, brush that very gently. Also, pay special attention when brushing his back, that is what people will pet the most!

, This rubber brush makes his hair feel a little oily, but that is okay because this makes the coat softer and shinier, and the oily feeling will go away with the next step.
 DO NOT do this if you are going to give the dog a bath, the bath will take the oily feeling away.
 The wax is usually a brown or black color. Be careful not to stick your finger through the ear canal. For the cleanser, use something like Nova Cleanse or Doctor's Foster and Smith Ear Cleanse. Squirt the solution in the dog's ear and rub the ear in a circular motion. Take a cotton ball, place it right under the flap, and tip your dog's head toward it. The solution will be caught in the cotton ball. Next, take a clean cotton ball and wipe were the solution stayed. Your dog's ears should be very clean afterwards!

, There is also a tiny finger brush with plastic bristles you can buy. You can buy these at any pet store, in pet catalogs (such as Doctor's Foster and Smith), or from your veterinarian. Brushing your dog's teeth is very important and can prevent painful and costly dental surgeries.


Use the toothbrushes and toothpastes formulated for dogs and rinse under hot water for about three seconds. Then, put under cool water so it doesn't hurt your dog. This will clean the toothbrush.
Take the toothpaste and squirt a pea-sized amount on the toothbrush. Gently, move your dog's lip upward so you can see it's teeth. Brush all the teeth inside the mouth for about one minute. You should brush your dog's teeth at least twice a week.
 Be careful! Do not get the wipe into the eye, this can really sting!

, Use a small dog nail clipper, not a human nail clipper. Ask your veterinarian to show you how to clip the nails, don't try it by yourself first! Clip only the tip of the nail, not any further or you will hit the quick. The quick is very hard to see in black nails, so don't get any farther than the tip. If you hit the quick, it will be a very painful and even fatal experience for your dog. Check the warning section to learn what to do when you hit a quick. Don't let the quick part of the nail stop you from clipping your dog's nails, clipping the nails is essential in the grooming process!

, If you would like to learn how to do a quick "fast bath" go to the Tips part of the page. Otherwise, stay here.



Isle of Dogs grooming products are recommended by groomers and breeders nationwide to produce a top-quality, show-finish coat. These are best to use on the coat of the smooth dachshund.
Buy some creamy dog shampoo and conditioner that will make your smooth dachshund's coat "silky and soft". If your smooth dachshund is muddy or dirty, use a clear shampoo, they clean better. They also help to get rid of stink and stains in the coat. But if you are giving your dog a normal bath, just use creamy shampoo. Good brands and choices of shampoos are: All Isle of Dogs Shampoos, and Doctors Foster and Smith Premier System Shampoo or different shampoos in their VitaSheen collections. Good Choices of Conditioners are all Isle of Dogs conditioners, and Doctors Foster and Smith Premier System Conditioner or Their VitaSheen Moisturizing Conditioner. Another good brand choice for shampoos and conditioners is Oster grooming products. Lastly, is Miracle Coat.

Take the shampoo and squirt some in your hands. Start to lather from the top of the neck to the end of the tail. Shampoo the outside of the ears, the legs, the chest, belly,and the rest of the body. (Don't get in eyes!)
Rinse the shampoo out of the coat for at least 3 minutes, making sure you get every single bit of soap out of the coat. Next, shampoo the head. YOU MUST use a tearless shampoo (most puppy shampoos are tearless) on the head. To shampoo the head start at the top, and work your way down to the muzzle. Even though the shampoo is tearless, try to NOT get it in the eyes please! Even though the manufacturers may say it is tearless, sometimes they DO lie! Afterwards, rinse the head, and make sure ALL the shampoo has been rinsed off!


, Squirt some in your hands, and smooth over the top of the neck, to the end of the tail. Also, get the outside of the ears, the legs, the chest, feathering and the rest of the body. Keep the conditioner on for 5 to 10 minutes. Rinse for about 2 minutes to 8 minutes. If there is still soap in the coat, make sure you keep rinsing until the coat is clean or your dog will be very uncomfortable. Let your dog shake the water off once. Half the drying is done right there. Take the towel and for about 20 seconds stroke all over the dog's body. DO NOT RUB! Rubbing makes the coat harsh-looking! Dachshund's coats are supposed to lie flat to the body! After, your dog will still be damp, but not wet. This is perfect. Take the bristle brush and repeat the brush routine as previously. Make sure you are brushing in the direction the hair grows, and brush the coat so that it is flat on the body. If you brush until dry, your dachshund will have a smooth, flat-lying coat!

, Let your dog stand or if a show dog "stack". Trim the whiskers, this will give your dog a cleaner look. Don't worry, trimming the whiskers won't hurt the dog, and if you would rather not, you don't have to cut the whiskers if your dog isn't a show dog!

