 You must file your bankruptcy petition with the Chancery Division of the High Court in Chichester Street, Belfast. You may also file online here: https://insolvency.economy-ni.gov.uk/InsolvencyPublic/Security/SignIn.aspx?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1. You must complete the following:Bankruptcy Petition (form 6.30)
Statement of Affairs (form 6.31)

, When you apply, you must pay a deposit of £525. This money is non-refundable. There is also a court fee of £115. If you can’t afford the court fee, then ask if the court will reduce it or waive it.You must also pay a solicitor to witness you swear an affidavit that you are telling the truth. This will cost you about £7.
 Go to the courthouse and request a hearing. Make sure to take the following documents with you when you make your request:bankruptcy petition
statement of affairs
affidavit
court fee
deposit or receipt if paid online

, At your hearing, the judge will decide if bankruptcy is right for you or if you should consider other options. If approved, the Official Receiver will take over your case. Your bank accounts will be frozen, as will your building society accounts.Your creditors can no longer take action against you once you receive the bankruptcy order., Within 10 days of receiving your bankruptcy order, you should meet with the Official Receiver for an interview. You should take a copy of your statement of affairs to the interview because you will need it to complete a questionnaire.


You may attend the interview over the phone or request a face-to-face meeting.Since you will be working with the Official Receiver, you should probably schedule an in-person meeting.
 Bankruptcy can take up to year in Northern Ireland. The Official Receiver or a Trustee will take control of your money and possessions. They may sell some of the possessions and use the proceeds to pay your creditors.


You won’t lose equipment you need for work, such as a vehicle or tools. You also won’t lose household items, such as clothing, furniture, and bedding.However, you may lose your home if it has enough value in it. It’s possible for family or friends to buy out your share of the home.
Work with your Official Receiver. If you don’t cooperate, then you might suffer a bankruptcy restriction order, which can last for 15 years. It will limit your ability to gain credit.
 The Official Receiver will review your income and determine whether you should make payments to your creditors. The payments can last up to three years. If you choose not to pay, the Receiver can get a court order.You must also notify the Official Receiver of changes in your income.
 Your bankruptcy will last for one year, after which you typically will receive a discharge.A discharge wipes out debts. However, only some debts can be discharged. The following cannot be wiped out and you will continue to pay them:student loans
social fund debt
court fines
debts procured through fraud
child support or maintenance payments

, You might feel overwhelmed and not know where to start. If so, you should get as much assistance as possible. Look to the following, depending on your circumstances:


Citizens Advice. For help considering your options other than bankruptcy, call Citizens Advice. You can discuss budgeting, help with debt, and mortgage issues. You can find your nearest Citizen’s Advice Bureau here: https://www.citizensadvice.co.uk/pages/bureaux//

Insolvency Service. Call or stop online to find out more about the bankruptcy process in Northern Ireland. You can call 028 9025 1441 (9:00 am to 5:00 pm) or visit www.detini.gov.uk.

