 Don’t bottle your feelings up. Anger and other negative emotions can trigger a relapse if you don’t address them. Go for a long walk, clean your house, or vent in a journal when you feel your emotions building up., Mindfulness can help you process the emotions of recovery without letting them control you. To become more mindful, focus on what’s happening right now, both inside and outside you. Observe your sensations, thoughts, and feelings without judging them.Meditation and yoga are two good ways to develop the habit of mindfulness.
 For many people, loneliness is a big trigger for relapse, so don’t isolate yourself. Talk to your family members, friends, therapist, and other people in your support network frequently. If you aren’t already a member, consider joining a group like Alcoholics Anonymous for extra support.If you don’t feel like seeing other people, make yourself do it anyways. Start small. Pick up the phone to call a friend, or ask a family member to get coffee with you.
 Think about what kind of new, sober life you want to build. Ask yourself what you need from other people and what kind of influences you don’t want to spend time around anymore. Let the people close to you know about your new boundaries, and decide what you will do if someone does not respect your boundaries.For example, you might set the boundary that you will not spend time with your old friends who are still addicted to drugs.
Be polite but firm about your boundaries. Say something like, “No, I can’t hang out with you. I need to put my recovery first right now.”

, Make time to have fun on a regular basis. Rediscover the activities you liked to do before you became addicted, or pick up a completely new hobby that you’ve always wanted to try. Give yourself something to look forward to every day.For instance, you could express your emotions through painting, teach yourself a foreign language, or join an adult sports league to make new friends.
 Therapy is an essential part of recovery. A therapist can help keep you accountable, and they can help you learn new ways to cope with your emotions without turning to alcohol or drugs. A therapist can also help you problem-solve difficulties in your life using the HALT concepts, such as identifying triggers and figuring out mood changes.Even if you have already completed a residential therapy program, your aftercare should include some kind of counseling.

