 Making sure you are going to a reputable facility is extremely important. Research the facility to determine if they have accreditation through the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities or the Joint Commission.This information can be obtained from the facility’s website, or you can find it by contacting the appropriate government agencies.
 Before choosing a treatment center, research the medical staff. This includes the clinical staff, medical staff, psychiatrist, psychologist, nutritionist, dietitian, and recreation therapist.Find out the experience and qualifications the staff has. Make sure the staff have licenses and credentials, including the dietitian and nutritionist.
Go meet with the medical staff. Ask them about their experience, education, and licenses.Contact government agencies to find out if the medical staff possess proper licenses.
 If it is possible, you should visit the center and take a tour of it before deciding to get treated there. While touring the facility, look around the grounds and decide if it looks like a comforting, warm environment. Ask yourself if you would be comfortable there during your recovery.Look around the area and decide if this is where you want to stay. There are treatment centers in different geographic locations, such as mountains, desert, the beach, or a serene environment. Make sure the environment is somewhere you feel happy and comfortable.Meet with the doctors and other staff at the facility. Discuss their education, their experience, and their qualifications. Talk to them about how they approach treatment and recovery.
Discuss success rates with those you meet with.
 Part of the treatment of eating disorders is changing negative behaviors and learning how to deal with triggers and difficult situations after the treatment. Centers should use evidence-based behavioral treatments, like cognitive behavioral therapy, in their treatment program.


Though going through therapy to discuss the causes of the eating disorder may be therapeutic or insightful, it should only be a minor part of the treatment., Aftercare programs an integral and important part of the treatment and recovery process. Aftercare programs are geared towards providing support and help to patients after their stay in a residential center has ended.Aftercare programs may include a therapist or group therapy after you leave, telephone therapy or access to a support network via the telephone, or contact from the center.Studies have shown that patients have a greater success rate if provided with an aftercare program.

