 Newcomers should find a small one to go to first and not a huge one such as AnimeExpo in California, (this is the largest one held in the United States). You can check out www.animecons.com if you are having troubles with your research. Make sure the con you choose though is NOT occurring in less than four months time because if you need to stay at a hotel while attending, the hotels in the area may already be booked solid.





;
,,


Most cons allow you to be able to register ahead of time. Most conventions have their own website and a link to follow so you can get your advance tickets , so you are not one of the unfortunate people who have to wait for hours on end waiting in line. The lines for the pre-registered are usually shorter, faster and are cheaper than buying tickets at the door. Sometimes there are special bonuses that you receive if you pre-register, which is definitely a plus.
 If someone tries to get out of paying tell them, “You don’t pay, you don’t stay!” Figure out which people will stay in which room and make sure that everyone in each room get along and won’t try to kill each other during the night.
 Find out a way to get there. A parent or someone who is going with you can drive everyone there. If the con is quite far you might need to take a train or Greyhound bus. If it seems too far to use any of these then you might have to consider taking an airplane there.
 You need to remember to specify a certain amount for your hotel room, food and drinks (make sure to drink lots of water and stay hydrated), transportation, registration fees, and anything you plan on buying either in the dealer’s room or artist alley. Making a list of the things you are hoping to find is very useful too. This way you know the main things you want to buy and you can then try to budget a bit extra for the other things you come across and this way you don’t forget about something you have been meaning to get for a while.
 THREE bags are suggested.






One of these will be the bag you carry with you at all times during the con. This bag will hold a change of clothes, an optional cosplay repair kit(scissors, glue, needle and thread, some extra material and anything else you think you might need if something happens to your costume), camera, puzzle books or something to do if you have to wait in long lines, a couple bottles of water, and some snacks such as chips. Also put some medication for headaches, nausea, etc just in case you or someone becomes ill. You’ll be thankful you had it. Be sure to put any of your prescriptions in here too. Bandaids are good to have as well. Do NOT put your wallet, cell phone, iPod, money or your What to Look for List in this bag. Put valuables in your front pockets at all times to avoid theft. If you have your cosplay outfit on and it doesn’t have pockets either ask a friend to hold onto these or hide the items really well in the bag you are carrying. No convention will be held responsible for theft if you lose these; it will be your own fault.






The second bag should be a bit bigger and will be used for your clothing/toiletries bag. If the convention lasts for three days bring (depending on the season) a couple T-shirts or tanks, a sweater, a jacket, shorts, pants, pajamas, enough underwear and socks, and shoes that will be comfortable. Also, put some kind of plastic bag in here so that you can separate your dirty clothes from your clean clothes. If you choose to make a cosplay outfit you can put it in here or leave it separate from everything (it’s up to you). Put a small bag of toiletries in here which should have, deodorant, shampoo/conditioner, hairbrush, toothpaste/toothbrush, and girls can put their make - up and hair accessories in there own.
Your third and final bag will be your purchases bag. This won’t be filled at the beginning , but it should be at the end of the con. This will hold everything you will buy at the con such as books, DVD’s, figurines, etc. For the time being though you can place this somewhere in your second bag.


Put tags on all of your bags that with your important information such as name, address and phone number.



At anime conventions there are those who choose to make/buy a costume to wear during the con. These costumes tend to be modelled after an anime or manga character. Some people have worked really hard to make themselves look perfect for the con. These things take time to create; don’t wait until the last possible minute to make it. Plan your time accordingly. If the character that you choose has a weapon of some sort don’t bring in a real thing, such as a gun. YOU WILL BE ASKED TO LEAVE. Be smart and make the weapon out of something like cardboard or some other materials that will not be seen as dangerous. If your weapon appears dangerous in any way you will be asked to sign it in. Finally, if you feel confident in the outfit you made/bought you can always enter yourself into a masquerade that normally occurs at most conventions.







