 It may sound a little funny, but in order to get your mind clean, you gotta get your body clean. To start fresh, you gotta be fresh. Being dragged down by the dirt of the day will only be a reminder of your present situation.


Like we discussed earlier -- "rock bottom" is very much so a mental state and therefore can come and go with ease. Showers (and other seemingly pointless endeavors) then become tricks of the trade in that they can relax you, take away stress, and cue your mind that it's time to start over. You're not just getting clean -- you're getting prepared.
 Seems a little ridiculous, on the outside, huh? What kind of person at rock bottom has the will (or maybe the means) to exercise? But the thing is you can't think of these things in such a linear fashion. In fact, you gotta think backwards. Does the successful person exercise or does the exerciser become successful? Is it the chicken or the egg we should be addressing?


The first thing to go when you're down in the dumps is your body. You lie in bed all day, only greeting the sun to tell it to go away. To make matters worse, it's a vicious cycle that only propagates itself. Your body starts to drag and then your mind goes with it. When you exercise, your mind starts taking cues from your body instead of the other way around. You feel better, you look better, and you are better when you exercise -- enabling you to tackle the other parts of this insane world.
 All of a sudden it becomes hours upon hours of TV dinners, boxed wine, tubs of ice cream, and piles of self-loathing. After the binge, you feel absolutely terrible -- thus forcing the process to repeat. The only thing you can do then is lie on the couch and pray for a release from the impending indigestion. Not very productive, huh?


Food should make you feel energized, not lethargic and full of reproach. After a healthy meal, your body feels better and you feel better. Are you noticing a pattern? Getting out of a rock bottom is about feeling good enough (not being good enough) to do something about it. Eating healthy is part of the mental trickery to get your mind speeding down the track to Awesome Town.
 For the record, this point is not at all endorsing materialism or vanity. That being said, looking good on the outside can make you feel good on the inside. So after you take that shower (post-workout), throw on a nice outfit and go socialize. You've earned it.


Knowing you look good can change your outlook on everything -- and how people treat you too (sad, but true). You'll find an inner source of confidence that can ultimately change your behavior (for the better). The world will probably be a bit kinder to you and in turn it's easier to be kinder to yourself.

