 Choosing a bargain holiday wine means identifying what you mean by “bargain.” Are you looking for a wine under $35? Under $30? Under $15? Most bargain wines can be obtained for around $20, but you should customize your budget to reflect your own financial situation. Set your upper spending limit and only consider wines that fall below it., Brands that are very popular tend to be more expensive. If you’re looking for a bargain holiday wine, steer clear of popular brands, including:Black Box
Yellow Tail
Sutter Home
Carlo Rossi
Barefoot

, Wines that have high production costs and need a lot of fermentation time might be cheap, but they might not translate to high value relative to their taste. Many people find pinot noirs, for instance, too sweet and fruity.Grapes used to make Riesling wines, likewise, can be tough to grow., Different stores will often sell the same wine at different prices. You should check all your local wineries and liquor stores, as well as looking at places online. If you know the exact wine you want, you can save time by just calling the store and asking the price of the wine in question.
If you’re looking at prices online, be sure to factor in the cost of shipping. Sometimes a dollar or two saved off the base price can be lost by a three or four-dollar shipping cost.
 After the holidays are through, many holiday items – including bargain holiday wines – go on sale. Buy some of these bargain holiday wines (and even some normally non-bargain holiday wines that have become bargain wines) and store them properly for next year., Buying wine in bulk will give you a better deal. If you’re ordering online, you’ll be able to keep your shipping costs down by ordering more (up to a point). Retail wineries might offer discounts on bulk purchases, too. Try to buy by the case (12 bottles), especially if you have a big holiday office party or plan on attending several holiday parties., Boxed wine is wine that comes in a big plastic bag inside of a box. Some people turn up their noses at boxed wine, but it’s inexpensive, and if you can find some that is appropriate for the holidays, you could get a great deal.Pour the boxed wine into personalized, decorated bottles. Then, obtain some empty wine bottles from an arts and crafts store and use a funnel to fill it with the boxed wine.
Decorate wine cask with a label of your own making. Use construction paper to draw a logo and wine brand of your own invention. For instance, cut a strip of construction paper out and write “John’s Wine” in a florid script. Tape the label to the bottle. Your friends will get a kick out of it.
If you’re really creative, you could paint your favorite winter characters, like a snowman, Santa, or Rudolph the reindeer.For an even more personal touch, instead of buying boxed wine and pouring it into your customized wine casks, you could make your own bargain holiday wine and bottle it for the holidays.

