 Before you start painting, you’ll want to ensure that your finger and toenails are completely free of polish. Pour a capful of nail polish remover onto a cotton ball and use the cotton ball to clean your nails.Make sure your nail polish remover is acetone free.
Never paint over already painted nails, unless you’re touching up a small area.;
, If your nails are long, clip them a little bit at a time until you reach your desired length. Once your nails are a good length, use a nail file to shape them into your preferred nail shape.Oval nails - if you like traditional nail shapes or have short fingers, file your nails into an egg shape by holding the nail file at an angle.
Square nails – if you like sturdy nails or have long nail beds, run your file in one direction straight across your nail. Lightly sand down the edges.
Round nails – if you frequently work with your hands or have larger fingers, file your nails straight across, then round the edges, mirroring the curve of your finger.
 Use a buffer to sand down the surface of your nails – this will remove any faint color that might still be staining your nails from previous polishes./images/thumb/c/cf/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-3-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/c/cf/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-3-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-3-Version-3.jpg









After you finish buffing, flip the buffer over to shine your nails with the smooth side.
Do not over-buff your nails; this may cause your nails to weaken.
 Allow your hands and feet to soak in a tub of warm water. Dry off your hands and feet, then exfoliate them using a body scrub. Wash away the dead skin cells, then rinse and dry your hands and feet.Soak your hands for three minutes and feet for five minutes.
You can also try soaking your feet in a bath of Epsom salt-infused warm water.Make an at home exfoliator by mixing a tablespoon of sugar with a tablespoon of baby oil gel.
Try rubbing a pumice stone in a circular motion over the bottoms and heels of your feet.
Give yourself a quick foot massage by using your thumbs to apply firm pressure to your arches.
 Use an orangewood stick to push your cuticles back away from your nails and to clean the dirt out from under the nails. Finish off your cuticle care by massaging moisturizer into your cuticles and all over the rest of your hands./images/thumb/a/ad/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-5-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-5-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/a/ad/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-5-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-5-Version-3.jpg









Clean off your cuticles and nail beds with nail polish remover to strip away any oils and moisturizer.
Orangewood sticks are thin sticks with pointed ends and can be purchased online or in most beauty supply stores.
 The hardest part of giving yourself a manicure or pedicure is picking out your polish. You want to pick something that will flatter your skin tone, but is neutral or fun enough to wear with different outfits.If you have light skin, go for pastels or bright colors.
If you have medium skin, aim for orange reds or peachy pinks.
If you have dark skin, look for high impact colors, like neon pink or bright blue.
 Base coat provides the foundation for your manicure or pedicure and helps the paint to last longer. To apply, paint your base coat on all your fingers and toes. Go slowly and only apply one thin coat./images/thumb/3/38/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-7.jpg/v4-550px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-7.jpg
/images/thumb/3/38/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-7.jpg/v4-300px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-7.jpg









If you suffer from weak or brittle nails, choose a base coat with a strengthening formula.
If your nails are dry, choose a base coat with a built-in moisturizer.
If your nails have an uneven surface, choose a base coat that promises to fill ridges.
 To paint your nails like a pro, draw a line down the center of your nail with the polish, then use the polish to fill in each side. Allow your finger and toenails to dry completely before applying another coat./images/thumb/0/05/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-8.jpg/v4-550px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-8.jpg
/images/thumb/0/05/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-8.jpg/v4-300px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-8.jpg









Only opt for two coats of nail polish.
Keep your coats as thin as possible. This will help your nails dry faster and your manicure and pedicure last longer.
If you have an old lip brush, dip this into your nail polish remover and use it to tidy up any paint that has ended up on your fingers and toes., Top coat adds shine to your nails and gives your nails a complete and finished look. To apply your top coat, paint one thin coat on your already dry nails./images/thumb/0/07/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-9.jpg/v4-550px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-9.jpg
/images/thumb/0/07/Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-9.jpg/v4-300px-Give-a-Home-Manicure-or-Pedicure-Step-9.jpg









Paint topcoat on the tip of your nails – this will keep your nails from chipping while typing.
Touch up your top coat throughout the week to give your nails a quick pick-me-up.
 Nails technically don’t dry fully until 24-hours after a manicure or pedicure, but they will appear dry in 20 – 30 minutes. Accelerate the drying process by allowing your nails to dry for 30 minutes, then run cold water over your hands and feet for three minutes.Do not run the water directly onto your nails, or the strength of the water may cause the polish to smudge.
Avoid taking a shower for a full hour after giving yourself a manicure or pedicure.
Add quick drying drops to your nails to speed the process up even more. These drops can be purchased online or in drug stores.
Wait at least an hour before putting your shoes back on., Chips to your hand or toenails are unavoidable and patching them up requires a lot of concentration. To cover up a nail chip, apply a thin coat of polish to the chip, then use your topcoat to blend the paint into the rest of the nail.To blend, brush your topcoat on using short, sharp strokes.
Do not paint over the entire nail.
 Chips happen most frequently on the tops of your hand and toenails, where a lot of contact occurs. Use a nail clipper to remove the chipped area, then clip the rest of your nails to match.After all the nails have been clipped, apply top coat and polish to the tops of all the nails. This will seal in the manicure.
This is not a long term solution – once your nail chips or breaks, it’s only a matter of time before it chips or breaks again.
Try not to lose too much of the nail length or shape when clipping.
 There’s a reason accent nails are so popular – they’re a great way to hide polish problems. Rather than give yourself a whole new manicure when a nail gets chipped, use a glitter or metallic polish to paint over the whole nail.You can also try disguising the offending area by painting stripes or polka dots.
Try covering the damage with a nail sticker and some clear topcoat.

