 If you'd like to spend the perfect day with your lover, consider marking the occasion by putting on a little perfume, cologne, or aftershave — especially if you don't normally do so. A small sprinkling of an enticing scent can make a subtle (but noticeable) difference that your partner will most likely appreciate. Be sure to brace yourself — studies have shown that scent plays an important role in sexual attraction!To wear perfume or cologne, spray a tiny amount on your wrists, and perhaps dab a touch behind your ears. Other places, especially those where the blood vessels are thickest, like behind your knees and elbows, can also benefit from a gentle spray. Just be careful that it's you who's wearing the fragrance (and not the fragrance who's wearing you).
Note that many deodorants, especially those for men, already have a strong scent or perfume in them. In this case, avoid adding an additional perfume on top of the first. Wearing multiple scents can cause "clashing", overpowering results that aren't usually very flattering.
 Try making a jaunt over to your local cafe or ice cream shop for a sweet time! You don't even have to have a meal beforehand — in the words of Ally Craig in Remember Me: "I just don't see the point in waiting. I mean, what if I die while eating my entrée?". Indulging in treats you wouldn't normally enjoy together is a great way to mark this special occasion. It's also quite fitting — today, your whole day is a "dessert" for you and your partner to enjoy.
 Enjoy the day's freedom by going somewhere you've never been before. This can be someplace as simple as a trail in your local park or someplace as exciting as the wide-open wilderness — with the right attitude, both can offer great opportunities for exploration. The sounds of birds, the sight of the light filtering through the trees, and the fresh smell of nature will improve your mood right away and give you an opportunity to have a relaxing, heartfelt conversation. Plus, walking is proven form of stimulating, mood-lifting exercise you both get to share together!


If you live in the city or somewhere without any wilderness nearby, you can still explore — just take a walk around your neighborhood. Greet the people you meet with a smile, or just keep yourselves — it's up to you.
 Going to an orchard (or just out into the wilderness) to pick fruit is highly underrated — it's cheaper, fresher and much more fun than buying berries from the store (not to mention the fact that you get to snack as you go). Best of all, this makes a highly enjoyable couples activity — for instance, you can compete to see who can collect more fruit or pool your resources together to make a pie!


Depending on where you live and what time of the year it is, different fruits will be available for picking. Try consulting with a botanical resource to figure out what's ripe — apples, for instance, can be bought at the supermarket all year, but only get ripe in the fall.A word of caution — some plants you may find in the wilderness may be poisonous, so if you're ever less than 100% sure about something you've found, don't eat it. For example, nightshade berries, which are small, black, and shiny, may look appetizing, but they can actually be deadly in sufficient quantities., If you haven't done so before, try exploring your artistic side with your partner! Drawing, painting, writing a song, and even making your own short film can be mind-expanding ways to spend your afternoon. You may even discover things about your partner that you weren't aware of as part of the artistic process — your girlfriend, for instance, may have an eye for expressive camera angles to rival Stanley Kubrick's. Even if the finished product isn't exactly what you had in mind, you'll have an imperfect work of art you can laugh about in the future, so get your creative juices flowing!

, If you haven't ever gone to a spa with your partner before, consider visiting one as part of your "lovely day," even if it's not something you'd normally do. Getting a relaxing massage or spending some time in the sauna can leave you feeling completely refreshed and rejuvenated, especially if you've recently been stressed out. Even the manliest of men are allowed at spas, so don't be afraid if you've never been before!


You don't have to make an appointment at an expensive spa to have a good time. If you're short on cash, try making your own personal spa date at home. Run a deep, warm bath for two and wash yourself with the best soap you have handy before moisturizing your whole body with a good body lotion. Light a few candles is to make things even more romantic!

, Diving into the bargain bins at a local thrift shop with your partner can be an entertaining experience. You won't always find something great (and sometimes you'll find something horrendous), but occasionally, you'll come across some truly stylish vintage clothing. Treasure hunting in vintage shops can be a lot of fun if you're open to it — you won't know what's out there in your size until you go hunt for it!


The benefits of shopping for vintage clothes are many: for example, you don't ever have to worry about whether or not your friends have bought the same piece of clothing as you — odds are, you have the only copy of your shirt in town! The shopping process itself is also a lot more fun and engaging than going to the mall and simply buying expensive new clothes.
 If you have time, try to be somewhere that you'll have a clear view of the setting sun in the evening with your partner. Sometimes, it's a lovely experience to just sit quietly in each others' arms and watch the sun go down. This can be an exceptionally intimate experience if you've had a hustling, bustling day full of activities. It's often unusual to get the chance to be completely silent for a few minutes, so make the most of it!


You can usually find the exact time that the sun will go down in your area online with a simple search engine query. Usually, the absolute most you'll need to do is input your location and the date for which you'd like to know the sunset time., End your day by going out and enjoying each others' company on the dance floor! The type of music you dance to is up to you and your partner — it doesn't matter whether it's ballroom waltzes or heavy metal as long as you love it! It may be easiest to do your dancing in the company of other people in a club or dancehall, but if you're really bold, you can do it in a park, on the street corner, or in your backyard. You can even do it by candlelight in your own house if you want to set a romantic mood.


You never need to worry about how you look while dancing with your partner! Just close your eyes, feel the music, and move. Remember, you're doing this for each others' attention — not the attention of the people around you.
If you're shy about dancing, don't worry! Many dance halls have "beginner's nights" or dance classes to teach you the basics so that you can enjoy yourself when it counts! You can even take dance classes at many gyms and Universities, so take a look online for opportunities near you!

