 Do you feel like you've been in a funk? Or maybe everything is going ok, but you wish your mood was a little better each day? You might just need to make some small changes. If you change your surroundings, your mood can change, too. Change doesn't always have to be scary.Some environmental changes can be significant. For example, if you and your partner are constantly fighting about closet space, a bigger apartment might be the key to a more positive outlook.
Changing your environment can also be small. Try picking up some fresh flowers for your living room each week. Glancing at them daily might give you the small lift you've been looking for.
 Studies indicate that well over half of working Americans eat lunch at their desks. Or worse, some people skip the mid-day meal altogether. Working through lunch can actually lead to higher levels of stress and lower productivity. So get away from your desk and grab some food.You don't have to go to a restaurant or cafeteria to go "out" to eat. You just need to change your location. Try eating in a break room. If it's a nice day, take your sack lunch outside.
Do something you enjoy. Your lunch break should actually be a break. If you're eating with coworkers, try to avoid talking about work. Instead, talk about your weekend plans. Or flip through a magazine.
 Good moods can be contagious. Likewise, so can negativity. If you want to feel happier, try spending more time with people who seem content. Look for family members, friends ,or coworkers with a smile, and choose try to spend more time with those people.Spend time with people who are encouraging, positive, and who enrich your life. For example, if you have a friend who regularly encourages you to try something new, try to spend more time with her.
Try to add these types of people to your daily routine. For example, if there are two coffee shops near your office, frequent the one that has the friendlier barista.
 For many people, work takes up a significant percentage of your time. And many people admit that they aren't happy with their jobs. Sometimes, you might feel like your job is boring, or stressful, or just tiring. If it is feasible, consider a career change if you feel like your job is impeding your happiness.Make a list of your priorities. What is most important to you in a career? Is it salary? Flexible hours? A positive team environment?
Spend some time figuring out what you would like to do. Then formulate an action plan. Feeling like you are taking control of this part of your life can go a long way towards making you feel happy every day.
Try not to quit before you have a formal offer from another employer. If you have a significant amount of savings you may want to quit before you find a new job, though it is usually easier to get another job if you are already employed.
 It's possible that you are unhappy because you are in a bit of a rut. When people are bored, they typically are not feeling very upbeat. If you regularly try new things, you can alleviate boredom and increase your happiness. Trying new things also gives you the opportunity to find something new to enjoy.Have you always wanted to learn to play tennis? Sign up for lessons. Not only will you be trying a new activity, but you'll also be learning something new. Studies show learning can lead to increased happiness.
If you love to read, try joining a book club. You'll likely read a book you wouldn't have chosen and you'll get to meet people with similar interests.
 Your physical health is directly connected to your mental health. In order to increase your happiness, you should consider adding some healthy habits to your lifestyle. For example, exercise can be a great mood booster. Exercise releases endorphins, which elevate your mood. Try to get 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.
You can break exercise into blocks. Even 10 minutes of physical activity can make you feel great. Try taking a brisk walk around the block at lunch time.
Get plenty of rest. Many people feel cranky or sluggish if they are missing out on sleep. Aim for 7-8 hours of sleep per night.
 Good news! Chocolate can elevate your mood. Research shows that there are multiple chemical compounds in chocolate that activate your brain's pleasure centers. For example, the phenylethylamine in chocolate is also known as the "love drug" because it produces the same effect as being around someone who you love.Try eating a small amount of dark chocolate each day. An ounce is an appropriate serving.
Eat clams. Clams have a high amount of vitamin B12, which fights depression. Other foods high in B12 are salmon and beef.Eat walnuts. These nuts contain alpha-linolenic acid, which helps fight depression. Add walnuts to your oatmeal, or try making your own nut butter.
 There is an important relationship between touch and mood. The more you touch (or are touched) by others, the more content and safe you will likely feel. If you are in a relationship, hug your partner more. Aim for 10 hugs a day. You will both feel happier.Have more sex. Sex, like other physical activities, releases endorphins. It will also help increase your bond with your partner.
If you are not in an intimate relationship, you can still add more physical contact to your life. Make it a point to shake hands when you meet new people, or when you congratulate a co-worker on a project well done.
 Having a dog or cat as a companion can help you feel happy. Pet owners are less likely to suffer from depression and anxiety. Having an animal also causes you to exhibit more playfulness and laughter.Choose an animal that works with your lifestyle. For example, if you live in a small apartment, consider getting a cat or small dog.
Adopt an animal from a rescue society. You'll feel good knowing that you are helping a creature in need.

