 If your PS2 isn't already hooked up, you'll need to connect it to your TV. The most common way to connect a PS2 to your TV is to use stereo A/V (RCA) cables.


One of these RCA cables comes with every PS2.
Match the colored plugs to the colored inputs on the back or side of your TV.;
, Use the INPUT or VIDEO button on your TV to select the input that the PS2 is connected to.


The input you connected your PS2 to on the TV will usually be labeled. Use this label to quickly switch to the correct input.
 You'll need a controller in order to control the DVD or enter parental control settings, but it is not required in order to start playing the movie. If the DVD has a menu, however, you won't be able to get past the menu without a controller.


If you have a PS2 DVD remote, you can use it instead of the controller. Older PS2 models require an adapter for the PS2 DVD remote.
 Depending on your PS2 model, the tray may eject from the console, or the top may pop open.


On original PS2 models, the Eject button can be found in the lower-right corner of the front panel, underneath the Reset button. If you're using a Slim model, the Eject button can be found to the left of the PlayStation logo, above the USB ports.
 Place your DVD in the tray and then press the Eject button again or close the top.
 This will restart the PS2 and load the DVD. The DVD will begin playing automatically after a moment.
 Depending on your console's parental control settings, you may be prompted to enter a 4-digit passcode to start the movie. If you've never entered a passcode before, you'll be prompted to create one.


Try 0000, 1111, or 1234 if you can't remember your passcode.
If you still can't get past the parental controls, see the next section for instructions.
 You can perform all of the standard playback controls with your PS2 controller:


Press X on the controller or remote to select something, or O to cancel.
Press the Start button to pause the movie, and the O button to stop.
Press R1 to skip to the next chapter, and L1 to go back to the previous one.
Holding R2 will fast-forward, and holding L2 will rewind.
 This will open a transparent menu that appears over the movie that is being played. There are various options you can select here, such as returning to the DVD menu and jumping to chapters.
 Follow the steps in the previous section until you get prompted to enter your parental control passcode.
 This will will change the menu from "Enter Password" to "Delete Password."

, When you enter this code, the original parental control password will be deleted.
 You'll be prompted to "Register Password" after deleting the original one. Enter something easy-to-remember like 0000 for now. You'll be permanently disabling it in a few steps.


You'll have to enter the new passcode twice to confirm it.
 Once you've created a new passcode, the movie will begin playing. Proceed past the warnings and select "Play" from the DVD's menu.
 Once you start seeing studio logos and the movie has begun playing, press O to stop the movie.
 Open the menu when you see the "Press to resume viewing" message.
 You'll find this button directly above the Pause button and below the "7" button in the menu.
 This menu allows you to change the parental control settings.
 You'll be prompted for the new passcode before you can enter the menu.


This menu is only selectable if you have completely stopped a movie that is playing.
 This will allow you to change the parental control level.
 Parental Controls will be permanently turned off, and you'll never be prompted to enter them when starting a movie again.
 Press the Eject button and remove your DVD from the tray. It may still be spinning for a split second after opening the lid on slim PS2s.
 This will restart the PS2, saving your parental control settings.
 Once the PS2 has finished resetting and you're on the main menu, open the tray and put your DVD back in.
 The PS2 will reset and your movie will begin playing automatically. You will not be prompted for the parental control password ever again.