 Swelling in the salivary glands often causes swelling around the entirety of the face, as well as blood in saliva and soft masses in the neck. Check the face and neck area to look for symptoms of salivary mucoceles.Use your finger to gently pull up on the cheeks and expose the teeth and gums. Visually check for swelling, bleeding, or discoloration. You may also want to smell for bad breath.
Run the back of your hand down the cat’s neck, applying light pressure, to feel for masses.;
, Salivary cysts can cause lethargy, loss of appetite, difficulty eating, and other behavioral changes. Watch your cat’s daily habits to see if they are eating or drinking less, or avoiding playing and other physical activity they typically enjoy.If your car is typically lethargic, maybe due to age or a disability, do not assume lethargy alone is a symptom. Look for other symptoms, as well.
Also watch your cat for vomiting. If they are eating well but throwing up regularly, it may be a sign that something is wrong.
 A salivary mucocele may cause respiratory distress such as difficulty breathing and difficulty swallowing. Listen for wheezing, labored breathing, or other signs that your cat may be struggling to properly intake air.If your cat seems to be experiencing any respiratory distress, seek help from a vet immediately. Trouble breathing could cause brain damage or become fatal if not treated quickly.
 Only a trained veterinarian should diagnose and treat salivary problems for your cat. If your cat is showing symptoms of salivary swelling, make an appointment with your vet and ask them to check for mucoceles.Let your vet know what symptoms you have observed at home, and provide as much detail as you can about when you began noticing behavioral changes.
 A vet can readily distinguish between a mucocele and a more severe problem such as a tumor with some simple testing. If recommended by your vet, allow them to test the detected mass using a fine needle biopsy, as well as imaging tests like sialography.These tests are often painless and not invasive for your cat, and they help your vet rule out more extreme problems such as cancers.
 Treatment options will be different depending upon your vet’s diagnosis after testing. Ask your vet, “what treatment options do you recommend for my cat’s particular problem?” Follow your vet’s recommendations as closely as you are able.If your cat is experiencing a problem other than a salivary mucocele, they may require more intensive testing and treatment. Talk to your vet extensively about treatment options, their cost, and their overall success rates.
 Minor surgery is generally the best treatment option for masses and cysts in the salivary glands. Talk to your vet about having the masses surgically removed, or otherwise tying off damaged ducts to help stop saliva leakage.Before you have the actual procedure performed, talk to your vet about any potential risks associated with the procedure. Let them know about any pre-existing conditions your cat may have, and see if they impact your cat’s eligibility for the removal procedure.
Seek removal immediately if the masses are impacting your cat’s ability to eat or breathe.
 After surgery, your cat will need time to rest and recover. Follow your vet’s instructions for aftercare, and carefully monitor the incision site for signs of infection such as swelling, redness, or discharge.Your cat may need to be placed on soft foods until the incisions heal so that they do not aggravate the injuries.
Your cat may also be placed on antibiotics to help prevent infection. Administer them regularly according to your vet’s instructions.
 After cyst removal, be sure to schedule regular follow-up appointments as suggested by your vet. The first one should be two or so weeks after the surgery to make sure the incision has healed and no infection is present.If you think an infection may be present, don’t wait until your follow-up appointment. Contact your vet immediately to schedule a check-up.
If you move or find a new vet, let them know during your first appointment that your cat experienced salivary swelling in the past. This way, the new vet knows to monitor for any future complications.

