 Before you start setting up your game of Monopoly Empire, you may want to check the game components to ensure that you have everything. Checking the game components will also help you to become more familiar with the game pieces and board. You should have:a Monopoly Empire board
4 Towers
6 game tokens
30 Billboard tiles
6 Office tiles
14 Chance cards
14 Empire cards
Monopoly money
2 dice;
, After you have checked your game components to make sure that you have everything you need to play, you can set up your game board. Unfold the board and place it on a table, the floor, or wherever you plan to play the game.Make sure that you place the board somewhere that all of the players have easy access to the board.
 Shuffle the deck of Chance cards and the deck of Empire cards and place them in their designated spots on the board. The Chance cards are similar to the Chance cards used in regular Monopoly. The Empire cards are similar to the Community Chest cards in Monopoly, which often give you advantages that may help you win the game.You will get two Empire cards at the beginning of the game.
 The brand billboard tiles have specific places all around the game board. Look for these spaces and match the billboard tile to the billboard space. For example, the Coca-Cola billboard tile should go on the Coca-Cola billboard space. You will be competing against your fellow players to obtain these tiles and fill up your tower first., The Water Works and Electric Company tiles have a specific spaces on the board where you should place those tiles until someone purchases them. There is one space for all four of the Water Works tiles and one space for all four of the Electric Company tiles., The only tiles that you do not place on the board are the six office tiles. Leave these tiles off of the board along with the dice. You can put them off to the side or have someone be in charge of them., The banker is in charge of handling transactions, managing auctions, giving players money when they pass “GO,” and collecting fees and fines. Make sure that the person you choose to be the banker is willing and able to perform all of these tasks.Have the banker give everyone $1000 to start the game (one $500, four $100s, and two $50s).
 Everyone starts the game with two Empire cards. Look at them, but don’t share them you’re your fellow players. Wait until your turn to use them. Each player will also need a tower. The object of the game is to be the first one to fill up your tower with billboards., The game tokens in Monopoly Empire include a game controller, racecar, coke bottle, film slate, motorcycle, and French fries. , In Monopoly Empire, the first player to fill up his or her billboard with brand billboards wins the game. Therefore, you want to buy as many brand billboards as quickly as you can to fill up the spaces in your board. When other players land on billboard spaces that you own, they will have to pay you the amount of money you’re your billboard height reaches on your tower.If a player runs out of money, they do not go bankrupt as in regular Monopoly. That player simply takes the top billboard piece from his or her tower and gives it to the player who requires it., Before you start the game, decide who will go first. The official rules for Monopoly Empire state that the youngest player gets to go first. If you prefer, you can also determine who goes first by rolling the dice and seeing who gets the largest number. Follow a clockwise pattern for turns., When it is your turn to play, you will need to complete a specific set of actions. Perform these actions on every turn in the same order. Your turn will be a little different every time based on the space you land on. During your turn, perform each of the following actions:Roll the dice. Take two turns if you roll a double. For example, if you roll two sixes, then move 12 spaces and perform an action for that space. But then, roll again and move again and perform another action.
Move your token the number of spaces you rolled. For example, if you roll a 10, then move 10 spaces
Perform an action for the space you land on. For example, if you land on a billboard tile that is available for purchase, then you can purchase it.
 Whenever you land on a Chance or Empire card space, you will get to draw one of these cards. In general, you will need to use Chance cards right away, but you can save Empire cards until you want or need to use them.For example, if you get a “Get Out of Jail Free” card, then you can hang onto it until you need it.
 If you happen to land on a billboard that you do not want to buy, then that tile will be up for auction. The banker is in charge of managing the auction and the bidding starts at $50. All follow-up bids must be in increments of $50, such as $100, $150, $200, $250, etc. The highest bidder gets the billboard and must pay the amount that he or she bid to the bank., If you roll the handshake icon on one of your dice rolls, then you can perform a sneaky swap as one of your turn actions. This means that you can exchange two topmost billboard tower tiles. For example, you can exchange your topmost billboard tile with another player’s topmost billboard tile, or you can swap the tiles of two other players.Using the sneaky swap is optional. If you do not want to use it, just move your piece the number of spaces that that you rolled on the other die. If you do use the sneaky swap, then do not move this turn.
 The player who fills his or her tower first wins the game. Keep playing until someone does so. Monopoly Empire takes about 90 minutes to play, but it may take longer for someone to win the game.