 Making a cappuccino starts with making an espresso. Because you're going to be adding ice and watering down the beverage, it’s a good idea to start with a double shot, which requires about 20 g of coffee.Transfer the measured coffee beans to a grinder and grind them to a fine grind.

A fine grind means the coffee will be about the same size as table salt.;
, Transfer the coffee grinds to the portafilter. Use the tamp to press the beans into a compact puck. Place the portafilter back into the group head, and turn the handle to lock it in place. Place a cup below the portafilter. Turn on the water and let it run for 30 seconds. Turn off the water to stop extracting the shot.To make sure there's room for the milk later, pull the espresso into a 6- or 7-ounce (177- to 207- ml) cup.
 You can still make an espresso-type beverage without a proper machine, though you'll get the best results with a dedicated espresso maker. To make espresso at home without a machine, you can:

Use a stovetop moka pot. Fill the lower water reservoir with the water, and place the metal basket inside the reservoir. Fill the metal basket with the coffee grinds, and then twist on the lid and upper reservoir. Heat the moka pot over medium heat until coffee fills the upper reservoir.Brew a strong pot of coffee. As a last resort, you can also brew coffee that’s twice as strong in place of the espresso. So if you normally use two scoops of coffee to make a two-cup pot of coffee, use four scoops and brew a pot.
 Pour the cold milk into the metal steamer jug. Insert the steam wand into the jug at a 45-degree angle, and position it so the tip is just below the milk’s surface. Turn on the steam and heat the milk to 149 F (65 C), until the milk has doubled in volume, or until the jug is very hot to the touch.Heat the milk in a saucepan on the stove to steam it without an espresso maker. Bring the milk to a simmer over medium heat, but don’t let it boil. Simmer the milk for about five minutes, until it’s hot and bubbly.A cappuccino is made up of equal parts espresso, steamed milk, and foam, so you'll froth twice as much milk as you have espresso.
 Swirl the milk around in the jug to help produce more foam. Hold the milk jug directly over the espresso cup and pour the milk into the espresso in a single pour. Gently shake the milk jug at the end of the pour to get the foam out as well., You can also add some sugar to the cappuccino if you like your coffee drinks sweeter. It’s a good idea to add the sugar now, so the sugar dissolves in the hot coffee. If you add the sugar later to the iced beverage, it won’t dissolve and will stay in granular form.

After adding the sugar, gently stir the cappuccino to distribute it and help it dissolve.
 Let the cappuccino cool for about 30 minutes, and then transfer it to the refrigerator to chill.Let it chill for another 30 to 60 minutes. Otherwise, if you make the iced cappuccino when the coffee is still hot, it will just melt the ice cubes and won’t take on a frothy texture.

It’s important to let the drink cool before transferring it to the refrigerator, otherwise the temperature change could shatter the glass.
 Remove the chilled cappuccino from the refrigerator and pour it into the blender. Add between five and 10 ice cubes to the blender as well. Less ice will produce an iced cappuccino with a slightly stronger coffee flavor.


Combine the coffee and ice in a tall mixing cup if you want to use an immersion blender instead of a blender to make the iced cappuccino.
 You can customize the flavor of your iced cappuccino by adding different syrups or flavor shots.Add 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 ml) of your favorite flavor shot to the blender. Popular additions for a cappuccino include:

Hazelnut
Vanilla
Chocolate
Caramel
Maple (you can also use real maple syrup to sweeten and flavor your drink), Put the lid on the blender and set it to the ice crush or smoothie setting. Blend the ice and coffee together for about a minute.The mixture is ready when the ice has been crushed finely, there are no large chunks of ice left, and the cappuccino and ice have been blended together into a smooth and creamy beverage., When the blended iced cappuccino is ready, pour the mixture out of the blender and into a tall glass. Make sure to leave room for whipped cream and other garnishes if you so desire.
 Whipped cream is a popular and delicious way to finish any iced coffee beverage. After transferring your blended iced cappuccino to a tall serving glass, add a few dollops or a swirl of whipped cream to the top for an extra-sweet treat.You can use regular dairy-based whipped cream for your coffee, or non-dairy coconut whipped cream as well.
 Whether you add whipped cream to your iced cappuccino or not, you can still garnish the top with chocolate or cocoa powder.To add cocoa, sprinkle a pinch of powder evenly over the surface of the beverage. To add chocolate, use a vegetable peeler to shave a few curls of chocolate off a bar and onto the beverage.

If you do garnish with whipped cream and chocolate, add the whipped cream first and the chocolate or cocoa on top.
 You can also garnish your blended iced cappuccino with spices. Sprinkle a pinch (about ⅛ teaspoon (0.3 g)) of your favorite ground spices on top of the beverage or the whipped cream right before serving. Popular spices to pair with coffee drinks include:

Cinnamon
Nutmeg
Ginger
Allspice
Cloves

, Cookies and coffee are a tasty combination, and there are many different types of cookies that you can pair with your blended iced cappuccino. Some of the more traditional or popular cookies to serve with coffee include:

Biscotti
Ginger snaps
Shortbread
Pistachio cookies

