 Starter Pokémon can be a big help in the game. Turtwig turns into a Grass and Ground-type, Torterra who is good at its attack and defense but not the best with speed. Chimchar the Fire-type evolves into a Fire and Fighting-type, Infernape who has great attack and special attack like many Fighting-type Pokémon have and also good speed. Piplup evolves into a Water and Steel-type which is a very unique type, Empoleon. Empoleon is good with special defense and attack.;
, If you didn't pick Empoleon, a Water-type is needed. Good Water-types are Floatzel, Gyarados, Gastrodon and Palkia if you're planning to use legendary Pokémon. If you didn't pick Infernape you can get the Fire-types Rapidash and Magmortar since there isn't many Fire-types in the game.
 Good electric Pokémon are Luxray, Raichu and Electivire. A good Grass-type would be Roserade who is part position type.
 Staraptor is a great Flying-type who can learn close combat which can cover for it's weakness to Rock-types and is great with attack and speed. Another Flying-type is Honchkrow which you can get in diamond. Drifblim is a great Pokémon with high health and also a part ghost type but it's defense isn't the best which isn't a good match with it's high health since high defense and high health will be good.
 You may consider picking a Pokémon that's super effective to your team's weakness. Garchomp is also a great Pokémon and so are Lucario and Blissey.



Turtwig evolves into Torterra, which is good at attack and defense but horrible at its special attack. However, it can learn Dark-type moves like Bite and Crunch, which could save one of your Pokémon slots as you do not need a Dark-type.
Chimchar evolves into Infernape which is a decent Pokémon.
Piplup evolves into Empoleon which is a Steel and Water-type. A good mixture of types as being a Water-type, Fire-type moves would not be super effective even though it is a Steel-type.
 Do not use an HM and ruin a Pokémon with a good moveset. Instead get another Pokémon that is pretty much useless to be an "HM slave". It is recommended that you choose Bidoof, which evolves into Bibarel, as it can learn most of the HM except Fly and Rock Climb.
 It doesn't matter if your Pokémon has a type disadvantage against gym leaders. What's more important is to have a type advantage over the Elite Four!

, 65-70 so you can get pass the Elite Four much easier.