 Seeing your face in a crowd of strangers or distant acquaintances can help your loved one feel stronger, less alone, and more capable of saying goodbye. A funeral or memorial service may help to remind mourners of value of the deceased person's life, views death from a spiritual standpoint, and inspire the living to come to terms with the reality of death. This benchmark is a significant part of the mourning process., If you knew the deceased person, share a story or memory that you have about him or her. If you did not know this person, ask your mourning loved one to tell you a story that helps you understand how special this person was to him.


Talking about the loss can reassure mourners that even though the person is gone, he or she remains a part of their emotional life. Don't be afraid to say the person's name. Doing so can ease your loved one's worry that his deceased friend or family member will be forgotten.Look through photo albums or newspaper clippings. Watch old family videos. All of this can help your mourning loved one process the grief.
 Though the person has passed it does not mean you can't do things like celebrate their birthday or special anniversaries. If a holiday meant a lot to that person, remember him or her by lighting a candle or revisiting old stories or photos portraying his life. You can even memorialize the deceased on a special day by planting a tree or having a remembrance gathering of family and friends., In the days and weeks following a loss, your grieving friend may constantly be surrounded by others who care for him. However, over the long haul, people fall back into their regular routines, forgetting that things are never the same in the lives of mourners. Be one of the people that sticks it out and continues to visit with and check on your mourning friend in the months and even years that come after a loss., Take your friend out to do something fun like going to a museum or a movie. This won't make them forget about their sadness but it will help to refocus his mind on something else for a short while. Many mourners feel guilty about laughing or smiling. You can be of service by helping your friend see that it's okay to enjoy life. In fact, his lost loved one would probably want him to be happy and live a full life.


Don't expect much the first time. Your friend may continue to be sad even when doing exciting activities. However, if you are persistent, you may help him see how nice it is to have fun again.

