 Whenever you grill, you should have one area directly over a flame, and one that only heats from the air in the grill. Depending on your grill, there are different ways to do this:


Charcoal and wood-fired grills should be set up so that half of the grill is covered in briquets and the other half is empty.
Propane grillers can simply turn on 1 burner and leave 1-2 burners off. If you have a second, higher rack on the grill, this can work too., This usually means the medium-low setting, but all grills are different. If your grill doesn't have a thermometer, this is hot enough that you can hold your hand 2-3" over the grill for about 10 seconds.
 If you don't want to deal with smoking wood, you can instead use about 1 teaspoon liquid smoke sprinkled over the ribs and rubbed into the meat.If using a propane grill, fill the small aluminum smoking tray with the wood instead of adding directly.
 You want to save as much smoke as possible. You will open the grill for an occasional misting, but this is explained below.
 This juice helps retain moisture, provides a light sweetness, and tenderizes the meat. These extra tender ribs basted in apple juice are generally considered "St. Louis-style.", Prepare the aluminum foil pouch in advance, as the ribs are hot and you want to get them back in the grill quickly once they're wrapped.


If the grill needs a new chimney of charcoal to stay hot, this is generally the best time to add it.
 This stage basically steam cooks the meat, which is a crucial step to getting it to fall off the bone., This is your sign that they are finished, and only need a quick final blast of heat to caramelize the outside. It usually takes another 1-2 hours.


Spray the ribs with apple juice every hour.
 The next step requires cranking the heat up significantly on the oven, but you don't want the ribs over the heat while this happens. Instead, wrap them up in foil to stay hot and retain their moisture while you get the heat up.


Remember -- they are done when they bend slightly when lifted. But they still have one more stage until they're delicious.
 The grill should be raging hot at this point, as all you're looking for is quick sear. Don't rush -- make sure the grill is about as hot as he can get it.
 You just want the sauce to thicken around the meat and caramelize, and the beginnings of some grill marks. When done to your liking, remove the meat and serve.,