 Syncing music from iTunes to your iPod is easiest if you have the music you want already in a playlist. While you can sync individual songs, it's much easier to sync playlists, artists, genres, and albums.
 Use the USB cable that came with your iPod to plug it into your computer. You should see your iPod appear in the left sidebar, under the Devices heading. Select it to choose what you want to sync.
 By default, iTunes will attempt to sync all of the music in your Library. Select your iPod from the left sidebar, and then click the Music tab at the top of the window. Check the "Sync Music" box if it is not already checked, and then click "Selected playlists, artists, albums, and genres".


In the frames below, check the playlists, artists, albums, and genres that you want to syn to your iPod.
The bar at the bottom of the window will show you how much free space your iPod has. As you check more things in your library, the bar will increase.
 Click the Apply button at the bottom of the Music tab after you have made your selections. Everything that you have checked will be synced to your iPod.


The syncing process may take awhile, especially if you are syncing a lot of music. You can monitor the progress at the top of the window.
When you sync your iPod, any music that is not on your sync list but is on your iPod will be removed from the iPod.
 While iTunes normally syncs playlists, albums, and other collections of music, you can manage the sync process and choose each and every song that you want to sync. To do so, click the Summary tab and check the "Manually manage music and videos" box at the bottom of the screen.


Go through your Library and check each of the songs that you want to add to your iPod.
Once you have finished selecting your music, return to the Summary tab and click the Sync button.
The syncing process may take awhile, especially if you are syncing a lot of music. You can monitor the progress at the top of the window.
 After the sync is complete, click on your iPod in the left sidebar. Click the Eject button that appears next to the iPod to safely eject it. Once the iPod is ejected, you can disconnect it from your computer.

