 If you publish a book of poetry, short stories, or a novel, it's important to give any original periodicals or other publications credit for first breaking your work into the public. Typically, you'll find the book's individual pieces listed according to the individual magazines they first appeared in, in alphabetical order. More personal thanks are generally included after the formal addressing of other publications.


Like an academic publication, it's also important to remember to address any financial support you received during the publication of your book. If you received any artist residencies, grants, or fellowships while working on your book, you need to list them in the acknowledgments.
Use your writing skills to approach the acknowledgment creatively. Authors like Lemony Snicket, Neil Gaiman, J.D. Salinger, and others have used the form for witty and usually-self deprecating anecdotes about the friends and cohorts they choose to thank.
 Music acknowledgment pages are some of the most fun to write, if your band is still producing physical copies of your music. The stakes are low and the tone can be irreverent. Use the page to thank:


Friends and family
Other bands who helped you along the way, lending gear or instruments
Recording engineers and label folk
Musical inspirations

, It could be an awkward situation for someone to be thanked in public for something, especially in a book or other publication, so it's a good idea to write them an individual thank-you note of a more personal nature. By doing this, you can feel free to make as long as you want, before publishing or reading the more truncated public version aloud.In the letter, explain your desire to thank them and explain the publication or event at which you'd like to thank them. Express your gratitude for their assistance and encourage them to get in touch to approve your acknowledgment. More often than not, they'll be flattered.
 It would be a weird thing to misspell the name of a supposedly integral person in your success, or mispronounce the name of the foundation that offered you assistance. This is an important piece of writing, so give it just as much time for revision and proofreading as any other piece.

