 If you need a template for a cone-shaped funnel, with an opening at both ends, an online calculator will save you time and reduce the chance of an expensive math mistake. Plug in the desired proportions at craig-russel.co.uk to find out what shape and size you need. If you are making a full cone (with one opening and one tip), the steps below will let you calculate it yourself.


If you don't care about the explanation, here are the formulas for a full cone:L = √(h2 + r2), where h is the height of the cone (with tip) and r is the radius of the cone opening

a = 360 - 360(r / L)
You can make your cone out of a circle with radius L, after cutting out and discarding a segment with angle a.
 To make a cone with precise proportions, you'll use a circle with a specific radius, with a "pie slice" of a specific angle cut out.If you're making an open funnel, a second circle will be cut out of the larger one, to make the smaller opening.


This guide describes the cone as though it were standing on the larger base, with the tip at the top.
Very narrow cones can have "pie slices" cut out that remove more than half the circle.
 Picture the finished cone (ignoring any opening in the top for now). The slant length will run from the tip to the base. This length is the hypotenuse of a right triangle. The other two sides of the triangle are the height of the cone (h) and the radius of the bottom opening (r). We can use Pythagoras' Theorem to calculate the slant length (L) based on our desired cone size:



L2 = h2 + r2 (Remember to use the radius, not the diameter!)

L = √(h2 + r2).
For example, a cone with height 12 and radius 3 has a slant length of √(122 + 32) = √(144+9) = √(153) = about 12.37.
 Picture cutting open the finished cone and laying it flat again. You'll end up with a circle with a radius equal to the slant length L that you just calculated. Label the radius and move on to the next steps to calculate how wide a "pie slice" to cut out.
 The base circumference is the length of the edge around the cone base (the larger opening). You can calculate this based on the desired radius of the opening (r), using the formula for the circumference (C) of a circle:


C(cone base) = 2 π r

Our example cone with radius 3 has a cone base circumference equal to 2 π (3) = 6 π = about 18.85

, We now know the circumference of the cone, but the circle itself has a larger circumference once it's laid out (before any pieces have been cut from it). We can use the same formula to find this number, but this time the radius will be the slant length of the cone (L).


C(full circle) = 2 π L

Our example cone with slant length 12.37 has a full circle circumference equal to 2 π (12.37) = about 77.72

, The full circle without any cuts has circumference C(full circle). The material we need for the cone has circumference C(cone base). Subtract one from the other, and we know the circumference of the missing "pie slice":


C(full circle) - C(cone base) = C(pie slice)
In our example, 77.72 - 18.85 = C(pie slice) = 58.87

, It's possible to cut out a circle, then measure the circumference of the pie slice with a tape measure. Most people find it easier to calculate the angle of the pie slice instead, and use a protractor to measure it from the circle's center.Just a couple more calculations:


Calculate the ratio of the missing segment to the full circumference: C(pie slice)/C(full circle) = Ratio. In our example: 58.87 / 77.72 = 0.75. It turns out that our "pie slice" actually removes 75% of the circle in this case.
Use this ratio to find the angle. The same ratio will apply to the angles. A circle has 360º, so you can find the angle of the pie slice (a) with the formula Ratio = a / 360º, or a = (Ratio) x (360º). That's 0.75 x 360º = 270º in our example.
 If you have machining equipment, you can have a machine cut out the template to the measurements you've specified. Otherwise, draw a circle using a compass, or a pencil tied to a thumbtack using a string as long as the circle's radius. Use a protractor to draw the angle of the "pie slice" (or larger piece) that won't be part of the cone, and use a straightedge to extend it from the center to the circumference. Cut out the rest of the circle and roll it into the cone.


It's a good idea to cut out a little more of the circle than you need, to use as an overlap when attaching the two sides of the material together.

