 Get together the cotton swabs and other necessary components:


Cotton swabs
Toothbrush
A mirror
Flashlight, flashlight app, or lamp that you can direct.
Running water.;
, Open your mouth and shine the light into your mouth. Do this in front of a mirror so that you can locate the tonsil stones.
 Close off, or flex, your throat muscles while sticking out your tongue. Go "Ahh," and tighten the muscles in the back of your throat. Do this while holding your breath, almost as if you were gargling water. This should push your tonsils forward so you can see them better.
 Run water and dab the cotton swab into it. This will make it softer and less irritating for your throat.Don't put it down, or you risk contamination. Minimize the contact your cotton swab makes with any germ-carrying surface, including your hands. When you remove the stones, shake them off into the sink without touching your swab to any surface, or wipe them on a clean paper towel.


If you touch something like the sink or counter with your swab, trade it for a new one.
 Press or poke at your stone until you dislodge it. Carry it out of your mouth on the cotton swab.


Be very gentle, as bleeding may occur. Although a little bit of bleeding is normal, try as much as you can to minimize the bleeding.Cuts and wounds can get infected by the same bacteria in your mouth that cause tonsil stones.
Rinse if bleeding occurs, and brush your teeth and tongue as soon as it stops.
 Rinse with water and move on to the next stone. Rinse especially if your saliva feel sticky, which sometimes occurs after the throat has been poked. As sticky saliva starts forming, drink water to thin it out.
 After you have extracted all the stones you can see, place your thumb into your neck under your jaw, and your (clean) index finger into your mouth right beside your tonsil and gently try to squeeze any remaining stones to the openings (like squeezing out toothpaste). If no stones appear, don't assume they aren't there. Some craters are very deep and it is sometimes hard to get them all., If you have a stone that won't come out with a cotton swab, it may be especially deep. Don't force it, as this may cause bleeding. Use the back of your toothbrush to gently nudge it until it loosens, then remove it with the swab or with the toothbrush.If the stones still won't come out, you can try gargling with mouthwash for a few days and then trying again.
If that doesn't work, you may want to try using an oral irrigator. If this doesn't work, you can increase the stream a little.
Keep in mind that some people have a strong gag reflex and will not tolerate poking.

