 Don't feel that because you are male you can't be Cyber Goth. Nor do you have to be white. Cyber Goth is a multi-ethnic style, and there are many, many black, Hispanic and Japanese Cyber Goths.;
, In Europe and Japan, Cyber Goths seem to lean heavily towards Raver, and are usually incredibly colorful. In America and Australia, Cyber Goths leans heavily towards the military side, known as Rivethead. Edit: You don't have to dress a certain way in a certain country. If you like the darker side of Cyber Goth and you live in Japan, that's fine.Likewise, there are a lot of people in America and Australia who dress like Japanese Cyber Goths

, Most makeup of cyber goths is quite complex and is color coordinated with the rest of their outfit. You should devote a lot of practice towards applying your make-up before taking it out for a spin, to avoid those face palm moments.
 Manic Panic sell the type Marilyn Manson uses, do not go too over the top with the paleness to begin with- just gradually get paler.
, You may use black eye shadow, however Cyber Goths tend to wear bright neon colored eyeshadow with a thin layer of eyeliner, and brightly colored false eyelashes amongst females. It doesn't matter, whatever floats your boat.
 This allows them to draw their eyebrows to fit their incredible eyeshadow. Some Cyber Goth make up does resemble drag queen make up.
 This is very common in Sweden, Finland, and Japan.
 It's either dyed and styled real hair or more commonly, elaborate extensions or wigs either braided or somewhat resembling dreadlocks known as 'dread falls'. Falls can be made out of synthetic hair, thick plastic ribbon, yarn or more exotic materials such as computer cables, foam strips and tubular Crin (known as Cyber Lox); as cyber goth fashions typically aim for an artificial or heavily-stylised look, materials that are very obviously not real hair are particularly common. Dread falls made from synthetic hair can be made in many styles, such as candy cane swirls (two colors together to look like a candy cane) and transistor dreads (one color turning into another). Dread extensions are also used for a more permanent "Dread Falls" look.
 Try to get Cyberlox that are very thick, full and colorful. UV is even better. Even if you can't find cyberlox that fit your budget, you can easily find cheap materials for cyberlox like foam, yarn, and kanekalon hair that you can dread yourself. When you wear them, wear a thick headband to cover your hair, as this also comforts the pressure of all that weight on your forehead.
 Manic Panic has great neon dyes, but you'll most likely need to bleach your hair first. Some Cyber Goths just color their hair rainbow without a hint of black in it. You don't have to go through the trouble of dying it though, this is what cyberlox are for :) you can wear wigs too.
 The colors are usually a mixture of neon colors and white and/or black, the colors usually contrast well. Clothing with reflector panels, or circuitry designs are very popular. Neon colored fishnets worn over plain black tights are popular with females, and they look cool. Try to find clothing with radioactive or bio-hazard symbols as well. PVC chokers and bracelets with colored spikes are popular. Ones that glow in the dark are even better. Try to find a decent PVC Gas Mask, as they seem to be a popular accessory for some reason.
 This is primarily borrowed from Deathrock, but as long as it's colorful, it's Cyber Goth.
 Be aware that these can hurt after a few hours of wear, so a headband will comfort your head slightly.
 Many Cyber Goths are also seen at Anime/Comic conventions, as well as the yearly Wave Gotik Treffen and M'era Luna music festivals in Germany, which attract visitors from all over the world.
 Transmuter, Swear Alternative and Demonia seem to be very popular. Also, faux fur leg warmers are popular among female cyber goths.
 "Tattoos are generally Kanji, or based on Japanese designs." Edit: Great example of someone talking out of their behind. If one prefers Kanji, one gets Kanji. There is NO GENERAL RULE OF THUMB that comes with cyber goth tattoos. Also, please don't feel pressured to chop/dye yourself as it is not a requirement.
 It is advised not to go into this style without knowing at least some of the more popular cybergoth bands, such as VNV Nation and Icon Of Coil, otherwise you will be labelled a poseur. Cyber Goth music is a range of genres. Industrial, EBM (Electronic Body Music), Futurepop, Synthpop, Techno, Noize, Aggrotech are just a few of them. Make sure you know the difference between them all, and yes there is actually a difference. Some lean more towards a Rammstein-esque sound, and some lean more towards a rave/club sound.

