 You can do anything if you want to. Keep this in your mind before taking the initiative of throwing problems into the trash.;
, Take a pen and a notepad and start writing about all the possible things that bother you in your daily life. All the episodes, people, objects that make you feel negative. Keep the fact in mind that you have to write everything that you want to make vanish from your life.
 You must be feeling lighter after writing down everything. Now think up of a way to solve the problem. Remember, elimination of the problem does not include harming other people or hurting their feelings. Solve the stress, but in a peaceful way. Or your list of grudges and negativity will become longer instead of getting shorter.
 Call him or her up at the instant moment, tell them how you feel and how much you have been upset. Be polite yet firm. If the response is lose and indifferent, then it is time to say goodbye. Problem solved. Now no one will argue with you, no one will get you stuck in conditions. You are also a person. You also have feelings. Time to feel better.
 Disappear. Close down the site permanently one fine day, let's see who's really your friend. You still have your phone.
 Try seeing things from a different angle. Try imagining how that other person might be feeling and try to see from that person's view of perception. For some days, ignore that person, don't give advice or reply to the words which would turn the conversation into a fight. Let it be. I mean, you deserve better people to talk to. And not lock horns with people who talk about things that are a waste of time. After some days, the person will automatically feel ashamed of himself and things will get better.
 Do things that you've been longing to do and you are not getting time. Have some me time. And also take time out for social work. You will feel better after helping people. You will gain respect and gratitude.
 Organize your work in such a way that you can handle the daily burden. Set timings. Do preparations.
 After some time you should be left out without any negativity in your mind. What's more, now you'll be able to think better.
 Stress is not made for you. Don't run away from it. Fight it.

