 Cleanse and moisturize with products suitable to your skin type. Allow your moisturizer to sink in for a few minutes before proceeding to apply your makeup so it won't smear.Then,apply primer so the makeup will stay in place!;
, A flawless look isn't possible without perfect skin. Select a quality liquid, mineral and powder foundation that matches your skin tone as closely as possible. Apply it to your face with a dampened cosmetic wedge or brush, beginning from the center of your face and blending outwards. Be sure to blend down over the jawline and up to the hairline.
, For fair skin tones, choose a bright pink or fuchsia color. Medium skin tones look best with peachy or coral hues. If you have dark skin, deep wine or berry-toned blushes should do the trick. Apply the cream blush to the apples of both cheeks, and softly blend upward along the cheekbones towards the temples. If you feel the color is making a harsh line, softly blend the color down towards your earlobes. You should look fresh and dewy at this point.
 Since your cheeks are bright, your eyes don't require heavy makeup. Begin by selecting a color of eyeliner. The best choices for this look are in the gold and bronze family, but you could also use black or navy. Either will work fine. Sharpen your eye pencil, and softly smudge the liner in between the lower lashes; do not apply it your waterline.Why?Because makeup there is hard to clean,and there is no such cleaner up yet,so the makeup will get caught and will cause irritations and so on. Once you're finished with this, smudge the liner into the upper lashes as well. Bring this line from the outer corner all the way to the inner corner.
 The heated curler acts like a hair styler - it will help your lashes keep their shape for longer. Then apply deep black mascara to your lashes in two to three coats. You can use an eyelash primer if you want, but it's not completely necessary.
 Fair skin can use bright pinks and bold fuchsias. Medium skin looks fabulous with peach or coral shades, especially those which have golden undertones. Dark skin tones call for deep wine and berry colored lipsticks. For precision, apply the lip color using a lip brush. Begin in the middle of your lips, and slowly move outward. Be sure not to venture out of your natural lip line.
 Because your lipstick is bright, use a clear gloss, or one that matches the lipstick color for extra vibrance. Blot your lips after application with a tissue - this will make your lip color last longer.
 If they need extra definition, softly apply eyeshadow in the same tone as your brow hairs to your eyebrows using a brow brush.
 This time, avoid the eye area completely. Be sure not to get any powder on your freshly painted lips. For touch-ups throughout the day, keep a compact with a mirror and a powder puff in your purse or school bag and apply when you feel it's necessary.
 This look will not look good on you if you don't wear it with confidence. Confidence will make you that much more vibrant, and people will be sure to notice you.

