 Autistic people simply do not interpret the world the same way that non-autistic people do. When they struggle to interpret things, it can be challenging to talk, listen, and understand. However, autistic people bring a unique and important perspective to the world.


For example, some may struggle to understand spoken messages, and prefer to communicate through writing. Their mastery of the written word may later lead to fascinating novels or deeply insightful articles that make the world a happier and better-informed place.
 Autistic children tend to focus on their passions, and have less interest in other conversation topics. This is not out of dislike of you, but of lack of engagement with the particular topic. On the extreme end of things, some children may have no interest in the topic whatsoever.


Get used to their listening body language. Some autistic people may stare in a different direction, fidget, or be completely silent while they pay attention. It may be that they are actually interested; they just show it differently.
 Autistic people may not understand that they're being rude, realize that you're feeling sad, or even figure out that you want to talk to them. If you believe that they've missed something, tell them directly what it is, and help them act on that information.
 Although they may want to participate in an activity, it's not uncommon for an autistic child to lack the social skills necessary to join in. They may need coaching on things like starting conversations.


They are social in their own way, but you may need to find out how to include them more effectively.
 This does not mean that they can't learn; in fact, many autistic people are sharp and adaptable learners. It's just a matter of you learning how to speak their language. During this process, you need to remember that their needs are unique and not treat them dismissively.


Children with speech delays can benefit from Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) at as young as 18 months. This can help them communicate more easily, and may bridge the gap while they learn to speak.
Some autistic people struggle to find the words they want to say. Be patient and ask questions to help figure out what they truly mean.