 You need to pick a book that really interests you (if possible). Even the most passionate readers will struggle through books if they find them boring. Start by figuring out what genre interests you - Fantasy, history, sci-fi, romance, action? Ask a librarian, teacher, or friend for suggestions. Also, look for familiar authors. If you loved "Winter Garden" by Kristin Hannah, for example, look for another one of her books. Also, follow up on series. Did you love the first "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" book? Why not read the second one? If you're doing a book report in class and the teacher has assigned you a book, you're out of luck, but you can still plough through it!;
, Not everyone has the same reading level and the same attention span when reading books. Read the first page of the book and judge if it is at your reading level. If there are more than five words that you don't know, the book is probably not right for you. You'll want to have a good understanding of the book, which is hard if you don't know half of the words. Also, make sure that the book isn't super-long. If you have a short attention span, don't pick a book that's 700 pages long. Go for a 200 page book instead.
 Depending on the book, sometimes it takes a while for you to get into it. Unless you're a fast reader, don't pick out a book if you only have 1 day to read it. If you're doing a book report, don't procrastinate! Read the book at a regular pace so you'll have it finished by the deadline.
 If you find it really hard to read a book, but you have to do it for a class, tell yourself to read 15 pages a day. Each day, set out 30 minutes to 1 hour to read your book. This works a lot better than cramming in 300 pages the night before your book report is due.
 Read in a quiet, comfortable environment. Read where there is an A/C or cool air and lots of light. If you're reading where there is lots of noise from people or traffic, you won't be able to concentrate on the book. Also, it's best not to read on subways or in cars, as few people are able to do this without getting sick from motion-sickness. A good place to read is in your bedroom, snuggled up under the covers. Also, make sure that there is a good amount of light when you're reading so you don't damage your eyes.
 It's all fine and dandy to read a book, but did you actually understand it? If you had to read the book for class, your teacher may quiz you on the book. Also, some of the material that you read may help you later in life and help you speak more intelligently. If you're having trouble understanding the book, go to CliffsNotes or Sparknotes; they'll help you understand the story a bit more clearly.
 Sometimes people find it easier to use eReaders instead of real books. If possible, use an eReader or an iPad and download a book off of it. For some people, this really helps keep them going.
 If you're doing a class book report, this isn't really an option, but if you're reading for fun, know when to stop. If you're not enjoying the book at all and it hasn't gotten interesting after page 50 or so, stop reading. Don't force yourself to read a book that you hate. Just put the book down and read something else. In a few years, come back to that book you never finished; it may be more interesting than you thought.

