 Place a few small scoops of cooked rice into a large bowl. If you're not adding any other grains or starches, consider using about 1/2 cup (125 g) of cooked rice. For a little variety, try using one of these types of rice:Jasmine or Basmati
Wild
Brown
Bhutanese red;
, If you're tired of rice or just want a different texture, use cooked barley or quinoa. Barley will give your Buddha bowl a slightly chewy texture. Red or white quinoa will give it a slight crunch. Add a few spoonfuls of barley or quinoa if you're adding other grains or use about 1/2 cup (100 g) if not.

You can also use cooked millet which is becomes light and fluffy.
 If you'd prefer to get your complex carbohydrates from a vegetable instead of from grains, use sweet potatoes. Cut one sweet potato in half and drizzle it with olive oil. Place it skin-side down on a baking sheet and roast the sweet potato in a hot oven (400 degrees F or 200 C) for 25 to 30 minutes. Cut the tender sweet potato into pieces and put it in your bowl.You may want to flip the sweet potato over halfway during baking time to ensure even browning.
You don't need to peel the sweet potato.
 Corn is a popular Buddha bowl starch because it gives the dish sweetness and beautiful color. You can use canned sweet kernel corn, thawed frozen corn, corn that you've cut right off of the cob or roasted corn. Use a few spoonfuls if you just want a little sweetness or use a large scoop if you want to add other vegetables that work well with the corn (like tomatoes, red pepper, and avocado).If you want to make a warmer Buddha bowl, try using cooked polenta. This will also make the Buddha bowl seem rich and creamy.
 Beans are a great vegetarian way to add protein to your Buddha bowls. You can soak dry beans and cook them, or roast the beans in the oven for extra flavor. You can even just open a can of your favorite beans. Give them a quick rinse to remove excess sodium and put the beans in your bowl. You can try:Black beans
Kidney beans
White beans
Black eyed peas
Chickpeas (garbanzo beans)

, To add a little variety and color, you can add legumes for protein. Cook a batch of red or brown lentils which are filling and flavorful. You can even make a simple lentil curry to spoon into your Buddha bowls. You can also add green peas or edamame for a little sweetness or crunch.You can steam the peas or add fresh peas to your bowl.
 You can also top your Buddha bowls with vegetarian proteins like tofu, seitan, and tempeh. Try sauteing cubes of tofu in your favorite spices. You can season and grill tempeh before slicing it up. Or cook seitan for a meat-like texture in your bowl.While most Buddha bowls are vegetarian or vegan, you can include meat proteins if you like. For example, shred some roasted chicken, flake some cooked fish, or use chunks of turkey breast.
 One of the fastest ways to fill your Buddha bowls is to use raw vegetables. You can make a base of leafy greens (like arugula, spinach, or kale). Top the greens with more fresh vegetables, so you get different colors, flavors, and textures.For a crunchy texture, add sliced radishes, cucumbers, or alfalfa sprouts.
For a creamy taste, add sliced avocado or shelled fava beans.
 Roasting vegetables caramelizes them which makes them softer and sweeter. Just line a sheet pan with your vegetables, drizzle them with olive oil, and roast them in a hot oven until they're tender. Some great vegetables for roasting include:Sliced onions
Tomatoes (any kind)
Cauliflower or broccoli florets
Sweet potato chunks
Carrot sticks

, If you don't have the time to roast the veggies or you just want the flavor of the vegetable to shine, briefly steam them. You can steam the veggies in a pot on the stove for several minutes, so they just become tender. Try steaming:Broccoli or cauliflower florets
Chopped asparagus
Carrot slices
Green beans

, Assemble your Buddha bowls by placing whatever you like in the bowls. There's no rule about how much you should use, but to start you could aim for 1/2 cup of a grain or complex carbohydrate, 1 cup of protein, and 3 cups of vegetables.

The bowl should look visually pleasing with a variety of colors and textures.
 You can use any salad dressing or dip to finish your bowls. One of the most popular dressings is made with tahini. To make enough tahini dressing for two bowls, combine:4 tablespoons tahini
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 tablespoon soy sauce or tamari
1 tablespoon maple syrup
4 tablespoons water

, Sprinkle something with a little texture or bright flavor over the bowls to finish them. You could drizzle a little herb pesto or sprinkle chia seeds or chives for crunch. For a sharp flavor, try adding a little kimchi. Or make your Buddha bowl spicy by squirting some sambal oelek or sriracha sauce on it.For a simple finish, you could stick with vinegar, olive oil, salt, and pepper.

