 It can be hard as a parent to see your child bending over backwards to find love or a sense of belonging. Plus, it is all the more devastating to watch your child get hurt. Although relationships leave as many bruises as they often do lessons, you can help your child build the resilience to get through by enhancing their self-worth.Take advantage of every opportunity to compliment or praise your child. After bringing home a positive report card, you might say, “You’re so bright. Great job!” After seeing them comforting a friend, you might remind them “You are such a thoughtful and kind person.”
Giving your child a foundation from which they believe “I am enough” and “I am worthy” can help them bounce back when relationships don’t pan out how they hoped.
 A major grievance of many people in relationships is the idea that they lose themselves within the couple. Help your child thwart this problem by inspiring them to develop strong values and interests.


To single out the values of older children, ask “What do you care about?” focusing mainly on abstract concepts, if possible. They might say things like friendship, kindness, sports or even popularity.
When your child seeks relationship advice you can equip them to solve conflict by returning to those core values. For instance, your child might like someone who isn’t so nice to them. You might gently nudge them with insight, “I remember us talking about kindness being important to you. Isn’t that right?” Reminding your child of their values may help guide them towards making the right decision on their own., Adolescents are faced with an immense amount of pressure to fit in. This emphasis on what other people want can detach your child from their own instincts, resulting in them being rushed into experiences or situations. Help them reconnect to those instincts with gentle guidance.


You might explain, “Relationships should mostly feel good. When something doesn’t feel right, it probably isn’t. Pay attention to that feeling in your gut. It can help you avoid heartache.”, If your child is old enough to have an understanding of sex or they are exposed to peers or media who discuss similar topics, your open and honest communication can help steer them into making safe decisions. Talking with your children about sex when they are near the age when this is an issue for them will not encourage them to have sex, it will be more likely to discourage them and help them make safe decisions when they are ready to have sex. Being open with your teen will also increase the chances that they will come to you for advice.


Be sure to provide your child with accurate information about contraception, safe sex, and sexually transmitted diseases, and teach your child strategies for how to handle unwanted sexual peer pressure. Let them know that it is okay to say no to sex.
Whether for young men or women, parents want to stress that sex is normal and healthy –within the confines of a healthy relationship. You might say, “Take your time and only do what you and your partner feel ready to do. And, always be safe.” Explain to your child what they can do to be sexually healthy and avoid unwanted pregnancy.Society often shames women restricts the pleasure of sex to young men, but a talk can offer you a chance to empower your daughter. Sex should be enjoyable for her, also.