 Wikipedia's slogan is "The free encyclopedia that anyone can edit." That means two things:


Wikipedia is in fact an encyclopedia. Like Britannica, it is meant to provide detailed knowledge on a topic, more so than a dictionary but less so than an entire book on the subject. Side note: having reliable sources in a description is crucial to Wikipedia's accuracy. If it doesn't source, you shouldn't cite. Simple as that.
Wikipedia can, has been, and will be vandalized. It is, after all, an encyclopedia that anyone can edit. For example, on the date of 10/29/08, an unnamed Wikipedian searched "wikipedia" on Wikipedia, and found only "a piece of CR@P" for a description. Whosoever did this should and likely is banned from contributing to the site again, but this does show that even the most comprehensive article of something can be vandalized. So look out.;
, You may be surprised at how many times you use Wikipedia if it's there as a click, and not 20-something letters away. Moreover, you will likely find some interesting stuff on Wikipedia. Here are some links to certain things that are very interesting:


William James Sidis, polymath with an IQ of 300.
Technocracy, a theoretical government where scientists & engineers rule.
Constructed languages.
 Revisit old pages, press "Random Article" a thousand times, or even play the game Wiki Wars, described below. You'll improve your IQ dramatically by doing this, and who knows? Maybe, just maybe, you'll find your passion in one of those articles.


OPTIONAL: Rules For Wiki Wars
Press "Random Article" once.
Open a second tab, go to Wikipedia, and press "Random Article" again.
Keep clicking links on one of the tabs until you reach the other (no, you can't use the search box).
 Once you find a topic that you'd like to share some knowledge on, start doing some research & create some articles. Alternatively, many people also clean up old articles, articles that have to be translated, etc. After all, not everybody in the world is smart enough to shed a lot of light on a topic-that's why there are so many stubs of articles out there. Eventually, you will rise up through the system, & may even become an administrator for your work.

