 You'll need a vacuum pack machine. You'll also need a glass jar sealing attachment for your vacuum sealer. This is a special type of device that fits over glass jars, like mason jars, and allows you to vacuum seal your jars.
 It's a good idea to sterilize any jars you're using as a precaution. You can boil them or run them through a very hot dishwasher. If you're boiling them, put them in a pot with water that completely covers the jars. Bring the pot to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and let them stay there until you're ready to use them., While waiting for the jars to sterilize, prepare the food you're going to can. This may mean following a recipe for a jam or a jelly.However, many people store easily breakable items that cannot be stored in bags in vacuum-sealed jars. For example, you may want to store something like small candies or nuts in a vacuum-sealed jar.When you're done preparing the food, you can remove the jars from the boiling water. Use either tongs or a jar lifters. Allow them to dry and then add the food.
Once again, leave some airspace. With soft spreads, like jams or jellies, leave 1/4 an inch of airspace. Whole foods, like nuts or candies, need 1/2 an inch of airspace.Use a non-metallic spoon to remove bubbles. Do so by running the wooden or rubber spoon around the inner surface of the jar, pressing the food down gently., Once your food is prepared, you can begin to prepare the vacuum. Place the lid on the jar you're going to seal. However, leave the lid ring off for now. Attach the hose of the vacuum pack sealer to the jar sealer attachment. From there, place the attachment over the jar. Make sure the attachment is on firm so it does not fall of when you begin vacuuming the jar., You should process the jar according to your specific device instructions. However, in most cases you simply turn the device on until the machine indicates the jar is sealed. You should hear the lid pop when it is ready. The machine may also indicate, through a sign like a green light, that the process is complete., Remove the hose from the sealing attachment. Remove the sealing attachment from the jar. Then screw the ring tightly onto the jar. Store the jar in a cool, dry place.