 Line your seed containers with your seed growing medium. Fill the containers to within half an inch of the rim, rather than all the way to the top. Sprinkle water over the growing medium to moisten the growing medium all the way to the bottom. Don't douse it in water; it should just be slightly wet to provide a good environment for the seeds.
 Some seeds need to be soaked for a few hours before planting, while others can go straight into the growing medium without soaking. Determine whether the seeds you have need any type of pre-processing before they get planted. Look on the seed packet or check online.









To soak seeds, place them in a clean container and cover them with room temperature water. Let them sit for between 3 and 24 hours. Strain them and pat them dry with a paper towel.
If you soak your seeds, plan to plant them directly afterward. Don't let them dry out again first.
 Scatter seeds evenly over the growing medium and use your fingers to lightly press them in. Cover the seeds with a layer of growing medium about three times the thickness of the seeds. Moisten the growing medium again once the seeds are sown.









Don't sow too many seeds together; make sure not to overcrowd them. Check the seed packet for each type of seed you are planting to get specific recommendations for spacing the seeds.
Some seeds need to be planted deeper in the growing medium, and others shouldn't be covered at all. Most seeds are fine with a light covering of growing medium as described above, but you should check to make sure the seeds you have don't need special treatment.
 Most seeds don't need sunlight to germinate, but some do, so you'll need to check to make sure you give your seeds the proper conditions. Placing the seeds in a room with a temperature between 60 and 80 degrees F is a safe bet, but again, some seeds need special treatment and require very cold or hot temperatures to do well.









You can use a heat mat under the seed tray to regulate the temperature and keep things on the warmer side during the germination period.Once the seedlings sprout, keep them in an area with a temperature above 70ʡF (21ʡC) until they're ready to be transplanted outside., Cover the trays lightly with a sheet of plastic wrap to keep the moisture in and regulate the temperature. Lift the plastic wrap each day to lightly water the seeds. Make sure they never get the chance to dry out, or they won't germinate properly.









Do not overwater the seeds. If they get waterlogged they won't grow.
You can use newspaper instead of plastic wrap. Use a spray bottle to keep the newspaper moist while the seeds germinate.

