 “Voluntourism” means planning a tourist experience around volunteer activity, and it is a growing sector of international travel. Instead of your vacation revolving around pleasure activities, it centers on service activities.While voluntourism is well intentioned, it isn’t a cure all for the world’s problems. If it puts a native worker out of a job, it can even cause more problems than it solves. Make sure you have a skill that can truly be beneficial to the people in your host country (they are likely to have all the unskilled labor they need).
Learn more about the thousands of voluntourism opportunities at http://www.voluntourism.org/traveler-start.html.
 There’s no education without teachers, so teaching elementary school in a developing country is the most hands-on way to aid universal primary education as a goal. There are a few ways to go about this:


Most teachers overseas are English teachers, and most English teachers are certified to Teach English as a Foreign Language (TEFL). There is no one accrediting body for TEFL certification, and there are hundreds of programs offering certification both online and at university campuses. Those applying to a course typically do need a bachelor’s degree, however. If you want to teach another subject area, you can look at job vacancies in the locale where you want to go, or browse the International Educator’s online job board. You can find the list at http://www.tieonline.com/.
 Since the fastest-growing population of unschooled children are in conflict zones, an area where a person can have the greatest impact is in a conflict zone. There are many highly regarded non-profits at work in conflict zones, including Mercy Corps, International Rescue Committee, International IDEA, Peace Brigades International, and Peace Direct.Of course, each job will have its own specific qualifications, but many jobs for overseas nonprofits look for persons with Master’s Degrees, foreign language skills, and experience working or living abroad.

