 Many newer ballcock assemblies, which control the water as it flows into the tank from the water pipes and connects the floating arm and flapper assembly together, are sealed, making it difficult or impossible to take apart and repair. These models will just need replaced by removing the threaded screws and replacing it with a similar model.


Unscrew the floating arm from the assembly after turning off the water and flushing the tank. Then remove the entire assembly from the overfill tube (the tall tube that keeps water from overflowing the tank).
The perk of a plastic assembly is that it won't corrode and it costs less, but you can't fix it if something goes wrong. A metal assembly is sturdier and you can try to repair it. Choose what works best for you if the assembly needs replacing.
 On most older metal models, a couple of thumbscrews will hold the valve together. Unscrew them, revealing the washers or gaskets in between the valve parts.


Examine them. If any of these is worn out or broken, it will allow water to seep through and could be the cause of the toilet running. If that seems to be the problem, simply replace the gaskets and reassemble the ballcock assembly. If not, you'll need to remove the entire assembly.
 This should be what's keeping the assembly in the tank. You'll need to unscrew it from both sides with an adjustable wrench and lift the assembly free.


At this point, you should tighten the arms of the ballcock assembly, testing to make sure the arm functions and nothing seems to be broken, missing, or misaligned. If you don't see anything wrong but the toilet is still running and none of the other maintenance options have helped, you'll just need to replace the assembly with a new one. Typically, they'll cost anywhere between $10-$30.
 Follow the reverse of the steps you followed in removing the assembly, screwing it in tightly and re-affixing the floating arm (though, it'll probably come with a new float arm and possibly a new flapper). Turn the water back on and let the toilet run for a few minutes before attempting to flush it.

