 If you want to drive your boyfriend wild, then you'll have to make an effort to look sexy. This doesn't mean that you should look sexy or dress provocatively all the time, or that you should change your looks just to turn on your man. It does mean that you should try to up the ante a bit with your clothes and make up, and dress and look in a way that makes your boyfriend notice you -- and want to get you alone.


You don't have to wear a ton of makeup. Try creating smoky eyes with dark eyeshadow and mascara, and wear just a bit of lip gloss or lip balm to draw attention to your lips.
You can look provocative without looking trashy. Wear flattering clothes that fit you well and show off your best assets.
If you want to be really sexy, dress really provocatively from time to time -- or when you know you and your man will be alone. This will be a fun change and will drive your man wild.
Get some sexy undergarments. The right thong, lacy bra, or pair of panties can make your man even more turned on.
 If you want to drive your boyfriend crazy, then you can't just give him what he wants all the time. Instead, you should kiss him for a minute or two, and then pull back, leaving him wanting more. If you're out, touch him provocatively by putting your hand on his thigh or caressing his neck before moving away. If you're alone in the bedroom, drive him wild with your kisses and caresses before removing your clothes.


You can also tease him by saying the right things. Tell him that you know he wants you, but that you're not sure if you're in the mood -- this will drive him wild.
Compliment his body and let him know how sexy he is. Then, look down at the floor or distance yourself from him.
You can also tease him by caressing your own body. You can say, "This shirt is so tight," or "I can't believe how big my chest looks in this bra," to make him want your body.
If you're wearing a thong, lean down so he gets a peek at it. If you're wearing a lacy bra, lean toward him a bit so he gets a look at your cleavage in the bra.
 You can't just drive your boyfriend wild when you're alone and keep him at arm's length when you're out in public. Being sexy in public doesn't mean trying to initiate a make-out session in the checkout aisle at your local grocery store or touching your man every chance you get. It does mean touching your boyfriend in a knowing way from time to time, giving him seductive smiles, and mentioning something that makes him want to get private.


Don't be afraid to kiss him in public. Kiss him, linger a bit, and then pull away with a smile.
You don't have to touch him all the time in public, either. Just put your hand on his thigh, squeeze his knee, or rub his shoulder occasionally.
Get close when you can. Stand close to him, whether you're both looking at a menu or watching a movie. Let him remember how good it feels to be next to you.
 Kissing your man's neck will drive him wild and will want him to take things to the next level with you. Though there's nothing wrong with good old kissing, kissing his neck is a great way to drive him wild and make him crave you. Have fun gently kissing the side of his neck or even kissing or nibbling on his ears. You can also kick things up a notch by lightly licking his neck and then blowing on it.


If you're comfortable with your boyfriend, try giving his neck the tiniest nibble. This is guaranteed to drive him wild -- as long as you don't do it too much.
You can alternate between kissing him on the lips and kissing his neck. This will drive him wild too.
 Nothing is sexier than giving your man an unexpected and sensual massage. You don't have to plan it. Just wait for him to sit down and be relaxed and get behind him and start caressing his shoulders, kneading his muscles harder and harder until he moans with pleasure. You can also run your fingers in circles on his head and at his temples, and work your way down to his back and sides.


A sexy massage is great in almost any private circumstance, but it'll be even better if you dim the lights, turn off the TV, and indulge in the moment.
You can transition from a sexy massage to sexy time. Just work your hands down your man's body and start kissing his neck as you explore him.
If you want to be frisky, you can turn things around and say, "Now it's my turn," and enjoy letting him touch your body.
 Another way to get sexy is to introduce some foods into the equation. There are some great foods that can help make your relationship feel more romantic and sensual at the same time. Here are a few things to try:


Take turns feeding grapes to each other.
Take turns feeding strawberries to each other while dipping them in chocolate or whipped cream.
Share a bar of chocolate while you and your boyfriend are having a sensual conversation.
Red wine always makes things sexier. If you're deciding between beer and red wine, go for the wine.
Sharing a chocolate and caramel dessert after dinner can make you get more in the mood.

