 This means you should try to intone the cue words at the same volume and with the same tone of voice every time you administer the command. Dogs understand both emotional cues and the meanings of the words.When you teach the dog to be shy, you must utilize the word in the same way every time.


Consistency also means giving the dog a reward at the same time every time it obeys. When training, you should always provide a reward immediately after the dog has accomplished its trick. Let the dog hold the covering position for the same length of time. In the future, the dog will remember how long it is expected to hold the covered position based on the amount of time it did so before.
 When training your dog, you must reward it immediately when it behaves in conformity with your wishes. When it plays shy, exclaim “Good boy/girl!” in an enthusiastic, friendly tone, and give it a doggie treat.Creating the association between playing shy with receiving a reward will encourage the dog to act obediently.


Treats are a good reward, but need not be the only one. Dogs also respond positively to opportunities to play fetch, or go for a car ride or walk.
Do not hold treats in your hand while training. The dog will learn that unless the treat bag is present, it need not comply with your commands.
 Dogs can read body language and posture. Let your dog know you are serious about his or her training by assuming a position of power.Stand up straight in front of your dog with your shoulders back when training.
Keep your hands out of your pockets. Your dog may wrongly (or rightly) believe that you have treats in your pockets, and that will become “the” position he or she identifies with playing shy.
 If you limit training to only one space or room of the house, your dog will think playing shy is something to be done only in that one room.Train your dog to play shy in the bedroom, the living room, the basement, and the backyard.
 Some dogs learn faster than others. Think about how quickly your dog was able to learn to sit, play dead, and roll over. Average those learning times to assess how long it might take for him or her to learn to play shy. Continue to train your dog to play shy and it will learn in time. Do not become frustrated or angry at your dog if he or she is not learning at the pace you desire.Take notes at the end of each session and look for small signs of improvement over the long term. Always maintain a positive attitude and celebrate your dog’s progress.
Relax and take a few deep breaths if you feel you are becoming frustrated or disappointed in your dog’s progress.
If either you or your dog are growing weary of the training exercise, end it and try again later.
 Train your dog constantly. Training sessions should occur several times each day at random times. Do not train your dog for periods which are too long or too short.Each dog’s attention span varies. Pay attention to your dog’s level of interest; if he or she starts to wander away, lies down, or barks, it may be time to end the practice session and pick it up again later.

