;
,


Draw a vertical line in the middle of the head to align the center of her face.
You can draw on a different angle for her pose. Add two L-shaped lines for her jaw guide.



Draw 2 short parallel lines for her cheeks.



Because Draculaura’s ears aren’t round, draw a pointed rectangle instead of a round line for her ears.
For her hair, draw 2 big S-shaped curvy lines. This would be your guide for her pony tails.
For her body draw a rounded trapezoid with a rectangular trapezoid connected to the top.



For the limbs and legs, just draw some lines. It all comes to the artist’s preference.



For the hands, just draw rounded ovals. If you want to show some fingers, draw simple lines for your guide.



On the center of the face, draw her small nose and exaggeratingly large lips. Make sure to make the lower lip big and the upper lip thin.
Add two semi-circles for her eyes. Make the eyes skew a little from the center.
Add a long dangling oval from her ear.
To giver her more figure, add an oval around her chest. Draculaura usually wears a skirt with the frills on the bottom end, so add a long hexagon to guide you for her skirt.



Add cuffs using trapezoids that open towards her hands. You can use a simple rectangle for her boots.
Add two circles inside her eyes for her iris.
Add a big semi-circle for her bangs.
For her neck just draw a rectangle to connect the body to her head. She usually wears a V-neck blouse so add a big V on her chest, just above the oval.
By now, you should have her basic skeleton.



Put in mind the overlapping lines and parts that should be hidden.
For her limbs and legs, just add some width from the bone. It doesn’t matter if your legs look weird. The drawing style for Monster High defies logic and proportional rules.
Don’t forget to add her mouth, eyelashes and some clothing and jewelry details. She also has her signature heart on her left cheek.
The lineart might not look perfect and crisp but it should look neat when the pencil is erased.



You can add details like the buttons, her eye lens, stitch lines.
In this stage, add her hair extensions as well.
Try to add more if needed. Don’t be afraid to add more lines than what is necessary. You can add lots of trinkets on her clothes. Try adding some flowers or lace.
