 Even if you weren't awarded work study when you first applied to your school, you may be able to apply now. Make an appointment at the financial aid office to see if you can still apply (or reapply, if your financial situation has recently changed).


There are all sorts of jobs available on campus, from working in the dining halls, to performing administrative work in academic departments, and even working at campus theaters, where you'll have access to free performances or movies!

, This program provides part-time work opportunities for students with financial aid, and guarantees that you'll be paid at least the federal minimum wage.Whenever possible, the positions available are relevant to your area of study and are civic-minded, aimed to serve the public interest., If you live in the dorms, are an active participant in dorm and campus activities, have a good grade point average, and enjoy working with and counseling others, then becoming an RA (resident assistant) could be a great opportunity for you.


While you may not bring home an additional pay-check for being an RA, you'll usually get either free or greatly reduced room and board, which will then free up money for your other expenses. At some schools, though, you may receive a stipend as an RA., Scope out bulletin boards on campus for advertisements looking for volunteers for psychology studies or medical experiments.These usually pay a flat rate, though at some schools, you could make up to $20 an hour doing something as simple (and possibly as interesting!) as filling out questionnaires., Before you agree to participate, make sure that the experiment was approved by an Institutional Review Board or a Human Subjects Participant Program. This will help ensure that your rights and physical and mental well-being are protected., If you can't find opportunities to participate in research on campus, go to the US Government's official clinical trial website to find legit trials in your area. You can also visit the webpages of local hospitals to see if they are looking for participants., One of your biggest expenses may be the cash you have to set aside for textbooks. You can usually get a good chunk of your money back at the end of the term by selling back your books.


Campus bookstores will sometimes buy back books, but many campuses also allow independent companies to set up shop at the end of the term. You can also scope out used bookstores in the area to see if they buy used books.
To improve your odds of being able to sell a book (or fetch a good price for it), take care of your books throughout the semester, and avoid marking up the pages with notes and highlighters.
 It's hard to succeed in school (or at at any job!) if your work materials are a messy nightmare. Spend some time developing your organizational skills, and then advertise your services to your fellow classmates, and possibly even your professors.


Offer to help your clients go through their files (either paper or electronic), and help them come up with a method for sorting and arranging their work that they can manage on their own.
 College student usually aren't known for keeping spotless rooms or staying on top of their laundry. If you don't mind doing either of these tasks, and if you can stand the mess and stink, consider getting paid to clean dorm rooms or do laundry for your lazier classmates.
 If you are talented at doing nails, hair, or make-up, consider advertising your services to your classmates, especially before big events like sorority formals or Valentine's Day.


Research what local salons charge for services, and then undercut their prices to the point where you'll still be making a profit, but will be an affordable option for your fellow classmates.
 It's not a secret that college students get the munchies! If you're good at baking (or even just scoping out good deals on prepackaged snack items), take advantage of your classmates' perpetual hunger.


Post fliers with tantalizing pictures of your baked goods, or visit the library and other hot study spots at key points in the term, such as midterm and finals week.
If you're a night owl, then you're sure to find students on the prowl for a good snack in the wee hours of Friday and Saturday (or even Thursday, at some party schools!). If you decide to sell to the night crowd, though, it's a smart, safe move to work with a partner.
 If you live in a state which accepts bottle redemptions, you can make easy money by collecting and returning soda cans.Consider making a small investment in a large plastic garbage bin, line it with a sturdy plastic bag, and decorate it with signs: “Place your used soda cans here!”. Place the bin outside your dorm, and then all you'll have to do is sort through it before bringing it to the redemption center.
Make sure that you aren't violating dorm policy by doing this. So long as it's allowed, you may also be able to go through any other recycling bins that are set up on campus.

