 Do you see a group of your friends sitting together? Or do you see people you with whom you’re friendly? Take a minute to scan the lunchroom and look for familiar faces. Try to stand somewhere that’s not in the way of other people getting their lunches.


Depending on the norms of your lunchroom, you might want to get food before you sit down or put your stuff down first and then get food afterward. This decision depends on what people in your lunchroom normally do. If everyone gets their food before they sit down, then you should do the same. But if people get to lunch at different times and you want to put your backpack down to save a seat, you can do that, too. Gauge the situation when you arrive at lunch to see what is easiest and most natural.
Try not to look too nervous. Take three deep breaths. You don't want to seem anxious or stressed; instead, smile and focus on the meal you're about to eat and the people you want to enjoy a conversation with. Even if you are nervous, smile and stand up straight.
When looking for a group of your friends, think outside the box. Consider people who are in your classes or in your activities or clubs at school. You should also consider people in other grades and people you know from outside of school, like your siblings, church group members, and teammates. You could even sit with a teacher whose company you enjoy.;
, Once you’ve found your friends, walk up to them and see if there is an empty chair. If there is no empty chair, you might want to find a different place to sit.
 Smile. See if they are having a private conversation or look like they are upset. If they are, you might not want to sit with them because they might need privacy. If not, though, ask to sit with them.


Try saying, “Hey guys! Good to see you. Can I sit with you?”
Or, “Hello! Is anyone sitting here? Can I?”
If you only know a couple of people in the group, talk to the people you know first, and then introduce yourself to the other people. You can say, "Hi, I'm Hannah! I'm Bella's friend from physics. What's your name?" Talking to new people about your mutual friends is a great conversation starter with new people.
Prepare for rejection, just in case. If someone tells you that they can't sit with you, say something like, "Okay, no worries. See you around!" Keep in mind that rejection isn't the end of the world, but you should mentally prepare yourself.
 Enjoy your friends’ company while you eat your meal. If you want to, make plans to eat lunch with them again the next day.


If your friends seem busy or say that you can’t sit with them, don’t get discouraged. Focus on where else you want to sit. Does anyone else in the lunch room look nice? Who would enjoy your company?If you want to continue eating lunch with these people, you could ask, "Do you guys eat here every day? Would it be okay if I joined you tomorrow, too?" If they say yes, then sit with them again the next day. If they say no, try not to be discouraged; they might not eat lunch together every day.
It's okay to float between groups on different days. Having lots of different friend groups is a great way to make sure that you have lots of different friends and get to spend time with different people. If you don't want to have a regular lunch table, that's okay! You can float between groups for as little or as long as you want.

