 Cover all sides of a large wooden spool with white craft paint. Allow the paint to dry.


Note that the spool will be the body of the cow.
Since you need to paint the entire spool, separate the work into two steps so that the paint can dry properly. Paint the cylindrical side first, and after it dries, paint the top and bottom faces.;
, Cover the cylindrical side of the spool with spots of black paint. Let the paint dry.


These spots should extend all the way around the body and should look like the spots on a cow.
To make the spots more realistic, give them rounded but uneven sides and try to avoid creating any patterns or symmetry when laying them out.
 Place one flat, circular face of the spool on top of white card stock. Trace around this circle in pencil.


Cut out the resulting circle. You'll use it for the face of the cow.
Note that white felt or white craft foam could also work if you do not have white card stock.
 Give the cow a pink snout, black nostrils, and two googly eyes.


To create the nose, begin by drawing a semi-circle over the bottom half of the card stock circle. Color in this semi-circle with pink marker or paint, then draw to small black ovals near the top edge of the semi-circle.
For the eyes, glue two googly craft eyes halfway between the snout and the top edge of the spool.
 Draw two small leaf shapes on white card stock. Cut out both shapes for use as the cow's ears.


Keep the ears proportionate to the size of the face. Each one should be approximately the same size as one craft eye.
 Use pink marker to color in the center of each ear on one side of the paper.


The pink center should follow the basic shape of the overall ear outline, but it should only take up roughly one-half to three-quarters of the ear.
 Sketch out two rectangles in pencil, making each one long enough to wrap around the side of the spool once. Each should only be as wide as the width of one ear.


Cut out both rectangles when finished.
Each rectangle will turn into two legs. One will become both back legs and the other will become both front legs.
 Color both tips of both rectangles in black marker. These black tips will become the cow's hooves.
 Use craft glue to attach the face, ears, and legs to the spool. Let the glue dry before continuing.


Glue the face onto one flat end of the spool.
Position both ears over the top edge of the same end, gluing them in place behind the face.
Glue the center of one leg rectangle to the bottom of the cylindrical side, positioning it near the face end of the spool. Repeat with the other leg rectangle, putting it closer to the opposite end of the spool. Allow the ends of both rectangles to hang loose.
 Clip a small piece of black pipe cleaner and use craft glue to attach it to the blank flat end of the spool. Let the glue dry.


The tail should be roughly one-half to three-quarters the length of the spool body.
 The spool cow is finished and ready to show off.

