 This isn't time to wallow in everything––it's about recognizing the mistakes you've made before and finding ways to avoid remaking such mistakes in the future.
 Sit down and think of everything that has happened in the past. Then close your eyes and breathe slowly, brainstorming the ways you can improve and refine yourself. Open your eyes and smile. Feel like you're a new you. If you continue to do this, then you will gain confidence in yourself and pursue your goals and move on.
 The best way to do this is by being thankful. Whenever you see someone do something for you or an unfortunate person, take note and thank them. Be nice to everyone and everything. But don't sit quietly as someone bullies or harasses you. Give them a strong look in the eye and keep your expression calm and neutral. When they have finished speaking, talk back politely by but add a hint of feistiness in your tone and keep your voice strong if they are mentally hurting you. This will show them no matter what they do, you will stay your ground.
 Say please and thank you. Hold the door open for peoples of any age or gender or race. Give up your seat on public transportation to anyone younger or older than you. Have good table manners. Make people feel comfortable and if someone else is prying into their business, stand up for them


Never swear or act rude. If an argument is getting heated, then apologise and leave immediately. Splash your face with water and calm yourself down. Go back to the argument later with a level head an more reasons.
 Never boast or brag.


Never be over indulgent. This will make people feel lowly.
 Never raise your voice unless it is completely necessary. When you walk, try to look as if you are gliding. Make yourself feel like a princess and convince others you are royalty with your attitude and posture.
 Be up to date on the latest happenings and be able to keep a conversation going.
 Do not give in to peer pressure. If someone tells you to light one up or take a pill, refuse immediately in a strong voice a walk away. If they are your friends, they are not true.


Do not be rash with relationships. A lady is a subtle flirt, nothing more.
 Brush your teeth twice daily. Shower daily or every other day depending on your schedule. Wash your face twice daily. Get a facial once in a while. Just look clean and pampered.
 Dress in modest and timeless pieces. Never make yourself look like a boy. Don't ever reveal too much skin. Have a style icon such as Audrey Hepburn. Not only does she dress impeccably, she also is an ideal role model.
 Try stick to the natural look with BB cream, a full set of brows, glowing cheeks and plump, soft lips.
 Style it to appear refined. If a lady was feeling adventurous, she might want a pixie cut or a side shave!

, Never slouch or lag. It is not ladylike and will cause health problems. Imagine a string is tied to your stomach and is pulling you up straight and high. Also hold your head high, but not too much.
 Even though this seems cheesy, smile!

