 Today, there are a wide variety of materials that arrow shafts are constructed from. Some hunters use wooden arrows that aren't functionally very different from old-fashioned arrows, while others prefer high-tech carbon fiber constructions. Shop around for available shaft materials or consider making your own - some sporting good and hunting supply stores even sell special arrow saws that can help you professionally fashion an arrow shaft from a wide variety of materials.If you want to make your own shafts, be sure your shafts are the correct length for your bow setup. If you plan on making your shafts from wood, you may want to have access to a lathe to help round square shafts to a perfect roundness.
 The end of your shaft should be perfectly flat to ensure a good fit when you attach the arrow's point. If you bought a prefabricated arrow shaft, you may not need to do any extra work, but if you're fashioning your arrows from wood, you'll definitely need ensure that the end of the shaft is perfectly square. Press the end of the shaft into an abrasive surface (sandpaper, etc.) and rotate the shaft to square the end.


A arrow-squaring device can be a tremendous help - these ensure that the shaft is held perfectly straight as it is abraded. Arrow-squaring devices are fairly cheap - often retailing for less than $50.
 Ensure the end of the shaft is perfectly square and free of any wood shavings, dirt, etc. Then, affix the arrow's point. This process will vary based on the type of shaft your arrow uses.


For metal or carbon shafts, you may need to first glue or screw in a special metal insert before affixing the point. Consult the vendor or manufacturer if instructions aren't included with the point or insert.
For wooden shafts, you may need to taper the shaft so that the point can be mounted securely. Glue the point over the shaft with archery glue, wiping away any excess.
 The "nock" is the small notch at the back of the arrow where the bowstring fits. If you're making an arrow from a wooden shaft, you can carve a shallow nock into the back end of the shaft yourself. You can also buy commercially-available nocks which are designed fit over (or in to) the shaft of the arrow. These are usually brightly-colored plastic so that your arrows are easy to find after firing. Some high-end nocks even contain a small LED so that they glow in the dark, making hunting or target shooting at night much easier.


Make sure your nock is sized correctly so that it fits securely to the shaft before you glue it or screw it in. You definitely don't want a poorly-fitted nock to slip or fall off when you draw your bowstring.
 Fletching is the process of adding small fins, or "vanes," to the back end of the arrow to ensure it flies straighter. You may fletch your arrows with feathers or another lightweight material. However, you may find it easier simply to buy modern plastic vanes, which are cheap and effective. Use thin lines of archery glue to secure these ahead of the nock.


Fletching is much easier with an apparatus called a "fletching jig." These allow you to securely and accurately add your feathers or vanes and ensure that your spacing is perfectly even. Fletching jigs are available for less than $100.
 Allow any glue to dry - your arrow may need to dry for several hours, depending on whether your tip, nock, and fletching were attached with glue or not. When your arrow is finished drying, or if you constructed an arrow entirely from screw-in parts, you can consider customizing it. You may want to mark it with paint or a permanent marker to make it easier to retrieve or to give it a distinct appearance. If you used a wooden shaft, you may want to finish the wood to protect it from the elements and to give it a more pleasing appearance. When your arrow is just how you like it, you're ready to add it to your quiver!


As always, make sure never to fire your arrow at people or animals (unless you're on a legal hunting trip). Modern commercial arrow points are deadly sharp - an accident can result in serious injury or death.

