 Syrup, although delicious, is chock-full of sugar. This adds a significant amount of calories to pancakes. You can significantly decrease these calories for this meal by topping your pancakes with Truvia.This Truvia technique works especially well for banana and nut pancakes. These flavors work well with the flavor of Truvia.
You can add flavorings and other toppings to add to the complexity of this dish. For example, try sprinkling the top of your Truvia laden pancakes with cinnamon.;
, Bread dipped in honey has long been a popular treat. Especially when using a healthy kind of bread, like one made from whole wheat, this can be an excellent snack. Toasting your bread can add some crunchy contrast to the smoothness of Truvia Nectar.Take this recipe to the next level by adding peanut butter to the bread before the Truvia. You can even make a calorie-lite version of a peanut butter and honey sandwich by substituting honey for Truvia Nectar.
 This works great for both hot and cold cereal. If you want the sweetness of the Truvia to distribute through the milk, thoroughly stir it in before adding cereal to your bowl. Expect warm liquid to dissolve Truvia more easily than cold ones.

An equally tasty way of eating Truvia sweetened cereal is by sprinkling the top of your cereal with Truvia after adding it to your bowl.
 Grapefruit is a food with many potential health benefits, but for many people it’s unpleasant without sweetener.Cut grapefruit in half and then sprinkle the inside with Truvia. Then take a spoon (or grapefruit spoon, if you have one), and eat the grapefruit by spooning out the edible, fleshy parts between the white inner walls., This is an excellent technique if some of the fruit for your fruit salad is a little unripe or tart. Add your fruit (like strawberries, grapes, different kinds of melon, and so on) to a large bowl. Drizzle Truvia Nectar on the fruit, then mix it well with clean hands or a mixing spoon.

There are many other kinds of salad, fruit salad, or dessert salad that might benefit from a drizzling of Truvia. Some examples include ambrosia, glorified rice, and more.
 Some desserts, although already sweet, need a little extra something to complete the flavor profile. In these cases, instead of using sugary syrups, whipped cream, or other high calorie toppers, substitute a drizzling of Truvia Nectar.

Some desserts you may want to add Truvia Nectar to include things like pie, ice cream, cookies, brownies, cakes, and so on.

