 You'll also need to determine how much money you can spend for set-up and advertising.


Research other courses in your area to see what the going rate is for exercise classes both at big gyms, the local YMCA and community centers. Because you won't have the overhead many of these places have, consider charging slightly less than these other classes.
Your start-up costs can be minimal if you utilize a local park for outdoor classes or mall for indoor classes, do your marketing mostly online using social media and word-of-mouth via fliers posted at churches, community centers and daycare centers.
You'll need both indoor and outdoor class venues for days of inclement weather.
Most city-run parks and recreation departments offer low-cost courses at their community centers and parks. Offer to teach a sanctioned course for them within their seasonal offerings, usually three times per year: spring, summer, and fall/winter. This will cost you a small portion of your profit, but you'll be included in course materials they distribute to the entire community.;
, Ask the students to bring their own exercise mats, set of exercise bands and jump rope, but you'll also want to have three or four of each for those students who forget to bring them to class.
 During the open house, you can offer a 15-minute free trial session to let people try your program.


People attending open houses always like to have a chance at prizes, so offer a few door prizes. These could include a coupon for 20 percent off enrollment, a workout mat or even prizes donated to you by friends with their own small businesses.
 You'll need a 30-minute beginner routine, a 45-minute intermediate routine and an hour-long advanced routine. Offer each type of class in a set number of weeks and number of classes per week, such as three times per week for eight weeks. You can then take a couple weeks off while you hold registration for your next set of classes.


Within these time frames, you'll need to have a few variations prepared so your students don't get bored doing the same routine at every class. Remember to have plenty of cardio time in the way of walking as this keeps the strollers moving. (The babies need a change of scenery and might get bored easily if you stay in one place for too long.)
The more variety you have, the greater the chances of having return students when each session is complete. Include a program that is primarily cardio, one that is a mix of cardio and strength training and one that is a mix of cardio and flexibility with stretching.
 You may choose to continue offering classes on your own, or decide if you want to take the next step of becoming part of a national stroller fitness franchise.


Being part of a franchise will provide you access to additional marketing opportunities, business-building resources and interaction with other stroller fitness instructors and business owners in your area and in the country.

