 It's okay to have a disability. You are a unique and desirable person. Believe in yourself and that you have something to offer her. Recognize and capitalize on your personal strengths, such as if you are a great talker- then entertain her. If you're a joker, then amuse her. If you've got a nice smile- then show it to her when the time seems right.;
, Love her and treat her with ultimate respect. Many girls feel undervalued, or as though boys don't really hold a great deal of respect for them, doing this could help you stand out from the crowd. Spend time with her in as many sort of places and situations as you can and make sure she feels very relaxed and comfortable around/with you. Try talking about things that she is interested in so she will be more comfortable with the conversation and emphasize with her. If she feels as though she can talk to you and you understand, then she's more likely to want to talk to you in the future (above other people) when she's got an issue.
 Try making eye contact (if possible/when it seems right), catching her eye, and smiling at her and then consider breaking it again. Too much eye-contact is overkill, but she needs to know that you 'like' her as more than a friend. Use open body language so that she knows you're interested. If she reciprocates, mention meeting on a date outside of your usual settings/ away from your social group.
 It's there, but it's not important right now. While it may influence your life in an everyday sense, it's YOU who is chatting to her, not your disability. Spark a conversation about anything which seems right, her cute backpack, her cool science presentation, the fact that her sister is friends with your sister, ask what she did at the weekend... The opportunities are endless.
 People that are pleasant to be around, people that make them laugh, people that are laid back and easy to talk to. Listen to her thoughts, encourage her dreams, and let her know that you like talking to her.
 Mention your interests as you get to know her, and show her a thing or two. Encourage her to show her talents too. This way, she can get to know the real you, and you can get to know her better.
 When you are both ready, you can start dating, holding hands, kissing, and possibly going beyond that. Keep communication open, listen to each other, and love each other, and if you're right for each other, it'll go well.


Eventually, she should fall in love with the real you who is inside, not just what's outside.
If all else fails, then she is not worth it. You deserve better than someone who won't ever love you for who you truly are.

