 Social websites like Facebook and Myspace will allow you to seek website members based on name, location, school attended or expressed interests.


Type in the person’s full name and last known resident state into the search bar on Facebook or Myspace.;
, Many social media accounts will allow people to post a location when they make posts. For example, if the person you want to track is on vacation in Germany, their Facebook account might show "Berlin" as the location for photos they post. If the person uses loose privacy settings, you may be able to see these locations and determine where the person is.

This will only work if you are friends with the person, have a mutual friend who can look for you, or their security settings allow people who are not friends to see their posts.
 Many accounts, such as Foursquare, Facebook, Twitter, and Google Latitude, offer "checkin" features that allow someone to tag that they visited a certain location. If you are friends with a person (or if they have loose privacy settings), you will likely be able to see these check-ins.This will only work if you are friends with the person, have a mutual friend who can look for you, or their security settings allow people who are not friends to see their posts.
 If you want to keep tabs on where your child goes, you can enable a tracking plan with many major carriers.For example, T-Mobile offers "FamilyWhere," a program that uses a cellphone's GPS to tell you where your child's phone is.The Google Latitude app will also show where the phone is using GPS.

It's a good idea to tell your child that s/he is being monitored, and why. This will help avoid your child feeling like you have broken his or her trust.
The laws are more complicated when people are not legally minors. In many cases it is illegal to install a tracking app on an adult's phone without telling him or her.
 You can use a GPS tracker to track a car or personal property, but it is a legal gray area, so be careful. In general, it's a good idea to make sure of the following:You own the car or property, or you are tracking a minor child (and you are the parent or legal guardian).
The GPS is visible and accessible.
You could get the same information by physically following the car.
Please consult with an attorney if you are unsure whether it is legal to use a GPS tracker in your situation.

