 Kids are still learning how to monitor their emotions and handle situations appropriately. As such, there will be times that they don’t get along or act very friendly. It can be tempting to step in with a solution when you see this happening. Instead of trying to solve their problems for them, you can teach kids about friendship if you teach them to think critically and resolve their own conflicts.For instance, you might ask, “You have great problem-solving skills. What’s one way that you guys can all play the game?”
Or, for instance, you might say, “How do you think friends should handle a situation like this?”

, While kids can do a good job at using their problem-solving skills and resolving conflict, sometimes they may need assistance. You can teach them a lot about friendship and conflict resolution by giving them feedback about the situation and their behavior.For example, if two kids are arguing over a toy, you might say, “I don’t think this is the way you all really want to handle this. Let’s take a time-out and brainstorm solutions.”
Or, you might say, “I like how you guys are working together to come up with a fair way to handle this situation. That’s good problem-solving. Keep going!”

, Teachable moments are natural events and situations that occur that give you a real-world opportunity to teach or reinforce something you already taught. When you’re teaching kids about friendship, look for those moments in the day when you can emphasize something you’ve taught them about friendship.For example, if you’re out with your kids and notice some adults arguing, use it as an opportunity to talk about conflict resolution.
Or, for instance, if you’re watching a webisode together and see two of the characters disagreeing, you can talk to the kids about how the characters handled the situation.
You may also want to assist your child with reading body language. You can do this by showing them with your own facial expressions and body language and explaining, what they convey.
 Children who are raised by authoritarian parents are more likely to have low levels of esteem and low self-worth, as well as greater hostility, rage, and controlling tendencies. These can make it quite challenging for children to develop healthy, long lasting relationships with their peers. They may even lead to mental health concerns later in life.An authoritarian parent is one who usually avoids discussion of issues that may arise, and will more likely jump to control the particular behavior or situation through punishment.
An authoritative parent is one who approach issues with warmth and compassion. They gently guide a child with a behavioral problem through rational discussion, and provides explanation of the reasons for the rules.
Children who are raised in an authoritative environment have less aggressive behaviors, are more self-reliant, and have an easier time with developing great friendships with peers.

