 Begin to think about all of the reasons why you like your friend and want to date them. This is crucial so that you can articulate this to them and so that you don’t make a mistake and ask them out just because you are lonely. Make a pros and cons list for asking your friend out.


For example, a pro might be that you both have very similar interests and have a good time together.
A con might be if they are selfish or your general fear of ruining the friendship should the relationship go awry.
 Ask your friend if they have some time to talk to you about something. Find a time that works well for the both of you. Meet in a place that is quiet so that others won’t overhear the conversation.You can also have this talk over the phone if you are nervous.
Consider writing a letter if you feel that this will help you better articulate your thoughts.
 Now is the time to open up to your friend about your feelings. Be very honest and genuine with them and try not to be overly dramatic. Talk to them about how your feelings for them have evolved from friendly to romantic.You might say something like “This has been on my heart for a while. I think you are so wonderful and to be honest, I like you as more than a friend.”

, After you have told them how you feel, allow them some time to also express themselves. Avoid preparing your next response to them in your head; truly and actively listen and hear them.


You might want to say something like “Well, now you know how I feel. What do you think about us going out some time?”
Answer any questions that they might have.
 If they respond positively to your talk and indicate that they like you or would want to explore a romance, too, then ask them out. You might say something like “So, I was wondering, will you go out with me this Friday night?”, Recognize that this all may feel very new to your best friend and they may need some time to think about whether they are interested or if they want your relationship to change. Assure them that you don’t need an answer right now and are willing to wait on them., If your friend agreed to a date on the spot, then great! Or perhaps they did not give you an answer yet but you feel that they will go out with you. Take some items to plan out a fun date for the two of you that aligns with your interests, but is still romantic in nature.Perhaps you might plan a romantic picnic in the park or a date to the movies.
Base the date around something that you are both interested in or something that your friend really likes, such as a concert of their favorite band.
Since this is a new experience for both of you, consider choosing an activity that you have both been interested in trying, such as the new mini golf place that just opened.

