 One of the best ways to add variety to your life and alleviate small town humdrum is to take up a new hobby. It can help you meet new people, learn new things, and feel more satisfied with your daily life.Some hobbies, such as sculpting or painting, might cost a bit more money for materials, but other hobbies, such as board games or creative writing are relatively cost-free.


If you want to take up knitting or some other hobby but can’t afford classes, look online! You’ll find that many instructors and enthusiasts offer video tutorials and written instructions for free, so check sites like YouTube and Tumblr for accessible education options.
 Learning new things and skills will enrich your life in many ways: not only will the added knowledge improve your mental health and satisfaction from life, but you’ll meet new people and expand your social world.Your library or YMCA will offer a selection of free or low-cost educational courses, so check out their offerings online or in person.
If you can’t find the class you want at the library or YMCA, search for options from other sources. For example, a local community college or university might host adult education courses, and nearby dance or art studios and gyms should provide paid classes in a variety of activities.
 Consider taking up an active pursuit for the interest it can add to your life, as well as its added health benefits.Depending on the weather in your area, you might want to think about sports or exercises you can do indoors as well as outdoors. If your winters are pretty harsh, you might want to find several different activities, some of which you can do inside.


Participating in a team sport like kickball or soccer can particularly useful and fun due to its social nature: since you’re joining a team, you’re getting a set of ready-made new friends along with your physical activity.
If you prefer to sweat in solo fashion, take up jogging or swimming.
If you have joint or other health issues, try out a low-impact exercise like yoga or spinning.
 Just because there’s no local book club or knitting group you can join, doesn’t mean you can’t find some valuable community. Start by searching for your interests online and then for groups which discuss these interests.


All online communities are not created equal. While websites like Tumblr, Pinterest, and Reddit host many thriving and positive online communities, they also have their share of junk. Take some time to observe the culture and politics of the community before throwing yourself into it wholeheartedly and save yourself the energy and heartache of a toxic online forum., Reading is one of the best (and cheapest!) ways to broaden your horizons, so get reading if you’re getting bored with your small town’s offerings.

If there’s no book club that meets nearby, make your own! Take suggestions from nationwide book clubs and form an intimate group of friends and acquaintances to meet every month.
Make a special effort to read books written by authors from different countries, religions, races, cultures, and genders. You’ll be surprised how homogeneous your required reading lists from school or recommended reading lists from magazines and newspapers are, so take the initiative to diversify your personal curriculum.