 If she doesn’t pick up, hang up and wait to try again later or on another day.


If she doesn't answer, figure out another possible time to try when she might be available. If you call during lunch, consider calling later at around 7:00 or 7:30.
If you’re pretty sure she’s often available during the time you called, try the same time again in a day or two.
Don’t wait more than one or two days to try again.
If you have tried her a couple of times on different days or during different times of day, leave a message after the third attempt.
 Speak clearly and with a relaxed tone when you're leaving your message, and don't talk too fast; she might not get everything you say and you will sound nervous.


Also refrain from talking in an exaggerated manner or too slowly.
Leave your number twice, once at the beginning of your message, and once at the end.
If this is a new acquaintance, remind her of who you are and when you met. Say something like “Hi Wendy, this is Peter. We met during lunch at Le Restaurant Cool on Monday.”

, You can say that you’re interested in hearing about how her week has been since texting, or mention some personal information she texted about, like a pet or a project at work.
 Your message should be no more than 30 seconds. A voicemail that goes on for more than that feels like it will never end, which is tedious. In addition, if you limit the amount of time you have, you won’t be tempted to ramble or find yourself stumbling over how to end your message.
 Don’t say “Hey I tried you at this time and that time. What’s up? When can I get you on the phone?” She knows that you called, and when you called. Just say “I hope this is a good time to call, but if not, really sorry and I’ll try another time ok?”

, Do not talk about anything negative. Don’t complain, and don’t whine about how hard she is to get on the phone. You want to make sure she has nothing but positive feelings associated with you, and nothing but positive expectations about calling you back., Don’t ask her out, or tell her that you want to make plans. Instead, ask a question or a small favor.


Ask for information about the place where you saw her. For instance, you could say “I’ve been thinking about taking that class at the gym, and I’d love to hear what you think about it.”
Tell her you have some point of interest about something she’s told you, like a good dog walking service or a great place for sushi.
Check in about how some project or activity is going.

