 Based on how you want to be remembered, choose a few words that you could use to describe yourself. For example, you may choose to define yourself as compassionate, generous, and a talented pianist. Answer the question “Who is ?”Start by writing down the first five things you think of when you think about yourself.Group your characteristics into categories to help you condense them into meaningful references in your eulogy.
 Think about your major accomplishments in life and how they fit into the overall picture of yourself that you’re creating in your eulogy. If you want people to remember something that you’ve done, note it so that you can include it; however, it’s unlikely that you’ll have room to include every accomplishment that you’ve made in life.


Prioritize the accomplishments that are the most meaningful to you, such as graduating college, having your children, or writing a book.
If you’re having trouble deciding what to include, go back to your list of life priorities and roles. Choose the accomplishments that reflect what you value most.
 Even though you’re writing your eulogy yourself, that doesn’t mean that you can’t include the ideas of others. Those closest to you often have a different perspective on you and on your memories together. How you impacted their lives will be an important piece of your legacy, so reach out to them for their stories.If you find out that several people share the same favorite memory, then consider including that in your eulogy.
This is a great opportunity to share warm moments with friends and family, remembering good times together.
 After you’ve talked to your family and friends, think about what you remember. You want to include several stories in your eulogy that show who you were as a person, so focus on finding stories that illustrate your defining characteristics and reflect your priorities.Is there a story that all of your friends have heard you tell so many times that they can finish your sentences? Think of the stories about yourself that you tell most often and how you can weave them into your eulogy.
Plan to add some lesser told stories as well.
 Don’t be afraid to make people laugh. While your passing is sad, your life held happy moments that your friends and family can hold on to. Eulogies should remind people of those good times and how much you meant to them, so include stories that will make them smile.