 An estate is considered insolvent when its debts are greater than the value of its assets. When this happens, not every debt will be able to be paid off. State law will dictate the manner and order in which estate debts will be paid from an insolvent estate. Each insolvency statute will have an order of priority in which you must make debt payments.


Each category of debt defined in the state statute must be paid off in full before you can move on and start paying debts from the next category.
Because each debt within a single category is given equal priority, if the estate does not have enough assets to pay for all the debts in a single category, the creditors in that category will all receive a pro rata share of the available assets.Once every estate asset has been liquidated and used to pay debts, no other creditor will be paid (absent an exception to the rule - e.g., the necessaries doctrine).
 While each state's insolvency statute will vary, the general order of priority is usually the same. For example, in Virginia, you must pay debts in the following order:Costs and expenses of estate administration (e.g., probate fees, attorneys' fees, administrator commissions)Family and homestead allowances (e.g., a sum of money paid to support the surviving spouse)
Funeral expenses currently not to exceed $4,000
Federal debts and taxes
Certain medical and hospital expenses, which only extends to the decedent's last illness and is capped at between $425 and $2,150
State debts and taxes
Debts obtained while decedent was acting as fiduciary
Local debts and taxes
All other debts, which will include any outstanding uninsured medical expenses that were not paid for earlier

, To start making payments from an insolvent estate, compile the estate's debts into their respective categories. For example, if the estate has probate fees and attorneys' fees, you will put those debts in the same stack at the top of your list. If the estate has federal debts, you will put them in the same stack but they will be placed in line after the more senior debts. Once you have lined up all of the estate's debts in the order they must be paid, you can start making payments.


Start by adding up the total amount of debt owed in the most senior category (i.e., costs and expenses of administration). If the estate's value exceeds the value of these debts, pay all of these debts in full. For example, assume you are paying the expenses of administration, which equal $3,000. Next assume the estate's assets currently equal $10,000. In this example, you will be able to pay all of the expenses of administration, in full, and the estate will be left with $7,000.
Once one category of debt has been paid in full, you can move to the next category. If at any time the total value of debts in a single category exceeds the value of the remaining estate, you will not be able to pay that category of debts in full. Instead you will have to pay each debt in the category on a pro rata basis. For example, assume you are paying five different federal debts, each one amounting to $1,000. Next assume you only have $2,500 in estate assets to pay the debt. In this example, each debt makes up 1/5 of the category, so each creditor will receive 1/5 of the remaining estate assets. Here, each creditor in this category will receive $500 (i.e., 1/5 of $2,500).
 If funds are available when you reach a category that includes the decedent's uninsured medical expenses, you will pay them in full, up to the capped amount set by law, or on a pro rata basis depending on the situation.


If you are able to pay the medical expenses in full, the debt will be satisfied.
If you hit the cap and still owe money, you will have to push the debt down the priority list to the next applicable category. If any money remains when you reach that category, you will again have to decide whether you can pay the rest of the debt in full or whether you will have to pay a pro rata share.
If you can only pay a pro rata share because not enough assets are available in the estate, you will pay the appropriate share and the rest of the medical debt will be discharged unless an exception exists (i.e., it will go away and the creditor will simply lose the money owed to them).

