 Make sure they are propped so the wings (ear pieces) are open and pointing towards you. It is better if the glasses are upside down in this case, so the top bar is laying on the surface, and facing away from you.


You will want to ensure there is no chance the sunglasses' wings will have extra stress put on them at the hinges, so check that you are not inadvertently going to be pressing down or outward on them.
Have some lens cleaner, or warm water and soap and clean lint-free cloths handy since you will be exposing the lens to more contact than in the other method.
 Since you have not loosened the frame, you will need to gradually do the separation by pushing the lens away from it.


Hold the frame, not the wings, so you can put two fingers on the lens and work them around the edge of the lens where it meets the frame.
Push the lens forward, away from you and the wings (ear pieces) with gradually increasing pressure along and around the frame until it comes out. This will avoid you pushing them over the nose-guards.
There are some sun-glass models where the lenses are sunken into the frame, so that there is significant frame material or a rim around each lens ahead of them--making a push-forward of the lens impractical. Only in these cases should you go ahead and turn the sun-glasses around so the wings (ear pieces) are pointed away from you so you can use the same gradual-pressure methods to push the lenses from front-to-back to get them out.
In the the case of the front-to-back lens motion, try to push the outer edges (wing-facing) of the lenses through first so you can pull them away from the nose-guards.
 This is more of a step if you plan to reuse the lens.If you use a lens cleaner--it needs to be suitable for anti-reflective and coated surfaces.
Spray the lens with the cleaner or dampen it with running warm water.
If you are using soap and water, add a small dab of soap at this point. Then rinse with more warm water.
For either cleaning technique, finish up by drying the lens with a lint-free cloth.
 If you need a replacement prescription lens, consult an optometrist. You may need to consult an eyeglass shop for proper fitting of a new lens for your frame.This method has a high risk of damaging your frames, so you may want to inspect them for damage, especially small cracks in the plastic version of sun-glass models before you proceed.
