 The benefits of using an authoritative parenting style are backed by plenty of empirical evidence showing that this style helps produce happy, healthy, and well-adjusted children.Authoritative parenting means setting appropriate limits, but being flexible, warm, and affectionate.


Avoid authoritarian parenting, which is associated with being controlling or having an, “It’s my way or the highway” attitude.Do not act out in anger. Give your child the freedom he needs to express himself.
Avoid permissive parenting, which means essentially letting your child control the situation and do what he wants.
 Assertive communication means asking for what you want in respectful and appropriate ways. It is the best form of communication for any situation, but especially when conversing with your child.


An example of assertiveness is using I statements such as, "I feel disappointed when you don't put away your toys." I statements always start with explaining how you feel before talking about the other person's behavior; this helps reduce defensiveness.
Be specific, direct, and clear with commands.Ask your child to do exactly what you want him to do in order to avoid confusion and unnecessary conflict. You can follow up an I statement with a command such as, "Please put your toys away in your toy box now and remember to put them away in the future. Thank you."
Don’t be passive by avoiding talking about difficult topics with your child. This can make it so that your child sees you as scared; he may not see you as the authority.
Avoid being aggressive in any way; this can include: raising your voice, putting your child down (name-calling), yelling, throwing things, threatening, spanking, and slapping.
 Rewarding positive behaviors is the best way to increase good actions in your child. A reward can be anything that the child likes or wants - a new toy, a certain food, or time to play a game.


For example, try the Premack Principle, where you make an agreement with your child that he can do something he wants to do if he first does something he doesn’t particularly like.You could make an agreement that he gets to play with his toys once he has eaten his vegetables.
Any time your child does something you like, give him a verbal reward by saying, "Good job!"

,


If your child misbehaves mildly then punish mildly. For example, just simply tell him, "do not do that again" in a disappointed tone, or perhaps send him to his room.
Give your child a choice. Granting autonomy is considered a very useful approach to positive parenting.Let your child know that he has a choice to stop the behavior, or have the consequence (whatever it may be).
Be consistent and follow-through. Giving in to your child when he begs or tantrums is one of the worst things you can do because it shows him that you will give-in if he tries harder or continues doing a negative behavior.

