









Most standard built-in dishwashers need at least a 24-inch (60 cm) wide opening. If necessary, you can adjust your cupboard to the height of the dishwasher by removing the cupboard top, or adding an overhang to cover a gap between the top of the dishwasher and the countertop.
If you are installing a dishwasher for the first time in a space, drill holes through the cabinet for the dishwasher's electric wires, water inlets and drain tube.;
,









Turn the water supply off and disconnect the sink's hot water supply inlet. Connect a dual outlet valve to the hot water inlet under the sink. Reattach the sink hot water outlet to one side, and attach the dishwasher water supply line to the other outlet.
Using the dual outlet valve, you can turn the water off to either the dishwasher unit or the sink, so that the water flows to the other at the same time.
 This step will vary depending on the type of dishwasher you are installing. Some newer dishwasher models require that your water and electrical wiring connect to a panel under the front of the unit. However, many models have water, electric and drain connections in the back of the dishwasher.









Thread Teflon tape around the dishwasher water inlet.
Thread a right angle elbow to the inlet, and attach the water line to the elbow. Use a wrench to make sure the line is secure.
If the dishwasher has flush front inlets, you need to tape the supply line and electrical wiring flat to the floor, so that the dishwasher can sit on top of them.










Attach the dishwasher drainpipe to an existing dishwasher drain piece. If this is a new installation, replace the drainpipe under the sink with a dishwasher tailpiece, so that you can attach the drain tubing to the sink drain above the trap.
Secure the drain pipe to the top of the cupboard behind the dishwasher using plumber's strapping and a screw, so that the top arch of the tube is higher than the drain inlet. This prevents drain water from backing up into the dishwasher. If your local building code requires the use of an air gap to prevent backups, attach the air gap to the supply line in place of this step.










Turn the power off at the main breaker before starting.
Run the electrical wires into the back of the dishwasher's electrical box.
Attach the black (hot) wire to the black wires coming out of the dishwasher using an electrical wire nut.
Attach the white (neutral) wire to the white wires coming from the dishwasher with the nut.
Attach the ground wire (usually green) to the ground screw on the electrical box.
Tuck the secure connections in the dishwasher electric box.










Push the under-the-counter dishwasher into its spot, being careful not to crimp any wiring or water tubes located under the unit.
Check to make sure the unit sits level. If it is not, adjust the leveling feet by screwing them in or out.
Mount the front of the dishwasher on the unit with the hardware provided with the product.
Turn the power back on, and make sure your water supply valve is on. Run the dishwasher through a cycle to make sure there are no leaks or problems.
Attach mounting brackets at the top of the dishwasher to the bottom of your countertop. These come with your dishwasher. If the screws are too long and will go through the cabinet into your countertop, buy screws that will fit your cabinet.

