 You will help your kidneys function effectively, and cleanse the toxins from your body naturally, by drinking plenty of fluids. In general you should aim to drink at least 8 glasses of water a day, but in hot weather you may need to drink more to make up for the fluid you lose through sweat.


Monitor the colour of your urine to judge if you should be drinking more water.
Your urine should be the colour of straw. If it is darker, you may be dehydrated and need to drink more.Drinking plenty of water throughout the day will lessen your risk of developing kidney stones., A healthy balanced diet will help you maintain good kidney-health, which in turn will help your body cleanse itself of toxins naturally. A healthy diet should include plenty of fruit, vegetables and whole grains in order to ensure you get all the vitamins and minerals your body needs. Use the myplate tool to evaluate and plan your diet: http://www.choosemyplate.gov/MyPlate.


Some of the best foods for the health of your kidneys include apples, blueberries and strawberries.
Try to include some kale, and spinach in your diet. Sweet potato is another kidney-friendly vegetable.
Fish that is high in omega 3 – fatty acids are good for your kidneys. Try to include some salmon, mackerel, herring and sardines in your diet., Lowering the amount of salty and fatty food you consume can help your kidneys to function more effectively. Buying fresh food more often than pre-prepared food can help you dramatically lower the amount of salt in your diet. Packaged foods often come with high levels of salt already included, but if you cook your own food you can control and lower the salt levels.


Look on food labels for phrases like “sodium free,” “salt free,” “no salt added,” or “lightly salted.”
Use herbs for flavour, rather than salt.
Be sure to thoroughly rinse all canned beans, meats, vegetables and fish before you eat them., Smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol can both be very damaging for your kidneys. Try to stop smoking completely, and limit your alcohol consumption to not more than two small drinks a day for a man, or one for a woman.


Smoking and drinking can both raise your blood pressure.
High blood pressure is one of the most common causes of kidney disease.You should visit your doctor to have your blood pressure checked at lease every five years., You should always couple a healthy diet with an active lifestyle. Being overweight will increase your blood pressure and can contribute to problems with your kidneys. In general, you should aim for at least around 150 minutes of exercise a week. This can include everything from running, cycling and swimming, to team sports and visiting the gym.Work out your BMI and use this to find out if you are at a healthy weight.
You can use an online tool to do this: http://www.nhs.uk/Tools/Pages/Healthyweightcalculator.aspx


