 Washington, D.C. is only 67 square miles (107.826 square km) of which the U.S. Capitol Building marks the center of the city's four quadrants: northeast, southeast, northwest and southwest.


Note that paved streets and sidewalks have a logic to their layout so you don't need to be a local to make sense of it all. Numbered streets run north and south; lettered streets run east and west and state-names streets run diagonally, often meeting at traffic circles and squares.
Keep your costs down by knowing the hours of operation and what the size of the crowd will be like at your desired destination before you go.;
, Each season has hot-spot attractions as well as year-round favorites.
 Popular and economically-friendly options include walking, cycling, driving and taking D.C. Metrorail or Metrobus. Your Washington, D.C. map should indicate the D.C. Metrorail stations. Signs for Metrobus and D.C. Circulator bus stops are frequently and conveniently located throughout the city.


Walk on wide, paved sidewalks that line the four main streets: Independence Avenue, Jefferson Drive, Madison Drive and Constitution Avenue; surrounding 10 of the Smithsonian museums located in downtown Washington, D.C.
Bike along the street or one of five major Washington, D.C. trails: The Capital Crescent Trail; Chesapeake & Ohio Towpath; Rock Creek Trail; Anacostia Northwest and Northeast Trails.
Ride the DC Metrorail subway system. The five colored, handicapped-accessible train lines link the city and surrounding metropolitan area. Brown pylons capped with the letter M, mark station entrances. Route maps are posted at each station and inside each subway car. The D.C. Metrorail operates continually from 5:30 a.m. on weekdays and 7 a.m. on weekends. Fares start at $1.35. Certain subway cars accommodate bicycles.
Bus your way through town on either the D.C. Metrobus or the D.C. Circulator bus. The Metrobus runs continually throughout the city. There are discounted fares if you transfer between Metrorail and Metrobus. The shuttle, D.C. Ciculator bus lines are more limited, but also less expensive than riding the Metrobus. Both bus lines can accommodate cyclist commuters and their bicycles.

