 There are many different sub-genres of punk, and it's best not to limit yourself to just only one. Listen to as much as possible, and if you like something, go for it! Any punk who claims you are a poser could be called one himself, for being a Punk is about freedom to do whatever you wish! If you want to listen to a band, listen to them! Try going to your local record stores and sifting through some of the second hand albums to find some new or unknown bands. Keep in mind that you don't have to listen to exclusively punk music, and that it's actually considered cool by many to listen to a variety of genres.;
, Listen to punk and proto-punk bands like The Germs, Iggy and the Stooges, Buzzcocks, The Misfits, Minor Threat, Black Flag, The Dead Kennedys, etc.
 They are very fashionable in the Punk scene. Also, try customizing your clothes. Buying trousers with patches sewn into them is much less "punk" than sewing on your own patches- one with messages or symbols that mean something to you, or the names of bands you like. You can usually find some good clothes in thrift stores, as well as specialist punk/goth/emo stores. The advantage of thrifting is the low prices and wide variety of unique options.
 You'll meet other people who enjoy the same music as you, and have great fun.
 Wear WHATEVER YOU WANT TO. Punk is about identity and individuality. As John Lydon said, "the punks ruined it. They developed a unified image and attitude." If you want to be a punk, be a punk. You don't have to change yourself.
 Apathy is conformity. Find something you're passionate about and take back your desire to change the world. Get head over heels into veganism, feeding the homeless, or whatever else. Join a movement or organization for solidarity- Food Not Bombs is an organization that does amazing work, plus it's considered a "terrorist organization" by the government. Celebrate interesting or obscure holidays like "Buy Nothing Day". Make your voice heard and don't let anyone tell you to quiet yourself.
 Grow food plants on your fire escape. Tomatoes are good because you can fertilize them with used coffee grounds. Check out books like Food Not Lawns. Learn to knit and get free patterns from sites like knitty. Quit buying much, and be a consumerist sheep. Do you really even need all that rubbish? You wouldn't be a wage slave if you weren't up to your eyeballs in credit card debt for stuff you only want because the TV said you should. Don't be brainwashed by the media. Remember punk is a state of mind!

