 This is most easily done through the internet on sites like eBay or Bolivia Mall.


It is also possible to build your own for a few dollars and a couple hours.Although homemade flutes will be the most rewarding to play, they may be difficult to make or to play in tune.;
, The u-notch should rest on the upper segment of your lower lip.
 Tilt the angle of the u-notch up and down until it makes a whistling noise. Your teeth will be slightly parted, and the opening between your lips will be wider than it is tall.


Did you ever make a sound by blowing across the top of a bottle? This is the same sort of thing, except you're blowing across the top of the quena.
Help start each note by making a voiceless "t" sound. This is called tonguing. Don't use your voice, but make sure you are saying "too" instead of "who" into the quena.
 Your left thumb should go on the bottom hole, your left pointer on the first, left middle on the second, left ring on the third, right pointer on the fourth, right middle on the fifth, and right ring on the sixth.


Your right thumb should support the instrument. Your pinkies can go where they feel most comfortable.
 The first octave worth of major scale will be fairly easy to figure out, but if you want to learn the additional octaves and the chromatic scale, it will help to


Quena fingerings are sometimes imprecise, and may include half-covering a hole.
 Unlike more advanced wind instruments, the quena does not have any moving parts to slide in or out to adjust the pitch, so if you are playing with other musicians, you will have to adjust using technique. You can also use these techniques if you want to bend the pitch.


Blow harder to raise the pitch (make it sharper), less hard to lower the pitch (make it flatter). The amount of breath you supply also will affect how loudly you play.
Tighten your embouchure (the shape of your lips) to bring the pitch up; loosen it to bring the pitch down.
Tilt the quena down (away from your mouth) to raise the pitch; tilt it up (toward your mouth) to lower it.
Raise the pitch even further by opening the bottom-most hole that is covered in any given fingering. Lower the pitch, on notes with many open holes, by covering a hole further down, or by partially covering the next lower hole.
 As with singing, the tone on the quena will benefit if you support your breath this way.
 Get the spirit of Andean music inside you, and figure out how to play it on your quena.

