 When you catch a guy staring at your chest, make a sound to indicate that you know what he’s doing and you don’t appreciate it. Clear your throat loud enough for him to hear you and don’t continue the conversation until he looks up at your eyes. When he does, give him a quick scowl to let him know his actions aren’t cool.You can also say something like “ahem.” Make sure whatever grunt or noise you make is loud and clear enough for him to react to.
You can also point to your face when you make your noise to make sure the message gets across.
If he keeps staring at your chest, you can repeat this a few times until he gets the message.
Completely refuse to keep talking to him if he can’t look at your face.;
, Look at him with an expressionless face and ask him to stop ogling you in a completely serious tone. Say something like “Would you please stop looking at my chest?” Don’t smile, laugh or ask nicely. Speak in a matter-of-fact voice that so he knows that you’re not joking.


You have every right to be respected as a person and you shouldn’t have to be polite to someone who’s disrespecting you.
If you try too hard to be nice, he might think that it’s not a big deal and keep looking at your chest.
 If you’re around other people, you can call him out in front of them. Make him look like a creep in front of everyone. Say a funny comment to draw attention to his actions and make sure it’s clear your addressing him. If you can make everyone laugh at him, he may be too embarrassed to stare at anyone inappropriately ever again. You might also send a message to the other men there that you’re not to be messed with. Try using comments like:


Don’t worry. They’re still here. You don’t need to keep checking.
My eyes are up here bud.
Hello? I’m up here.
Did you get a good look? Great! Now we can continue.
 The next time that you catch a guy in the act of staring at your chest, use your body language to communicate that you feel uncomfortable with the attention. Be sure to be obvious enough to get your point across. Some examples of body language you might use include:Fidgeting with your clothes. You may lift the front of your shirt up slightly to reduce the cleavage that he can see.
Put your arm over your chest to hide your cleavage.
Cross your arms in front of your chest and give him a “what a creep” look.

