 You’ll need to spend time researching both your future employer and the position itself. Think through possible questions and come up with responses. You should also come up with a list of questions to ask at the end of your interview.


Use internet search engines to research the people that might be interviewing you.
Ask a friend who just landed their dream job about what went well and what didn’t go so well during their interview.
Do a mock interview with a friend or family member. Have them ask you the possible interview questions you came up with.
 People can form their first impression of you in as little as 30 seconds, and what you wear to an interview can play a major role in whether or not an employer decides to hire you. Avoid dressing casually and instead, aim for a business professional look.Research the office attire at your future place of employment prior to the interview. If everyone shows up at work in shorts and flip flops, a three-piece suit might be a little over the top.
Generally speaking, suits, dresses, even dress pants or a skirt paired with a jacket are all professional choices for most interviews.
 This should go without saying, but it is critical you are punctual when interviewing for a position. Arrive at least 15 minutes early and allow plenty of extra time for unanticipated obstacles like traffic., Bring along a mental or paper list of questions about the job, the company, and the future of the position to which you are applying. Asking questions provides you with an opportunity to learn more and show employers you are curious and prepared.Try asking, “I’m excited to learn about new branches of the company opening up in Tulsa and Kansas City. Do this mean the position will require regular travel to these locations?”

, It’s important to send a thank-you letter after the interview, regardless of how you think it went. Whether or not you send a thank-you to your interviewers affects their decision-making process.While it’s permissible to send a handwritten letter, it may not reach your interviewers before they make a decision. Instead, try sending an email within 24 hours of your interview.
Your letter should thank the interviewer for meeting with you, state something you enjoyed about the interview and reiterate your interest in the company and position.

