 If you've looked across the room in English class and have caught her staring at you, then she may like you. If she abruptly looks away, blushes, or doesn't look in your direction for the rest of the class, that makes it even more likely that she likes you because she feels like she's been caught. You can also see if you catch her eye in group hang-outs. Look her way from across the room at a party and see if she's staring at you.


If she's the type who just stares off and daydreams a lot, then she may not be directing her attention towards you.
 If you talk to her and find her giggling for no good reason, or even outright laughing even when you haven't said anything funny, then this may be because she likes you. Laughter is a natural way to shed some nervous energy, so the girl is probably laughing or giggling because she's nervous or excited to be around you.


See if she laughs around everyone, or if you have a special effect on her funny bone.
 If the girl passes you in the halls with her friends, and her friends are laughing and nudging her when you come by, this is a sign that they all know that she likes you and are teasing her. If she says "Stop!" or gently shoves her friends or refuses to make eye contact with you when this happens, then this makes it even more likely that she's into you.


If a girl in middle school has a crush on you, it's almost guaranteed that her friends will know. Watch her friends carefully for any signs that they know how she feels about you.
 She'll most likely touch you in a teasing way like a playful shove, or tap you on the shoulder to tell you something. Still, this is her way of flirting and trying to get close to you. Notice if she touches all the guys around her or only you. If she only pays special attention you, then it's a sign that she likes you.


If she touches all the guys around her playfully, then she may just be a physical person.
 If she gives you a bowl she made in ceramics class, or if she even went to the mall and got you something silly like a pencil with your favorite sports team's logo on it, then she's telling you that she likes you. If she brings candy or cookies to school and makes a point of offering you some, then she's trying to impress you and telling you that she likes you.

