 If you really want a glimpse into the attention celebrities get while going about their daily lives, consider trying this prank. All you need is a few friends and the right attitude.Just be sure you can explain yourself if you get found out!

, Try to get people of all ages to join in, not just your school friends. Try asking older siblings, parents, and even teachers. This will make your stunt more believable.


If an adult raises objections, explain that this prank isn't mean-spirited and that you aren't going to cause trouble. You can even turn this into a project for a sociology or psychology class.
 A crowded mall will work best. You'll need enough people around for this to work, but if it's too busy there's less of a chance anyone will notice you. A Saturday afternoon will work well as long as gift-giving holidays aren't around the corner.


If your town is small enough that other people may recognize you, it's best to try this trick at a mall in a different city.
 Start the prank out with a few of your "fans" taking pictures with you.Don't take photos with more than one or two people at a time, since a group photo will just look like a bunch of friends having fun. Instead, have them take turns. If strangers not in on the prank start approaching you for pictures, play along.


If you're a guy, ask your young female "followers" to jump up and down excitedly. This will really help to sell it.
 If you start out with (or end up drawing) a big enough crowd, other people will start to wonder who you are. Some are likely to ask anyone near them what's going on. If one of your "fans" is nearby, he or she can tell them about your celebrity status and mention what you're known for.


Come up with a story beforehand and tell your "fans" to be consistent. Decide what name to use, either your real name or an alias. Pick something that you can be "famous" for while being a little vague. If you want to be an actor, you could have been "in" a new hit movie without mentioning who you played.If you're trying to pass as a pop artist, pick a popular song by a new artist most people will not be familiar with or simply make up your own.
If you look enough like a real celebrity and are feeling cheeky, pretend to be him or her instead.
 Have a majority of your "fans" create as big a crowd as possible near you. When people see a crowd, many will instinctually join in.

As your crowd draws more and more people, you will seem and feel more and more like a real celebrity., Keep a straight face and try to act like this is a normal experience for you. Wearing shades will help, whether you're indoors or outside. If you're at a mall, browse and make purchases like you would usually do. Try to cover as much of the area as possible for maximum effect. Otherwise, just relax and enjoy the show.


Be sure to have one of your "fans" film the whole thing. You will probably miss a lot of great reactions while you focus on keeping your cool. The video footage will let you watch what you missed in addition to serving as a memento.

