 You might notice your first wrinkles, gray hairs, or varicose veins and wonder, “When did I get those?!” The changes in your body during the aging process may not be especially welcome. Your self-perception can take a hit once you realize that age is beginning to take its toll on you, and watching your own metamorphosis can be saddening. It’s up to you how to handle this fear: you can accept it or change your body via exercise/nutrition or, more extremely, plastic surgery. Think about what will bring you lasting happiness and what matters to you.


If you’ve had a difficult time learning to accept your body, this can be the perfect opportunity. You don’t have to tie your worth to how you appear, and this can be a time for you to finally accept your body as it is.
Find a new way to define beauty and youth that isn’t tied to physical appearance.What does being beautiful mean to you? How can you be youthful even as you age?

, Your sexual vitality may change as you age. Women go through menopause and can experience hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and emotional fluctuations.Men might experience problems with erectile dysfunction, which can include obtaining or maintaining an erection. Sometimes, medication can cause or contribute to sexual problems. Talk to your physician about any sexual problems you experience and ask what you can do to improve your sexual experience. Many problems can be treated or even reversed.Talk to your partner about your needs and find ways to navigate these changes together. If you’re nervous to bring up your changes, say, “It’s difficult to talk about this, but it would be helpful to discuss new and different ways to approach sex.”

, If you wonder whether you’ve made the right choices in having or not having kids, it’s probably time to accept your decisions. Especially if you chose not to have children, you may fear whether you’re fully ready to accept that you will likely never have a biological child, especially if you are reaching a point where pregnancy is no longer viable. Getting stuck in “What if..?” thoughts can be dangerous, so accept your position or make some adjustments to include children into your life in a different way.


If you’re feeling anxious about not having children of your own yet your biological clock has stopped ticking, don’t lose hope. You can adopt or foster a child.
Volunteer at a children’s organization to help local boys and girls.
Enjoy the freedoms you have as a result of not having children. For example, you can travel the world, get involved in many different activities and social circles, and make choices that only involve you.
 You may forget that you are aging until you notice how fast children around you are growing up. It can be difficult to watch children get older, and this can make you uneasy about your own aging process. Watching your children grow older can also be anxiety-provoking if you have health problems. You might begin to fear whether you will see your children grow older, get married, or have kids of their own. If you fear watching children grow, take heart in knowing that they have turned out (or will turn out) okay. Celebrate their successes with them and trust that they will do just fine.


Whether you worry or not, children will grow older and into adults. Trust that you’ve been a good parent or otherwise positive influence on the children in your life.
 Some fears about aging might include your outward appearance. If you think turning to plastic surgery or making changes to your appearance will help you feel better about yourself, you may struggle with self-esteem issues. Think about who you are as a person: what are your strengths, abilities, and the things that make you feel good?Plastic surgery may be the right choice for you, but make sure you take care of yourself and your self-esteem as well.


Ask yourself, “Are there certain activities or situations in which I excel? What are they? What strengths do I have that not many other people have?” Focus your thoughts on these things about you.
 While it can be difficult to accept that you are aging, recognize the benefits that come along with growing older. For example, you hold wisdom and experience that you can share with others. Adults and older adults are better decision-makers due to extensive knowledge and experience.If someone asks for your help in making a decision, remember that you have skills and experiences that they do not and that may be helpful to them.

