 To be eligible for the show, you'll need to have the financial stability to support a renovation in your home. Unlike other shows, Love It or List It requires the homeowners to create a budget for their own renovations. Save the money that you need over time, or you can dip into your savings account to get the funds., To be considered for the show, you'll also need to have the availability to do a 6-7 week renovation. That means you'll have to find alternative lodging as your house gets renovated and may have to adjust your work schedule fit around renovations. Actual filming requires a minimum at least five full days of your time., A big part of the drama of the show is the dynamic between families, so it's necessary that you have a family living in the same household. Share the idea with other people in the house, such as your spouse or children. Talk to them about how they would feel about being on the show. If someone in your house doesn't want to be on the show, you may have to reconsider.


You can say something like "We've been complaining about our house for a while, and I was thinking we could submit an application for Love It or List It. What do you think?"

, To be considered as a contestant on the show, you'll have to have some knowledge of your house's heating, plumbing, and electrical setup and what needs to be repaired or replaced. If you don't have much experience, call in a professional to do an evaluation of your house.While they are inspecting things, actively ask questions about how things work to get a better sense of things.You should also have some ideas in mind on what you'd want to do with your space, and how the design team can help you achieve it.
 To be eligible for the show in the U.S., you'll need to own a house in NC that's within 45 minutes of the Raleigh-Durham Triangle. The show hasn't ventured out to other areas of the country, though it may in the future., You can fill out the form digitally using a program like Adobe Acrobat Reader, or you can print out the application and fill it in with pen or pencil. Fill out the application to be on the show by answering all of the questions to the best of your ability. Make sure to make your answers exciting and intriguing to increase your chances of getting on the show.
 In addition to your application, you'll also need to attach pictures of your home and family. Make sure to use a camera that can take high-resolution photographs. Put your photos in an attachment if you're sending the application via e-mail or send them a CD if you are sending a physical application.The necessary photographs that you need include 3-5 photos of the exterior of the house and backyard, 3-5 photos of each of the interior rooms that need to be renovated, and 1-3 pictures of your family.
If you are attaching the photos to an e-mail, make sure to put them in JPEG format.
 Once you've answered all of the questions accurately and taken the required photos, e-mail the application to casting@bigcoatproductions.com or send a physical copy to 811 9th Street, Suite 215, Durham, NC 27705. Once you've submitted your application, it will take anywhere from two weeks to a month to hear back from the show if you've been selected., To be eligible for the show in Canada, you'll need to own a house that's an hour away from Vancouver. This includes North Vancouver, West Vancouver, Burnaby, Richmond, Coquitlam, Port Moody, New Westminster, and Surrey. Use a map to determine if your house would qualify for the show., If you are trying to apply to the Vancouver Love It or List It, you'll have to fill out a specific application. Go through the form and answer all of the questions to the best of your knowledge. Make sure to inject your family's unique personality into the questionnaire.
 Love It or List It will want to see your house to get an understanding of the potential renovations that may have to take place, as well as see what your family looks like. To complete the application, include 3-5 photos of the exterior of the house, 3-5 photos of each interior room that needs to be addressed, and 1-3 photos clearly showing your family.Do not use slideshows or online-only photo formats because they won't be accepted.
 You can print out your application and send it to a physical address at C/O Guest Casting, 2400 Boundary Road Burnaby, BC, V5M 3Z3 or you can e-mail your application to westcasting@bigcoatproductions.com. Typically it can take anywhere from two weeks to a month to hear a response from the show., While a testimonial video isn't a requirement for the application, having one will increase your chances of getting cast onto the show. Being on film will allow the casting directors to get a good sense of how you and your family will appear on the show and will give them a better idea of if your family would help create an interesting episode.


If you are sending a physical application, you can send the video on a DVD or flash drive.
 Casting directors are looking for people and families with personalities. If your family is unique or extraordinary in some way, make sure to play up that aspect. The show demands a level of drama and energetic and unique people can enhance the drama. Don't be shy when answering the questions and make sure to put your personality on the forefront., A major concept of Love It or List It is the idea that one of the homeowners wants to stay in the house while the other wants to move out. This drama helps build tension and emotion within the episode and is what casting directors are looking for. Make sure to play up this aspect, and include it within your application or any testimonial videos that you plan on sending. Stay wholesome and family-oriented, but create a real conflict of opinion about your house.
 More is better but don't ramble on your application. Put yourself in the show creator's shoes and determine what you'd like to see on the next episode of Love It or List It. When answering the questions on the application, make sure to inject your family's quirky or different personality at all times. The more different you are, the more receptive casting directors will be. Avoid being vague or generic at all times.