 Don't be afraid to tell them how you feel. Instead of accusing them of doing something wrong, use "I-statements" to explain how their behavior effects you. To do this say "I feel ______ when you do _______ because ______."


There are several advantages to I statements. Instead of placing the blame on them, you make it about how you feel. Furthermore, instead of exaggerating by making a blanket statement like "you are always angry," you can specify exactly when their bad behavior pops up. That will make it easier for them to correct their behavior.
 If he is needy, anxious, or overly talkative, it might because he has his own personal issues. Ask him if anything is up. Talking about it might help him get over it. If not, see if there is anything you can do to help him get over his issues.
 After you have raised the person’s faults, you should give him time to respond. See if he is willing to adapt his behavior and become a different person. Don’t push the subject too persistently or he will probably fight back. You’ve already told him what you think; give it some time to sink in.


Remember patience is important. If he doesn't seem to respond, try to make your message clearer by pointing out when he acts in a way that bothers you. Do it in a non-confrontational way, like "Don't you think that question is a bit personal?
Evidence shows that people who have close personal relationships are happier than those who don't, but maintaining those will generally be hard and require sacrifice. Don't give before giving the other person a chance to get better., If he persists in his behavior and you don’t think you have the patience to tolerate him, sit him down and be honest. Just tell him that the friendship isn't working for you and you need to take some time apart. Say that it hurts you to say this, but that it’s better than leading the person on.


This will give him more time to allow your comments to sink and try to develop. This might help salvage your relationship by saving you from an angry explosion that would only make things works.
Remember that you may be doing him a favor. If everyone around you thought you were annoying, wouldn't you like to know how to change that?
Be polite and stick to "I-statements." "I am going through a hard time right now, and it bothers me when you ask personal questions, because it reminds me of what has happened. Could I get some space for the next couple of weeks?"

