 You’ll need a few things to get started with the bokashi process:A medium to large tarp.
A five gallon bucket with a siphon.
An airtight container that can hold at least five gallons.
A spray bottle with a funnel.
10 pounds (4 kg) of organic wheat bran.
3.17 gallons (12 liters) of warm water.
One cup (240 mL) molasses.
One cup (240 mL) effective microbes, or EM. You can buy EM online or at some specialty garden stores. If you are buying online, make sure the shop is based in your country to avoid customs issues.
 Pour all three together into the five-gallon bucket and stir it until everything is dissolved. Make sure the water is warm--molasses won’t dissolve in cold water!, Lay the tarp down on a flat surface and spread the bran out evenly over the tarp, enough so that the bran is about an inch or two thick., Use the funnel to transfer the water mixture bit by bit into the spray bottle, then spray it over the bran until the bran is wet all over., Use your hands to mix the bran and the water mixture together--you don’t want to leave any dry spots!, Be careful transferring the bran into the bucket--you don’t want any spills! Make sure you seal the container after you’re done pouring the bran., Keep it in the airtight container for about a month. Resist the urge to open it up--the warm, moist, airless atmosphere is essential!, After a month, open your container and spread the bokashi bran onto your tarp. Let it dry for about two days, then put it back in the airtight container. It’s now ready to be used for compost! You can get started right away, but the bokashi will keep for up to two years if you need to wait longer., The bokashi method lets you compost things that aren’t recommended for traditional compost, like meat, fish bones, eggshells, and coffee grounds. Keep a sealable container (like a coffee can) in your kitchen and put all your food waste in it. Don’t use food that’s begun to rot--this can ruin your bokashi. As soon as you have enough scraps to cover the bottom of a five gallon bucket, you’re ready to compost!, When you have enough scraps, pour them into the bottom of your five-gallon bucket and spread them across the bottom. Your food scrap layer should be between one and three inches thick (4 to 10 cm). Press the layer down as much as possible with a dinner plate or your gloved hands., Make sure the food layer is completely covered by the bran! It should be about as thick as the food layer, but it’s okay if they aren’t perfectly even. Keep repeating layers of food and bran until the bucket is completely full, and don’t forget to press each layer! Use the siphon to drain away excess liquid while you’re pressing., Once the bucket is full, put the lid on and let it sit for about two weeks. Don’t open it during this period except to drain liquids out once or twice. You may notice a smell similar to sauerkraut--that’s okay! Bokashi is basically a form of pickling, so you may also notice that your food waste still looks like the original food and not like traditional compost. This is okay too!


Watch out for a decaying smell--that’s a sign that the bokashi has rotted and you’ll need to start over., Once you’ve waited a few weeks, you’re ready to use your compost! Most compost sits on top of the soil, but bokashi should be underground because it’s so acidic. If you are using your compost for your houseplants, put a few inches (6 - 10 cm) of soil at the bottom of a large planter or plastic tub. Pour your bokashi over it until you have about six inches (15 cm) of space left, then fill that space with more soil.


If you are planting outside, you can simply bury the bokashi under about six inches (15 cm) of soil., You should wait at least two to four weeks before planting anything in your bokashi compost. Bokashi is highly acidic and needs time to neutralize--if you put your plants in it right away, they could die!, You can plant directly in the container, or you can scoop out the bokashi and soil and transfer it to smaller planters. Hardier plants are best for bokashi compost, but any plant can thrive--just be sure to mix it with the right soil for your plant! If you want to plant new seeds, make sure the seeds are in the soil, not in the compost--you can add a layer of bokashi above or below the seed. Water and care for the plant as usual.