 If your cat always has access to food in its dish, it can easily overeat. Instead of allowing your cat to graze, feed your cat at set meal times. If you have an adult cat, feed the cat a few small meals during the day.If you have a kitten, you may need to give it three smaller meals each day.
 If you're feeding your cat several small meals a day or if you're feeding several cats, it may be hard to remember how much food you've already given them during the day. To prevent overfeeding your cat, measure out how much food you want to give your cat for the whole day.Remember that the exact amount of food you measure out will depend on your cat’s needs.
 Place the daily amount of food into a smaller container that you can divide up at meal and snack times. For example, if your cat can have one cup of cat food in a day, but you like to divide it into a few meals and a treat, start by measuring out one cup of food into a container. You could give your cat a little over 1/3 of a cup of the food for each meal and have some leftover for treats.If you have multiple cats, keep separate containers for each cat, since they may have different dietary needs.
 If you're in the habit of pouring food out of the bag into your cat's food bowl, start measuring the food with a cup. This will ensure that you're giving your cat the recommended amount of food. Measure the food into the cup and brush the excess food off of the top, so the cup of food is level, not heaping.

If your cat's food bowl has measurement lines on the side, you should still fill a separate measuring up and pour the food in. It's very easy to overfill the dish when you're pouring into it.
 You should always have fresh water available for your cat. Drinking plenty of water throughout the day will help your cat digest its food and can help it feel fuller. Remember to wash your cat's water dish frequently.If your cat eats dry food, it's even more important to offer lots of dry water. This is because dry cat food doesn't contain very much moisture.
 One of the best ways to keep your cat a healthy weight is to keep your cat active. Instead of setting treats at set times, challenge your cat by putting the treat into a food puzzle or cat toy. Your cat will spend time and energy to get to the food.

This will also slow your cat down when it eats, since the cat will probably only be able to get a few pieces of treat at a time.

