 Take one corner or edge, and fold it over your left arm from the back. It should hang down pretty far, past your knee.








If you used the hexagon shape, you'll need to fold it in half first.The Romans usually wore at least a tunic underneath their togas. You can wear a shirt and shorts/pants or a skirt to help cover up., Pull the rest of the fabric around your back. The part that drapes around the top of your shoulder








You might need some help at this stage, since the fabric is so long.
 Pull the fabric around the front of your body, leaving enough to drape down your right side. Throw the rest of the fabric over your shoulder.








Make sure the fabric drapes around your hip. You don't want it to be too tight.
Also, this step makes the length of your toga, so make sure it is long enough. The next step will partly cover your torso.
 Come around your right side a second time, again under your right arm. Let it drape down your right side, a little higher than the first time. Throw the end over your shoulder again.








The point should be a bit higher in back than it is in front.
 Look in the mirror, and adjust the drape. You may need to pull it in places so it covers more. Lengthen or shorten the ends as needed. You can also pin it to help in stay in place.








A good place to pin it is on the left shoulder.
Though the Romans usually didn't pin their togas, pinning it will give you more freedom to move, as the toga was fairly restrictive.
You can also use a belt to help hold it in place.
 You can use plastic swords and shields that can be purchased at a dollar store, toy store, or costume store. You may also look for fake gold chains, jewelry, or amulets to accessorize your toga. Wear sandals to complete the look.








Another option is to create a fake laurel wreath. Unfurl a wire coat hanger, and reshape it into a wreath around your head. Get plastic leaves from an art supply store or gather real leaves and glue them or wrap around the wire. Make sure you let the glue dry. Be liberal when applying the leaves to cover the wire.