 Think about your child's likes and interests. You may even want to ask them what theme they want. Some ideas are pirates, princesses, and Hawaiian. You might want the theme to relate to their favorite TV show or movie, like Spongebob. Other than at your house, the party could be held at these places:


House or Community pool
Build-a-Bear--great for little girls
Bowling--fun for all ages
Roller skating or ice skating
Bounce U;
, You can invite cousins, your close friend's children, and friends of your child. A good amount of guests is five to fifteen. Too little guests will be boring, but too many can get crazy. Ask your child who he/she wants to invite as well.
 The invitations should include who the party is for, what date and time it will be held, and where it is. Also provide your phone number and an RSVP date. That way, you'll know who can and can't come. Don't forget to mention the theme! Say, if needed, what guests should bring. e.g. a towel and swimsuit for a pool party. Make sure you have all of the guests addresses so you can mail them. Then, mail the invitations.
 Depending on the theme of the party and ages of the children, certain items should go in gift bags. For girls, don't put in makeup for 7-8 year olds. Some ideas are stickers, candy, pencils, rings, and temporary tattoos. The theme matters a lot. For, say, a Hawaiian party, put in leis, swirly straws, and flower hair clips. For pirates, try an eyepatch, pirate tattoos, etc. Gift bags don't have to be expensive. You can get colorful gift bags really anywhere, and the items inside at a department store. Decorate the outside of the gift bags, sticking to the theme.
 For dinner, you can have pizza, but be sure to have at least two different kinds. Always have regular cheese pizza, and, say, pepperoni. Instead of pizza, you can make your child's favorite dinner, such as chicken fingers or hot dogs. For dessert, you can always have cake, or have ice cream or cupcakes. For cake, you can buy it or make it yourself. Know what kind of cake your child wants, and try to stick to the theme. Also get healthy snacks, like popcorn, pretzels, fruit, and veggies with dip.
 You could buy a pinata, play limbo, purchase movies, or pick a craft to make, such as bracelets or a photo frame with a group picture. Buy fun party games, like Twister or hot potato. This step, however, only applies to house parties, because a party anywhere else would be considered the main activity (like bowling).

