 Perfect 365 is a portrait app that allows you to turn your bare-face photo into an amazing one from their selection of makeovers. You can enhance your selfie and share them to anyone through easy and fun steps!


Go to Google Play. On the search bar, type in “Perfect365” and wait until the suggested apps appears. The icon is violet with a white line vector image of a girl with a flower on her ear.
Tap “Install” located below the application’s name (Perfect 365: One-Tap Perfect Makeover). Wait until the installation process is finished.;
, Once installed, the application will create a shortcut in your app drawer or on your phone’s home screen.
 You may want to check Perfect365’s main features first before you start enhancing your photo. This app has five main menus on its home screen:


Sample
Take Photo
Photo Gallery
My Favorites
Perfect 365 Shots

, On the home menu of the application, you can choose either to “Take Photo” if you want to use the application’s default camera or select from “Photo Gallery” if you have taken your portrait using your phone’s other camera app.


Press the “Check” button located at the bottom right of the screen when you are already satisfied with your shot.
 After choosing your photo, the app will scan it to detect your key points. The keypoints are the blue dots that appear on your photo after scanning.


Tap each dot until a magnifier appears then move them to mark one important facial feature. Wrong location of key points will ruin the photo.
Follow the guide, which is located on the bottom left of the screen, to know the exact location of the key point.
To zoom in the facial feature, tap on the button below the screen to easily adjust each key point.
Press check button, located at the top-right of the screen when you are done.
 Perfect365 already has suggested styles, located at the bottom of the screen, and it only takes a second to turn your bare-face photo into a surprising makeover.


See the difference by tapping the letter “B” located at top-right of the selection panel.
You can also adjust some of your makeup by clicking “Edit,” located at the top left of the selection panel, to create your own style.
 Press the diskette icon, the button located at the top-right of the screen.


A pop-out will appear reminding you that the maximum size of photo will not exceed 1 megapixel. Click on “Continue” if this is okay.
If you want to save the image into a much bigger size, then click “Purchase.”

