 Hold their hand and rub your thumb over their thumb slowly. Have slow, full, meaningful hugs, or more like holding. It's nice when the girl cuddles up into a guys chest, with their face laying against it, and when a guy holds his girl from behind or around the waist. You should be comfortable enough to touch any part of you partner's body, but in a respectful, "I love you and your body" way. Cuddle or sleep with each other, not in a sexual way. Do sexual stuff later to make feelings between you two stronger.;
, Pecks are sweet. They should be used when you are out in public, so you won't make other people uncomfortable around you guys. It's really sweet and a turn-on. Try kissing their neck, nose, hand, back, stomach, shoulder, or eye.
 Just do it for two minutes and afterward you will feel much closer.
 A random adventure. Get lost together.
 Ask them how they are, how they slept, what they did. Ask questions to learn more about them, listen, and remember. Say you miss them and wish you could hug/kiss them.



Try to be optimistic about things, and look at the brighter side of things. Being negative can bring down your partner, and if they're bringing you down, make an effort to lighten the mood or even get them to see the positive things in life.
 "You're so sweet/beautiful/handsome/smart/talented" "I love your smile/laugh/eyes/scent/presence".
 Stay on the phone when they are upset, even when they are not talking. Care for them when they are sick.


If they are upset, make sure not to stress them out by persisting they talk to you, sometimes your partner will need space when a problem occurs and they will talk to you when they're ready.
If they are sick, make sure they get plenty of rest and/or take medicine.
,


Creating meaningful memories is very important. They create things you can look back upon later and can make great inside jokes.
,


Keep in mind they have interests and that you should appreciate your partner's interests. Even if you are not fond of one of their interests, respect that they enjoy it.
 Hunny(honey), babe, baybay, baybee, babie (baby), sweetie, sweetie pie, sweet heart, cutie, love, lover, etc. It makes you feel closer if you have a secret nickname that only you two know.


Nicknames are terms of endearment, but remember that mentioning their name to make what you are saying feel personal is important.
 Flowers for no reason or throw pebbles at their window at night.


Random acts of kindness don't have to cost money. You can simply help them with schoolwork, or help them around the house. Other things you can do are run a few errands for them or, if you are creative, write them a love letter.
 Trying to get to know people they know can make you feel closer, and know who they are referring to.
 Brush your teeth before you see your baby, take a shower, shave, dress nicely, and smell good.


Good hygiene is a necessary trait if you would like to keep that partner, no one wants a dirty, mangy, gross person.
 Whether or not they love you and your dirty ways, try to show that you love them by cleaning up for them.


If where you live looks clean, they will feel that you are a responsible person, also it shows that you are a good person to live with.

