 Just press the Power button on both devices to turn them on.
 Open the Wii main menu using the Wii Remote. To do this, click the “Wii” button on the remote then click the “Wii settings” located beside the “Data management” button. The Wii system settings menu will open on the screen of your TV., Click the right arrow in the remote to open the Wii System Settings 2, and go to the third option available, which is “Internet” (located between “Sensor Bar” and “Wii connect 4”). Click on it. This will open the connection settings menu.

Next, click the “Connection 1: None” button. If the “Connection 1” button is not showing “None,” then clear the settings first by clicking the “Clear settings” button at the bottom of the screen.
 From the options, select “Wireless connection,” and click the first point, which is “Search for an Access 38 point” from the dialog box.

A new message on the pop-up will appear, saying, “Choose the access point you want to connect to.” Click the “OK” button.
 Nearby wireless networks will appear on the screen; select the one you want to connect to, and click “Yes” followed by “OK” and “Save settings,” consecutively.

The Wii will test your connection by running a test through your network. After the test is completed, you’ll get the message “The connection test was successful, perform a Wii system update now? Wii support code: XXXXXX.”

, Click “Yes” to update your Wii. A message will appear asking for confirmation; click “I Accept,” and this will download the available updates on your system. Soon after downloading the updates, you will be connected to the network., Click the “Wii” menu at the left bottom corner of the screen. From the channels, select the Wii Shop (blue shopping bag icon)., If you haven’t accessed Wii Shop Channel anytime before, you should read the terms and conditions of the User Agreement and agree to them.

Also if you have a Club Nintendo account, link your account to the Wii Shop Channel. Do this by entering your Club Nintendo username and password in the given fields and click the “Link” button. If you are not a Club Nintendo member, just click the “Do not link” button. Linking your Club Nintendo account to your Wii Shop Channel will help you utilize the credits of the Club Nintendo account in buying/renting the videos on Netflix.
 Go to “Wii Channels” under the main menu of Wii Shop Channel. Click on it. Search for “Netflix Instant Streaming for Wii” in the menu by clicking on the right arrows, and click “Yes” to download it. This will download “Netflix” and will add it to the Wii menu automatically., After downloading Netflix, open it on your console. If you already have an account on Netflix, sign into your account. Do this by entering the email address you registered for Netflix and enter password in the fields provided. Click “Continue” to sign in after entering the details.

If you don’t have an account yet, visit the Netflix website from your computer to sign up, as the option to sign up is not available on the Netflix Wii .
 After signing up, the screen will show “Go to your computer and connect your Wii console to your Netflix account with two substeps: (1) Visit Netflix.com/activate and (2) Enter this code: ___________.”

Do not leave this screen throughout the activation process.
 Open your computer, and visit the Netflix website for Wii. Log into your Netflix account., Click the “Activate Now” button on the home page, and enter the code that is displayed on the Wii to your computer. Netflix will activate the connection, which only takes a few minutes to finish. After it is done, a screen will be displayed on the Wii showing the completion of the activation process., You can search the Netflix TV shows or movies on your TV. Go to the “Instant Queue” option, which pops up soon after opening the Netflix with a list of titles. You can go for a particular genre by clicking on the “Categories” button located at the bottom of the screen.

Select a category (for instance, Comedy or Sci-Fi) to open a list of videos under that category.
 If you have a specific movie you want to watch, click the “Search” button at the top of the screen. Type in the name of the movie you want to watch, and Netflix will display the results on the screen below the search bar., After browsing or search for a movie title, tap the play icon on the movie thumbnail to start playing it., It’s always good to use the Wii remote as you navigate through the menus. Here are a few shortcut buttons handy to know: Use the navigation button to move from option to another option, or movie to another movie; press “1” to play the movie. You can also use “A” as a shortcut for “Pause,” “B” for back, and “+” and “-” to exchange chapters in the Netflix menu.