 Cut enough pieces of paper (one slip for each player) and write down the roles. There can only be 1 slasher for every 4 players. If you decide on the roles, you cannot play. It's best to have someone NOT playing (like a parent, an older sister doing homework, etc.) write down the roles. Instruct them to write down only 1 slasher for every 4 pieces of paper. If there's 5 players or an uneven number, the amount of slashers doesn't increase by 1 or whatever. Everyone MUST keep their role a secret and can only tell others they trust by text message.;
, (Private Messaging). Campers can't talk at "night", but they can text message. Say that everyone must meet up in the "Voting" room during the "day", but at "night" when they have to be "sleeping in their cabins", they go to their "cabins". (Rooms assigned to them. Closets work, too.)

, and have the person who wrote down the roles to go to each "game" room and give the player there their paper. Do not let anyone talk when this is happening.
 They must not let any campers or "the three special roles" see them or they may calculate if there were any slashers before them, and they will track them down. When they're giving the post-it note to a slasher, they must tell the slasher who are their slasher teammates.
 The first post-it note will say, "Round 1". The second, "Round 2". The third "Round 3", and so on. Slashers are only able to kill once per night round.
 The Campers have to stay in their "cabins" which is just a place away from everyone else. But they can text message each other.
 It's best if slashers have their cabins/closets next to each other or in another Slasher's room. Slashers are the only ones able to talk at "night" but they must do so quietly or the campers will suspect them.
 To kill this person they go to their victim's room and post one post-it on the door saying "KILLED." and the night round number. If the cop is protecting their victim, the cop will check when it's "day" to see if the person they protected was "killed". If the slashers DID try to kill the person the cop was protecting, then the cop rips off the note and either throws it away or puts it in their pocket or something. The cop can only do this ONCE every "day"!

, Everyone (including Slashers to eliminate any suspicion of them) can vote for the person they suspect is a slasher. People are eliminated/voted off during the day rounds.
 This person must sit and wait in the "KILLED" room, which is an unused room where all the killed/voted off people go and wait for the game to end. The killed/voted off people can talk with each other, but their text messengers are confiscated until the game ends.
 Then the remaining slashers/campers/special roles reveal themselves in the "waiting" (aka "KILLED" room) room and, if desired, play another game of "Slasher".

