 Follow the instructions for Cleaning a Deep Fryer to give your commercial fryer a basic cleaning. The frequency of this cleaning will depending on how frequently the fryer is used, and for what purpose, but the more often you do it, the easier it will be to remove the grease residue and caked on food.


Since commercial fryers tend to be large and deep, you should use a long-handled brush with soft bristles to scrub the pot, instead of a sponge.
 For heavy restaurant use, oil often needs to be filtered once or twice a day.While you can filter the oil for reuse by putting it through a coffee filter or cheesecloth, a restaurant operation would probably benefit from a specialized machine that filters quickly at higher temperatures. Whenever the oil grows darker in color, smokes at lower temperatures, or gives off a strong smell, it needs to be replaced completely.Your oil will last longer at temperatures of 375ºF (191ºC) or below, and if you do not add salt directly to the oil., Before the new or filtered oil is added back to the fryer, use a long-handled fryer scrubbing brush to remove bits of food from the coils.This keeps the heating element effective and limits burned food particles in your oil.
 While cleaning the rim and outside surface of your fryer will not help the fryer function longer, it will stop it collecting grime and limit spillovers that make floors and work surfaces slippery.Try to wipe it clean at the end of each day, and apply a degreasing product to the exterior whenever a grease film has built up. Let the degreasing product sit for ten minutes, then rinse off with a damp cloth. Dry with a different, clean cloth., To thoroughly clean your commercial fryer, you should fill it with warm water and heat to a simmer or slow boil.Add a specialized "boil out" product according to manufacturer's instructions and maintain the simmer for 20 minutes. Wearing rubber gloves and taking care to avoid burns from splashes, use a long-handled soft-bristled brush to dislodge stuck food.Drain the fryer, then scrub and rinse as you would after a normal clean.


During the followup rinse, add 1 part vinegar for every 10 parts water to neutralize and remove the cleaning product., The manufacturer of your fryer model should provide instructions for performing an annual inspection to make sure all the parts are fitted together tightly and functioning properly.If problems arise and the manual does not provide instructions for a solution, you may need to call an electrician or repairman.

