 Making lace tape edging requires some special materials. You will need:Thread in the color of your choice. Use a fingering thread that has the specifications 4 ply, 100% cotton, and 169m/50g. Check the package to find this information.
Crochet hook in size #4 (2 mm). This is the ideal size for working with the thread you will be using. Anything larger or smaller may not produce the desired results.
Scissors
Beads (optional). If you decide to include beads in your lace tape, make sure they have holes large enough to insert the hook through them.
 Start by chaining four stitches to create your foundation chain. Then, connect the first and last loop by yarning over five times and inserting the hook into the first chain. Then, yarn over and pull through the first stitch. Yarn over and pull through two stitches four times until only one loop remains on the hook.Your work should look like a loop with yarn coiled around one side of it at this point.
 For the next row, you will need to work into the space under the quadruple treble stitch. Single crochet into this space 10 times to complete the row., When you reach the end of the row, turn the work around and chain one stitch. This stitch will provide some slack for turning and help to prevent puckering., Skip the first single crochet stitch in the row and single crochet into the next five stitches one time. Do one single crochet stitch in each of the next five stitches., Finish the row with a quadruple treble stitch. Loop the yarn over the hook five times to start and then insert the hook into the last stitch in the row. Complete the quadruple treble stitch as usual.Before you insert the hook into the last stitch in the row, you can add a bead if desired. To do this, slide the bead onto the end of the hook, then insert the hook into the stitch at the end of the row, yarn over, and pull through the bead and first stitch on the hook. Then, complete the quadruple treble stitch as usual.
Return to the chain one and single crochet 10 times step and go through the sequence again. Continue to work the rows in this sequence until your lace tape is the length you want it to be.
When you reach the end of your work, trim the thread and tie off the end to secure it.

