 Depending on where your ceremony is taking place, you might have the chance to use color blocking near where you’ll say your vows. Use big chunks of the colors you’ve selected to frame your ceremony location.For example, if you’re saying your vows under a canopy, you can drape the canopy with bolts of fabric in the colors you’ve selected.
For example, if you've chosen orange, yellow, purple, and blue, you could drape purple and yellow fabric next to one another on one side of the canopy. Drape the blue and orange on the other side.
 If you’re getting married in a church, consider placing flower arrangements on either side of the altar. To color block flowers, use only one color in each arrangement, rather than multiple colors in one arrangement.For example, if you're using different shades of purple and pink for your color blocked theme, set up one floral arrangement that includes many shades of pink on one side of the altar, and another in shades of purple on the other.
You could also place two arrangements - one pink and one purple - on either side of the article.
 You can also color block your aisle by laying down flower petals, feathers, or fabric organized by color. This not only allows you to use color blocking, but it also draws your guests' eyes to the front of the ceremony venue.


So, for example, if your colors are red, orange, and yellow, you could lay out horizontal strips of red material, orange material, and yellow material, and then keep repeating the pattern all the way up the aisle. You could also run long, vertical strips of material in the those colors side by side, running all the way up the aisle., You can also use color blocking in what you ask your bridesmaids and groomsmen to wear. You can ask your bridesmaids to wear all one color, and the groomsmen to wear ties and vests in one of the other colors, or you can mix the colors up.


For example, you could give your attendants the option of choosing which of the colors you've chosen they want to wear. You can also choose bridesmaids dresses that use more than one of the colors you've chosen. Color-blocked bridesmaids dresses are popular currently, and easy to find.

