 Spears cost 1 Rope, 1 Flint, and 2 Twigs, and are first crafted through the Science Machine’s Fight tab, which is represented by a crossed swords icon. This is the first true weapon of the game and is rather efficient when it comes to killing early-game mobs. Equipping it is identical to equipping your tools: select your item then equip it with right click or the right direction button.
 You’ll be needing some armor to go with your Spear if you want to survive this ordeal. While armor won’t completely repel damage, it lessens it greatly and would help keep you from losing too much health.The two most efficient armors available early on is the Grass Suit and the Log Suit.


Grass Suits can be crafted at the very beginning of the game and costs 10 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs. You equip them the same way you did with your tools and spear.
Log Suits require the Science Machine to make the first time, and costs 8 Logs and 2 Ropes.
 Once you’re done arming yourself, take stock of what healing items you can craft and gather so that, in case of emergencies, you can heal yourself if the enemies breach your defenses. Stockpiling Butterfly Wings, Spider Glands, and Mosquito Sacs is a good tactic, but taking some Jerky with you, cooking food in your Crock Pot, and making Healing Salves will be better off in the long run, as long as you have the right resources.


Healing Salves cost 2 Ashes (obtained from extinguished Campfires), 1 Rock, and 1 Spider Gland. It heals for 20 Health, compared to the 8 Health healed by the Spider Gland.
To make Jerky, you'll need to make a drying rack first, which is made with a Science Machine and requires 3 Rope, 3 Twigs, and 2 Charcoal. Upon creating a Drying Rack, you can then place a piece of Meat of any kind, including Frog Legs, Batilisk Wings, and Monster Meat, by approaching the rack and using the left mouse button, tapping the screen, or X to place the meat. After a few days you'll have your Jerky ready for consumption!
Charcoal can be obtained by burning down Trees. You can do this by making a Torch, equipping it, then right-clicking on the trees. Each burned tree can be chopped down with an Axe to get 1 Charcoal.

