 There’s much more to personal finance than spending less and saving more. Constantly learning more about money management is a great way to pick up good habits and stay motivated to keep them.Improved knowledge will not only help you identify areas for improvement and worthwhile financial opportunities, it will also help you avoid financial mistakes.
For specific examples, develop the habit of listening to a financial podcast everyday, or reading a blog about personal finance written for or by people your age.
 This will help you track the financial progress that comes with better financial habits. Measuring and acknowledging your progress can motivate you to keep up with the positive behavioral changes you’ve made. Even if you only revisit your personal balance sheet once a month, watching debt fall or savings rise can be a powerful motivating tool.In addition to budget tracking apps that are available online (and on your phone), there are also apps that take a more broad approach, such as Learn Vest. These are great options for keeping track of your personal balance sheet, as long as you provide a complete picture of financial standings, including investments, debt, etc.
 Some debt is fine to pay off long term, while other debt should be paid off as quickly as possible. The important thing is not to ignore it. All in all, carrying debt can prevent you from developing positive financial habits, and learning more about paying off your debt can also help establish positive repayment habits.In general, make a point of paying off debt with high monthly interest rates, such as credit card debt, as quickly as possible. If you have credit card debt, you should be minimizing spending and maximizing payments against your debt.
For more manageable debt, such as student loan debt, pay as much as you can each month while also working to develop other positive financial habits, like contributing to a savings plan.
 Consulting an expert often costs money - but it can save or earn you money in the long run. Once you’ve started to develop better financial habits, see a financial pro who can take an objective look at your financial standing and advise you on additional habits you can develop moving forward.