 The elbow strike (Palkup Chigi) is a very powerful technique used mainly in close combat. It can be used in six different ways:



Palkup Ollyo Chigi: Striking upward - upper-cut elbow







Palkup Yeopeuro Chigi: Striking sideways - sideways elbow







Palkup Dwiro Chigi: Striking backward - backward strike elbow







Palkup Naeryo Chigi: Striking downward - downward strike elbow







Palkup Dollyo Chigi: Striking by turning around - spinning elbow







Palkup Pyajeok Chigi:Striking with the help of supporting hand






Elbows can be thrown sideways similarly to a hook strike, upwards strike, backward strike, uppercut strike or downwards strike with the point of the elbow.
 This method is also known as striking upward, using the upper-cut elbow:


Keep the arm close to the body and swing elbow upwards, twisting the hand inwards and bending the elbow sharply.






Keep the hand close to your ear at the time of impact.






Strike the opponent's head, jaw, cheek or chin.
 This is also known as striking sideways, using the sideways elbow:


Strike the elbow inwards in a straight line or slightly upper.






Twisting the wrist inwards and landing the elbow sharply.






Strike the temple, the jaw or the face.
 This is also known as striking backward, using the backward strike elbow:


Place the arm across the front of the body with the fist over the left shoulder and the palm facing downwards.






Thrust elbow straight back, the palm facing upwards at the time of impact.






Strike the solar plexus or the rib.
 This is also known as striking downward, using the downward strike elbow:


Raise the elbow upwards with palm facing the back.






Swing the elbow down on the target, slightly above waist level.






The palm faces inward at the time of impact.






Strike the back.
 This is also known as striking by turning around, using the spinning elbow:


Turn around 180 degree and point the elbow at the target and strike forward.






Twist the wrist inwards and bend in the elbow sharply.






Strike to the face, jaw, chest, shoulder or cheeks.
 This is also known as striking with the help of supporting hand:


Raise the hand over the neck or the back of the opponent and block it.






Point the elbow at the target while striking outwards to the solar plexus or face where the hand-block is in position.






Twist the wrist inwards and bend in the elbow sharply.







