 You have to be at least 18 years old and a resident of the US or Canada in order to participate in any FanDuel contests involving prizes or entry fees. US residents in Iowa, Arizona, Montana, Louisiana or Washington cannot legally play FanDuel for cash. This is the condensed version, and you can find the more complete rules for eligibility on FanDuel’s Terms of Use webpage over at fanduel.com/terms., FanDuel supports iOS and Android, with an app in each operating system’s app store—iTunes and the Google Play Store, respectively. FanDuel also hosts useful links on their iPhone page (fanduel.com/iphone) and their Android page (fanduel.com/android). You can follow these links to bring you to the iTunes and Google Play Store using a browser.

If you are having problems downloading the FanDuel app on the Google Play Store, you can manually download the app from the FanDuel website. You can find it on fanduel.com/android-download, along with additional instructions from FanDuel on how to install it on your Android device. It is not possible to manually install the iOS version of the app.
The FanDuel Live Scoring app is different from the full FanDuel app. The latter lets you create lineups and participate in contests, while the former only tracks the stats of teams that you created beforehand.
 Once you have the app installed, find the app icon on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the gray icon with an italicized F and a football on it. Tap to launch the app., You can sign up on the FanDuel app itself by tapping “Join” when the app loads up. You’ll need to provide your full name, email address, username of choice along with a password for your account. If you have a promo code on hand, this is also where you can key it in for deposit bonuses.

If you already have an account with FanDuel, you can proceed to log in.
 If you already have a FanDuel account, you can type in your username and password on the startup screen. The app will remember your username and password the next time you start it up., If someone else shares your device or you’re borrowing someone else’s device to check your roster, you will need to log out after you’re done using it. You can do this by opening the app menu, which is accomplished by tapping the three green horizontal bars on the upper left-hand side of the home screen. This is where you’ll find the option to log your account out of the FanDuel app., When you first log on to your FanDuel profile, look at the upper left-hand corner of your screen. You will see three green horizontal lines. Tapping those lines will reveal a menu with various options—including options to add funds, withdraw funds, and review your transaction history. This is your sidebar menu., Once you’ve tapped the “Add Funds” option, you will be led to a screen where you’ll be asked how much you want to deposit. FanDuel has set the minimum deposit at $10.00 but gives you the option to deposit $25, $100 or $200 at a time. Select one of these options, then move on to the specific method of paying for the funds., FanDuel accepts payments from PayPal and most major credit cards—Visa, American Express, and Discovery being the most prominent. If you pick PayPal, you’ll be led to a screen where you’ll have to tap in your PayPal username and password. Follow all the instructions on the screen, confirm the purchase, and then you’ll be returned to the FanDuel app. If you choose to pay with your credit card, you will be led to a screen where you’ll enter the cardholder name, the card number, the expiration date of the card, the CVV, the province and the zip code. Be sure that all information you put in here is exactly the same as the numbers and letters on your card.

There is a waiting period before your funds are transferred to your account. This period varies between providers, although PayPal is usually able to make transfers within 24 hours.
 You also earn FanDuel Points each time you enter a game, win or lose. Earning enough FDPs allows you to enter contests that you would normally have to pay for, as well as a chance to enter a FanDuel freeroll contest. Both options allow you to join contests with cash prizes without actually having to buy into them., Once you’ve installed the app on your mobile device of choice, the next thing you want to do is pick the fantasy sports you want to participate in. FanDuel supports leagues for the NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, CFB, and CBB, though only leagues with open games will be available to participate in. You’ll find a list of available leagues on the lobby screen, which is the first screen you’ll see when you log into the FanDuel app. Once you pick a sport, you will then pick the date and time for the games you want to base your fantasy sports competitions on., Immediately after selecting the games you want to play in, you will be led to a screen with a list of contest types. Simply tap the contest mechanics you wish to work with and you should be good.


Featured contests are contests being promoted by FanDuel.

League contests have multiple prize positions that dole out prizes that go up in increments for those who place accordingly.

50/50 where the upper half of the participants receives double the fees they paid to join contests. This is also called double-ups.

Tournament is similar to League contests except there are a lot more participants and significantly larger prize pools.

Head to Head is a competition between two players, with the winner taking all of the advertised prize money.

Multiplier winners will receive their prize entry multiplied by a certain number, usually between five to ten times what they paid to join.
 Once you select the type of contests you want to join, you will be led to another screen where you will review the individual contests that are up on FanDuel. Review the list of available contests, and select the ones that you want to participate in by tapping them.

You can sort contests by name, by the number of entries, by the size of the contest, by the entry fee, or by the prize payout.
Once you select a contest, you can learn more about its specifics by tapping the small green “i” button on the upper right-hand side of the screen. This will show you more information about the participants, the specific games covered by the contest, the prizes to be won, and with the rules of the contest.
A blue “g” icon near the contest’s name means that the contest is guaranteed. Guaranteed contests will continue even when not enough entries join in to fill the contest. By contrast, not guaranteed contests will be cancelled if the slots are not all filled by the time the games start.
An orange “m” icon near the contest’s name means that the contest is multi-entry. This means that you can place multiple entries into the contest, which is useful when you want to improve your chances of winning by entering multiple lineups.
 This comes after selecting a contest to join, and where you will be presented with a list of positions to fill up/tapping each position will present you with an extensive list of players that will be available for that specific position. Select players to fill up the slots on your fantasy lineup by tapping the plus sign beside their names and portraits.

Each sport has its own rules and regulations covering how you shape your lineup, but a few general rules apply to all sports. First off, you need to hire players while staying under the indicated salary limit (e.g., $35,000 for the MLB; $60,000 for the NFL). A player’s Fantasy Points Per Game (FPPG) score will also be a useful basis for formulating your initial lineup.
You can also check out a lot of useful information on a player by tapping his portrait. Doing so will lead you to a screen where you can review a summary of his overall performance, a log of his performance in recent games, and a news portal that not only presents the latest updates on the player’s status but a brief analysis to help you make a more informed decision.
 The FanDuel home screen has three sections where you can review upcoming contests that you have rosters lined up for, live contests that are going on at the moment, and recent contests that you’ve participated in. Tapping the “Upcoming,” “Live,” and “Recent” buttons on the home screen will allow you to review the contests and the lineups you drafted for each of them. Use this to have an easier time staying updated on the status of your players before the contest begins, tracking how well your rosters are performing in ongoing games, and reviewing their post-game statistics., If you have won money from your games or simply wish to pull money out of your account, open the sidebar. Do this by tapping the three green horizontal bars on the upper left-hand side of the lobby screen., You will be led to a screen giving you a choice between withdrawing money via a PayPal transfer or via a paper check. Select which option you want to work with., Selecting this option will by default withdraw funds to the same PayPal account you used to deposit cash into the account. If you don’t have a PayPal account linked to your FanDuel account, or wish to use a separate PayPal account to receive those funds, FanDuel will perform additional security checks. Provide the requested information as necessary and submit it all in order to get your PayPal withdrawal request started up. The transfer should be completed within 48 hours or in the next business day should the request be made during a weekend., Selecting this option will lead you to a screen with boxes requesting your name, the amount you want to withdraw and your complete address. Provide the information required and hit “Submit” to begin the withdrawal process.

If you plan to withdraw earnings in excess of $250 using paper checks, FanDuel will ask for a valid mailing address as well as you social security number. This is for both security and tax-related purposes. Paper checks will need 7-10 days to clear out. You may need to submit a ticket to FanDuel’s support pageindicating your intent to withdraw using checks if you encounter troubles withdrawing cash via the FanDuel app.