 Any thick cream or oil-based condiment, sauce or dressing can serve as a base for an infusion. You could use ketchup, Dijon mustard, Sriracha or French dressing, or more outside-the-box flavors like shrimp sauce or chimichurri. Get creative and have fun seeing what unusual flavor combinations you can come up with.As a rule, the condiment you use should be thick enough to spread. Thin, watery flavorings may just dissolve the salt.
Season burger patties with barbecue salt, or whip up some spicy buffalo salt to sprinkle on a bowl of popcorn before you sit down to watch a movie.
 Using either a food processor or a mixing bowl and spatula, whisk ½ cup of salt with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of whatever flavoring you’ve chosen. Make sure the salt and condiments are thoroughly blended. The salt will begin to change color and form a gritty paste once the wet ingredients have been properly incorporated.Feel free to use more or less of a given flavoring depending on how intense you want it to be.
If you’re unsure how much is enough, add the wet condiment a little bit at a time to avoid oversaturating the salt.
 Scrape the salt paste onto a nonstick baking sheet or piece of wax paper. If left to air dry, it will need to sit for up to 48 hours before it sets up completely. You also have the option of heating the mixture in the oven at a low temperature until it is dry throughout.To dry the salt in the oven, set the temperature low (around 150-170 degrees F) and let it warm slowly and gradually. The heat will evaporate excess moisture out of the mixture.Stir up the salt every half hour or so to keep it from clumping as it dries.
 After the salt has had ample time to dry, use the back of a spoon or some other hard, blunt surface to break up any remaining clumps into loose granules. Funnel the salt into a mason jar, bottle or shaker and find a home for it on your spice rack. Pull it out when you want to add a dash to dinner or a midday snack. You’re done!Throw the dried salt back into the food processor or coffee grinder for a few seconds to grind it down to a consistent size.
Salts made with wet ingredients should be stored in airtight containers to keep moisture from getting in.