 Make sure that the friends that you hang out with on a daily basis are mature teenagers. Emulate mature characteristics of the adults or role models in your life. Take note of how they interact with people and conduct themselves in public. If you surround yourself with immature people, you are more likely to act immaturely.Find a role model that has a clear set of values and qualities that you admire.
You might find a positive role model in your school, religious community, after school activity, or even within your family.;
, Understanding that you don’t know everything is important to becoming a mature teenager. Be receptive to learning new things. Make it a goal to learn something new each day. Learning doesn’t always have to happen in the classroom. You also learn from your parents, friends, and community members to do things like cook, drive, and manage money.Research things that you don’t know by looking it up on the internet, going to the library, or asking an expert.
Ask questions while you are learning to gain a deeper understanding.
Read lots of books to gain new perspective and spark your imagination. Reading is an excellent way to learn new things and gain perspective on all sorts of situations. Check out books from categories that interest you, such as sci-fi, fantasy, philosophy, nature, astronomy, and biography.
 Be open and welcome to feedback. Getting angry or defensive when you are given feedback is very childish. Actively listen and learn from the feedback that is given to you. In order to actively listen, you must listen with all of your senses instead of merely “hearing” what is being said.Accept feedback from your teachers to improve your schoolwork. For example, apply the comments on your last research paper to improve your next research paper.
Receive constructive criticism from your coaches or mentors to succeed in afterschool activities. For example, apply the tips that your coach gives you during your practice to improve your technique.
Ask for feedback when feedback is not initially given to you. For example, when you receive a bad grade on a paper with little feedback, consider staying after class to discuss the paper with your teacher. Say something like, “Could you give me some feedback on how to make this paper better? I would like to make a better grade on the next assignment for this class.”

, Don’t make excuses for things that you have done wrong. Resist the urge to blame other people, even if they were involved. Own up to your mistakes and learn from them. On the other hand, you should take credit for things that you have done well.Take responsibility for your grades instead of blaming them on your teachers.
Admit to breaking or damaging something even if no one was watching.
Accept and serve and punishments given to you at school instead of asking your parents to talk to the administration.
 As you grow up you will need to learn to communicate more effectively. Effective and mature communication is key to gain the respect that you want from other people. Remember to use your manners and treat others with respect when you are talking to them. Listen to what others are saying and don’t jump to conclusions.When possible, have important conversations face-to-face instead of by phone, text, or email. Try to communicate with someone face-to-face every day to improve your interpersonal skills and avoid isolating yourself with technology.
Focus on what the speaker is telling you. Put away any distractions.

