 Rinse your decorations and gravel as well.;
,,


Fill the tank with cold water. Make sure you don't add any soap or other harmful chemicals to the water. Add nothing except water conditioner, which will make the water safe for fish.
,, This is where all of the beneficial bacteria lives. This bacteria is not free-floating, so just getting some of their water won't do much good. Warn them at least two weeks in advance so they can put extra media in their filter. Otherwise, they might hurt their own colony of bacteria by giving you some of theirs.


Bring the media home in a bucket with water from their tank in it. Get it home as soon as you can or the bacteria will start to die off without a source of ammonia.
It needs to be kept out of sunlight - UV will kill the precious bacteria.



Add a source of ammonia besides fish, such as fish food or household ammonia. This will keep the bacteria alive until you can get your fish.
 If the bacteria can process the ammonia you give them in 24 hours (i.e., you have 0 ammonia, 0 nitrite, and some nitrate) your tank is now fully cycled and you are ready for your fish.


Get a pH test for the tank if you don't have one. This way, you can test for ammonia, nitrites and nitrates in your tank water. Make sure ammonia and nitrites are always 0, and that the nitrates are below 40ppm. If ammonia or nitrite levels go too high, the fish will be get ammonia burns and most likely die.



Feed the fish as much as they can eat in 2 to 4 minutes.For tanks with a smaller amount of fish or smaller fish, feed them once a day, as much as they can eat in 1 to 2 minutes.Healthy fish always act hungry, so overfeeding is hard to avoid.
 If nitrate goes over 40ppm, perform a large water change.


If you see an ammonia or nitrite spike in any quantity do 50% water changes until it clears up.
 Too much algae isn't healthy for your fish.
 Take them out and rinse them under cold water without soap or other stuff. Then place them back in your tank. If it's on the glass, scrub it off using a cloth that hasn't been used.

