 You already have his number, so congratulations! The hard part is over. Keep the first message simple yet intriguing.


Ask about him. People like others who are interested in them. Ask how his day went, if he's seen the latest episode of a show you both watch, if he's finished the homework for French — whatever you know he's thought about.
If you know what you have in common, talk about it! Do you both play sports or an instrument? Hang in a mutual circle of friends? This way you'll have something to respond with, sustaining the conversation.
Use emoticons. With electronic messages, it's hard to be sure of a person's intentions. Emoticons will soften whatever it is you choose to say. A smile signals that you mean your words in a positive way, while a wink is a sure sign that you're flirting.
 Responding within seconds to all of his texts may seem like you're waiting around to talk to him. While this is fine occasionally, it's best to busy yourself with other things, too. Go about your day as normal.


Playing hard to get is not the idea here. Don't leave him hanging — just treat his texts as you would any other friend of yours.
 After the conversation has started, find a moment where it feels natural.


"You talked to David? Did he tell you I like you? 'Cuz it's true. :)"
"Haha! =] I really like you. Are you going to the game on Friday with anyone?"

, Whatever his response, don't jump to conclusions. Breathe first and then respond.


If he's hesitant, don't push. He may need a moment to think. Continue the conversation — don't drop it suddenly. If a few days pass and he makes no gesture of explanation, revisit it in a similar manner.
If he says no, try to lighten the mood. He's probably feeling awkward, too.

"Oh, that's cool. I just wanted to make sure you knew. But you are so not borrowing my highlighter anymore! :)"
"I get it. I'm super busy, too — I'm just starting !"


If he says yes, find a time to hang out. Don't drive over to his house or start naming your children. Just make plans to see each other over the weekend.

