 If you witness someone speaking negatively about someone else, bring up what they are doing. Don’t attack them; simply say back to them what they said. You’re not doing anything but letting them hear what they said, which can make them aware of what they did in a non-confrontational way.

For example, you could say, “From what I hear, you are saying that this person doesn’t deserve to work here. Is that correct?” By repeating what they say back to them, you make them aware that you heard what they said in a non-aggressive way, and that you aren’t going to let their negative opinions slip by you., Someone you know is bashed by the people around you, and you don’t think it is appropriate. If you sit in silence, however, you are basically agreeing with what is being said. You may withhold because you don’t want to start an argument, but your lack of opinions will likely be seen as approval of what was said.

Get the courage to speak up by asking yourself if you would want someone to allow what is being said to be said about you. If not, then you should say something., Preparation is the key to confidence and courage. Going into battle unarmed and without a plan will not only cause you to doubt yourself, but can make your attack seem weak. Go into this discussion with a well thought-out course of action and you’ll increase your chances of being effective.

Include what you find offensive about what is being said or done, examples of when the injustice took place, and why the person who is being attacked doesn’t deserve it. You can also discuss what you plan to do if the attacks don’t stop., When you doubt your confidence about speaking up, remember what you hold dear. If you aren’t comfortable with what is being said to someone you care about or how they are being treated, think about your values. If you won’t be able to live with yourself by not stepping in, then you should.

Also remember your character when you decide to speak up for the person. Don’t react in a way that wouldn’t make you feel proud about yourself. Speak in a calm and rational voice and refuse to let things escalate. It may be difficult, but you are capable of getting your point across without stooping to insults and bad behavior.