 In visual terms, think of social media integration as the second tier of your marketing strategy. By posting interesting, funny, educational and valuable content with links to your website, you deliver targeted leads to your business.
 This involves training, gathering data and analyzing your lead generation process.


Gather data from your lead capture software. Your website should be able to track where people are clicking on your links. If you do not have that capacity, sign up for a free Google Analytics account, and create links that will track who visits your website.
Ask your social media fans and followers what they would like to see in your business. Use social media as a way to grow and change according to what your customers prefer. By studying the popularity of your posts, you can gauge the best way to communicate with your fans.
Educate your employees on social media policies and social media strategy. By training the majority of employees on its use, you may also get helpful suggestions on ways to grow and improve your social media presence. Ask high-performance social media users in your company to contribute.
Gather the lead generation data from your website, lead capture software or Google Analytics account. Bring it to upper management. Create "Social Media Champions" in upper management, who are willing to innovate the way your company adds value to its products through social media.
 This will help to convert leads into customers. If your leads must sign up for an account to get a free trial, free account, free song, free video or other offer, then you can gather their contact details.


Make sure your fee value-added content somehow relates to your product or service. You want to attract people who would also be interested in what your website offers.
 Offer products or services that are similar to what interested them in your website. This is the way you convert social media leads to sales.


The process of converting a social media lead to a customer is often called a social media funnel. The goal of the funnel is to attract new leads and pull customers back into the funnel with new offers. Eventually, you should have a good base of repeat customers.

