 Although it is impossible to avoid getting sick, there are steps you can take to make sure that it happens less often. Living a healthy lifestyle can strengthen your immune system and make your body more resistant to illness. Make healthy habits part of your daily routine.Eat a healthy diet. Make sure to get plenty of fruits and vegetables. Try to make sure that each meal includes several different colors. For example, include some leafy greens, a colorful fruit, and a healthy starch, such as a sweet potato. Don't forget the lean protein.
Exercise regularly. Frequent exercise has amazing benefits to your health. It can lower blood pressure, cholesterol, and stress levels. Try to be active for at least 30 minutes a day, six days a week.
Get plenty of sleep. Aim for at least 7-8 hours each night. Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day. This will help make sleep a part of your healthy routine.
Try taking a daily vitamin C and zinc supplement to help prevent illness. You can even take a higher dose if you find that people around you have symptoms of illness.
Keep in mind that it is okay to walk away from someone who is coughing to protect yourself. You can also move to a different seat if you are in a public place, such as on a bus or train.
 Germs are a fact of life. But you can take steps to minimize your exposure. For example, wipe down your work surface at the beginning and end of each day. Keep some sanitizing wipes in your desk for this purpose.Wash your hands. You should wash your hands with warm water and soap for at least 20 seconds several times a day. Wash after contact with animals, food, or after you touch your mouth or nose., Studies show that stress can actually make you ill. Not only does it cause health issues such as high blood pressure, but it can also manifest in tension headaches and upset stomach. To live your healthiest life, try to reduce your stress.Take time outs when you need them. When you are in a stressful situation, give yourself permission to step away for a minute. For example, if you are fighting with your roommate about whose turn it is to clean the bathroom, excuse yourself to take a quick walk around the block.
Make time for yourself. Give yourself permission to relax each day. Take the time to do something you like, such as reading a book before bed, or watching your favorite tv show.

