;
, Typepad, Blogger, Movable Type, and numerous others are all available as well, so shop around and look for the one that best fits your needs.
 Develop a writing style and goal for your blog. As a business the most important aspect of your blog is that it speaks with a singular voice/personality. Your choice of writing style will reflect how readers perceive and respond to your content and (if done correctly) will establish a deeper connection to your customers.


This personality can take many forms and for most businesses originates from their core values. If your company is fun and outgoing you may chose to WRITE KEY PHRASES IN ALL CAPS to emphasize the energy or excitement they express. you may write in all lowercase letters to identify with a younger audience that has grown up with text messaging. And so on.
, It is more than 1 in about 90% of the cases. No matter how small your business.
 Set realistic goals for how often your team will be able to post. Don't commit to writing once a day if you lack the time. Instead write every two days or once a week.
 People will get bored quickly with your business blog if it is just big blocks of text. Add images and videos so there is something on each post that will catch the eye.
 Utilize SEO so users searching specific keywords in Google or Yahoo will find your blog easily.
 Make sure you post the RSS image icon and link where your customers can see it so they can subscribe in their feed reader. Also include an option for email, so customers can be alerted through email that there is a new post. You can also create a Facebook page where they can follow you for updates.
 Most people, when visiting a blog for the first time, want to know about who is writing what they are reading. Create an About page that talks about both you and your business. Include your mission statement and the company history.
 Most of us won't be an overnight blogging sensation. Building a consistent stream of traffic takes time and commitment, but once its established your visitors will be a self perpetuating network of 'a friend of a friend.' Once you start you'll find that subject matter will gradually become easier.
 Ask for specifics, case studies and references.

