 Often times, customer service does not require any face-to-face interactions between customer service representatives and customers. If this is the case with your business, it may be more cost-effective to outsource your customer service to a dedicated “call center.” These call centers specialize in dealing with telephone and online interactions with customers and, with proper oversight, can drastically cut the operational costs or improve the quality of your customer service department.If your business requires occasional or frequent face-to-face customer service interactions, outsourcing your customer service functions to a call center likely will not work for you.
 There is often an automatic assumption that outsourcing customer services to developing nations, such as India or China, will help a company reduce overall operating costs. However, this is not always the case. Before entering into any contractual agreement, ensure that U.S.-based companies do not provide similar services for similar costs.As with any outsourcing, be sure that your outsourced call center can maintain the same quality that you currently have in your customer service department.
 If you're considering moving your customer services to a third-party outside of the United States, it is critical to understand the feelings and needs of your customers.


Some businesses choose not to offshore their customer service functions for fear that their customer base may see them as anti-American or unpatriotic. Before entering into an arrangement with any third-party contractor outside the U.S., make sure your company will not suffer from a backlash as a result of this business arrangement. What is more, many customers may see your business as “unresponsive” if your customers are forced to deal with representatives from a distant country., It is paramount to ensure that third party customer call centers can protect your company's assets and prevent the loss or theft of company data.

#*Identify and contact businesses in the U.S. that have used the offshore, third-party business. Speaking with these U.S.-based companies can give you a clearer understanding of how the offshore, third-party business responds to customer service needs.It is of particular importance here to understand the labor laws and regulations of the country in which the third-party business operates. Moreover, ensure that whichever business you choose to partner with recognizes and abides by those laws and regulations.
 It is critical to the operation of your business that the management of your company is aware of the scope and nature of customer-business interactions. Be sure that effective lines of communication are open with the call center so that you are aware of why customers are calling, what they need help with, and whether or not their needs/concerns are being addressed by the call centers’ representatives., Once a contractual arrangement between your business and the third-party contractor is in place, make sure a person or entity within your business actively oversees the progress and results of outsourced customer service operations.
 While having a suitable exit plan is critical to managing any outsourced business relationship, it is particularly critical to prepare for ending a contract with a customer service call center. Be sure that you have in-house employees at your business who can handle the volume of customer service calls if and when you decide to end your outsourced relationship. This will ensure that your business does not suffer from a lapse in customer services if you need to end the outsourced relationship.

