 You will need different sizes of strong moving boxes to pack items of different sizes. Make sure you purchase good quality packing materials and strong moving boxes or cartons; it may be wise to consult a professional for recommendations. Also, consider acquiring:


Padding supplies
Bubble wraps
Wrapping sheets
Newspapers, blank newsprint paper
Scissors
Heavy duty packaging tape
Labeling stickers
Marking pens;
, Include in it your moving truck reservation, moving helper payment codes (if applicable), pet veterinarian records (again, if applicable), cash for movers tips, your hotel reservation, contact information for important people (realtor or property owner), and any important documents you could need before you have the chance to unpack.


Keep this file in a safe place, such as in your purse or personal bag, where you will not accidentally pack it in a box. It should also be in a place where it won't get buried in a mess that may develop.
 Include a personal-sized bar of soap, new toothbrush and toothpaste, towel and washcloth, disposable razor if needed, some "relaxing" clothes (sweats or something similar) and two complete changes of clothes, and anything else you know each person will need during the first few days (while everything else is in boxes). This way everything they'll need is easily attainable.


Keep these boxes or suitcases in a safe place where they will not be mixed in with everything else, perhaps in the car or even farther away (work or a neighbor's house). Bring them with you in the car or however you are traveling.
 Instead of buying feet and feet of bubble wrap or handfuls and handfuls of packing peanuts, turn to your clothes to provide that padding. Not only does it save you money, but you have to pack the clothes anyway, so it’s really two birds with one stone. Clothes are often more malleable than paper and bubble wrap, anyway.


As for things like glassware, wrap each one in a sock. It’s almost like that’s what the socks were truly meant for. If they clink against each other, they'll be fine.
 Is there anything you have set up that took you forever to get just right and you’re totally loathing the moment you have to disassemble it? Then snap a photo of it for quick reference later.


You may also want to snap a photo for frame arrangements and decorative set-ups, too. Not to mention the nostalgia and memories, of course.
 You’ll want a nice, wide open space where you can drag and drop all your stuff and then expedite the packing process. This is where you’ll have your boxes, your packing materials, and your pens, tape, and labels. This is your I’m-getting-stuff-done room.


As you pack each box and seal it up, put a number on it, in addition to the room label and contents. This way, if you have X number of boxes, you’ll know when one is missing, in addition to being able to tell the movers just how many boxes you have.
 Wrap each individual item properly with enough layers of wrapping sheets, bubble wrap, or clothes. Place items inside a box with extreme care in the best position possible to avoid damages. Heavier items should be placed on the bottom and lighter items should be placed on the top inside the boxes. Get as many items as possible in each box to cut down on the number of boxes you’ll need.


Pack heavy items such as books, toys, etc. in small boxes. However, be conscious of not over packing boxes until they are bulky and may break.
Pack fragile or breakable items with extra care and attention. If required, use more layers of wrapping sheets or bubble wraps to wrap such items. Place saran wrap between bottles and caps to prevent leaking. Consider putting cotton between fragile cosmetics, too.
Use wadded newspapers or crushed papers to fill empty spaces of boxes or cartons.
 This makes unpacking easier once you get where you are going. Start packing one room at a time, packing smaller items first to get them out of the way. Carefully mark and tape each box so you can find everything when you unpack.


This makes it easier for the movers, too. If they're courteous and not on a time crunch, they'll likely take each labeled box and put it in its corresponding room.
 Place all hardware in double-thick Ziploc bags, according to contents and room. Keep all bags in one box with the proper tools – allen wrenches, screwdrivers, pliers, etc. This will make it easier to put everything back together when you have moved in.


Make sure you keep the box of hardware and tools in a central place where everyone can find it. This will make re-assembling much easier. Place in it the small things like video ear plugs, remote controls, boxes of nails and things you will need immediately after moving in.
 Toss away junk and only box things that you use. Use your kitchen food storage containers for all loose things you find as you empty drawers from the kitchen, desks, or table drawers throughout the house. Label boxes according to contents and rooms they belong in then securely close or tape them. Use various sized bags for the same purpose. Add a sticky note inside each bag noting the contents like "stereo cables" and "pens and pencils.” Place all containers and bags inside a larger box labeled appropriately with room and content.


Plates should be stacked vertically, like records. Don’t forget to look in the dishwasher!
Do you need anything to stay intact, like necklaces (so they don't get tangled)? Try saran wrap or stretch wrap over them as is and then pack them.
 This most probably will include the items which you have been using until the date of the move. Think about small handy items you might want access to before you unpack all boxes. It may also be useful to add items such as dish soap, a sponge, a roll of paper towels, Kleenex, a couple pens, scissors, plastic/paper plates/forks, a bottle opener, bath towels for each family member, one pot, one pan, one plastic stirring utensil, an extra box cutter, etc.


Keep in mind that people will need to wash their hands, eat, and shower long before you are done unpacking on the other end of the move. Having this box will make that simple.
Also, toss in a sugary treat such as Lifesavers or hard candies in case anyone gets hungry or low blood sugar on move-in day. This is a good way to keep the bad moods at bay.
 Try to keep them stacked in the rooms that you have finished packing. Keep all power strips and extension cords and grounded adapters in one specific box; they will be much easier to find later.


Clearly label the hardware box and the extension cord box. Consider spray-painting both boxes bright yellow or red.
Place all the screws or bolts back into an item after it has been taken apart. This way, you can connect the bed or put the lampshade back on immediately instead of searching for them.
 Do you know where each one is? Are any in need of any extra tape job? Do you have more than you thought you might and need to inform the movers that you'll need a bigger truck?


Which ones are fragile and which ones are sturdy? Are there any that you want to handle yourself, just in case? You may wish to set a few aside so you know where they're at at all times.
 Place any last minute items together in one room. Remember: when the truck has been filled, and the movers tell you that they have everything, checking out each room to make sure that nothing has been left behind is your responsibility. When you are certain that each room is clean, then it is time to shut the door and leave!

, Pro movers specialize in getting everything safely and efficiently from one house to the other. The do not specialize in separating your good china from the bad, not rounding up all of the dirty laundry on the floor. They will ask you to be cleaned and organized before they arrive. Good ideas include;


Grouping similar small items in boxes (books, dishes, etc.)
Clearly designating valuable and fragile goods
Throwing out and purging excess stuff in advance.
Labeling boxes with final locations., Good movers are methodical. They keep everything in similar places, packing you up room by room. While they may mix things up to make sure everything fits well, they are practiced in the most convenient way to get things in and out of their truck. Expect them to work much more efficiently than you might on your own.
 One of the chief benefits of a moving team is that they know how to handle the bunk beds stuck in the kids' room. Professionals will take down the furniture into the most convenient, easily transported parts, pad the pieces safely, and put everything back together when you arrive.


Since most movers are paid hourly, feel free to assemble or break down furniture by yourself if you feel confident in your abilities. You'll save some money., Things break when they are allowed to move around in the truck, bouncing off other objects. A good mover understands that packing tightly isn't just about saving space, it is about a snug, tight fit. They will:


Use packing peanuts to fill empty space.
Wrap furniture and large pieces in heavy blankets to prevent sliding or moving.
Group square and rectangular objects, which can be jammed close together, in the same box., A professional makes their living off of transporting your things and has the wherewithal and knowledge needed to prevent accidents. That said, in the case that something does happen, professional movers have the responsibility to pay you back for any damages incurred.


Hiring a professional insures the past possible pack job, and then insures you further if something bad happens.
Always ask about the contract before signing-- some smaller companies may try to get out of responsibility for damages if you aren't careful. You may need to pay for warranty.
 A professional mover should keep a log of every box and item, allowing them to prove that they got everything safely to your new location. This sort of double-checking is crucial, especially on big or complicated (multi-truck, cross-country, etc.) moves.


If the moving company does not inventory your items, you should.
 This can vary, but it is a good baseline when thinking about rates and how many movers you need. It takes two movers roughly 5 hours to completely pack a 1,000sq foot house (500ft per mover). Thus:


With 4 movers, a 3,000ft house would like 13 hours.
With 3 movers, a 2,000ft house would take 10-12 hours.
With 6 movers, a 4,000ft+ house would take 15 hours or more., Maybe you want to save money and just have someone help with the heavy lifting. You can pre-pack the boxes. Maybe you want someone to do everything for you with a bit of guidance. You can pay for the movers to wrap and protect all your goods. Professionals are there to serve you, and will do the work that you need to be done. Expect a professional mover to ask a lot of questions about your exact needs.Movers will appreciate your direction and guidance as long as it saves things from breaking or getting lost.

