 Crobat evolves from Golbat. You can either catch a Golbat, or you can catch a Zubat and raise it to level 22. This will cause it to evolve into Golbat. You can raise a Zubat to level 22 by battling with it, or by giving it Rare Candy.Zubat can be caught at Altering Cave, Cave of Origin, Granite Cave, Victory Road, Meteor Falls, Seafloor Cavern, and Shoal Cave.
Golbats can be caught at Cave of Origin, Shoal Cave, Sky Pillar, Meteor Falls, Seafloor Cavern, and Victory Road.;
, You'll need to reach a high Friendship level to evolve Golbat into Crobat. See the section below for details on raising your Golbat's Friendship.
 You can check your Friendship level with Golbat by visiting the woman in the house in the lower-left corner of Verdanturf Town. When you talk to the woman with Golbat as the first Pokémon in your party, she'll let you know how your Friendship rates. Below are the lines you should look out for (Golbat will evolve at 220 Friendship):



150-199 - "It likes you quite a lot. It seems to want to be babied a little."

200-254 - "It seems to be very happy. It obviously likes you a whole lot."

255 - "It adores you. It can't possibly love you any more. I even feel happy seeing it."

, Once you think you have 220 Friendship points, have Golbat gain a level. You can do this through combat or by using a Rare Candy. If Golbat has 220+ Friendship, it will evolve to Crobat.


The friendship rating lady will not tell you when you've reached exactly 220. You'll have to guess based on what she says and what you've done since then.
Zubats and Golbats caught in the wild will start with a 70 Friendship rating.
 Your Friendship gains will decrease as you get closer to 220. The three tiers of Friendship gains are 0-99, 100-199, and 200-255. For example, gaining a level gives you 5 Friendship when your Friendship is 0-99, 3 points when your Friendship is 100-199, and 2 points when your Friendship is 200+.This section will denote the gains as a set, i.e. "(5,3,2)" for leveling up.
 This will give it a one point boost to all Friendship-raising activities. It will not affect the value of negative actions.
 This will give the Golbat a one-point boost to all Friendship-raising activities. You can get a Soothe Bell at the Slateport City Pokémon Fan Club. If you have the Golbat in a Luxury Ball and holding a Soothe Bell, you'll be getting 2 extra points for each action.
 Every time your Golbat gains a level, you'll gain a moderate boost to your Friendship (5,3,2).
 Using Golbat during gym leader battles, the Elite Four battle, or the Champion battle will give it a boost to Friendship (3,2,1).
 Every 256 steps you walk with Golbat in your party, you'll gain 1 Friendship point. Try to always keep your Golbat in your party for these small but easy gains.
 These items permanently boost your Golbat's stats, while also providing a boost to Friendship (5,3,2).


HP Up
Protein
Iron
Zinc
Carbos
PP Up/Max
Rare Candy

, The following items will give Golbat a big Friendship boost (10,10,10), but will have a negative impact on its EVs:


Pomeg
Qualot
Tamato
Grepa
Hondew
Kelpsy

, When Golbat faints in battle, it will lose a Friendship point. Try to switch it out if it is close to fainting. If it does faint, revive it at a Pokémon Center.
 Giving Golbat any health items like Heal Powder and Energy Powder (-5,-5,-10), Energy Root (-10,-10,-15), and Revival Herb (-15,-15,-20) will cause it to lose a large amount of Friendship. This can potentially undo hours of Friendship work in just a few minutes. Do all of your healing and reviving at a Pokémon Center, which does not affect the Friendship level.
 Trading your Golbat will reset it to 70 Friendship. The only time this is useful is if you've lowered your Golbat's Friendship below the base 70 points.

