 Children in early elementary school are in the process of developing all kinds of new skills, ranging from reading and writing to art and math. Choose toys that serve an educational purpose while also entertaining the child.Try choosing toys like jigsaw puzzles, Legos, and educational board games.
 Learning to play an instrument will help your big kid develop fine motor skills, build listening skills, and increase their attention span. Try letting your child learn to play the piano, guitar, recorder, or drums., Fitness toys can help children gain self-confidence and develop social skills while getting exercise. For example, by jumping rope with friends, the child will learn to take turns, solve problems, and get along with others. Fitness toys can also help your child develop fine and gross motor skills.Encourage the child to play with toys like jump ropes, beanbags, and balls.
 Complex construction sets and accessories allow children to express their creativity while helping them develop fine motor skills. It is important to remember that construction sets are equally important for girls and boys, and there are many options out there made specifically for girls., Big kids are the perfect age to begin exploring the wonderful world of science, and toys are a great entry point. Science-centered toys can help your child develop problem-solving skills while expanding their imagination. These toys will also help your child develop science and math skills.Try toys like binoculars, a telescope, or an age-appropriate chemistry set.
 Your big kid is now ready for complex puzzles that combine problem solving, engineering, and art. Try putting together a jigsaw puzzle with your big kid. You can also opt for other types of puzzle-solving toys, like those that focus on pattern recognition or mazes., Some big kids are going to ask for digital toys like a video game console or a tablet, as well as the associated software and games. Always read reviews of digital toys before purchasing and make sure they are made specifically for your child's age range.


Always explore the games and toys yourself before handing them over to your child.
Make sure you supervise the child while they play.
Limit your child's screen time to no more than one hour per day with digital toys.

