 If you decide to air dry your blanket after washing it, be sure that you’ve first removed as much moisture from the blanket as you can. This will save you a lot of drying time. Remember to press the blanket, don’t wring or bunch.
 Using a clothesline or ironing board, straighten and suspend the blanket to let it begin drying. Hang drying works best when it’s done outside due to the movement of the air, but if you don’t have a place to dry clothes outside you can also turn on a fan or simply let the blanket hang overnight.


Smooth out all wrinkles and folds before hanging the blanket, or else the blanket will crease and dry unevenly.
Make sure the blanket is completely stretched out when hang drying. Greater surface area means faster, more thorough drying.
Wool, silks, linens and any blankets with loose weave-work, like crochet, should always be hung and allowed to air dry. This is the gentlest way to treat easily damaged fabrics and will help protect them for many more washings and drying.
 Alternately, sandwich the wet blanket between two clean, dry towels and roll or fold them up together. The towels will wick moisture out of the blanket from both sides, helping it dry faster. Place a heavy object like a book on top of the roll to apply pressure to the damp blanket and increase contact between the blanket and towels.One advantage of the towel method is that there should be no need to smooth the blanket once it’s dry since it’s already been rolled taut or neatly folded.
Using an object heavier than a textbook to press water out of a blanket that is drying between towels may misshape the blanket or cause wrinkles once it's fully dry.
 If you’re pressed for space or don’t want to use the towel method, find a clear, flat space to lay the blanket out. Place a couple dry towels underneath the blanket to absorb excess moisture as it dries, and flip the blanket over as needed to allow exposure to air on both sides. This will take considerably longer than any other drying method, but requires minimal effort. You may need to run an iron over the blanket after it has dried completely in order to eliminate wrinkles.This method will also be useful for blankets made from delicate fabrics like wool which easily stretch out and lose their shape when subjected to rigorous washing and drying.
Use a low heat when ironing and only go over trouble spots in the blanket lightly once or twice.

