 Even if you’ve grown up in a more casual environment where you usually call your friends’ parents by their first names, you shouldn’t assume that all older people are comfortable with that kind of informal title. Some elderly people may be more traditional, and prefer that you call them Mr./Mrs. So-and-So. That’s why it’s always best to ask what name they prefer and use sir or ma'am when you don't feel comfortable asking., People can often lose strength, balance, and agility as they age, which can make some everyday activities that we take for granted more difficult. Providing even the smallest assistance may help make their day a little easier, and demonstrate your respect in a courteous, thoughtful manner.It’s always polite to hold the door open for the people behind you, but it can be especially helpful for older people with canes or walkers.
When you’re on public transportation, such as the subway, train, or bus, consider offering your seat to an elderly person, who might need to rest more than you.
If you’re at the store, offer to reach for items on shelves that might be too high or low for an older person to reach. You might also offer to carry an elderly person’s bags to the car or unload their cart into the trunk.
 Older people usually don’t move as quickly as they used to when they were younger, which means it can take them longer to do even the simplest of tasks, such as crossing the street. Be respectful by showing some patience when you encounter them instead of trying to hurry them along.If an elderly person is slow to get off the bus, subway, or elevator, or just walking down the street, don’t push past them. Let them take their time, so they are comfortable and don’t injure themselves.
Don’t huff and puff if an older person on line in front of you at a store takes a little longer to pay for their items. Instead, try to be understanding -- you might even offer to help by lifting items out of the cart or bagging groceries.
 While it’s true that many elderly people have health issues that may require special assistance, aging doesn’t affect all people in the same way. Assuming that an older person has poor eyesight or hearing can be extremely condescending and make him or her feel self-conscious. That’s especially true if you make a big deal out of it, such as raising your voice every time you speak to him or her.If you’re unsure whether an older person has a vision or hearing issue, just ask. It’s better to be straightforward than to risk offending someone.

