 If you are already at Sovngarde there is no turning back, so hopefully you have a healthy supply of health and fire resist potions. Consider equipping armor that gives fire resist and a weapon that heals on hit (like the Ebony Blade or others with the Absorb health enchant) if you have any in your inventory.


The point of no return is when you have the option to leave for Skuldafn from Whiterun. You will lose a full dungeon’s worth of progress if you wish to revert to an earlier save to take advantage of stocking up in town.
If you have training in Restoration magic, you can use spells to substitute for healing or resist potions.
You cannot bring followers with you to Sovngarde without modding, but you are given help by the NPCs there during the engagement.
 Your NPC companions will automatically use it when you do to clear Alduin’s blocking fog. He will restore it until you’ve cleared it three times.
 Tap and hold the shout button to charge it. Follow Alduin’s flight with the camera as you charge so that you do not miss. If you miss you will have to wait while your shout recharges.


Equip an Amulet of Talos if you need the shout cooldown to be shortened.
Even though the NPCs will shoot at Alduin while he flies, he cannot actually be damaged until he is forced to the ground with this shout.
A single tap of the shout button will do a single-charge version of the shout that can still

, Each time that Alduin lands, wait just a few moments for an ally to attack him and draw his attention.
 Once on the ground, Alduin uses a powerful fire breath attack that does lots of damage to everyone in front of him and a strong tail whips from the back. Try to attack from the sides regardless of range or melee.


Eventually he will turn to bite you, causing you to face his front again, so keep strafing to the sides.
Fire resist potions can help if you want to challenge him from the front, but best to avoid it altogether.
If you have to choose, tank a tail whip hit rather than a fire breath attack. You’ll suffer much less from it.
 If you have training in destruction magic, spells like ice spike and ice storm can do big damage to Alduin since he has a slight weakness to frost.


Ice storm can damage your helpers, so use it with caution.
If you have it, the Marked For Death shout will greatly increase your damage with magic, but it is best to use Dragonrend as much as possible to keep Alduin on the ground.
 Lingering poisons are just as effective against Alduin as any other non-undead creature.


Using poisons if very effective when using a bow from afar while the NPCs tank Alduin’s hits.
 Keep Alduin on the ground with Dragonrend, let your allies grab attention so that you can heal when you need. Eventually, Alduin will run out of steam and be defeated once and for all..

