 B12 promotes healthy functioning of the brain and nervous system, and is an essential vitamin for any healthy person. The recommended daily intake for adults is 2.4 micrograms. However, B12 only naturally occurs in animal foods. Since B12 is not found in plant-based foods, vegans need to find ways to supplement their diet with foods that have been fortified with B12. Look for the following:


Breakfast cereals or oatmeal that have been fortified with vitamin B12. Check the labeling to make sure eating the cereal will give you the recommended daily intake.
Soy milk is also often fortified with B12.
B12 supplements are popular among vegans. Since B12 is the only vitamin you can’t get by eating plants, it might be worth adding this supplement to your daily routine.;
, This mineral aids in healthy oxygen circulation, and it’s most commonly found in red meat and fish. However, iron also occurs naturally in a number of different foods. When you eat iron-rich foods, eat vitamin C at the same time; it helps the body absorb iron more effectively. It is recommended that adults get 8 mg of iron per day.Here’s where to find it:


Dried fruits
Legumes
Seeds
Leafy green vegetables
Whole grains

, Protein contributes to the growth of muscle, hair, nails, and other very important systems in the body. Adults need 46 to 56 grams per day to stay healthy.There are plenty of plant-based protein sources, and these should make up a significant portion of your diet as a vegan. Here’s what to eat:


Black beans, kidney beans, chickpeas, pinto beans, lima beans, etc.
Whole grains
Pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, and other seeds
All nuts
Soy products

, It builds strong bones and teeth, and this essential mineral is most often associated with cow’s milk. However, you can get the calcium you need (1,000 mg daily, for adults) by eating the following fruits and vegetables:


Dark, leafy greens like kale and collards
Almonds
Fortified cereals, soy milk, or bread
Citrus fruits like oranges and lemons

, This healthy type of fat is essential for a range of functions in the body, both internal and external. It’s also beneficial for keeping your mood stable and your mind healthy. Adults need 12 to 17 grams per day, and you can get them from the following plant sources:


Flaxseed
Walnuts
Canola oil
Soy

, This trace element helps keep the thyroid functioning properly, and you need 150 mcg per day to stay in good health. It’s commonly found in seafood, but vegans can get the iodine they need by eating sea salt and seaweed.
 This mineral is involved in healthy cell production, and some studies connect it to helping treat the common cold. Adults need 8 to 11mg daily. Zinc naturally occurs in the following foods:


Peanuts
Legumes
Cashews
Almonds

