 This can help you cope with night terrors efficiently. There are a variety of relaxation techniques to use. Pick one that is personally effective for you. You may have to experiment with different relaxation techniques to find one that helps you.Relaxation techniques include things like diaphragm breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, and visualization. You can find guided techniques online to help you cope.
You can also do things like yoga and tai chi to reduce stress. See if you can find any classes offered in your area.
It can help to practice this technique before bed. This can help you go to bed calm, which may lessen the frequency of your night terrors.
 Oftentimes, people are stressed due to overcommitment. You may also have a lot of things in your life that cause stress needlessly. Honestly evaluate your schedule and relationships. See if there's anywhere you can cut back on your obligations.Learn how and when to say "No." If you find a lot of your stress is due to doing favors for friends, say "No" on occasion. Remember, you owe yourself basic self care. You are not obligated to agree to something simply because you can.
Avoid anyone who stresses you out. If you have a friend who causes a lot of drama, for example, limit how often you see that friend.
 Spending time with others is key to your mental health. If you're not getting out and socializing enough, that can increase your stress level.Engage with people around you. Have coffee with a co-worker. Ask a family member to meet you for lunch. Plan happy hour with a group of friends each week.
You can incorporate socialization into your other commitments. If you work out regularly, for example, try having a workout buddy.
 This can help reduce stress. Exercise can also improve the quality of your sleep. Better sleep can potentially reduce the frequency and intensity of night terrors.Pick a type of exercise you enjoy. If you hate jogging, you're unlikely to do it for 30 minutes a day. However, if you love tennis, try to play tennis with a friend a few times a week.
Make sure you ease into any form of physical activity. You do not want to overexert yourself. You may also want to talk to a doctor before you begin a new exercise regimen. A qualified doctor can help make sure the workout routine you choose is safe for you.
 It's easy to get stressed out by little things if you lack perspective. When you feel yourself becoming stressed, try to take a few minutes to look at the big picture.Try to see the positive in stressful situations. For example, think to yourself, "Yes, I'm feeling stressed, but this is an exciting challenge. I'll feel invigorated if I get through it."
How important will your current situation be in the long run? Keep this in mind. While running late to a meeting is stressful, it probably will not cost you your career.
Work on adjusting your standards. High standards may mean you have unnecessary stress in your life. Try to loosen up a bit. Is it 100% necessary to always do your dishes before bed? Could you stand to leave dishes for a couple of days sometimes?

