 If you know what you are going to write about (or during the writing of the poem, either works), open a separate document or get a piece of paper and bullet or make columns for each sense. Then fill them in with descriptions of the item you've chosen. It does not have to be cohesive lines, even basic words will do (you can enhance them later). Then, incorporate these into your poem, editing and fitting into your lines.


Look at pictures if needed for a reminder, or if it helps you get more in depth. Looking at a picture rather than relying solely on memory may help you notice details you'd normally overlook.;
, It is much more difficult to conjure up all five senses for an experience you faintly remember or haven't experienced at all. If you frequently go through an event, whether it be riding the bus to school or going to the park, it is well ingrained into your memory and provides for a vivid description. Next time you do that specific thing, take a look around and pay attention to the sights, sounds, smells, etc. Jot them down if needed, and try to notice details you normally wouldn't.


Focus on the small things. You don't need to go for an all-out grand description of the landscape- write about the little, generally overlooked parts as well.
 Sound words may convey different events and emotions- for example, "clash" and "clang" imply something loud and sudden, versus "lullaby" and "hushed" imply something quiet and sleepy. So if a poem is about an exciting and thrilling event, use sound words that match that, otherwise it'll send mixed messages.


You can also use sound to break the mood, if a poem has the feel of something quiet and lulled, you can snap the reader awake by using sound words that disrupt that to show that the events going on are no longer peaceful.
 Color is one of the best visuals, and you can make it much easier to visualize what's going on by using it often. However, you don't want to stick the usual, boring colors- instead of red, say sangria, scarlet or ruby. The reader can now picture that the item is the color of a ruby instead of just saying "red", as that dulls the poetry and feels much less descriptive. Replace the name of a color with the name of an item in that color. Try using the names of gemstones, e.g. sapphire, ruby, emerald, amethyst, etc.


To find some good words, look up "synonyms for ___". Try going to images, as there are often lists of suggestions, along with what the colors actually look like.
You can view a color thesaurus here.
 There will be times, of course, where a sense is not applicable to the situation- in these cases, don't force it in or you will confuse the reader. But you can still be creative and look for ways to use the senses even in unconventional places. Though smell and taste may be more difficult to use (as they apply to food most of the time), look hard for places where they can be used. You'll often find that these senses can be used in smaller details usually overlooked. Doing this will really transport your reader to the scene (for example, a playground can smell like wood chips and taste like soil since children often gnaw on their dirty fingers).
 Good poetry displaying use of these senses not only offers a guide, but helps you understand how the senses should be used in poetry. Whether it be a great classic or a well-written poem shared on Wattpad, reading these can help you get an idea of how to utilize the senses. They can even be used as inspiration, or assist you with other aspects of poetry-writing. Just be sure not to copy off them, as this is considered plagiarism.


If you want to write a spinoff or something based off a poem you really like, give it credit. Cite it or simply write "based on ____ by ____" before or after your own poem.
 Scan your poem for any grammatical or spelling errors. Check for any words that stop the poem from flowing smoothly, and either remove them or replace them. See if there's any weak or basic words you can replace to create better imagery. Determine whether you need to add more sensory words or remove some. Read it out loud if you'd like. Lastly, if you'd like, ask a family member or friend to read and review your poem as well- they may catch something you didn't! Be sure to ask them specifically about your use of the senses, if needed.


Be sure to check your punctuation as well. Though punctuation use varies from poet to poet (some may only use one period their whole poem, and others will be full of commas), review to see if any punctuation should be added, or if some should be removed as it impedes the flow of the poem.

