 Then click on Control Panel.


On Windows 8, drag your mouse pointer to the right edge of the screen, select Search and search for “control panel." Alternatively, right-click on a bottom left hot corner (Start button) and pick Control Panel from there.;
, This can be found under the Programs category.


For Windows XP users, click on "Add or remove program option".
 You can also select any other unknown programs.


To view the most recently installed programs, you can click on the “Installed On” column to sort your programs by the installation date.
 If the uninstallation isn't working, you can use Revo Uninstaller or a similar tool to completely remove the unwanted programs from your machine.
 The AdwCleaner utility will scan your computer and web browser for malicious files, browser extensions and registry keys that may have been installed on your computer without your knowledge.
 Don't just minimize them; close them.
 When the program starts, click on the Scan button to find the Mobogenie adware.
 Click on the Clean button to perform this action.
 It will prompt you to save any open files or documents, as the program will need to reboot the computer. Click on the OK button to complete the process.
 This tool is great for removing the Mobogenie browser hijacker.
 Allow it to run, whether Windows prompts you to run it or not.
 At the Command Prompt, you’ll need to press any key to perform a scan for the Mobogenie virus. Be patient while it is scanning. It can take up to 10 minutes.
 When the scan of Junkware Removal Tool is completed, this utility will display a log with the malicious files and registry keys that were removed from your computer. No need to do anything now; the browser hijacker should be removed.
 It can remove all worms, Trojans, rootkits, rogues, dialers, spyware, and more.
 Once downloaded, close all programs and click on the icon on your desktop named mbam-setup-consumer-2.00.xx to start installation of Malwarebytes Anti-Malware.
 If you're presented with a User Account Control dialog asking you to run this file, click “Yes” to continue with the installation. During the installation, the Malwarebytes Anti-Malware Setup Wizard will guide you through the installation process.

Keep selecting "Yes" on your device to complete the installation.
 After installing, Malwarebytes Anti-Malware will automatically start and you will see a message stating that you should update the program, and that a scan has never been run on your system. So now to start a system scan you can click on the “Fix Now” button.
 If possible, click on the Update Now button to update it.
 After completing the scan, you will see a screen showing you the malware infections that Malwarebytes’ Anti-Malware has detected. Choose to Quarantine All or Delete All programs, and then click on the “Apply Now” button to perform that action.
 Do this so that no viruses remains active.
 After rebooting you will see a message to scan again your device. Allow it to scan to ensure that there are no remaining threats.
 This tool scans viruses to notify you about the viruses that are left after scan.
, HitmanPro will now begin to scan your computer for the Mobogenie malicious files.
 After the scan you will be shown the list of remaining viruses. Click "Next" to remove Mobogenie virus.
 Click on the “Activate free license” button to begin the free 30 days trial, and remove all the malicious files from your computer. After cleaning, reboot your system.

