 Never place the battery charger directly onto the battery as it may connect the negative and positive terminals, causing damage to the battery and charger and possibly even starting a fire. Instead, place the charger on a stable surface as far from the battery as the cables will allow. Before plugging the charger into the wall, ensure the area is well ventilated by opening your garage door or windows if you are indoors.Ensure the surface you place the charger on is sturdy and stationary to prevent it from falling or disconnecting from the battery.
Use the full length of the cables to separate the battery from the charger as much as you can.
 Attach the black cable from the charger with the negative (-) sign on it to the negative terminal on the battery marked with the same symbol. Then attach the red cable with the positive (+) sign to the positive terminal on the battery with the corresponding symbol. Make sure to check the connections before plugging in or turning on the charger, as mixing the positive and negative terminals could result in damage to the battery or even a fire. Some cars may label the positive terminal with the letters POS instead of a positive (+) symbol and NEG instead of a negative (-) one.
Ensure the cables are firmly attached to allow electricity to flow from the charger to the battery.
 Digital chargers may indicate the existing voltage in the battery and allow you to set the final voltage level, while older models may simply allow for on and off settings. Speed chargers will also allow you to choose the speed in which you want to charge the battery (often depicted by a picture of a turtle for slow charges and a rabbit for fast ones). A fast charge is good for a car battery that recently died as a result of leaving your lights on or something to that effect, while a battery that has been dead for some time may require the slower charging method before the battery is usable again.If you can set the voltage the charger will stop on, set it to the specified voltage on the battery or that you found in the vehicle’s owner’s manual.
Never set the charger to fast charge if you will be leaving the vehicle unattended.
You may want to leave the battery slow charging overnight to fully charge it if it has been dead for some time.
 After allowing the battery to charge, check it to make sure it works. Some digital chargers will provide you with a readout that will tell you if the battery is properly holding the charge or if the battery will need to be replaced. This is often indicated by a percentage like “100%” as in the battery is 100% charged. You may also want to use a voltmeter to measure the voltage of the battery once disconnected from the charger by touching the positive and negative cables from the voltmeter to their respective terminals on the battery. If the battery is still in the car, the easiest way to check it might be to simply hook it up again and attempt to start the car.If the voltmeter reads the number of volts that are appropriate for the battery, the charger indicates it’s good, or the vehicle starts the battery is sufficiently charged.
If the voltmeter or charger indicate that the battery is bad or the vehicle won’t start, there may be other issues to resolve or the battery may need to be replaced.

