 Get an early start by looking ahead and planning in advance. People get busy and schedules get filled up, so it is best to start planning at least a month ahead of time. This is especially important if the romantic evening is for an anniversary or other special occasion. Begin considering activities and thinking about special moments that your partner will enjoy.;
, Look at both of your schedules and find a good day. If you know that your loved one is exhausted during the workweek, plan it for the weekend instead. To ensure you will both be free for your romantic evening, make sure to mark it on both of your calendars., Decide whether you want the evening to be a surprise for your partner, or if you would like them to know about it ahead of time. If you would like them to know, you can simply invite them by saying something like, “I was thinking we could do something special for our anniversary. Would you like to go out for a special evening?”If you would like to surprise your partner, you can have a friend help you and schedule a fake outing for that day so that your partner won’t have anything else going on. For example, your friend could plan an activity with you and your partner on that same day and then cancel at the last minute, ensuring your partner’s availability without giving away your romantic plans.
 Make sure that this evening will be about your partner. Think about what he or she likes, including food, places, and activities. This will help you to plan a memorable evening that your partner is sure to enjoy.You could make a list of some of your partner’s favorite things and find a way to include them in your evening. For example, if your partner loves nature, you could make sure that your romantic evening includes a walk on the beach.
 Note that there are two types of romantic evenings. The first type is to do something special at home and the second type is to plan an evening out. Both can be great for a romantic date with your loved one. To make this decision, consider whether your partner generally enjoys going out or staying in. You want them to be comfortable.


Staying at home is a good choice so that you will have privacy and not be distracted by other people.
Going out is a good choice because it can make for a special evening by doing something out of the ordinary.

