;
, Read up on your table manners, and make sure to always practice them. When you bump into someone accidentally, say "Excuse/Pardon me", when someone gives you a compliment, smile and say "Thank you!". And of course, always be polite to everyone.
 Call anyone you meet "Ma'am" and "Sir", unless told to do otherwise.
 Don't overdo it though!

, Do not wear clothes that are too revealing. Southern belles love wearing dresses, pearls, heels, and nice jackets. Invest in a few nice, casual dresses if you can.
 Bathe everyday, wear a light perfume, keep your hair looking nice and clean, keep your nails manicured and polished, and never cake on the make up!

, Always help out your family, spend quality time with them, and love them. Call your Mother, "Mama", and call your Father, "Daddy", regardless of how old you are!

, When you're complimented, do not try to shoot down the compliment. When someone says "You look very pretty today!", smile warmly and say "Thank you! I love your ---!". Complimenting them back shows that you're a sweet, kind person.
 A southern belle always has a bright, warm smile on her face.
 A southern belle is sweet, kind, and generous to everyone they come across. This is where "Southern Hospitality" comes in to play. If you don't like someone, still be polite and sweet. And if you can't, simply do not say anything!

, Offer it to everyone who visits your home. It's a Southern staple, and tastes delicious!

, Doing chores for your mother shows that you care, and respect all the sacrifices she does for you!

, A southern belle has an education, and a good head on her shoulders.
 A Southern belle would never be caught singing drunk in her panties.
 Use euphemisms instead. Say "Darn" instead of "Damn", and so on. To them, it shows a lack of intelligence, sounds dirty, and is completely unnecessary.
 If you need to use the restroom, simply excuse yourself.
 Respect your religion, and those of others, as well. God is your number one go-to advice-giver.
, Hold your head up high, sit up straight, and have a neat, groomed appearance.

