 A small organization might be able to function without one, but most organizations prefer to have a document written up. Keep it short and simple so staff and volunteer can refer to it easily. This is not the first document potential volunteers will see, but it will help you narrow in on your goals and strategy for using volunteers. Cover the following topics:A job description for each volunteer position
Who oversees recruitment, training, and leadership for volunteers
Application forms, interviewing process, and criminal background check for potential volunteers, if necessary.
How much volunteers can be reimbursed for transportation or other expenses;
, In all your recruitment materials, begin by stressing the value of the volunteers' service. Describe the positive impact a volunteer working for your organization can achieve. Mention valuable training or work experience that could go on a volunteer's resume or college application. If there is a possibility of a volunteer advancing into a role with more responsibility or becoming a paid staff member, include this in the recruitment material.
 Name the most specific role possible. Informative terms such as "volunteer food server" or "volunteer beds & shower coordinator" are more likely to attract results than a general term such as "shelter volunteer."If the role is unusual or specialized, describe the specific skills you're looking for.
 Make required experience (or lack of requirements) clear on your recruitment materials, so no one assumes he is unqualified.Reassure potential recruits that training will be provided, or that there is work to be done that does not require any specialized skills. Let people know that the minimum amount of time commitment required, whether that's "just one day" or "only two hours a week."

, Appeal to a diverse swathe of people, especially if the volunteer service involves interactions with community members. Come up with strategies to overcome additional cultural barriers that may prevent certain demographics from responding.You may include these in all your mass recruitment messages, or create multiple versions that you use for different audiences.


Give senior citizens the opportunity to use advanced or specialized skills, and supply reading materials with large, easily read text.
Translate your message in areas with a high non-English-speaking population.
If a selection process is involved, make it clear that the form is used to match your skills to the right opportunity, not to exclude certain groups.

