;
, Creating an account will allow you to do many activities on Goodreads.
 Having friends on Goodreads is always better. You can invite friends from Yahoo, Gmail, Hotmail, Facebook, Twitter -- whatever your address book is.


If you have multiple address books, you can invite friends from other ones too.
 Just search for books you like and click on the stars you like. If you want to read a book, click on "Want to Read."


Explore the different book genres. You might find a book you've read that you want to rate, or a book you want to read.
 If you've read a book and think you understand it well enough to take a quiz, or you're just trying to study for a test coming up at school, there are quizzes you can take on books. Just click on "Take the Quiz" and answer the quiz questions, or to see a list of all quizzes on all books on Goodreads click on the "Quizzes" item from the Community tab on the top notification bar.
 Found something interesting that other people should remember? This feature can be found under the Community tab of the top notification bar.
 You can find a list of all their groups via the "Community" tab's Groups item.
 Below the details section of your book and/or below the section listing only your Goodreads friend's reviews but above all the other reviews, you'll find another section to interact with others about that book. Ask a question or converse about something dealing with that edition of a book.
 If you loose your train of thought, you can come back to it later and write more if you'd like. You can find this option underneath the Community tab on the notification bar at the top of the screen.
 Although few people actually win books, this can be fun for most, especially when your name comes up as the winner of that edition of the book.
 You can find this section on the Home page each year underneath the "(year) Reading Challenge" heading.
 Although new Goodreads-owned polls aren't published frequently anymore, vote to see what others think about their activity and see how your answers stack up against all the other users of Goodreads.
 During all times in the year, you can see the Goodreads Choice Award book lists for various genres. You'll find this underneath the Browse tab on the notification bar at the top of the website listed as "Choice Awards".
, A searchable website on Goodreads can be found listed under the "Community" tab on the notification bar at the top of your page.

