 If your female infant is not old enough to pee while sitting on a toilet and can't understand your instructions, then your best bet is to try the bag specimen method of collecting a urine sample. You'll need a special bag to collect the urine and a sanitized specimen cup (both provided by your doctor), as well as some antibacterial wet wipes or special wipes provided by your doctor and a bottle of hand sanitizer.


The special collection bag is a plastic bag with a sticky strip on one end, which is made to fit over your infant's genital area, but underneath their diaper.Urine infections are very difficult to diagnose from urine samples in a bag specimen because of the high risk of contamination. However, it can give your doctor a general idea of the genitourinary health of your child.
 The collection bag is meant to fit over the labia of your daughter, so she needs her clothing and diaper removed to gain access.She can still wear socks and a top to keep warm, as long as the top doesn't interfere with cleaning her vagina and attaching the collection bag. Place her on a changing table and remove her diaper and throw it away. Clean her as best you can if she's soiled herself.


Don't use any baby powder after cleaning her, as it may contaminate the urine sample.
In the morning, before trying to collect urine, give your daughter a bath and wash her genitalia thoroughly with soap and water.
After the bath, avoid overfeeding her before trying to collect a sample so she doesn't poop in her diaper and increase the chances of bacterial contamination.
Giving her lots of liquids after her bath will trigger her to pee sooner.
 Once your daughter is undressed and on the changing table, lather your hands thoroughly with alcohol-based sanitizer and let them air dry while keeping an eye on your infant to make sure she doesn't roll off the table.Once she's on the changing table, it's too risky to run to the bathroom and wash your hands with warm water and soap, so sanitizer is best.


Remember to lather underneath your fingernails and all the way up past your wrists with the sanitizer.
Apply a second squirt of sanitizer to your hands to be on the safe side, but don't use it on your infant's genitalia — it might irritate the skin, so stick with the antibacterial wet wipes.
 After you've sanitized your hands, it's time to clean your daughter's labia and the area around the opening of her urethra (meatus) more thoroughly. The meatus is just above the opening to the vagina. Using your index and middle finger of one hand, gently separate her labia. With your other hand, take an antibacterial wet wipe and clean directly over the meatus, using one stroke from top to bottom.Take a couple more wet wipes and use them to clean within the skin folds of the labia near the urethra — first one side and then the other.


Feel free to wear vinyl or latex sanitary gloves at this stage, although it's not crucial.
Wipe in only one direction, going from top to bottom (from the vagina to the anus), with the wipes before discarding them. Don't clean in a circular motion.
Wiping up from the anus may introduce bacteria into your infant's vaginal area.
 Open the small plastic collection bag and place it on your daughter. The bag is meant to be placed over the two folds of labia skin on either side of her vagina.Make sure the sticky strip adheres to her surrounding skin, then wrap her up in a fresh diaper and let her crawl or walk around.


To prevent a mess, always place a clean diaper over the collection bag so there's no leaking.
Check your daughter every hour to see if she's peed. You'll need to open the diaper and then re-close it if she hasn't
An active infant can cause the bag to move around and become unstuck, so it may take multiple tries with multiple bags to collect a sample.
 Once you've noticed your daughter has peed, wash your hands again and then carefully remove the small bag without spilling too much of the urine sample.You may want to put on gloves for this part as some of the urine may spill onto your hands. Transfer the urine from the bag to the sterilized collection cup and then throw away the bag. Fill about 1/2 to 1/3 of the cup only. Tightly fasten the cups lid and then wash any urine off it and let it air dry. Once dry, write the date, time and your daughter's name on it with a felt marker and store it in the fridge until you have a doctor's appointment.


Prior to removing the collection bag, it's a good idea to unscrew the the lid from the sterile collection cup and place it upside down on a clean paper towel.
Do not touch the inside of the sterile cup or lid when transferring the urine from the collection bag.

