 When you have anxiety you may breathe too shallow, focus too much on your breathing or attempt to take on too big of breathes to get oxygen you feel that is missing.If you are feeling like you are going to hyperventilate, try Co2 Rebreathing. While you may think you are having troubles getting enough oxygen, in reality hyperventilating occurs when your Co2 level is low. Cup your hand over your mouth as you breathe normally. Re-breathe the same air in the hand to return the Co2 back into the body.
Deep breathing can be good to self-calm. The easiest exercise starts simply by sitting in a chair with arm rests so you can sit up straight with arms to your side. Take a deep breath in through your nose to the count of 5. Then, slowly over a count of 7 release through your mouth. Repeat for 10 total sets of in and out breathes.
 This exercise is quite simple. You basically sit comfortably in a chair or on a couch, and gradually contract and relax each muscle group in your body. Begin at your toes. Tense your muscles and hold for several seconds, noticing what the tension feels like. Then, relax your toes and take in that feeling of released tension. Next, move up to another set of muscles.


You may prefer to find a more formal exercise to follow.Or, you can do the exercise with music., You can do self-guided imagery by recording yourself reading a sample scenario or you may find a recording that works for you for the exercise.One example of a self-guide imagery you can record to listen to would be focusing on describing your own special place with all of your senses. You would describe this special place in enough detail that just listening to the recording will trigger a visual image. Describe the sensations you feel around this special place and why it makes you feel good.
If coming up with your own script is not easy for you to do, you can download a script to record., This process would first include choosing a simple yet meaningful mantra and then following relaxing techniques as you focus and recite this mantra.Once you have a mantra that seems like a good fit, find an object you can focus on while reciting the mantra. Do the exercise in a safe space without distractions where you are free to focus on your posture, being tall and strong. You will also focus on deep, relaxed breathing as you repeat your mantra.
 Someone with experience treating communication apprehension and other forms of social anxiety can help you overcome your fears. Keep in mind that this should not be a last-ditch effort. You may want to see a therapist or counselor to discuss your anxiety, but also work on many of the self-help strategies listed in this article.


A specialist can help diagnose the level of anxiety you experience during communication with special tests.Be sure that you are straightforward with your provider so that he or she can adequately assess your problem.

