 The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, or NCMEC, was established in 1984 to manage all issues in the United States pertaining to missing and exploited children. NCMEC operates a 24-hour hotline seven days a week. If you believe that you have spotted a missing child, come across an exploited child, or have relevant information for the authorities, call the 24-hour hotline at: 1-800-THE-LOST or 1-800-843-5678.Every tip you report will be passed along to the proper authorities.
Tip categories include: Possession, Manufacture and Distribution of Child Pornography; Online Enticement of Children for Sexual Acts; Child Sex Trafficking; Child Sex Tourism; Extra-familial Child Sexual Molestation; Unsolicited Obscene Material Sent to a Child; Misleading Domain Name; and Misleading Words or Digital Images Online., In addition to its 24-hour hotline, the NCMEC also has an online form for reporting relevant tips. The online form is used exclusively to submit information regarding exploited children. If you have a possible lead or tip regarding the sexual exploitation of a child or children, you can report that tip using the center's cybertipline.Type “NCMEC CyberTipline” into the search bar of your web browser and press “Enter” or click “Search.”
Click on the entry titled: CyberTipline of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.”
The information you are required to fill out is dependent upon the type of crime you are reporting. Do your best to fill in all of the required fields.
When you have finished filling out the form, click “Submit.” Your tip will be passed along to the proper authorities after you submit it., NCMEC’s 24-hour hotline is only to be used for tips. If you have general questions or concerns, use the organization’s alternative phone number. You can call the center at: 1-703-224-2150This is not a private number for John Walsh.
 If you do not have an urgent tip, consider mailing or faxing a letter to the NCEMC. Your letter may include general questions, comments, or praise. You can address your comments specifically to John Walsh, but he may or may not read them.


Address your letter to: National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, Charles B. Wang International Children's Building, 699 Prince Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3175, USA.
Fax your letter to: 1-703-224-2122. The fax line is not open 24 hours a day or seven days a week. Any information you send will not be received until normal business hours., Instead of writing or faxing a letter to the NCMEC, you may submit your questions and comments through an online contact form. This form should not be used for urgent tips. While you may address your comments and questions directly to Walsh, he may not read or respond.


Type “Contact NCMEC” into the search bar of your web browser and press “Enter” or click “Search.”
Click on the first result. It should be titled “Contact Us.”
Provide your name, email address, and comments or questions into the correct text boxes.
After filling out the necessary fields, click the "Submit" button at the bottom of the form.