 If you're going to be lugging a backpack around from hostel to hostel for two weeks, you don't want to pack more than you comfortably carry. Weigh the pack before you leave--you can use a luggage scale, or weigh yourself and the bag together. If it's more than 20 or 30 pounds, consider what, if anything, you can leave behind. Walk around with your pack and make sure that it's comfortable.
 If you can limit yourself to one carry-on bag and eliminate the need to check in any luggage, you will save yourself a world of time and hassle. It may sound daunting - but seasoned travelers swear that one small bag provides easily enough space for the travel essentials, you just need to cut-down on any non-essential items.Limiting yourself to carry-on luggage makes the process of traveling much easier - you will get in and out of the airport a lot faster, and enjoy the convenience of having all of your travel essentials directly on hand throughout your flight. You will also avoid the risk of incurring charges on overweight check-in bags, particularly on smaller local airlines.Packing a single small bag also has its advantages once you reach your destination. You will be a lot more flexible when it comes to moving from place to place, making it easier to take advantage of any opportunities or adventures that come your way. You will also appear as less of an easy target to pick-pockets and con artists.
Bear in mind that many airlines impose a weight limit upon carry-on luggage--often to the order of 20-30 pounds. Before you try to fly, visit the website of your airline and find the carry-on limits. If you will be flying with multiple airlines, make sure to check the requirements for all of them.
 It's easy to pack more clothes than you will end up wearing, so pack fewer outfits than you think you'll need. Think about how many days you'll be away, and which activities you plan on doing while you're there. Consider what the weather will be like. If the weather has consistently been at 90 degrees for the last month, odds are you won't need more than one sweater.


You'll probably end up wearing some items more than once, so think about clothes that you can mix and match. For example: for every one pair of shorts you bring, pack two or more shirts that will go with them, as you won't need to change your shorts everyday.
Pack clothes that can be adapted to suit the situation. Men: try packing versatile pants, along with a light button-down shirt that can be worn out at night as well as on day trips. Women: try packing a simple dress that can be worn casually with flat sandals and a sun hat throughout the day, or dressed up with heels, a belt and some jewelry at night.
Find out whether there is a laundromat near your accommodation - if there's one within easy reach, you will be able to wash your clothes, thus increasing the number of times you can wear them!
Remember that it's not the end of the world if you end up needing to buy a couple of cheap t-shirts or a rain jacket while you're away - and chances are you won't need to. When travelling light, always pack for the best case scenario, not the worst case.
 This is a great way to keep your wardrobe fashionable while packing light. Make sure that it will go with as many of your planned outfits as possible and that it serves a definite purpose.


A large, decorative scarf can serve as a funky accessory to wear around your neck, can be worn in place of a cardigan if draped around your arms and shoulder, can turn into a make-shift sarong at the beach, can be worn as a head-scarf to protect your head from the sun, or can serve as a belt if worn around your waist!

, Shoes are the heaviest, bulkiest items that you will need to bring with you while travelling, so try to limit yourself to the absolute minimum. This can be a difficult choice to make for those who love having the perfect shoe for every occasion, but try to think about what's really necessary.


If you're going on an action-packed sports holiday, you're hardly going to need a pair of dress shoes. A light-weight pair of flats or sneakers will carry you through any situations (restaurants, bars, museums, etc.) where you need to dress up slightly more formally.
If you're going on a business trip, pack appropriate shoes for any meetings you have to take, along with comfier, more casual pair to wear while travelling or during down time.
Don't pack your running shoes unless you are absolutely sure that you will be exercising while you're away. If you're going on a relaxing, indulgent holiday to a sunny destination, will you really get up at 7 am every morning for a 5 mile (8.0 km) run? Unless the answer is a resounding "yes", your running shoes are taking up valuable space.
 Did you know that they have supermarkets in Europe? And pharmacies? And fashionable clothes stores? As mentioned earlier, unless you are travelling somewhere extremely remote, it's unlikely that there are many items you won't be able to find wherever you go. So unless you're particularly picky about the type of hair conditioner or shaving gel you need to use, leave these items at home and just pick them up when you get there.


Buying as you go may seem like an unnecessary expense, but it will help you to significantly cut down on weight and free up some extra space in your bag. It's all about priorities!
Remember that many large brands are universal - you should be able to find Gillette shaving cream, Colgate toothpaste and Pantene conditioner no matter where you are in world--or at least something comparable. You can also see this trip as a chance to try something new.
If the worst comes to the worst and you can't find a particular product, ask yourself how the locals manage to live without it. Do they have some kind of alternative? Or is just an unnecessary comfort? Travelling light may require some sacrifices! Consider it an adventure.

