 If you have access to the Internet, but choose not to register online, you may print a copy of the mail-in voter registration form at http://www.sots.ct.gov/sots/cwp/view.asp?a=3179&q=489908. On that screen, you will find links to the voter registration form in both English and Spanish. Select the one that applies, and then print the form., If you do not have access to the Internet or a printer, you may get a copy of the registration form by calling the Secretary of State at (800) 540-3764 or (860) 509-6100. Make the selections on the recorded telephone menu for “Election Related Questions” (option #1), then “Election Related Forms” (option #3). You will be directed to a telephone agent who will be able to help you.Be aware of the deadlines for registration. If you are requesting a registration form my mail, you will need to allow time to receive the form, complete it, return it, and get registered before the election.
 Fill out all required fields on the form. You will be required to provide your name, address, date of birth, telephone number, and enroll in a political party. There is also a space for your driver’s license ID number. If you do not have a Connecticut driver’s license, you may provide the last four digits of your social security number instead., When your registration form is complete, you need to sign the bottom before you return it. If you do not sign the form, your registration will not be accepted or will be delayed. This could prevent you from voting in the next election, unless you have time to correct the omission.Your signature indicates that all the information on the form is true. You are also verifying that you are eligible to vote in Connecticut.
 Place the voter registration form in an envelope and send it to your local town hall. A list of all town hall addresses can be found at http://www.ct.gov/sots/LIB/sots/ElectionServices/lists/ROVOfficeAddresses.pdf. Alternatively, you may deliver the form in person to your town hall.You will receive confirmation from the Secretary of State’s office within three weeks after town hall has received your registration form.

