 This is the most important step. While the rest of the article will examine common cliches in greater detail, the most effective thing you can do is look at your work, identify the cliches that it embraces, and then think about how you can twist or subvert - or, even, if you're really good - deconstruct them.;
, The setting of a work of fantasy often influences everything else, from characters to plot, and it can be the defining point of a work. But we've all seen the fantasy version of Medieval Europe a thousand times. Sword and sorcery, princesses and knights, dragons and ogres - how about basing your setting off of a different culture's myths? How about a dismal Russian-esque setting, with Baba Yagas, firebirds, and creepy rusalkas? Or a world based on the myths of Native Americans, where the hero will be tested by tricksters? Also try different time periods: pre-historic, ancient, Renaissance, Baroque, Victorian, modern.
 In any fiction, characters are the most important piece. Fantasy is no exception. Though your characters can and will be influenced by the setting and the plot - even if those two aspects are derivative, if you have lively, original characters, then your work will be remembered.


The Hero. Does your hero need to be a teenager, who is prophesied to save the world and become the greatest hero of all times? Does he necessarily need to be the Chosen One? Does he have to become the most powerful person in the world? Does he have to have a dark/mysterious/tragic or otherwise special past? We've seen those many times. Try something different or at least use your own twists. Your hero may be a teenager, who becomes the savior of what-did-they-call-it-again-country... despite having a relatively normal past and not even being a subject of a prophecy. Maybe the viewpoint character is a mentor, who at first does not appear to be the main protagonist, but(fill in here yourself). Maybe s/he is someone not often used as a hero. There are numbers of possibilities.
Villains. They're often best when they truly believe they aren't evil, but are merely at cross-purposes with the hero. Both sides feeling they are in the right makes for better drama. It's easy to stick them to the stereotype of a maniac who wants to rule the world; instead, find them something evil to do, and then give them a motivation. They aren't necessarily in need of vengeance, and they don't have to be insane. They could simply be misled or confused. They could believe that things need fixing and only they are able to do so.

Alternatively, you can make your villain a faceless, unseen entity, but you should still have a vague understanding of their character. Why does the evil faceless entity oppose the forces of good? Hoe does it see them? Why does the entity believe they have the right to change, conquer or destroy the world?


Other characters. Avoid stereotypes. We have seen gruff dwarves, lithe elves, good-hearted thieves, gallant, noble knights, tender healers, wise, experienced mentors and others of that ilk. Be creative and break the mold. Original personalities make wonders for your characters.






You may want to try mix-and-match method with this one. Take two stereotypes, for instance and change personalities. Fairies are typically cute and mischievous little helpers and orcs are typically terrifying, beastly henchman. What would barbaric pixies be like? How about a race of prankster goblins?

