 Your close friends should really like you, and you should all have some similar things in common. You should be the center of attention in your group, but don't make them hate you. They should be loyal, smart, cool, and funny or outgoing nice people. Your official group should consist of 2-6 people. At least one or two should be the type to do whatever you want done for you. Buy them presents every now and then, invite them to parties or to do fun stuff like sleepovers or movies, and always spend time with them. Don't hang out with everyone in your class a little here, and a little there. You stick to them. A lot of boys talk about girls, so if your group seems like the type, go ahead! If your friends like hockey, and you do too, go ahead and play the game. On the weekends or during summer break, you could take them to a water park or an amusement park and go on the best rides. Make sure you wear all the best clothes, and always try to be the "best-dressed" in your group. Saying that you can't afford that stuff is not an excuse. If you think people are straying, or less loyal to you (friends or acquaintances or whatever) then get a secret from them - never do anything nasty with it, that's really low, don't even threaten to, they'll just assume and understand and be nicer - or at the very least, if they do stray, won't turn on you.


Remember - you want true friends, not idol worshipers (if your less close friends and classmates worship and idolize you, though, that would be a good thing).;
, Looking good is one of the main things of being a popular boy. Wash your hair every day, and use deodorant if needed, smell good, and wash your face every morning.


You should also have mint flavored gum handy for fresh smelling breath. Use mouthwash in the mornings.
Bring deodorant in your backpack too as an extra just in case.
 Focus on your hair, be conceited if you have to. Take note of the hairstyles that cool and popular kids have. Don't have it too long, or you'll look like a girl. You can have it somewhat long, but mostly just keep it normal.

Don't pass the mean thing. If you don't do it completely, you've got to do it a little bit. Don't treat your friends like losers. Losers you have to treat like losers. Your friends, you treat like your friends.
Be nice to girls. Girls you like you should just compliment them every now and then and be really nice to them. Unless they're your sister! Wink wink.
 You should always have the perfect thing to say to anyone who insults you, right away. Make sure what you say is quick, witty, and makes total sense. Here's a tip: you have to hit the opponent where it hurts the most. Find out what makes them squirm,and use that in a comeback. Don't let anyone get away with insulting you. Being quick witted and smart is always respected. If for some reason you can't think of a good comeback on the spot, stare your opponent down. Give a tiny eye roll, smirk, and look them up and down. This would make them feel insecure without you doing anything. Then you would have won the battle.


If someone does something to threaten your spot, put them in their place and be a b*tch. Say something to them that wouldn't make them go near you ever again, but still want to be you.
 People love mysterious, and secretive people. Make sure you have at least one person you can trust, which most likely would be your best friend. Tell secrets with your friends, and keep them between your friends and you.
 Don't buy dorky, mommy's boy, or extremely cheap clothes. If you want to be the center of attention, you should always go with a better brand but definitely not a fancy restaurant look. If you can't afford that, look for sales at some of the best brands, usually at the end of summer, there is a huge online sale at most stores! You can also go to cheaper brands that look more expensive, not everything has to be $100. Just don't have a trashy, cheap look. T-shirts from GAP are usually fine. Don't wear pink under any circumstances. Don't wear polos too often. Some ideas for clothing brands are "Abercrombie", "Hollister", "Aeropostale", "Desigual", and "Nike". Don't always wear brand clothing, wear a variety of clothing. Just again, no dorky stuff. Saying that you can't afford it is not an excuse.


Flip-flops are great for summer days. Avoid most sandals unless your feet are nice enough to show off.
 You should get at least an hour and a half of physical activity each day. Also, don't consume too much junk food or too many carbs. Join Sports teams, play the basketball game that everyone's doing at recess. It's a tough world out there, and nobody likes an obese or unhealthy kid. Try to lose weight before conquering your school if you're a little overweight, and you'll be fine. Don't be overly skinny.
 No one really has confidence. You just have to project it and make people think you do. Overtime you will be more confident but don't be afraid to be outgoing. Especially when you're putting someone in their place, you have to be confident.


If you feel very unconfident about yourself, type up 100, no more, no less reasons you rock.
 Don't play it dumb, or fake. Even though you're using these tips to become the ruler of your school, don't completely change who you are. You have to be yourself or people might avoid you. If the person you're trying to be friends with doesn't want to be friends with you, then it's their loss, not yours. Don't let somebody change you. If he/she doesn't like you for who you are, then move on to a different person. Be fake nice to people who you don't like, but make it obvious.
 Please don't go on about "studying makes you nerdy" because it's not true. Popularity in school doesn't last you forever. You'll need to be smart after school when you get a job. You don't have to show it that much, just be sure that you don't flunk everything.
 Spread a few rumors, but be witty with this and never let anyone trace it back to you. If they do trace it back to you, don't deny it. Smirk and say "I know, so what?" and walk away. People will think you're untouchable and perfect. Pull pranks on people, and always make sure someone in your clique, if it's not you, is always good at getting the latest scoop and gossip about everyone, so you have something to keep under lock and key until you need it. Wink wink again.
 If someone has fun even though it may be against the "school rules", don't tell on them. That will make everyone hate you. You don't go by the rules too much, but don't overdo not following them to the extent of expulsion. Unless you have enough schemes up your sleeve to be un-expelled, but you're not Blair Waldorf, so bottom line - don't get expelled. If you can get your teachers to love you, great, take advantage of that fact. Just don't start worshiping your teacher -- that would be awkward.


Don't be rude to teacher's faces, but don't be overly helpful and nice either. Feel free to gossip about teachers that you hate though. Everyone does it.
 When you're trying to get something with an adult, or if you're talking to the principal, hide yourself a little, and be sweet, even if you hate your principal to the bone. You'll almost never get in trouble doing it this way.
 People are probably going to insult you a few times, but they're mostly either envying you or they're too much of a goody two shoes. If someone says "You're ugly" or "I hate you" or "You're mean" or something like that, use one of your instant super witty comebacks that we discussed at the top of this page. People are going to envy you, or hate you because you're way more popular than them. Don't cry when someone says something bad about you, that's just downright dumb. Give a comeback that makes them squirm, and be a bitch about it to them. They'll be scared to pick a fight with you, and your clique is the backup.
 It can be useful, believe me. If someone does something to piss you off, don't let it slide or try to suck up to them to make them like you. Get revenge when you need to, they won't stand a chance.


Scheme with your group when you can.
 People may think you're self centered, but if you're the ruler, that's sorta got to happen.

