 To take someone's temperature, you have several options when it comes to thermometers. Glass or digital thermometers can be used orally, rectally, and under the armpit. Special thermometers can be used on the forehead (skin) or in the ear.For babies under 3 months, always use a digital or glass thermometer to take a rectal reading. For children under 4-years-old, you should take their temperature under their armpits, rectally, or on their forehead.;
, Before using a thermometer on yourself or someone else, your hands need to be clean. Wash them with soap and warm running water, scrubbing for at least 20 seconds., If you don't know if a thermometer is clean, start by washing it in cold water. Apply rubbing alcohol to the thermometer, and then wash the alcohol off in cold water., Next, you will need to insert the thermometer into the patient, going by your chosen route. For an oral thermometer, insert it under the tongue, and have the patient hold it there for at least 40 seconds. Most digital thermometers will beep when done.For the armpit, the tip of thermometer goes in the armpit. It should touch the skin (not cloth). Hold it for 40 seconds or until it beeps.
 For a rectal reading, have the patient lay on their back and lift their thighs. Apply a bit of petroleum jelly to the end of the thermometer before pushing it in the anus. Don't go past an inch. Half an inch is usually enough. Make sure you don't push past any resistance. Leave it in for 40 seconds or until it beeps., For an ear canal thermometer, insert the thermometer gently into the person's ear. Wait until it beeps before pulling it out to read the temperature. Always read the manual that comes with the thermometer, as it will give special instructions on how that particular thermometer should be inserted.For a forehead thermometer, also called a Temporal Artery thermometer, turn it on and slide it across the forehead of the patient. It should read the temperature immediately.
Anyone with a temperature over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) should be seen by a doctor.