 Pour the required amount of milk into a microwavable cup or metal saucepan, depending on whether you plan on heating your milk in the microwave or on the stove. You will need about 1/2 cup of milk for every cappuccino.






;
,









If microwaving, place the cup of milk into the microwave and heat on high for approximately 30 seconds, or until steam begins to rise from the milk.
If using the stove, place the saucepan on a preheated burner, set to medium. Heat until steam rise from the milk.
 Once the milk is heated, place the wire whisk into the milk and twirl the handle between your palms to create foam. Keep twirling the whisk until you achieve the desired amount of foam.
 Pour a 1/2 cup of milk into a glass jar. The milk should not rise above the halfway point, as you need to leave enough room for the froth to expand.
 Tightly replace the lid, then vigorously shake the jar until the milk becomes frothy and has almost doubled in size. This should take about 30 seconds.
 Take the lid off the jar and place it in the microwave. Heat on high for approximately 30 seconds, or until steam begins to rise from the milk. The foam should begin to stabilize in the microwave, rising to the top of the milk.
 The fresher and colder your milk is, the better. You will produce nicer foam and the cappuccino will taste better.
 Whole milk, or half-and-half tend to foam better than milk with a lower fat percentage, such as 2% or skim. Whole milk also tends to produce a sweeter tasting foam than low-fat milk. However, the type of milk you use is largely a matter of preference, and you can still produce good results with low-fat milk.
 Of course, the quality of your cappuccino doesn't just depend on the foam, it will also depend on how good you coffee is. Use strong, good-quality coffee and make sure it's nice and hot. You should prepare the coffee before you prepare the milk.
 Once the foam is heated, give the cup, saucepan or jar a quick swirl followed by a light tap on the kitchen counter. This causes any large bubbles to pop, compressing the foam.
 When adding the milk to the coffee, you should use a spoon to hold back the foam until the cup is 2/3 full. Then use the spoon to scoop the foam on top of the milky coffee.
 To make the perfect cappuccino, sprinkle a little cocoa powder or even grated chocolate on top of the foamed milk. The heat should cause the chocolate to melt slightly. Enjoy!








