 A champion is the embodiment of your soul, an extension of your body and a window of opportunities (that opportunity is winning at League of Legends!). Always select the champion that does the most damage from the most distance. These champions are always at an advantage when fighting enemies with no range attacks, you are able to hit them 2-3 times before they can even attack you once! Not only does it put you at a 3-4 hit advantage, but some champions like Annie and Lulu have a ton of range and can hit you with spells as well! They are also great for attacking turrets because you can attack them from afar and escape when danger is nearby. Remember range champions are the key to winning in League of Legends!;
, If the champion is an extension of yourself, then the items is an extension of your hero, which doubles up on the extension of yourself. You could almost say it is a double extension or "turbo extension" in the pro scene. Some items are designed to trick the players down the incorrect path. The key is to purchase items with slow and attack damage.


Go for items such as Frozen Mallet and, to a lesser extent, Icebourne Gauntlet. These items slow the enemy champions, making it harder for them to reach you with your better range. If a normal ranged champion gets 3-4 hits in versus a melee champion then a frozen mallet champion gets 5-6 attacks in, thats 2 whole attacks! This is absolutely game changing. Icebourne Gauntlet is not as good as frozen mallet as it does not increase your attack or give the bonus HP which allows you to stay alive to do more attacks! Here is a list of the best items to help you at winning at League of Legends:

Frozen Mallet
Icebourne Gauntlet
Rylai's Scepter
Twin Shadows
Frost Queen's Charm
Tiamat



, As a range champion, it is advised to go to top lane, where most players tend to play melee champions' top lane is also a good choice because there is only 1 entrance for the other lanes to ambush you from. Middle lane is definitely a bad choice because there are multiple entrances for the enemy to ambush you from. Bottom lane is a hit or miss. Unless you are with a friend or know they good then do not bother with bottom lane, you are essentially playing against 3 players if your ally is bad. The trick to knowing if they are good is if they also picked a ranged champion. Remember the most important rule is Win lane, Win Game.
 1 kill = about 15 minion kills. Think about that the next time you feed and feel like it's impossible to win your lane! Farming can make the difference between winning and losing the laning phase of the game, especially with spells-bearing champions dedicated to farming like Veigar's "Q"and Nasus's siphoning strike, which make them the extreme damage dealers. But don't get worked up-They are only supposed to appear in the late game.
 In other words, if you're scoring 0/3 against a Nasus in top lane, don't chase him out past the river and make yourself vulnerable to ganking. Instead, make sure you always have an escape route.


You can also stay under turret, which will protect you from the champion and will slow them if they attack you. The only bad thing about the camping turret is that it's harder to farm the minion waves. The turret will kill most minions, but you won't lose as much health by staying under your turret. This will also prevent many ganks.
 Objectives such as Towers, Blue and Red buff, Dragon, and Baron Nashor can mean the difference between winning and losing; they give off a huge cash injection to the entire team and can help give you an edge that wins you a vital team fight. It is immensely important that you control as many objectives as possible at once with wards.
 In order to do this you must destroy the turrets leading up to the nexus itself. To do this, you must attack the turrets whenever you can, even if the enemy are attacking you at the turrets. Every little hit slowly builds up to remove the mountain that is the turret. This is key to victory. Also the additional gold you receive for destroying a turret is 150 gold to every team member meaning you are helping your allies get stronger as well!

, This annoys everyone in the game and makes you feel bad, even if you win. You shouldn't play to win. Instead, you should play to have fun! I mean, the point of this game is to have fun with your friends, right? Flaming and raging really doesn't help you win at all.


What does help you is thinking about what you're going to do before you do it and pondering what you did wrong after you do it so it doesn't happen again. Keep in mind that getting objectives helps your team out a lot, so if you have a flamer, rager, or troll on your team, try to counter them with your objective taking and superior leadership skills!

