
These are Color, Cut, Clarity, Carat.
 In diamonds, these are ‘fingerprints’ of a diamond. No two diamonds are identical. Further, inclusions help distinguish between synthetic and natural diamonds. Any diamond certificate tells you the clarity grade. On the clarity scale from Fl to SI2, you can't notice the blemishes with the naked eye. So if you trying to save money the cue is in buying a Diamond that is not higher in grade than an SI1 or SI2. SI1 and SI2 mean that there are inclusions visible under 10x magnification. This is a very high power magnification, and nobody is going to look at your diamond like that, unless you ask them to.
 Get a Diamond that is high on the color scale only if you have no option. Anything higher than an H or I grade is for someone who has a lot of extra money. I diamonds do look nice and cost less. When evaluating color, ensure that the diamond is untreated. Treatment implies that the diamond has been through some kind of heat treatment, or irradiation, or fracture filling. All of these are meant to enhance the color of a diamond.
 The cut affects the brilliance and sparkle in a Diamond .This is what makes Diamonds so wanted.
A Diamond is divided into two parts. There is the top part, which is the crown, and there is the bottom part, which is the pavilion. In a well proportioned Diamond, the crown should be about one-third the length of the total Diamond. And the pavilion should be about two-thirds of the total length of the diamond from top to bottom. The proportions of a Diamond are clearly labeled on the certificate.
 Save here.
 And cut determines how well the shape is executed. If size is important, consider shapes other than round. While a round, brilliant-cut diamond is popular as it exhibits maximum brilliance, it looks smaller than diamonds in other shapes.
Consider an oval, pear-shaped or marquise diamond, all of which look larger than the round. Experiment further with setting styles and designs to make the diamond appear larger. Tulip setting and Tiffany Setting elevate the stone from its base making it look grander.
 A 70 pt diamond can be priced much less than a 100 pt (or 1 carat) diamond and it may look almost as big to the naked eye.
Another way to save a great deal of money is to buy three less than 1carat diamonds that are placed on one ring instead of single large 1 carat stone. This is not always popular but it’s best to know that many smaller stones on a diamond ring cost much less than 1 large stone of the same total weight.
 Try an Internet search along the lines of "buy wholesale diamonds" or "buy loose diamonds.";
, Check the fine print. Look up return policies and quality statements, and stick with marketplaces that specifically offer GIA certified diamonds. If a marketplace does not say that it sells certified diamonds, it may be a scam.
 Go to a jeweler or other diamond expert who offers custom setting services.
 The most common options include yellow gold, white gold, silver, and platinum.
 The setting is the part that holds the diamond in place. Common designs, especially for rings, include prong/claw, hooked, short, and thin.
 Some may sell loose stones, while many sell pre-made diamond jewelry. The diamonds at these stores often cost less than those found at jewelers and standard retailers, however, and this may be an option worth considering if you feel hesitant about purchasing loose stones and designing a custom piece.

