 To start making a budget, you'll have to write down all the expenses you have during the course of a month. This includes the obvious, like rent and utilities payments. However, think of the not so obvious things as well. Do you have medical bills? Credit card payments? Insurance payments? Student loans? Take these into account as well.You should also consider expenses that aren't necessary, but that you spend on each month. This includes eating out, shopping, entertainment, as well as food in general. You may not know exactly how much you spend each month, but try to get a rough estimate. If you have an online bank account, you may be able to go through your purchases that month and get a more accurate sense of how much you spend on unnecessary expenses.
 Once you have a sense of how much you spend, add up your income. This includes, of course, how much you make in a month. There are also other things to take into consideration. Do you get money from other places each month? Do you have a part time job or do you do any freelance work on the side? Do you receive any benefits? Do you receive money from your family? Write all these sources of income down, and add up the total., You want to see the maximum amount of disposable income you have each month. To do this, subtract your total monthly expenses from your total monthly income. That number is the total amount of money you should be spending each month.Your number may be lower than you expect. You may be surprised to find that you do not have a lot of disposable income. Realizing this can help you learn to spend your money more wisely in the future.
You may realize you end up with a negative number. This is a sign you're spending more than you earn. While this can be startling to realize, take this as an opportunity to take a hard look at your spending habits. Are you accruing credit card debt? Where are you spending most of your money? Do you need a higher paying job? If you're spending more than you earn, you'll have to cut back on expenses or seek work that can pay for your lifestyle.
 If you have some extra money it can be helpful to breakdown how you want to spend it. You can return to your list of monthly expenses and look at the extras. Where is most of your extra money going? Are you happy spending so much extra money on, say, going out on the weekends? Or would you rather put that extra money elsewhere?


You can give yourself a rough breakdown of how much you will spend on extras each month. You'll have to decide what you really enjoy. If you could stand to miss Friday night happy hour a couple times a month, but love taking your wife out to dinner on Sundays, take this into consideration.
Let's say you have $500 a month of disposable income. As Sunday dinners are important to you, allocate $150 of this to eating out. This should give you more than enough for a few nice meals, and a bit of extra if you want order pizza on a busy weeknight. You'll have $350 left, that you can allocate to different extras and treats throughout the month.
Write your budget down and track your expenses during the month, trying not to go over-budget. During the first few months of budgeting, it may be hard to stick to your budget and you may occasionally overspend in some areas. That's okay. Just keep at it, and eventually you'll find it easier to spend within your limits.
 It's a good idea not to spend all your disposable income in a single month. You may want to transfer some extra money to a savings account. If you do online banking, you may be able to set up automatic transfers. For example, on the 15th of each month $150 from your checking account will go to savings. You may also want to simply write a check at the end of each month, and place extra money in your savings.