 Before submitting your forms, make sure you, as the adult applicant, fulfill all the requirements for a minor's name change. The adult applicant must be one of the minor's biological parents. If both biological parents are deceased or have terminated parental rights, then the minor's "next friend" (person legally entitled to submit the application on the minor's behalf) may prepare the application.
The adult applicant must have lived in Virginia and the city or county of application for at least the past six months.
The adult applicant must file the application in the circuit court where he/she and the minor reside.
The adult applicant must be over 18 years of age at the time of the application.
The minor must be under 18 years of age at the time of the application.
The applicant must have proper and reasonable cause for the name change.
Both biological parents should join the application if possible. If one of the biological parents refuses to join or cannot be located, the applicant must serve that parent with notice of the application, and the court will order a hearing if the non-joining parent objects. The court may waive the hearing if the applicant provides evidence that alerting the non-joining parent could seriously threaten harm to the minor or applicant if he/she found out about the proposed name change.
 The application seeks information such as current full name (birth name), proposed full name, parental information, address, and a certification that the applicant does not seek the name change for fraudulent purposes. Do not sign the form.
 Bring your completed application to a notary public. You will sign the application in front of the notary, who will attest to your signature. You may need to pay a small fee for the notary's service. Notaries can commonly be found in the following places:


Banks
Post offices, UPS Store, etc.
Law offices

, Take two copies of the application and cover sheet, fees, a self-addressed stamped envelope, and supporting documentation to your circuit court. Check the instruction forms that go with the application materials to make sure you've completed everything to the best of your ability. Make at least two copies of all your application materials, and save a copy for your records. The clerk of court will tell you if you need to provide additional information to complete your application.
 Most of the time, courts will grant name changes "on the papers," which means without requiring an in-person hearing, especially where both biological parents join the name change application. But if the court receives an objection to the name change, or if the court suspects the name change is being sought for an improper purpose, the court may order a hearing, which the adult applicant will have to attend. If the court orders a hearing, consider consulting with an attorney to make sure you are prepared.

