 In order to make flashcards by hand, you should first gather your supplies. You can get most of the supplies you need at a local department store. You may also find some materials at an office supply store.


You will need index cards, which are 3 by 5 inch cards on which you'll be writing your vocabulary terms.
You'll need a pen and a pencil. It's a good idea to write the cards down in pencil first, in case you misspell something, and then trace over them in pen so they're clear and easy to read.
Consider investing in several different colors of pen. This way, you can color-coordinate your cards by subject or unit. Choose colors you can easily read, however. Something written in yellow ink may be hard to make out, while something written in blue or red is easily readable.;
, Vocabulary index cards are very simple to make. To start, write down the vocabulary term on one side of each card. Usually, index cards have one lined side and one blank side. It's a good idea to write the vocabulary term on the blank side, as you can use the lines to guide your writing when you write down definitions.Write the words in pencil first and then write over them in pen.
Color coordinate the cards as needed. For example, all the vocabulary from English class can be written in red. All the vocabulary from history class can be written in blue. This way, if the cards accidentally get jumbled, you can easily separate them again by subject.You can also color coordinate by difficulty. For example, you could write the vocabulary words you already know in green, the tougher ones in red, and the extremely challenging ones in blue.
 When you've written all the vocabulary words on the blank side of the cards, flip your stack over. Write down the definitions of the terms on the lined side of your index cards.


Write slowly. You want to make sure your handwriting is as neat as possible. If you cannot read the definition for a particular word, your index cards will not be effective.
Make sure you leave yourself enough room. Some words may have longer definitions. Try to write small for these words.
 When writing index cards, try to use your best handwriting possible. You do not want your cards to be illegible. Write slowly and neatly through all of your cards.


Take breaks when necessary. If your hand begins to feel tired, this can affect the legibility of your handwriting.
Limit how much you put on each card. Try to only write down one vocabulary word per card. Writing too small could cause your handwriting to become muddled and hard to understand.