 Travelling during the off-season can make your travel expenses more affordable, especially transportation and accommodation costs. Going on your trip during the off-season, usually the fall months, will make hotels and other accommodations cheaper than during peak season. Consider booking your trip during the off-season or during shoulder-season, the time between peak and off-peak.For example, if you’re planning a trip to Walt Disney World, the shoulder-season is May and September, where crowds are thinner and accommodations are more affordable.
 Finding cheap accommodations when you have kids can be a challenge, especially if you want a space larger than a hotel room. Consider renting a house through online rental property sites. Often, a home rental will have an affordable nightly rate or week by week rate.Having a home rental will also help you to also save money by cooking your own meals and not having to pay for parking, if the home rental has a parking spot already.
A home share, where you share a home with other people or another family, can also be an affordable option. You may travel with family and friends and share a large home rental together to cut down on costs.
 If you decide to stay in a hotel while travelling, use hotel points to make it more affordable. Collect points over time through your credit card or another rewards card and use the points to reduce your hotel rates. Try to book a hotel during off-season or shoulder-season so you get a more affordable rate. Sometimes booking a hotel during the week instead of the weekend can be a cheaper option.You can also try looking online for deals on hotels and book it before you leave on your trip. Often rates are cheaper online and booking in advance may save you money.
 If you are traveling to a destination that is known to be popular with kids and families, such as Disneyland, look for travel packages. Travel packages often include airfare and accommodations at a reduced rate. This could be a good way for you to save money and not have to worry about booking your own accommodations, as it is included in the package.If you are travelling to a tropical destination, such as Mexico, you may look into travel packages where you stay at a family friendly resort. Resort packages often include airfare and accommodations.
 To really save money on accommodations, see if you can all stay with friends or family who live near your destination. You may plan a trip to see friends or family members who have larger homes where you can all stay together. Or you may set up a blow up mattress that you can then use when staying with family or friends to make your accommodations very cheap.

