 The things you repeat to yourself throughout a day can have an overwhelming impact on your mood. If you are feeling insecure about your weight gain, it may not be because of anything someone said to you, but is, instead, driven by what you're saying to yourself about your weight.


Some self-talk is practical like "I need to get my homework done early" while other statements may be shaming or self-defeating like "I'm so fat. I should be in the gym all day long".;
, Once you realize that some aspects of your internal voice may be contributing to your body insecurity, it's time to pay closer attention to these thoughts. Negative self-talk reinforces itself and creates your reality. The only way to stop it is to become aware of it.


Spend a few minutes each day tuning in to your thoughts, particularly when it comes to your body. Maybe you can tune in when you are getting dressed in the mirror or when you are preparing a meal.
What kinds of thoughts are going through your head about yourself. Do these thoughts build you up and make you feel positive or are they making you feel worse about yourself?

, In order to improve your self-talk, you must attack those statements which are unhelpful or unrealistic. Using the statement "I should be in the gym all day long", let's challenge this self-talk by:


Reality testing: What evidence is there for or against it? Since this statement is very extreme, you are unlikely to find any evidence that supports the idea that you should be in the gym all day. However, you can find evidence that says working out for too long can cause injuries or exhaustion that makes it even harder to lose weight. Overdoing it won't help you lose weight.
Goal-directed thinking: Is thinking this way solving my problem? No, telling yourself what you should be doing is punishment not a solution. A better way of helping yourself solve the problem is by simply saying "I would like to make the effort and visit the gym today".
 Rather than feeding into the nonstop self-criticism make an intentional choice to supply yourself with positive, life-giving thoughts.


For example, rather than telling yourself "I am fat. I should be in the gym all day long" you could simply write down on a sticky note to post on your mirror (or in your bag or car) words that prompt you to feel more confident about yourself. These might be "Strong. Beautiful. Caring." Seeing these words as you go about your day will help you to project these traits instead of projecting insecurity.