 By definition, a glare involves direct and continuous eye contact. No evil glare would be complete without it.People usually begin to feel uneasy when they notice that someone has been staring at them for at least ten seconds.;
, Pull your eyebrows down and together slightly as you glare. The more exaggerated this is, the angrier you will look., You may find that your eyes naturally squint when your pull your eyebrows down. If you don't think your squint is visible enough, do it consciously, as a squint has long been associated with the "evil eye."Squinting too much will make you look like you're trying to read a sign from far away, so keep it subtle.
 This is a subtle gesture that others will interpret as a sign of aggression and anger.


This will look strange if it is overdone. You shouldn't be craning your neck or looking up at the ceiling.
 The snarl is a very clear nonverbal sign of anger. In order to achieve this look, pull your lips together to make them look thinner, and pull both your mouth and your cheekbones up slightly.Be sure to pull your entire mouth up. Pulling just the corners up will read as a smile, which is not desirable in this case, unless you want the person you are glaring at to know that you are just being playful.
 People often flare their nostrils when they are angry. If you are able to do this consciously, it will definitely enhance the evil look of your glare., Depending on the exact kind of evil you're going for, you may want to experiment with using all of these facial expressions or just a few. Research has found that when a face displays just one of the characteristics of an "angry face," it is interpreted as strong and assertive, but not angry.If you want to look extremely angry, try making all of these adjustments to your facial expression at once.
If you want to look assertive and maybe even menacing, but not necessarily angry, try incorporating just one or two of the adjustments into your facial expression.
Practice your expression in front of a mirror to determine which level of anger is appropriate for your needs.

