 If you are stuck in a dull situation, such as school or work, where entertaining yourself is not really possible, you can still find effective ways to distract yourself and pass the time. One of the easiest ways to do this is to simply get lost in your own thoughts.Recall a happy memory. Watch it play out like a movie.
Daydream about the future. Think about next weekend or ten years from now.
Recall a favorite movie or television show. Think about your favorite character.
Think about your favorite song. Can you sing all the lyrics in your head?
Make sure to focus on positive thoughts, and avoid ruminating on negative thoughts.
 Most dull moments involve waiting, and waiting almost always involves being around a bunch of other people. This creates the perfect opportunity to “people watch,” which is a great way to pass the time.Look at the other people who are waiting.
Try imagining what their lives are like. What details can you discern about them?
If you like fashion, pay attention to what they are wearing. Could you build an outfit from the pieces they have on?
Notice relationships and interactions. Imagine how some of these people first met.
 With a bit of planning beforehand, you can play a hilarious game of classroom bingo by yourself or with your friends. Either create your own bingo board, or download one from the internet.Then mark off squares as you encounter them. When you fill an entire row, you win. If you’re playing with friends, you can think of a prize for the winner. Some ideas for squares include:


Professor wearing a sweater vest.
Person who realizes they’re in the wrong class.
Annoying PDA couple.
Person consuming an entire meal.
Person wearing a sweatshirt for a different school.
 If you are in class or at work, it may be impossible for you to truly entertain or distract yourself. In these instances, you might try paying attention instead. Lectures will go by much faster if you work to engage the material and take notes. Your work day will pass more effectively if you try a little harder to engage with your work. It’s not fun! But sometimes paying attention or trying to work harder is the best way to stay patient during dull moments.