 Rub an over-the-counter arnica gel, such as A. Vogel Arnica Gel, directly onto the skin on painful joints 2-3 times a day for three weeks. This will reduce pain as well as stiffness, and improve joint function. Arnica may work especially well in reducing pain in your hands.Arnica gel may also reduce pain associated with swelling, bruises, aches, and sprains. Positive results associated with these uses are less likely.
Do not use arnica when pregnant or breastfeeding. Do not apply arnica to damaged skin. Stop using arnica two weeks before any surgery.
Talk to your doctor before taking arnica by mouth for any reason, or if you have high blood pressure or heart disease, are taking medications, or are using any other herbs or supplements.;
, Devil’s claw can help reduce the pain associated with osteoarthritis by decreasing inflammation and swelling. Take 2.6 grams of ground devil’s claw root every day. Products such as Harpadol or Arkopharma contain this amount in each dose. Alternatively, take 2400 mg of devil’s claw extract daily. Devil’s claw extract products include Doloteffin and Ardeypharm.Treatment for osteoarthritic pain with devil’s claw may be equally as effective as treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and even some specific osteoarthritis medication.
Talk to your doctor about lowering the amount of NSAIDs you are taking and supplementing your treatment with devil’s claw.
Devil’s claw is also often used to fight pain associated with tendonitis, gout, myalgia.Talk to a doctor about taking devil’s claw if you have heart disease, a circulatory disorder, or diabetes. Further, speak with you doctor if you are taking medication, particularly for a stomach or liver ailment.
Do not use devil’s claw if you have gallstones or ulcers, or are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Do not take devil’s claw for over a year.
Side effects include diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, headaches, ringing in the ears, loss of appetite, allergic skin reactions, menstrual problems, and changes in blood pressure.
 This herb, a product of the Boswellia tree, can help reduce inflammation and reduce the pain associated with different types of arthritis, as well as ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Take 300 or 400 mg doses via capsule or tablet three times a day. This will especially help prevent cartilage loss and inhibit the autoimmune process that causes pain.If you acquire this herb over the counter, make sure the product you purchase contains at least 60% boswellic acids.
 A chemical called curcumin within turmeric has long been used to prevent and treat inflammatory diseases. Treat rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and bursitis with capsules of turmeric extract or by eating the actual spice.Take three 400-600mg capsules daily. Alternatively, up to 3g of powdered root throughout the day in 0.5-1g doses. 500mg capsules are specifically recommended for rheumatoid arthritis.


Be aware that high doses and extended turmeric intake can contribute to nausea and gastrointestinal discomfort.
Avoid turmeric if you take blood thinners, are pregnant, or have gallbladder disease. Stop taking turmeric two weeks before a surgery.
Since you can also consume turmeric in medically significant amounts by eating the spice, consider incorporating turmeric into your everyday diet.
 Bromelain, found in pineapples, has been credited with the potential to reduce pain symptoms associated with osteoarthritis, cancer, poor digestion, and muscle soreness.In particular, talk to your doctor about taking around 200mg daily to help treat joint inflammation associated with osteoarthritis.Side effects of bromelain use may include gastrointestinal discomfort, an increase in heart rate, and menstrual irregularities. If you are allergic to pineapple, notify your doctor before using bromelain.

