 Most German trains offer both first- and second-class passenger seating. Larger trains offer snacks and drinks to all passengers, but newspapers, power sockets, audio channels and video screens to only first-class passengers. In RE and RB the difference between 1st and 2nd class is not big. The S-Bahn does not have 1st class choaches in most cases.


Plan to sleep through your trip. The CityNightLine trains have a variety of sleeping accommodations ranging from reclining seats to small cabins with a bed, toilet and shower.
 Reservations are recommended on some routes. Reservations are not taken on the Interregio-Express (only in Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg), RegionalExpress, RegionalBahn or S-Bahn. Reservations are optional on the ICE trains. Reservations are required on the ICE Sprinter and the CityNightLine. Reservations should be made at the time of ticketing. If you're traveling at the end or beginning of holidays (differing from state to state!), you should always make a reservation.
 You can choose between Normalpreis (standard fare) and Sparpreis (saving fare). Use Sparpreise whenever it's possible! You can save up to 63%! Sparpreise must be booked three days before you start your travel. Sparpreise always have "Zugbindung" (that means, you have to use the trains printed on your ticket. In other trains your ticket isn't valid). You can't enter another train, if you miss yours. Only if your train has a delay you are allowed to do. In this case, call the conductor of the delayed train. He has to note the delay on your ticket.


If you're traveling only with regional trains (IRE/RE/RB/S-Bahn) you can use "Ländertickets" (State tickets, for example "Baden-Württemberg-Ticket" or "Bayern-Ticket"; valid for one day in the full state, but only in regional trains. Price: 19€ for one person, 29€ for up to 5 person). But be careful with state borders! And: Never enter a train of "Fernverkehr" (long-distance trains, ICE and IC/EC) with a "Länderticket". All Fernverkehr-trains are colored white with a red stripe. All Nahverkehr-trains (IRE, RE, RB, S-Bahn), which you're allowed to use, are colored completely red.
 Tickets may be purchased by cash or credit card at any train station office, or by credit card online. Prices vary widely by route and class.

