 If you have cracks that are deep enough to bleed, you'll need to care for them the same way you would any open wound. Wash the cracks carefully with warm soapy water, dry them gently, and apply bandages. Using an antibacterial ointment will also help to protect the cracks and keep them from getting infected.






;
, This is the most important way to heal cracks, which are almost always a result of dry skin. Using the right moisturizing cream will seal moisture in your skin, keep it from getting so dry that it splits open. The problem is, many moisturizing creams - even those that advertise for use on extra-dry skin - aren't formulated to heal cracks and protect the hands from damage. Use a thick, greasy cream or ointment to maintain the skin's natural internal moisture while severe dry patches and cracks heal.









The body's natural moisture is needed to help living cells grow from the bottom up to renew the tough, dead build-up of the outer layer which has suffered cracking, scaling, or more. The outer layer itself normally protects the lower layer, but it can't do that as well where there is an injury - that's why you need an ointment to help do the job.
Drugstore lotions often contain ingredients like alcohol, fragrances, and other chemicals that can actually make matters worse.
Look for products that contain pure emollients and humectants, which hydrate and protect the skin:


Lanolin, which keeps sheep comfy 'outside' in the 'rain and snow' all winter, is an excellent product for healing cracks.

Jojoba oil closely mimics the skin's natural oils. Look for products that list it as one of the main ingredients.

Coconut oil and shea butter are both excellent products for protecting the skin.

Petroleum jelly can protect the skin by forming a seal that doesn't allow moisture to escape.
 The way you wash your hands might be making matters worse. Washing rinses away your skin's natural oils, causing dryness and cracking. Washing your hands is unavoidable, but if you do it gently, you can prevent making the cracks get deeper.









Use a gentle soap. Strong chemical soaps are harsh on the hands. Try a gentle Castile soap, or dilute your soap with water before use.
Use warm water. Hot water washes away more of your natural oils and dries out the skin. Use warm water instead.
Dry your hands gently. Don't rub them roughly with a towel; pat them dry instead.
 Your skin loses moisture as the water evaporates off your skin; applying humectant helps seal this moisture in and keep it there.
 Water and harsh soaps will continue to dry out your hands, aggravating the cracked skin on your fingers. If you cannot avoid a lot of washing, protect your hands by frequently applying cream.
 If it is possible, wear light cotton gloves throughout the day. They will help to protect your cracked skin from further irritation. Apply cream before putting them on. If you are limited to when you can wear them, put the cotton gloves on at night before bed to help seal in moisture, keep on ointment, and make less of a mess while you sleep.
 Harsh ingredients found in dish washing or powerful soaps will irritate your cracked skin and further dry it out.
 Cold air carries very little water, and when heated, will tend to dry out your hands. Try a bedroom or whole-house humidifier. The type that fits into a central HVAC system and automatically draws water is economical and convenient.
 Sun exposure will also dry out and otherwise damage your skin and the hands are most susceptible to being exposed to the sun's harmful rays. They are not much weaker in winter than summer. If the cracks on your fingers are severe, wait until they are no longer bleeding or the sunscreen may sting.
 Deep cracks can trap soapy water that draws out the skin's natural moisture and breaks it down over time, and their edges can meet and force the bottom apart hurting and renewing damage as the skin flexes. A small, controllable, non-stabbing tool such as a cuticle nippers can be used to trim the clear, dead top layer of skin on each side to bring the crack to a shallow angle that will not trap water or force its bottom apart.









Don't trim too much; trim about half a millimeter on each side of the crack at a 45 degree angle. The trimming should not hurt, expose red, or draw blood: as with trimming cuticles, one should not mess with anything but the tough, transparent surface layer.
Keep the cuticle clippers or other personal hygiene tool clean and disinfected and do not share them.
 Cracked skin on your fingers could indicate an underlying medical condition, such as eczema, psoriasis or a fungal infection. Your doctor may prescribe topical steroids to help heal the skin.








