 Band t-shirts should be the number one item in your wardrobe. You should have more of these than anything else. After all, being emo is all about the music and showing support for the bands you care about. Tour t-shirts that you actually bought at the band's gig are best, but t-shirts bought in stores or online will do as well. They should be as tight as possible (while still actually fitting), and girls can knot up the ends or cut out the backs to expose a little skin, if desired.


Some classic emo bands whose t-shirts would make cool additions to your wardrobe and lend you some emo cred (provided you actually listen to the music) are: The Promise Ring, The Get Up Kids, Sunny Day Real Estate, Texas is the Reason, Rites of Spring, Braid, Thursday and Cursive.
 Tight jeans are essential to completing the emo look. If you're skinny, wearing skinny jeans is recommended. However, skinny jeans have been what some emos (especially guys) get made fun of for. Who cares, they look good, right? So stand up to the haters and wear your skinny jeans with pride! Opt for black or blue, and if it's got a few rips and holes in it, all the better. Although skinny jeans (which are tight all the way to the ankles) are probably the most common, tight jeans can also look good.


Even though you want your jeans to be tight, they should still fit you properly. Jeans that are too tight will be uncomfortable and hot and you won't enjoy wearing them. Plus, jeans that fit you properly will look better too.
Girls can substitute skinny jeans for skirts and tights, if they like. They skirts will usually be short and black, though sometimes a tutu style is worn, and tights can either be plain black, colored or patterned. Feel free to experiment!

, What you put on your feet is just as important as what you wear, so take some time to consider your shoes. The classic choice is Converse high-tops, which should be as dirty and worn in as possible. If Converse aren't your thing, skate shoes like Vans, Etnies and Circa are popular alternatives.


Even if your shoes are brand new, you should take some time to go jump in the mud and use a permanent marker or white-out to draw or write graffiti all over them.
Adding patterned or brightly colored laces is another way to funk up your shoes, allowing them to reflect your personality.
 Even emos get cold, so when you need to layer up, opt for worn-out army jackets and black band hoodies. These look great layered over shirts and band tees, but can really be worn over any outfit you like, which makes them a great investment.


Authentic combat-green army jackets can be found in thrift stores or online and look great loaded with pins and iron-on patches.
Black band hoodies are easy to get your hands on and provide another opportunity to profess your love of a particular band. They should also be worn tight and with the hood up, if you want to look brooding.

