 Wash your face with facial cleanser and warm water, then pat it dry with a clean towel. You will be applying the scar wax/modeling wax using spirit gum. Any dirt, oils, or makeup will prevent that from sticking.


Don't worry about applying makeup just yet. You will do that after you apply the gills.;
, Focus on the area where you will by applying the gills. This includes the entire gill area, including the length and width. The spirit gum will get tacky as you prepare the wax.It does not matter which side you start on: right or left. Plan on working on one side at a time.
You will need to repeat this entire method for the other side when you are done.
 Use a small, metal spatula or palette knife to scoop out some scar wax or modeling wax out of the jar that it came in. Knead the wax between your fingers until it softens, then flatten it into a disk about the size you want the gill area to be.Aim to make the disk about 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.63 centimeters) wide. You want it big enough to make gills on, and but so big that it falls off.
 Place the scar wax over the spirit gum and smooth down the edges. Run your fingers across the wax, starting from the center, and going past the edges. This will smooth the edges down until they blend with your face, but leave the center part nice and thick.The scar wax needs to blend into your skin and appear as a lump. Don't worry about the color, however.
 Use a butter knife, spoon, or toothpick to draw some curved lines into the center of the scar wax. Make the curved part face your nose, and the two ends face your ear. Do not draw straight down into the wax. Instead, angle your tool towards your nose.You can have as many or as few gills as you'd like. Make sure that they all angle the same way and are the same distance apart.
Try to draw on the thick part of the scar wax.
 You can use clear liquid latex or a theatrical-grade "wax sealer." Simply brush the product onto the entire scar wax surface. Extend it just past the edges of the scar wax disk and onto your skin. Allow the product to dry., You can use theatrical-grade setting powder for this, or your own setting powder. This will help even out the texture and make it easier to apply the makeup. You can apply the setting powder with a large, fluffy brush, like the kind you'd use for applying blush., Be sure that the foundation matches your skin tone. This will blend the gills into your skin and make them more believable. Don't worry about filling in the gaps inside the gills.


You can also be a fantasy mermaid/merman. Paint the gills using body paint or foundation in an unusual color, such as blue or green.
 Use a thin brush to add some shading into the gills. You want to use a darker shade of whatever color your used on top of the gills. For example, if you make the gills skin toned, you'd want to shade them in using browns. If you used green, you'd want to use a very dark green. If you used blue, you'd want to use a very dark blue, etc.Some body paints need to be "activated" with water or rubbing alcohol.
 If you make your gills skin toned, you can make them even more life-like by filling them in with some deep reds, plums, etc. If you made your gills a more unusual color, consider filling a spray bottle with liquid body paint in a darker shade, then spritzing your gills to give them a splotchy look., Use a thin brush to apply some highlighter, eyeshadow, foundation, or body paint along the very edges/tips of your gills. Use ivory, cream, or white for skin toned gills.Use white, silver, or a lighter shade of whatever base color you used for "fantasy" gills.
 You can set them with setting powder, preferably theatrical-grade, or you can use setting spray. Be sure to get the setting product inside the gills as well.

