 Keep track of all of your commitments in one place, whether on a paper calendar or on your phone. Log your phone calls, appointments, and meetings, including the amount of time spent or required. Look over your entire day each morning, so you know what to expect.You may also want to consider not attending certain meetings, if that is possible. Carefully consider whether or not the meeting will be productive and worth your time.Remember that you do not want to overcommit yourself. It is okay to make your personal needs known to your employer and avoid taking on more than you can handle.
 Make sure to spend time relaxing in your free time outside of work. Getting outside can be especially helpful if you work in an office. Participate in a hobby that you enjoy or spend time with friends. Go out to a restaurant that you enjoy. Get together with family and friends. Investing in yourself can lead to improved concentration at work., Eat balanced, healthy meals, especially breakfast. Exercise regularly and take good care of your body, and exercising in the morning can be even more beneficial for your concentration. Avoid smoking and drinking. All of these activities will increase your endorphin levels, assisting in boosted productivity. Getting enough sleep can also improve your energy level and concentration at work.Be careful turning to caffeine to boost productivity. It may increase your pace, but could lead to jitters and dehydration as well.
Try to get up and move around throughout your work day. For example, instead of sitting in your chair all day, try to do some work standing up. Or, perhaps catch a quick work-out over your lunch break., Over time, it’s easy to lose focus when your daily work feels like an abstract, bureaucratic process. However, you can energize and concentrate by thinking of daily practical applications of the job you’re doing. For example, if you work in the publishing industry, focus on the usefulness of the published materials to the people who will read them. Whenever you feel bogged down, recall this reason to keep going and focus on it.Think about what exactly fascinates or excites you about your current tasks. For example, if you are doing a job that could help someone, you might repeat, “I am helping others.”

, This may not always be possible but, if you can, try to surround yourself with people who share your work ethic. They can push you when you feel lazy. They can kick back with you when you are relaxing. It will also help you to feel like a member of a team.