 Before you start putting the songs into a playlist, you should spend time thinking of what songs you want. Browse through your music collection and start writing down songs that catch your eye with the audience and theme in mind. If you consider some songs you haven’t heard in a long time, play those and see if they fit with your intended feel. Don’t worry about writing down more songs than you need, because you can also narrow the list down later.
 There’s a good chance that you’ll pick some songs that you know are great but that you haven’t listened to in a while. It’s good to listen to the songs again just to refresh yourself on how they go. Maybe there is a lengthy intro that isn’t right for this mix, or a word of profanity somewhere that you want to avoid. Listening to the songs also helps you see if it really fits the tone and message of the CD that you are hoping to achieve.


It is also good to read the lyrics while you listen to make sure you don’t miss anything. You want to make sure there’s not a stray lyric or something you usually don’t notice when listening that someone else could pick up on. Examine lyric books or liner notes included in CDs you own, or visit one of the many lyrics websites available online.
 Using CDs means working within the storage limitations, which for most burnable CDs is around 80 minutes. When considering what your final mix will be, narrow down your list by checking song lengths. Pick the best set that fills the time available.
 Beginnings and endings don’t necessarily make or break the mix, but both will likely make an impact on the listener. Start out with a song that sets the tone you want the CD have and let it move forward from there. The last song is what you want the listener to feel once it is over. You can go out with a bang or let the tone mellow as the CD closes.
 This may be affected by what the purpose of the mix is, but for general listening, you don’t want the mix to be too heavy on one particular tempo or style. A whole CD of fast and loud songs might be right for the gym, but probably won’t be right for a long drive. Put a few songs in a row that build the intensity and then drop it down during the next couple of songs.Think of a DJ at a wedding reception or other party, and mimic their routines by trying to form patterns and keep a wide variety. You might use a pattern of fast, medium, slow, or loud, average, soft. But don’t repeat the exact pattern for the whole CD. Break the pattern partway through.
 This is similar to peaks and valleys, but with a focus more on content than on style and pacing. You want to create a CD that has a sort of unity and put the songs in an order that makes them fit together. You wouldn’t want to put Three Days Grace’s song “I Hate Everything About You” next to Michael Jackson’s “The Way You Make Me Feel.” Try to put songs next to each with lyrical content that seems somewhat similar rather than completely opposite.This is much more of an art than a science, so it will not be perfect. You just want the mix to feel like it was put together in a specific way on purpose, not a bunch of songs that are on shuffle.

