 Use your plates, stabilizers, and rails to create your bottom ring. There are multiple types of plates, Bottom plate. Your bottom plates will either be metal plates, resin plates, or resin bottom cuffs.
Bottom stabilizer will be crimped on one side. They are the smaller rails.
Bottom rail will always be straight and larger than your stabilizer.
Lay these out along the site.
Slide the bottom rail into the bottom plate up to the dimple on the plate.
Measure the bottom track across in several locations to ensure that the pool is truly round and the correct size. If the size is correct, stake the ring into position.
 Once your ring is in place, add support for the base of your pool. This will help keep your pool stabilized and level for years. Level each of the plates. All of your parts should be within ½ inch of each other.
Place a patio block under each one of your bottom plates. The block should be placed into the ground so that the track is still sitting flush on the ground. Be sure the block is level in all directions.
Remove one bottom rail to bring in the sand. Mark the two connecting bottom plates so that you place it back in the correct spot after bringing in the sand.
Dump the sand in your pool area. You will need between 1 yard and 6 yards of sand depending on the size of your pool. Replace your bottom rail and spread the sand evenly across the pool area.
 Now that you have a level bottom for your pool, install the wall around the area. This is done easily using the tracks on your bottom plates. Make sure the skimmer cutout is on the top portion of the wall.
Use landscaping stakes around the pool area to hold the wall during instillation.
Place the wall into the track at the center of a bottom plate, and continue around the ring.
If the wall doesn’t properly line up at the end, you can adjust your bottom rails in or out of the bottom plates to ensure fit. This should be done evenly around the pool.
 After installing the proper support, begin putting your pool wall together.


Single row wall bars will have rivets pre-attached. Secure these using nuts and bolts. Use your hand screwdriver to put a fill each spot for nuts and bolts. If you don’t use a nut in every hole, your pool may break.
Staggered wall bar systems don’t come with pre-attached wall bars. Line up your parts and place one wall bar on the inside of the pool and one on the outside of the pool. Connect them using your nuts and bolts.
Wall bars must not touch each other.
Cover bolt heads with three layers of duct tape. This will protect your liner from getting holes.
Build a 6-8 inch cove along the inside of the pool wall.
Install the upright onto the bottom plates. Note that the top can be determined by an extra hole on the center.
Pack your cove. Be careful not to scratch the pool wall when you’re doing this. You can use a tamp or trowel.
 Be careful when doing this, you don’t want any tears to form in your liner. Lay the liner in the sun for a few minutes. This will make it easier for you to lay out.


Wet the sand and tamp the entire pool area and then rake it. This will ensure a level base for your pool.
Bring the liner into your pool and lay it out.
Do not step on the liner with your shoes on. Install it either barefoot or in socks.
Snap Bead liners will snap into a separate track around the pool. This track is installed on top of your pool wall.
V-Bead liners require no coping. The stabilizer rails will hold this liner in.
Unibead liners can be used as either a Snap Bead or a V-Bead liner. It comes as a V-Bead but you can remove the top portion to make it a Snap Bead liner.
Overlap liners are hung over the pool wall. These are securing using plastic coping strips.
Work all the wrinkles to the outside of the pool.
Install stabilizer rails along the top of the pool wall. Once these rails are installed, you can take down the landscaping stakes.
 These pieces all fit easily into one another when done correctly. Remember to constantly check to ensure the sides and top are level. This is the last step in building your pool. Place the top plates onto the uprights. Make sure they are perfectly straight using a level. Tighten them with proper screws.
Install the top rails. Place them around the pool and tighten the screws once all of the rails are in place.
Tighten top covers onto your uprights.

