 The two primary ways to prevent hamstring injury are by increasingly flexibility with stretching, and achieving a good balance across your muscle groups through training.There are a number of effective hamstring stretches you can practice, including static and dynamic stretches.;
, Static hamstring stretches can be effective in releasing tension and increasing flexibility. They are the easiest of the stretches to perform and are relatively more safe and less lightly to cause injury than dynamic stretches.There are a number of basic static stretches to learn.


To do a standing hamstring stretch simply stand facing a chair and lift one leg so the foot is on the chair seat. Then, with your chest and back straight, bend forward at the hips until you feel the stretch in your hamstring.
For a seated hamstring stretch sit so the knee of your right leg is bent and the bottom of your right foot is pressed against the inside of the left thigh. Stretch out your left leg ahead of you flat on the ground, and slowly lean down toward your left foot.Remember to switch legs after each stretch and repeat on the opposite side.
 Dynamic stretching is slightly move intensive than static stretching, as you are adding some movement to the stretches. You should generally do your dynamic stretches after completing some static stretches.Simple dynamic stretches include:


A straight leg toe touch. To do this stand straight up, hold your arms out in front of you and swing one leg up towards your hands, and then back behind you. Do ten or fifteen swings on each side.A one-leg bird stretch. Start with an upright posture, and then lift one leg straight behind you as you bend forward at the hips and try to touch your toes. Hold this position for a few seconds and then release it.You should stop if you feel pain performing these stretches.
 One way to incorporate regular stretching routines into your week is by trying out some yoga or pilates. Look for a class near you and give it a try. Doing either of these activities will help you to increase strength and flexibility across all your muscle groups., Carrying out hamstring stretches will not only improve the flexibility of your hamstrings, but it can lower the chances of back injury and pain. The hamstring muscle connects to your lower back and extreme inflexibility can cause back pain.Even if you are not an athlete and do not feel as though you will injure your hamstring, failure to stretch this muscle can lead to chronic back pain and injury.
Hamstring stretches can relieve lower back pain.