 Carrots and parsnips are two similar vegetables that benefit hugely from roasting. Roasting brings out their abundant natural sugars, coating the vegetables and leading to a beautifully caramelized finish. Roasted carrots are sweet, while their paler cousins bring a wonderfully rich, flavor to the dish.










Chopping: A good technique for chopping carrots and parsnips is to cut a 1-inch chunk off the top end at a 45-degree angle, then roll the vegetable a quarter turn and repeat. This weird oblique shape gives you surface area for the natural sugars to work their magic. Half-inch coins or half-moons also work well. The centers of large parsnips can be woody, so you may need to remove them first.

Roasting time: At 450 °F (232 °C), carrots and parsnips will take between 30 and 40 minutes to roast, depending on the thickness of the vegetable. Again, make sure the pieces are a uniform size, so they will all cook at the same rate.

Flavor pairings: Carrots and parsnips are versatile when it comes to flavor pairings. You can highlight their inherent sweetness with a tablespoon or two of honey, or offset that sweetness with a glug of balsamic vinegar. Rosemary, thyme, and cumin are all popular accompanying herbs.
 These classic holiday vegetables often get a bad rap, but roasting your Brussels sprouts is guaranteed to turn even the most ardent sprout-hater into a fan. Tender on the inside, crispy on the outside, with a delectable nutty sweetness. Roast Brussels sprouts make the perfect healthy side dish, anytime of the year.










Chopping: Trim the stems and remove any wilted or yellowed outer leaves. Cut in half, lengthwise.

Roasting time: At 450 °F (232 °C), Brussels sprouts will take 30 to 40 minutes to roast. Place the sprouts cut side down on the baking pan, and then shake the pan about halfway through the roasting time.

Flavor pairings: Brussels sprouts work well with just olive oil salt and pepper. Balsamic vinegar adds a tangy finish. Or if you're feeling adventurous, try mixing some diced bacon or pancetta and toasted pine nuts in with your roasted sprouts.
 Roast eggplant and zucchini add a touch of Mediterranean flair to any meal. When roasted, these vegetables will be crisp and slightly charred around the edges and soft and squishy on the inside. Paired with some feta cheese, red onion and chickpeas, roasted eggplant and zucchini can make a tasty yet substantial vegetarian entrée.










Chopping: For the zucchini, remove the ends, and then cut lengthwise into long, thin slabs. For the eggplant, peel if desired, then cut into quarters, lengthwise. Cut into 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) thick slices.

Roasting time: Eggplant and zucchini will take 10-20 minutes to cook at 450 °F (232 °C), depending on the thickness of the slices.

Flavor pairings: An acidic flavor, such as balsamic vinegar or lemon juice, can work well to brighten up the flavor of toast eggplant and zucchini. Torn basil leaves, shredded fontina and parmesan, or crumbled feta can also add interest and flavor.
 Sweet potatoes are a seasonal favorite, and when roasted, make a good accompaniment to most fall dinners. They are naturally sweet (clue is in the name), and roasting only intensifies this sweetness. So step away from the marshmallows! Many people peel their sweet potatoes, but their skins can be left on for added crispy goodness!










Chopping: Sweet potatoes can be peeled, then cut into chunky wedges, thin strips, or 1-inch cubes. The smaller and thinner they are cut, the crispier they will be. If you choose to leave the skins on, remember to give them a good scrub before chopping.

Roasting time: In a 450 degree F oven, sweet potatoes will roast in approximately 30-45 minutes, again depending on thickness.

Flavor pairings: There are wide ranges of options when it comes to flavor pairings for sweet potatoes. They work well roasted with garlic, thyme, red pepper flakes, rosemary, cayenne pepper, or cinnamon. They can also be drizzled with balsamic vinegar, honey, lemon, or orange juice, or sweet chili sauce.
 Standard mealtime fare, broccoli and cauliflower, take on a new lease of life when simply roasted in a little olive oil and seasoned. When roasted, the tips of these vegetables become charred and beautifully crisp.










Chopping: Remove leaves and woody stem. Break into florets, about 1 - 1 1/2 inches in diameter.

Roasting time: Broccoli and cauliflower will take approximately 15-20 minutes to roast at 450 °F (232 °C). They should be tender and nicely browned.

Flavor pairings: Broccoli and cauliflower do well when roasted with garlic and lemon. They can also be drizzled in balsamic vinegar or sprinkled with Parmesan cheese. If you like your vegetables with a kick, try adding some chili flakes before roasting.
