 Well, it couldn't be any truer in this situation. You might rant about how much you enjoy extreme sports and living life in the fast lane, but when the first date comes around, that will not wash. Instead, find ideas that will be enjoyed by both of you.
 This is the most popular and the safest, as you don't have to do much speaking. Remember it must be a girly movie, unless she mentions another. (This will show that you care for her comfort).
 This can be a bit tricky; you are going to have to hold down a conversation. Secret tip: Before you make your date find out a bit about the other person, like date of birth, hometown, pet animal etc. Then do some research on-line and get as much information as you can. This will give you an edge you will be thanking me for in the years to come. Remember it’s about the other person, not about you. If you do this the conversation will go back and forth between the two of you all night.
 This is out the top drawer. Find a lighthearted play and go. This will go a long way. Even if she/he did not enjoy, it will show that you have some culture.
 If you feel like you're the best thing to happen to billiards since the cue-stick after seeing Tom Cruise in The Colour Of Money, why not invite her to play some pool with you? This is an interesting setup to secure a second date. You can make a suggestion like, "Whoever loses the game must cook supper for the other". And just like that, you've got yourself a second date.
 A cheap and fairly easy "sport," it allows for some physical contact when you have to give her a crash course on how to hold the putter, say no more.
 Yes, amusement parks are generally aimed at children, but who says that adults can't engage in some childish fun? Take her for a spin on the Ferris wheel or win her a big old teddy bear, and she won't have a chance to get bored.
 It can simply be a quiet get together that allows for stimulating conversation, which is also a good venue for you to show off your sandwich-making skills and your sangria expertise.(Remember point 2: conversation).
 You could just sit in the park. Before you go, make yourself a list of questions to ask - that's a great way to start a conversation. But watch out: don't ask questions that are too personal or else she/he will think your investigating her/him. You will see that the conversation will go great, you just need that kind of start.
 Why not test her driving skills? F1 carting is an exciting and fairly cheap way to test her road abilities and take her for a ride(Secret tip: Let her win the first or second race: you won’t regret it).
 This may be one of the most relaxing sports you could engage in with your date. You can show off your Tiger Woods-like expertise golf tips.
 If you want to impress your date with a great night on the town, literally, then why not take her along for a ride? Just don't go overboard and try to appear like a high roller; if you do, you might find your date jumping out the sunroof.
 Bringing your date to the highest point in the city can be exhilarating for both of you. Some hotels, restaurants or buildings have roof-top terraces for people to enjoy - especially at night.
 Sometimes a simple house date with some gourmet-catered food and drinks is the way to go. Impress your date with fine cuisine prepared by a chef if you have the money.
 There is nothing like looking at people from a bird's-eye view, floating above the city with her hanging on to you because she is afraid of heights.
