 Making sure you give yourself adequate time to complete your work is important. Think about how much time each assignment will take and plan accordingly.


For example, if you know it takes you roughly five minutes to read one full page of text, and you have 10 pages to read, you need to set aside at least an hour to complete this assignment.
If needed, ask your teacher how much time she expects other students to spend on the assignment. Consider doubling, or at least increasing that time for yourself.
Don’t wait to start on your assignments. The sooner you start, the more time you will have to work on them. If you wait, you may find that you don’t have enough time to complete them. Or you could end up doing a poor job because you were rushing.
 Anyone, not just people with dyslexia, can easily become distracted when there is something going on that is more interesting than what you are currently doing. Removing things that distract you allows you to give your full attention to tasks that require a lot of mental energy.


Put electronic devices on silent and turn off the music or TV.
Try to make sure your friends, coworkers, and family know that this is “study time” so that they can avoid interrupting you.
Keep only the things that you need to complete the task around you. Put away anything you don’t need.
 Instead of tackling something all at once, work on it in smaller chunks. Breaking it down allows you to focus more closely on the specific task and makes the assignment less overwhelming.For example, if you have a 20 page reading assignment, plan to read five pages at a time with short breaks to digest what you have read.
If you have to write a report, break it down so that one day you write the outline, the next day you complete the introduction, one section of the body the next day, and so forth.
 In between each chunk of work, take a short break. This helps you to absorb the information you just acquired. It also lets you decompress from the work you just completed. It gives your mind a fresh start for your next chunk of work.


After you complete a chunk of work, think briefly about what you have learned or reviewed. This way you can make sure you understand it so far or know if you need to review it more.
Take a minute or two to just clear your mind before you return from your break.
Keep your breaks to only a few minutes, longer than that and you may not be using your time wisely.
, Taking on more than you need to increases the amount of work you feel is needed, which increases the amount of time it will take to complete the assignment. It also introduces more that your brain has to focus on organize.


This doesn’t mean be an underachiever, but it does mean you don’t need to make the task harder or more difficult than is required.
For example, if you have to write a report about Plato, don’t turn it into a study all of Greco-Roman antiquity.
 When possible incorporate your other talents into your work. This can reduce the amount of reading and writing you have to do. Use your artistic talents, public speaking skills, musical ability, etc. to make the assignment a bit easier on you.


If you are a student, talk with your teacher about modifying your assignment so that you can draw on strengths other than reading and writing.For example, can you make a poster, comic book, diorama, video, or model?
If it is a work assignment, try to incorporate more visual elements into it. For example, include charts, graphs, illustrations, and/or models. Or try making it an oral report that you don’t have to read.
Incorporate your strengths in your studying to make it more interesting and easier for you to engage with.

