 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is typically found on your home screen.;
, It's at the top of the menu.If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap iCloud.



If you don't have an Apple ID, tap Don't have an Apple ID or forgot it? below the password field on the screen, and follow the on-screen prompts to set up your free Apple ID and iCloud account.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.


The screen will intermittently display the message "Signing into iCloud" as it accesses your data.
 This is the unlock code you established for your device when you set it up.
 If you'd like the calendars, reminders, contacts, notes, and other data stored on your device to be merged with your iCloud account, tap Merge; if not, tap Don't Merge.
 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.
 It's the section at the top of the screen that contains your name and image if you've added one.


If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 In the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section, slide each desired type to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position.
 It's near the top of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.Turn on iCloud Photo Library to automatically upload and store your Camera Roll to iCloud. When enabled, your entire photo and video library is accessible from any mobile or desktop platform.
Turn on My Photo Stream to automatically upload new photos to iCloud whenever you're connected to Wi-Fi.
Turn on iCloud Photo Sharing if you'd like to create photo albums that friends can access over the web or on their Apple device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen and will take you back to the main iCloud settings page.
 It's near the bottom of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.
 It will turn green. Doing so makes stored passwords and payment information available on any device that you've logged into with your Apple ID.


Apple does not have access to this encrypted information.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen and will take you back to the main iCloud settings page.
 It's near the bottom of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.
 Doing so allows you to locate your device by logging into iCloud on a computer or mobile device and clicking on Find My iPhone.


Turn on Send Last Location to enable your device to send its location information to Apple when the battery is critically low.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen and will take you back to the main iCloud settings page.
 It's near the bottom of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.


On older versions of iOS it will instead say Backup.
 Do this to automatically save all of your files, settings, app data, pictures, and music to iCloud whenever your device is plugged in, locked, and connected to Wi-Fi. iCloud Backup enables you to restore your data from iCloud if you replace or erase your device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen and will take you back to the main iCloud settings page.
 This option is just below the entire "APPS USING ICLOUD" section.


Doing so allows apps to access and store data on your iCloud Drive.
The apps listed below iCloud Drive with the slider in the "On" (green) position will be allowed to save documents and data to iCloud.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen and will take you back to the Apple ID settings page.


On older versions of iOS, instead tap Settings and this will take you back to the main Settings page.
Now you've set up your iCloud account on your iPhone or iPad.

