 Weight loss supplements are not well researched and are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Don't assume that a product is safe because it's considered "natural." According to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, it is the company’s responsibility to make sure its products are safe and that any claims made about such products are true.Unfortunately, you cannot trust these companies to accurately report what is in their product or that they are safe. Taking a weight loss supplement without the guidance of your doctor is a major risk.

The FDA has found weight-loss products tainted with harmful ingredients, including sibutramine (an ingredient found in Meridia, which was removed from the market in 2010 because it caused heart problems and strokes); fluoxetine (he active ingredient found in Prozac); as well as hidden active ingredients found in "prescription drugs, unsafe ingredients that were in drugs that have been removed from the market, or compounds that have not been adequately studied in humans."Even "natural" dietary supplements, like bee pollen or Garcinia cambogia, have been found to contain hidden active ingredients contained in prescription drugs.
It is absolutely essential you speak with your doctor before taking any weight loss supplement.;
, Before taking any weight loss supplement, visit the Office of Dietary Supplements webpage at: https://ods.od.nih.gov/. This particular website lists every dietary supplement, vitamin, mineral or herbal supplement and their effects. This is a far more trustworthy source of information than the labels on the products themselves, as the labels cannot necessarily be trusted.


You can also check the website of the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicines. The Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database (www.naturaldatabase.com/) allows you to read research regarding dietary supplements and herbal products.The database is only available through prescription, but you may be able to access it through a public library or your doctor.
You can also check the FDA's online list of tainted supplements here: http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/ResourcesForYou/Consumers/BuyingUsingMedicineSafely/MedicationHealthFraud/ucm234592.htm


, Dietary supplements are not regulated by the FDA, and while they are subject to abide by specific labeling laws (listing all active and inactive ingredients), but a 2007 study found that only 84% of the supplement labels examined included all active ingredients, and less than 50% contained all inactive ingredients.In addition, there are a lot of items that are not required to be listed on the supplement fact panel. Whether it's a naturally occurring compound or the contents of a proprietary blend, there is a lot of information that may be left out from the label. This makes taking a weight loss supplement risky for anyone.


Understanding how to read the labels may still be helpful. The first type of label is the actual supplement name or "identity claim." This is just revealing the name of the supplement and that it's being marketed as a dietary or weight loss supplement.The label must also include the supplement fact panel (similar to the nutrition fact panel). This must disclose the serving size of the supplement in addition to the names and quantities of the supplement.Make sure you're clear of how much you're supposed to take per serving.
Bring the supplement to your doctor before taking it so you can discuss whether or not it is safe for you to take.
 Many weight loss supplements contain a variety of ingredients in the pills, tablets or powders. Sticking to a supplement with only one ingredient can make it easier to decide whether or not that supplement is safe for you; however, this does not mean the product is safe.


Again, this is a risk, as you cannot trust that there is indeed only one ingredient contained in the supplement. Remember that these are not regulated by the FDA and there are hidden active ingredients and tainted supplements currently on the market.
Some weight loss supplements contain a blend of ingredients or multiple ingredients in their formulas. In addition, not all of these ingredients may be listed or be well known enough to have any research conducted on them.
Being made from a single ingredient doesn't mean a product is safe, either. Bitter orange, for instance, has similar adverse effects as the banned substance ephedra (which caused heart attacks)., Most dietary supplements, including weight loss supplements, will have some sort of claim on the packaging. This should provide you with information on whether or not it's a trustworthy item. If you see dietary claims that mention very quick weight loss, weight loss without changing diet or exercise, or "promising" weight loss (using works like guaranteed weight loss or everyone loses weight) this type of supplement generally is considered a fad and not effective.


For example some claims may be similar to: "Lose 10 pounds in 10 days," or, "Drop two pant sizes in a week," or, "It's guaranteed to help with weight loss."
These claims should give you a hint on whether or not these supplements are safe and effective. The more outrageous the claim, the more suspicious you should be.
 Depending on where you're getting your weight loss supplement, you may notice the packaging or website doesn't provide much information about the supplement. Avoid products that don't provide enough information for you to make an educated decision about the safety and efficacy of the product.


If the supplement company doesn't provide any information on the actual ingredients of the supplement, doesn't divulge what's in a "proprietary blend", or doesn't list side effects of medication interactions, this is a supplement you should avoid taking.
Also avoid supplements that only use "testimonials" from consumers as research for their product or as reasons to use the product. You only want unbiased research reviews about whether or not the product is safe or useful (you will find this information on the Office of Dietary Supplements website).
If any weight loss supplement seems too good to be true, it probably is. Weight loss only occurs with hard work and a lifestyle change., Like any medication, vitamin, mineral or herbal supplement, always talk to your doctor prior to taking or starting any weight loss supplements. Many do interact with prescription medications or could worsen a current health condition.If you feel like you'll need to lose weight, make an appointment with your doctor to discuss appropriate methods of weight loss for you. Talk to them about how much weight loss is appropriate and how you should go about losing weight.
If you're interested in a particular weight loss supplement, bring the supplement with you (or at least the packaging) or print off the nutrition/ingredient label so your doctor can thoroughly evaluate the ingredients or contents of the supplement you want to take.
Make sure you review every prescription medication you're taking and any health conditions you have with your doctor as well. That will help your doctor decide whether or not that supplement is safe for you.
 Whenever you're trying to lose weight — with or without a weight loss supplement — it's important to set realistic expectations for yourself. You want to set yourself up for success and not be disappointed you couldn't reach an unrealistic goal.


It's typically only recommended to lose about 1 – 2 pounds per week. This includes more traditional diets, calorie counting and the with the use of a weight loss supplement.If you decide to use a weight loss supplement, you may not lose as much weight as you'd like. This is especially true if the supplement doesn't require you to make any changes to your diet, activity level or lifestyle.Decide how much weight you want to lose. If you want to lose a large amount of weight, for example over 20 pounds, using a weight loss pill or herbal supplement alone will most likely not be sufficient to cause these levels of weight loss.
 If you've purchased a weight loss supplement and are planning to start taking it in an effort to lose weight, make sure that you follow the instructions completely.


Some weight loss supplements will require you to only take one tablet or pill whereas others may require you to take multiple tablets daily or increase the dose over time.
Make sure you read the dosing instructions, serving size and day-to-day instructions so you're taking the supplement as recommended.
It is never recommended or considered safe to take more than the recommended dosage or take a supplement longer than recommended. This may lead to adverse or negative side effects.
 A journal is a great tool to help you lose weight. Start a journal when you begin a weight loss supplement to help you stay on track and stay accountable with your weight loss program.


You can use your journal for a variety of things. You can track your food, exercise and thoughts on how your diet is going.
Keeping track of your food and exercise has been shown to help people lose more weight and be able to keep off the weight long-term.It would also be beneficial to note what type of supplement you're taking, how much or dosage, the regimen and any side effects you're noticing from taking the supplement.
 If you are interested in a medication that might assist you with weight loss, consider prescription weight loss medications as an aid instead of supplements. These are regulated by the FDA, unlike supplements.


There are a variety of prescription weight loss medications available. They will only be prescribed through your primary care doctor or a weight loss doctor. In addition, you will need to visit that doctor on a regular basis and they have to clear you as a good candidate to use weight loss medications.There are several medications your physician can prescribe for you. Most help suppress your appetite which can make following a diet easier. Some also prevent your body from absorbing nutrients — like fat.These drugs do come with some side effects, which may be mild or severe.In addition, these drugs are generally only used on a short-term basis. You will need to maintain your diet and active lifestyle in order to maintain your weight loss., Even with a weight loss medication or supplement, it's important to be physically active. Exercise helps improve your health and also helps support weight loss and long-term weight maintenance.


It's recommended to include about 2 1/2 hours of aerobic or cardio exercises each week. You can do walking, jogging, cycling, swimming or hiking.It's also recommended to include two or three days of strength training each week. Work your muscles for at least 20 minutes with exercises like lifting weights, yoga or pilates.In addition to weight loss, regular physical activity can help decrease your cholesterol, decrease your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes and cancer and improve your mood., One mistake some people make is they don't change the unhealthy or high-calorie foods they eat while taking a weight loss supplement. Limit these foods so you can effectively lose weight using a weight loss supplement.


Junk foods, fried foods or treats generally are items that come with more calories, fat and sugar. They can increase your risk of weight gain but also of chronic diseases like diabetes.Limit foods like: chips, crackers, pretzels, candy, cakes/pies, cookies, ice cream, breakfast pastries and fried foods.
Also limit your intake of sweetened beverages. These liquid calories are equally unhealthy. Stay away from fruit juices, sweet tea, sweetened coffee drinks, sports or electrolyte drinks and sodas.
 Lean protein is an essential nutrient to your diet and plays an important role in weight loss. Make sure you eat adequate amounts of protein everyday to support your desire to lose weight.


Protein helps keep you feeling satisfied longer throughout the day. If you're not feeling as hungry, you may end up eating less overall.To meet your minimum daily needs for protein, make sure to have a serving or two of lean protein at every meal. Measure out 3 – 4 oz or about 1/2 cup per serving.Stick to lower calorie, lower fat protein sources like: poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy, legumes, tofu, lean beef, seafood or pork.
 In addition to protein, both fruits and vegetables are essential to a nutritious weight loss diet. Filling up on these foods can help speed up weight loss.


Both fruits and vegetables are naturally lower in calories and higher in fiber (plus a whole bunch of other vitamins and minerals). They can add bulk to your meals and keep you feeling more satisfied.Making half of your plate or your meals and snacks a fruit or a vegetable automatically makes your meals a little lower in calories. Aim to do this for most if not all of your meals.
Measure out the appropriate serving sizes of these items as well. One serving is 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad or 1/2 cup of fruit., The last food group that's essential to a well-balanced, nutritious diet are grains. Like fruits and vegetables, they're a great source of fiber and can help support your weight loss.The important thing when choosing and consuming grains is to aim to pick 100% whole grains. These grains are less processed and are higher in fiber and other essential nutrients compared to refined grains.Stick to 100% whole grains like: brown rice, quinoa, oats, whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta or barley.
Also measure out the appropriate serving size of these foods. Go for about 1 oz or 1/2 cup of cooked grains per serving.