 If you feel like there is too much involved, it can put you off cooking. Easy recipes and easy cooking styles will give you the motivation to cook and enjoy the fresh flavors. Some of the best styles of cooking for one include:


Sauteing
Steaming
Roasting

Grilling or broiling.;
, There are numerous cookbooks available for single person cooking, such as Solo Suppers and Going Solo in the Kitchen. Having just a few of these books will provide you with ample inspiration from which you can start developing your own recipe ideas.


Look online for recipes for one. It's much easier to find recipes made for one than hunting through lots of recipe books. Try searches such as "cooking for one", "recipes for one", or the name of a dish you like "for one".
 When you check for the number of servings in a recipe, you'll find that some are just too large an amount. For easy recipes, such as stir-fries, soups, roasting, grilling, and broiling, it is easy to cut down on the amounts.


Look for recipes that feed two persons. These are more common than recipes for one and it's easy to place the extra in the fridge for tomorrow's lunch or dinner.
Be very careful cutting down recipe amounts for baked foods (cakes, pastries, bread, etc.) and complex dishes. The amounts cannot always be cut without disrupting the cooking outcomes. Read up on why some ingredients form a part of certain dishes so that you know what be reduced and what needs to stay in the original amount.
 Rather than cutting down the recipe amount, make your own frozen dinners. This can be a fantastic way of freeing you up from cooking every night and will provide the motivation to cook some of the more complex recipes in the knowledge that your effort will result in several meals.
 Look for foods divided into sachets, small packets, etc., so that you don't have to use up huge amounts of the food. Also learn how to store used ingredients for longer, such as freezing pasta sauce, stock, or tomato paste in ice cube trays and using small amounts as needed rather than throwing anything away unused.


One chicken breast, fillet of fish, piece of steak is a portion you can easily cook up at home with the addition of some steamed vegetables.
 Find your local favorite grocery store, fruit and vegetable store, butcher, etc., and be a very regular food shopper. Pick up fresh items daily to every 2-3 days in only the portions needed. That way, you'll always be eating fresh, you'll enjoy

, There is only one of you, so think about splurging on the best food items now and then because they won't be as expensive for one person, especially when it comes to meat and fish.
 Leftovers can be easily turned into soup, stews, filo-pie filling, cold salads (with crusty bread), omelets, frittata, etc. These leftover dishes are very easy, quick, and stretch your food further.

