 Firing a pistol accurately starts at your feet. Three are three common stances to choose from when firing a pistol accurately. The right stance for you will depend on your level of comfort, your natural firing position, and preference. The isosceles stance involves positioning your feet evenly about shoulder width apart. The weaver stance uses staggered footing, with the foot on your dominant side set back and your lead foot pointed at the target. The fighting stance bridges the gap between the two, placing your feet shoulder width apart and with your dominant side foot only slightly behind your lead foot.In all three positions, the shooter extends the weapon directly out in front of them.
Each position has advantages and disadvantages and it’s recommended that beginner shooters try all three to see which feels the most stable for them.;
, Always use two hands when firing a pistol. Your dominant hand should seat high on the handle of the pistol and you should extend your trigger finger along the side of the weapon. Your non-dominant hand should be slightly lower, wrapping around the handle. Do not place your non dominant hand on the bottom of the pistol, as it will prevent you from ejecting a spent magazine when reloading quickly.The web of your dominant hand (span of skin between your thumb and index finger) should be aligned with the wrist to properly absorb recoil.
Squeeze the pistol in your hands firmly, but not too tight. If your knuckles turn white, you are squeezing the pistol too hard.
 Most pistols come equipped with a front sight tip and rear sight aperture. The front sight tip is the small post sticking up from the end of the barrel of the gun. When you raise the pistol, focus on the front sight tip and ensure it is centered on your target. Having the front sight tip centered on the target is referred to as getting proper “sight picture.”In close quarters situations, acquiring sight picture is often sufficient to accurately engage a target.
Sight picture is imperative to accuracy. A common saying in military training is, “in a gun fight, you have the rest of your life to acquire good sight picture.”

, If your target is further than a few feet away, you will need to couple sight picture with proper sight alignment. Sight alignment occurs when you position the weapon so the front sight tip is centered between the two posts that make up the rear sight aperture near the back of the weapon. When the front sight tip and rear sight aperture are aligned, this creates sight alignment, meaning the weapon is level and not angled in any way.The front sight tip and rear sight aperture should be of even height, meaning neither appears to sit higher than the other in your perspective.
With good sight alignment and sight picture, the target should be blurry behind the front sight tip, which is centered in your vision between the two posts of the rear sight aperture.
 As you squeeze the trigger, the firing pin will strike the back of the round, igniting the gun powder and sending the round down range. This contained explosion is directed out the barrel, which in turn tries to push the weapon backwards. This counter force when firing a weapon is called recoil. Manage recoil by combing a proper firing stance with a good grip. As soon as you fire the weapon, quickly regaining sight picture and alignment will eliminate issues caused by recoil.The design of the weapon, the type of ammunition, and the caliber of the weapon can all effect the amount of recoil your pistol produces.
 After firing a round, do not immediately re-holster your weapon or move to acquire a new target. Instead focus on the target even after releasing the round. This will prevent you from accidentally sending a round off course by moving before the round has left the barrel.Even a tiny amount of movement can send a round off target at a distance.
Wait a second before moving on to a new target or lowering your weapon.

