 It's up to your parents if throwing a hotel slumber party is in their budget. It's a good idea to have your parents sleep in the room next to you and your friends. Getting an adjoining room would be a good choice.;
, There are so many themes to choose from. Themes can be pretty much anything; from TV shows to Winter. If none of these appeal to you, go to a local party store and try to find an idea, or choose a color scheme.
 One with a pool would be a good thing to look for, so at the beginning of the party, or when it starts to get boring, you could head for the pool and the sauna.(an inside pool is really fun)

, Pick your BFF's first, then add who ever else you want, unless you want to be exclusive, then only invite your best friends. You could also have a pool party with a lot of people and only have select people stay over. If you are planning on doing that, make sure that you keep it to a small number(3 or 4) so no one's feelings get hurt.
 Be creative! Designing your own invitations is a lot of fun! It shows your creativity & you can make it special for the theme of your party! If you choose not to make them on your own, store-bought invites will work too, especially for young ones. Or you can e-mail the invites. You could also hand out invitations and send reminders via e-mail to those who have not yet responded. And make sure to add the hotel name, and number of the room your staying in, and everything they should bring, including CD's they may want to listen too, and bathing suits if you have a hotel with a pool.Make sure to have the pick-up time at least a half-hour before check-out time, so you can take off the decorations. Also make sure to tell them that the pick-up time is sharp! You don't want your guests to be waiting in the hallway until their parents get there!

, Send them at least 3 weeks ahead of time, so everyone will be free on that day. Send invites in the mail, if they have email, then email them, or hand them out.
 The décor can/should relate to your party theme. Don't put up decorations that you don't expect to clean up though. Confetti can be iffy. If you are willing to pick it up, you say it's okay, but you would have to talk to the hotel before making this choice.
 For this topic you could also plan it according to your theme, or you could just have a traditional birthday party meal (pizza, soda, candy, etc.). If you have a color scheme, get foods in that color! Also try to plan it around your friends allergies and food preferences. You don't want your friends to starve because they don't like or cannot have what is being served.
 You could buy goody bags at the store, or buy some plain, small tote bags and jazz them up! Include things having to do with your party theme. If you have a color scheme, buy cute little items in that color.
 Your guests may want to bring games with them, it they would like. You can have games like,Wii, watch movies, dance to music, play flash light tag, tell scary stories,and play games according to your theme, and traditional party games.
 Move all tables to the walls, so you have space for dancing and games. Pick a table (or bring one that you can carry) to use for snacks. Dress-up the snacks by putting them in tall glass bowls, and on fancy trays. You can put a tablecloth on the table that relates to your theme.
 When guests arrive, put all bags in the closet so they are out of the way. Put on some cool music. If you are going straight to the pool, put on swimsuits and get towels. If there is a small amount of people, have them put pillows and blankets on the bed or side of the bed the are sleeping on.
 Dance, eat,swim in the pool, watch movies, and have fun! And order room service (if your parents give you their permission)!

, Eating breakfast at the hotel is kind of cool, since many hotels have continental breakfast (free breakfast) with many choices.
