 Although difficult, you can get child custody in a few situations. For example, the following are the most common:


Step-parent adoption.Because the child is already living with you, you might want to become the parent. Generally, you will need the biological parent to agree to terminate their parental rights. However, you can also get custody if you can show that the parent has abandoned their child.
Foster parent adoption. If you have been taking care of the child for a long time, you can often adopt if the biological parents have had their parental rights terminated.
Consent. Biological parents can voluntarily ask the court to terminate their parental rights. This will allow you to adopt.
Consent guardianship. With a guardianship, the parents do not lose their parental rights. However, you gain custody and the right to make legal decisions for the child, such as medical care and where they go to school. A parent can take back their consent to a guardianship at any time and get back custody of the children.Unfitness or incapacity. If the parents won’t consent to an adoption, then you might be able to show that they are unfit or otherwise unable to parent their child. This is extremely difficult and usually only happens if the parents have abused or abandoned the child, or if the parents are in prison.;
, The process is much easier if you can get the biological parents to consent to adoption or guardianship. You will need both to agree. It isn’t enough for only one parent to agree., If you want to try and prove the parents are unfit, then you should objectively analyze their parenting skills. Each state defines “unfit” in different ways. However, there are some common examples:The parent has abused the child, whether physically, emotionally, or sexually.
The parent has abandoned the child. In other words, the parent can’t be found.
The parent neglects the child. Neglect can be a bit of a gray area. Judges generally prefer that children stay with their parents, so you will need a lot of evidence of neglect, such as unmet medical needs, malnutrition, isolation, etc.
 You also will need to show to a court that you have a long-term relationship with the child. You should be able to point out that you are fully capable of providing for the child, just as a parent would.Your own relationship with the child works in tandem with the biological parents’ unfitness. If the parents have a history of not being able to take care of the child, then you can argue that it is in the child’s best interests to live with you since you have already been taking care of the child.
For example, you might be the child’s aunt who is taking care of the child because the father has abandoned the family and the mother has a drug addiction. In this case, you can argue that both parents are unfit and that you have been acting as a parent for the child.
 A qualified attorney can help you analyze your situation and determine whether you can seek child custody. Because the process is so complicated, you should also consider hiring the person to represent you. In particular, you should have a lawyer represent you if one or more of the biological parents is contesting custody.


You can get a referral to a family law attorney by contacting your local or state bar association. When you have a name, call up the lawyer and schedule a consultation.
See Choose a Family Law Attorney for more information.
 Each state has different laws, and some states limit your ability to even file for custody as a non-biological parent. At the consultation, you should ask the lawyer whether your state law allows you to file.


For example, in Michigan, a non-parent can’t file for custody if the child’s parents are or have been married.By contrast, other states are less restrictive. For example, in Arizona, you can apply for custody if the parents do not have physical custody.
 The paperwork you fill out will differ depending on whether you are seeking to adopt or whether you are trying to get guardianship. Nevertheless, your court should probably have forms you can pick up from the court clerk. Go to the county where the child lives and ask.Each court has different forms. However, you will generally need a “petition” for either an adoption or guardianship.If you hired a lawyer, then they should be able to create the necessary paperwork. This is one of the advantages of hiring a lawyer.
 Once you have completed the forms, you will need to file them with the court clerk. Make multiple copies since you might need to file a copy with the clerk. You also need a copy for your records and copies to serve on the parents.


You may have to pay a filing fee. You should check with the court clerk for the amount.
 The parents need to know that you are seeking custody of the child. You can give them notice by sending them a copy of the forms you filed. You should also send a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk.


Parents can always waive service. If they agree to the adoption or guardianship, then they might happily do so. Usually, there is a form they can fill out.Otherwise, you can arrange that service be made by the sheriff or by anyone 18 or older who isn’t part of the case.
 The parents might respond in writing to your petition, especially when they want to fight your custody. They might file a response with the court and send you a copy. If you have a lawyer, then your lawyer will get the copy.
 Depending on your state, you may have to undergo a home study conducted by a licensed social worker. The purpose of the home study is to assess you and your surroundings.You can prepare for the home study by doing the following:


Identify why you want custody of the child. The social worker will want to understand your reasons for seeking custody.Get comfortable talking about the challenges of living with the child. The child probably already lives with you. You should be able to speak honestly. Don’t paint a picture that is too rosy.
Write down your daily routine. The social worker wants to understand your day-to-day life.Address any hazards in your home. You want the home to be physically safe, without obvious hazards, such as exposed wires or medications within the reach of children.
 Where the parents agree to the adoption or guardianship, then your hearing may be relatively simple. The judge will probably question the biological parents to make sure they understand what they are doing. You might not have to do more than talk about your relationship with the child.


However, where the biological parents are fighting you, then the hearing will be contested. At a contested hearing, each side can present evidence by calling witnesses and submitting documents.
You should talk with your lawyer about what evidence you want to submit. For example, you will probably need to show parental unfitness and your own strong relationship to the child. You might want witnesses who have seen the child with you and with the biological parents.
You can also request documents in a process called “discovery.”For example, you might want to subpoena medical records on the child or have the biological parents answer questions under oath. Discovery is a good way to uncover helpful evidence to use at your hearing.
 You can make a big impression based on your appearance. You should dress neatly in clean, well-pressed clothes.You don’t have to dress up in a suit if that makes you uncomfortable. However, you want to look like you are a responsible person.


If the child attends the hearing, then make sure that he or she also looks well taken care of. Cut their hair, trim their nails, and dress them in clean, well-fitting clothes. This will show the judge that you can act as a responsible parent.
See Dress for a Court Hearing for helpful tips.
 As the party seeking custody, you will probably present evidence first. You can have witnesses testify and introduce documents into evidence. You also need to show the judge your current relationship with the child, which means you will probably testify.


When testifying, remember to sit up straight and look the lawyer in the eye. When you answer, turn to the judge.
Speak loudly and clearly. If you feel nervous, take a couple deep breaths.
Always listen to the question and ask for clarification if you don’t understand it.The parents’ lawyer will be able to cross-examine you. Avoid arguing or being sarcastic. Also pause before answering to give your lawyer a chance to object.
 Any biological parent fighting custody can present witnesses as well. They may also testify. Your lawyer will have a chance to cross-examine each witness.
 At the end of the hearing, the judge will decide whether to award you custody. The judge will sign an order, which you or your lawyer may need to fill out. Make sure to keep a copy of the order.


Even if you are unhappy with the judge’s decision, you should remain respectful.You might end up seeing the judge again in the future.
 If you lose, you might want to appeal to a higher court. Talk about this possibility with your lawyer. In an appeal, you ask a higher court to review the trial court’s transcripts and set aside the order if the judge made a serious error. Don’t delay, since you generally don’t get much time to file a Notice of Appeal (often 30 days or less).Also discuss whether the child can still live with you. The biological parents might have fought your attempt to get custody, but they might not be able to get their lives turned around so that they can take care of the child.

