 To install DotNetNuke, you need a database with either Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008 or SQL Express. If you have an older version of DotNetNuke 5.2 or earlier, you can use SQL Server 2000. You should also have a Microsoft IIS (Internet Information Services) with version 5 or higher, and the Microsoft.NET 3.5 SP1 framework. This service pack is available through the Windows Update feature.;
,, If necessary, create the directory where you want to install DotNetNuke on your server.
 Click "Properties," choose the "Security" tab, and add the necessary user permissions. Use either the local ASP.NET service (for Windows 2000 and XP) or the local Network Service account (for Windows 2003, Vista, 2008, or 7). You should have permission to modify the folder.


Open the IIS server console. Go to "Start" > "Run" > INETMGR. Click on the "websites" node, and select the "Default website" node.
Right click on the DotNetNuke folder. Click "Convert to Application." If this option is not available, select "Properties" and add the application.



Open your web browser, and go to: http://yoursite.com/dotnetnuke.

Walk through the installation wizard as presented on the screen. The database information should already be configured, and you should not need to change it.
Look for the default login information for the "host" and "admin" users, which is shown when installation is complete.
Log in immediately, and change the passwords to protect against hacking.



Open SQL Management Studio, and connect to your database server.
Walk through the installation wizard as presented on the screen.
Create a new database by expanding the server node, then the databases node, and filling in necessary values for all the database properties.
Set up the SQL user and security account, and choose the appropriate integrated-security or user-security setting under the "server/security" node.
Open your web browser, and go to: http://yoursite.com/dotnetnuke.

Walk through the installation wizard as presented on the screen. Choose SQL 2000/2005/2008, and follow the security steps according to the option chosen in the previous steps. Test the database connection.
Finish the installation wizard, and look for the default login information for the "host" and "admin" users.
Log in, and immediately change the passwords for those accounts to protect against a hack.

