 Just as with white rice, it helps to give brown rice a rinse before boiling it. That helps remove any dust and grit that may be clinging to it. Place 1 cup (190 g) medium- or long-grain brown rice in a strainer or colander and rinse it under cool water.Rinsing the rice before cooking can also improve its texture, so each grain is distinct and doesn’t stick to the others.
 To bring out the nutty flavor of brown rice, you should toast it before boiling it. Place a 2-quart (2.5 L) pan on the stove, and heat 1 teaspoon (5 ml) olive oil or sesame oil in it over medium-high heat. Add the rice to the pan, and toast it until the rice is completely dry and the ends begin to look lightly toasted.You can also tell when the rice is finished toasting when it begins to give off a nutty aroma.
 After the rice has finished toasting, pour 2 cups (470 ml) of water into the pan, and mix in 1 teaspoon (5.68 g) of salt. The water will steam and bubble when you first add it because the pan is hot due to the toasting., Leave the pot on the burner at medium-high to high heat, and bring the rice, water, and salt mixture to a complete boil. After the pot comes to a boil, turn the heat to low and allow it to reduce to a bare simmer before covering it with a lid.Make sure not to cover the pot until the contents stop boiling completely.
 After you’ve covered the pot, allow it to cook on low heat for 45 minutes. At the end of the cooking time, uncover the pot and look to see if the rice has absorbed all of the water. Test the rice to see if it’s no longer crunchy too. It should be tender but slightly chewy when it’s done.During the 45 minute cooking period, don’t uncover the pot. That will cause steam to escape, and the rice will need longer to cook.
It’s okay if there’s a little water at the bottom of the pot when you check it after 45 minutes. If there’s more than 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of water, though, drain the excess into the sink.
If the rice is still crunchy after 45 minutes, pour a bit more water if necessary into the pot and allow the rice to cook longer. Be sure to check on it in 10 minute intervals, though, until the rice is tender.
 When the rice is finished, remove it from the heat, and place the lid on the pot once again. Allow it to sit for approximately 10 to 15 minutes in the covered pot to get rid of some of its stickiness.Allowing the rice to sit also helps it dry a little so it doesn’t seem as wet and freshly steamed when you serve it.
 Remove the lid from pot, and use a fork or spoon to rake through the rice and fluff it. Place it in a bowl or on individual plates to serve.Leftover brown rice can last between 3 and 5 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator.

