 Turn on your oven to 200 degrees F (95 degrees C). Put an oven rack in the center of your oven. Place a piece of parchment paper on each of your baking sheets. This will help the cookies release once they're baked.The oven temperature may seem low, but that's because these cookies bake for a very long time.
 Place 3 large egg whites into the bowl of a stand mixer or in a large mixing bowl. Beat the egg whites on medium speed for 1 minute, until it starts to foam and then softly peak. If you want, you can add 1/4 teaspoon of cream of tartar to help stabilize or firm up the egg whites (but this is optional if you don't have cream of tartar).The bowl and beaters need to be completely clean and free of grease. Check the egg whites to ensure that no yolk is in the bowl. These can prevent the egg whites from beating to full volume.
Test for soft peaks by lifting your beater out of the bowl. The egg whites will lift up and droop down if they're at soft peak stage.
 Turn the mixer back on to medium speed and add 3/4 cup (150 grams) of superfine or caster sugar one tablespoon at a time. Beating the egg whites while slowly adding the sugar will allow it to dissolve into the egg whites.Gradually beating in the sugar will prevent the cookies from being gritty.
 Turn the mixer up to medium-high speed and continue to beat the sugar and egg white mixture. Stop the mixture once or twice and scrape down the sides with a clean rubber spatula. Test for stiff peaks by lifting up the beater. The mixture should hold firm shiny peaks.Touch the mixture and rub it between your fingers. If it feels gritty, continue to beat it. When you no longer feel the sugar between your fingers, the meringue batter is ready to use.
 If you want to add a subtle flavor to the meringue cookies, beat in 1/4 teaspoon of extract. Consider what you'll be using the meringues for and what flavors you'll be serving them with. Popular extracts to use in meringues include:


Vanilla
Peppermint
Almond
Lemon

, Take two large spoons and scoop up large dollops of meringue onto your parchment-lined baking sheets. You can scoop them close to each other because they won't spread much during baking. Make the meringue cookies as large or as small as you like, just be aware that larger cookies will take longer to bake.If you want more decorative meringues, pipe the meringues using a pastry bag and 1/2" tip.
 Place the baking sheets in the oven for 1 hour and 30 minutes to 1 hour and 45 minutes. The meringues will turn a light pale color and will crisp up as they bake and dry. Turn off the oven and return the meringues to the oven. Leave the door open and let them cool for several hours or overnight.This recipe will make about 9 medium to large size meringues. You can store the meringues in an airtight container for a few days.
