 Floor length gowns are more elegant than short dresses. The neckline should be tasteful, but the sleeve length (if the dress has sleeves) is optional. Many full-length formal gowns are sleeveless.In the absence of a full floor-length dress, a very nice, dark colored or black three-quarters length dress may be acceptable.Older women should always choose a longer gown, but younger women may be able to wear a shorter gown appropriately.The most formal events call for a long ballgown with a full skirt., Black is usually preferred, with a rich texture that adds some visual interest.Deep colors like blue, maroon, a rich purple, and brown also look nice.
White or red dresses can be formal and classy, but may make you stand out.Use caution when wearing these to events like weddings, at which the bride should stand out, not one of the guests.
 Put your regular day purse aside and opt for a satin, or beaded, smaller clutch or purse for a black tie event., The more sparkle, the better. This is a time for you to shine.


Wear real jewelry (for example, real diamonds, pearls, or gold) whenever possible.
Costume jewelry should look very real and not tacky if worn.
Traditional jewelry recommendations are a sparkly bracelet and earrings or very simple, understated necklace., It can be difficult to wear evening wear in the winter months, as it is often chilly and women’s black tie attire rarely has sleeves to speak of. Your cold-weather options, however, should also be formal. Remember that you may be able to shop at a thrift store or borrow items instead of buying them new.A fur or faux fur coat or wrap is the preferred choice for black tie dress codes.
A traditional overcoat is the second best choice.
For milder climates or for time spent indoors, a shawl or wrap made from a quality material such as cashmere is preferred.
Long gloves, while made for style rather than warmth, may help ward off the cold and will give you a fancy flair.
 None of your undergarments should be visible in any way while dressed in your evening wear.Check for bra straps. Most formal dresses will require a strapless bra.
Be sure there are no panty lines. If your dress is curve-hugging or tight, you need to be sure that no one will be able to see your underwear. You may need to wear a thong or go without.
Consider wearing slimming undergarments. There are undergarments that are meant to smooth out areas of your body that may be bumpy and help give you a flattering shape. These usually do not show any lines beneath the clothing.
 Evening shoes are usually dainty or strappy, with a decent heel. Large or clunky shoes do not generally look good with formal dresses.


Evening shoes that are satin, beaded or shiny are great choices. Ideally, the texture and color of your shoes should match that of your handbag/clutch.
 You should spend extra time making your hair and makeup look nice for a black tie event.Traditional black tie formality calls for hair to be gathered in an up-do. Consider going to a salon to have a professional style your hair for you.
Events that involve dancing often have more flexibility and encourage flowing hair.Arrange for a manicure and pedicure the day of the event. Make a reservation ahead of time to ensure that they will have room for you.
Makeup should be applied well and not over-done. If you are inexperienced in makeup application, schedule a makeover at a salon or go to a makeup counter at a department store.

