 Not only are wet clothes uncomfortable, but staying wet can lead to infections. Once you have gotten your skirt, dress, shorts, or pants out of the way, pull your underwear down until it is half-way down your thighs.


If you are wearing a skirt or a dress, pull it up by the hem until it is at waist level. If the dress or skirt is full, with a lot of fabric, bunch everything up in front of you. There should be no fabric hanging behind you.
If you are wearing shorts or pants, unbutton and unzip them first. Then, pull them half-way down your thighs. Do not let them go past your knees, or they may get wet.It may also be a good idea to roll up the cuffs of long pants.
 Place your feet a little more than shoulder-width apart and squat down. Keep your balance by leaning forward. This will put your privates behind your underwear and pants/shorts (if you are wearing any).


If you are having trouble keeping your balance, try to touch the ground in front of you with one hand.
Use your hand to hold shorts or pants close to your knees.This will help keep them from getting wet.
 Find two objects, such as rocks or logs. Sit down on the edge of one object, and rest your feet up on the other. Scoot forward so that your privates are right above the ground. They should not touching the object you are sitting on. Also, make sure that your thighs are not touching.When you are done urinating, get off your make-shift toilet. Try to avoid the puddle.
 For this, you will need to slide your underwear and shorts/pants all the way down to your ankles. Kneel down on the ground and place the bottle between your legs. Eliminate into the bottle. Be sure to label the bottle, and not use it for any other purpose., If you do not dry yourself, you may get an infection. You can use baby wipes, tissue, toilet paper, or even a "pee rag."


If you are using baby wipes, tissue, or toilet paper, do not leave it on the ground. Put the used paper into a plastic bag, and throw the bag away once you find a trashcan.If you are using baby wipes, or any other wet wipe, try to find one that does not contain alcohol. Too much alcohol can kill both the good and bad bacteria. This could lead to urinary tract infections.A "pee rag" is a handkerchief or bandanna. You wipe yourself with it, then hang it out in the sun to dry.The sun's ultra-violet rays will help disinfect the rag.Keep in mind, however, that if you are in a damp, rainy, or humid area, you will need to rinse the rag often or it will begin to smell.