 Getting better will mean some self-reflection and exploration. Before you talk with your friends, it will help to take some time to ask how drugs impact your life and your relationships with others. Ask how addiction has taken over your life. Doing so will lead to better self-understanding. Consider writing out all of your addiction’s negative effects on your life and personal relationships. What do drugs cost you? What might they cost you in the long run in terms of your dreams, your aspirations, your job, and your friendships?
How and in what areas do drugs affect your life? Have they alienated you from loved ones? Have they undermined your physical wellbeing? Have they hurt your emotional or spiritual health?

, Try to learn as much as you can about drugs and drug addiction as a form of mental illness. There are plenty of resources to utilize. For instance, you can try reading about addiction online at sites like the Mayo Clinic or Cleveland Clinic. You can also try talking to addiction specialists – mental health professionals who are trained to handle addiction. Your general practitioner is one place to start. Inform her of the problem, if you haven’t already. She can then refer you to an addiction specialist or to a more specific rehab program.
Try searching on your own for doctors who specialize in treating addiction, alternatively. Consult organizations like the American Society of Addiction and the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry to look for options and referral advice.
 Talking about addiction, again, is not easy. If you’re finding it hard to express yourself or talk in person with friends, consider writing to them. A letter can act as a tool for an in-person discussion or can in some cases stand-in, especially if the recipient is involved in your addictive behavior and not someone you want to have direct contact with. It will also let you plan your words and to write out what you want to say.


You might write the letter beforehand and then read it to friends in their presence. Or, you can ask them to read it on their own.
The letter can be long or short and can include everything you would want to say in a normal conversation, like the problem itself, an apology, and a request for your friends’ support.
Writing a letter might also be the best way to end an unhealthy relationship with a friend who fuels your addictive behavior, and to explain why you can no longer continue to associate with that person.

