 Parents often treat children differently for reasons based solely on qualities that are nobody’s fault. Step-parents might show favoritism to their biological children because they raised them and feel closer to them. Other reasons might include:Age. Firstborn children often receive preferential treatment. Middle children are often neglected. Younger siblings who are still children might be treated better than teens because they are perceived as being in greater need of parental attention.
Gender. Parents often feel closer to children of their gender than children of the other gender. For instance, mothers often feel closer to daughters than sons, and might thus show favoritism to their daughters. In addition, in a patriarchal society, boys are often treated better than girls.
 If your parents are treating your siblings better than you, they might have a personality disorder.This includes a broad spectrum of disorders (including histrionic personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder) in which a person’s feelings are dysfunctional and their thinking is confused. Instead of making decisions on a rational basis -- by, for instance, realizing that each child deserves love equally -- they rationalize their unfair treatment and insist that some children don’t deserve love (for whatever reason).
 Stress might be brought on by financial or relationship problems. If you’re aware that your parent(s) are having problems and they are treating another sibling better, it could be a product of the stress they’re feeling.
 If you parents continuously treat your sibling(s) better (or even if they treat you worse in one particular instance), don’t assume that you deserve it. No matter what their reason for treating you differently, it’s important to recognize that you deserve love, respect, and fair treatment just as much as your brother or sister.


In the end, it shouldn’t matter why your parents are treating you worse. What matters is that their behavior is wrong.
Don’t obsess over trying to figure out how to “fix” yourself or please your parents. In most cases, it just isn’t possible.
 How would your parents explain the differences in treatment? Even if you don’t agree with their reasoning, it helps to think about things from their point of view., If your parents are treating you as less important than a sibling or if they are cruel to you in other ways, then this may be abuse. There are lots of different kinds of abuse, which may include:Emotional abuse, such as calling you names, shaming you, humiliating you, or ignoring you.
Neglect, such as not feeding you enough or not seeking care for you when you are sick or injured.
Physical abuse, such as hitting you, restraining you, or doing other things to harm you.
Sexual abuse, such as touching you in intimate places, forcing you to perform sexual acts, or talking to you in sexual ways.

