 If you are worried that your child is interacting with a predator, your first step is to talk to your child. Make it clear that you are worried, not angry. Ask your child questions to determine what is going on.For example, you could say, "Being online seems like it is really controlling your mood lately. Is there some reason for that?"
You could also say, "I'm concerned about your safety. Let's go over the ground rules for staying safe online again."
Remind your child that they can trust you. Explain that you are just looking out for their best interests.
Make sure your child knows the warning signs of a predator. They also need to know never to share personal information.
 If you suspect that an online predator is targeting someone in your home, you can check your computer. Make sure that you have security software installed. This can help protect your computer from spyware and viruses.Run a security scan to see if any programs have been added to your computer without your knowledge.
Check for suspicious downloads. Look to see if there is any concerning new material on your computer, such as pornography.
Make sure to regularly inspect all of the computers in your house. Don't forget laptops and tablets.
 This resource is mandated by Congress. You can contact the tipline 24/7 to report suspected incidents of abuse. You can report inappropriate sexual advances and any distribution of unsolicited sexual material.Go to the website at www.cybertipline.com
You can also call 1-800-843-5678

, Many online predators have been convicted of a sexual offense. The sex offender registry is public information. Check your area to see if a potential sexual predator lives in your community.Family Watchdog is a site that allows parents to check their area for registered sex offenders. Enter your address to determine if anyone in your area is registered.
You should also check the address for your child's school, and other frequently visited areas.
 If you or someone you know is concerned that you are being targeted by an online predator, you should report it. Contact the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to make a report. You can reach that agency at 1800TheMissing.You can also contact the FBI to make a report.
If you are concerned about immediate danger, contact your local police department. Ask for an officer to come to your home to take a report.

