 Place your steak on a large plate and use paper towels to pat a one pound sirloin steak dry on both sides. Use a meat cleaver to pound the steak so it's a little thinner and more tender. You could also take a sharp knife and carefully poke the surface off the steak to tenderize it. Spread 1 teaspoon of olive oil evenly over the steak.








While you can leave your steak out to come to room temperature before cooking, doing so doesn't actually improve browning or the flavor of the steak.;
, Drizzle the steak with 2 teaspoons of soy sauce and 2 teaspoons of red wine vinegar. Sprinkle freshly ground salt and pepper to taste, 1








You can also add a little bit of liquid smoke if you want a really rich, smoky flavor for the steak.
 Turn the steak over so that the other side of the steak gets a little of the seasoning. Add another teaspoon of olive oil and spread it over the steak. Sprinkle more salt and another 1/2 teaspoon of garlic powder over the steak.









You can use your hands to flip the steak or you can use tongs to pick up and flip the steak over.
 Take one large baked potato that's cool. Carefully cut the potato in half using a sharp knife. Slice one half of the potato into 1








Save the other half of the potato for another use or consider doubling this recipe and making more fried potatoes to serve.
 Sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon of garlic powder, 1/4 teaspoon of lemon pepper, and freshly chopped parsley over the potatoes. Toss the potatoes so they're evenly seasoned.









You could also season the potatoes with dried thyme, rosemary, or herbes de provence.
 Cut a red onion in half. Take one half of the red onion and carefully slice it into strips using a sharp knife. You can leave the red onion sliced or continue to cut it into chunks.








Save the other half of the onion for another use.
 Turn on a gas grill to high heat or prepare a charcoal grill so the coals are hot. Set a 12 inch cast-iron skillet on the grate and add 2 tablespoons of coconut oil in the bottom of the skillet. Let the pan and oil heat up for a few minutes.You could also use canola oil if you don't want to use coconut oil. Avoid using olive oil or butter since these have low smoke points and will burn.
 Add the seasoned potatoes and chopped onions to your hot cast-iron skillet. Stir the potatoes quickly so they're evenly coated in the coconut oil. Let them cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until they're as browned as you'd like them. Remove the potatoes and onions to a pan.








If you want crispy potatoes, avoid stirring them often since this will prevent a crust from forming. If they start to stick to the pan, add another teaspoon or two of coconut oil.
 Add one teaspoon of coconut oil to the empty cast-iron skillet. The skillet should still be hot and placed on the grill. Crack the egg into the skillet. Fry the egg according to how you like it. Breakfast steak goes especially well with an egg cooked over easy.









You could cook several eggs if you plan on serving breakfast steak and eggs for a crowd.
 Turn on your grill to high heat if you're using a gas grill. You could also heat a charcoal grill till it's hot. Dump the coals evenly in the center to maintain the heat.


To tell if your charcoal grill is hot enough, hold your hand about 5 inches above the coals. If you can only hold your palm there comfortably for one second, your grill is hot.
 Lay the breakfast steak directly on the grill and let it cook for 4 to 5 minutes. Wear oven mitts and use tongs to turn the steak over. Cook the other side of the steak till its as done as you like. For example finish cooking the steak for:








3 to 5 minutes to get medium-rare
5 to 7 minutes to get medium
8 to 10 minutes to get medium-well

, Once the steak is cooked to your liking, use tongs to take it off the grill. Place the steak on a plate or cutting board. Loosely cover the steak with aluminum foil and let it rest for 5 minutes.Resting the steak helps the juices redistribute within the steak. It will also finish cooking.
 Carefully slice the steak using a sharp knife. Slice the steak into thin strips against the grain so it's easier to chew. Serve the breakfast steak with a fried egg and potatoes. To season the finished steak, you could serve it with:


Steak sauce
Hot sauce
Barbecue sauce
Salsa

