 First before going to meet her, here's her inn, it's next to Aja Winery.


This is Ann's schedule every day when it's sunny.

6:00am - 7:00am Doug's Inn (closed)
7:00am - 07:30am Walking to Hot Spring
8:00am - 10:00am Hot Spring
10:00am - 10:30am Walking to Inn
10:30am - 1:00pm Doug's Inn - 2nd floor
1:00pm - 4:00pm Doug's Inn - 1st floor
4:00pm - 7:00pm Doug's Inn - 2nd floor
7:00pm - 10:00pm Doug's Inn - 1st floor
10:00pm - 12:00am Doug's Inn (closed)


This is her schedule Every Day when it's rainy

6:00am - 7:00am Doug's Inn (closed)
7:00am - 10:00am Doug's Inn - backroom
10:00am - 1:00pm Doug's Inn - 2nd floor
1:00pm - 4:00pm Doug's Inn - 1st floor
4:00pm - 7:00pm Doug's Inn - 2nd floor
7:00pm - 10:00pm Doug's Inn - 1st floor
10:00pm - 12am Doug's Inn (closed)

;
, So now you finally know where she is, you should know what she likes so you could win her heart. this is what she likes. :


Special Foods:

Truffle Rice, Cake, Cheese Fondu, Pancakes.


Favorite Foods/Things:

Egg dishes, Stew, Curry Rice, Strawberry Milk, Sandwiches, Sweets, Rice Cakes, Diamond, Pink Diamond, Perfume



, Ann and her dad Doug are greeting people as they come in the front door. Ann notices that you've decided to pay them a visit and asks if you would like a meal. You automatically agree, so Ann asks if you would wait a little bit and then says they're going to have a feast! Of course after she announces it she remembers to ask her dad if it's all right. Doug says you're a special guest so it's all good. Ann is happy and asks you to confirm if you would like to eat with them. Select that you would like to eat (option 1). Ann is happy so Doug says he's going to organize some delicious food for them. Ann says her dad's cooking is very yummy.Soon Doug happily returns with the food and you scarf it down. Ann and Doug both ask if you though it was good, which it was. Doug laughs and asks if it's hard to resist second helpings (of food), then he and Ann both giggle. After the meal is done, Ann sees that her dad is feeling pretty good. Doug says he likes to make things, then says you should come and meet with Ann more often! Poor Ann becomes embarrassed.
Purple Heart Event: Go up to the second floor of the Inn between 10am and 1pm on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday. In one of the rooms you'll find Ann, who appears to be practicing her singing. Enter the room and she'll become startled, unaware that anyone was listening to her. It turns out that Ann was really cleaning and she asks if you like to clean too. If you tell her you like cleaning, she'll be happy. Note: Before entering Doug's house, remember NOT to hold anything in your hands or the event won't come.
Blue Heart Event: If you go to the Inn on Monday or Friday between noon and 7pm, you'll find Ann and her Dad having a conversation. Doug asks Ann what is wrong but she replies that she's alright. Doug knows something is wrong because her face is very pale. Suddenly Ann starts complaining about stomach pains and Doug gets worried. In you walk and Doug is gratefully for your arrival. He asks what he should do, so tell him to take her to the Clinic. At the Hospital Ann is feeling much better. The doctor said that she had something bad to eat. When Doug asks Ann what she ate, she tells him nervously that she ate a Stir Fry, Omelet Rice, Savory Pancake, AND Tempura. She's not done though and admits she also ate some Cheesecake, Apple Pie, Cookies, Ice Cream, and some Pumpkin Pudding! No wonder she has a tummy ache! Doug scolds her for eating so much food and Elli tells her not to eat so much. Back at the Inn Ann says she's sorry for making a mess of things. To thank you she gives you her favorite broken music box.
Green heart event: You don't get an event. Just keep on giving her gifts.
Yellow Heart Event: Go to the Inn on Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday, or Sunday between 10am and 7pm. Doug will welcome you in and then says he has something to discuss with you. He says it's been difficult to raise Ann since her mother died and he's tried his best. Doug asks if you "like" his daughter. If you tell him you do (option 1) he'll be happy.Ann will then walk in and ask what the two of you are doing. Doug acts all innocent until she walks up next to you, then he start acting cheerful. Ann won't be fooled by her father and knows he's talking about her with you. She gets mad at him and runs off. Doug nervously laughs at her.
Orange Heart Event: You don't get an event. Just keep on giving her gifts.
Red Heart event: The Blue Feather will be for sale at Jeff's store. You can use the feather as a marriage proposal item when the girl you're after reaches the Red heart level. When you think she's ready, just equip the Blue Feather and press the B button. She'll accept your feather, visit your farmhouse, and then you two can wed 7 days later.
 When you're married: The wedding will take up the whole day, so there won't be any time for farming. But after the marriage, there is lots to do.


After Marriage: The next morning you will be with your new wife in your farmhouse. She will ask you what name you would like her to call you. You can choose from one of the default names or you can pick a new one. If you're married to Elli or Mary, she'll tell you that she's going to continue to work. If you're married to one of the others you can choose if she should stay home or go to work.
Mornings, Nights,Holidays or Special events after marriage: Your wife doesn't cook you breakfast in the mornings or dinner at night, but she will cook on special occasions like your birthday and wedding anniversary.
The during the daytime: Most of the time she'll just walk around the table all day long. She won't help you with any farm work either. Some of the festivals change because of your marriage.
 You don't even need to talk to everyone on the beach like you would if you were going to watch the fireworks by yourself. Just talk to your wife to start the festivities.
Fall 13 / Mother's Hill - When you weren't married, the girl with the highest affection would meet you at the top of Mother's Hill to watch the full moon. That's still the case even when you're married, so don't expect it to be your wife all of the time.
Winter 14 / Thanksgiving - Instead of receiving gifts from the other girls, you'll receive nothing at all. That's not so bad, since when you go to bed that night your wife will get up and make you some Chocolate Cake. Instead of leaving it on the table she will leave it in your Rucksack for you to find later.
Winter 24 / Starry Night - Instead of going out with your wife's family, the two of you have a nice party at home.
 She asks if you know what today is, so make sure you remember when your anniversary is! If you answer correctly, your wife will give you a gift.


After Marriage children: About a season after you two are married your wife won't feel well one morning. When you take her to the Clinic, Doctor says she's not sick but she's actually pregnant! Your wife will be quite happy about the new baby. Now you just have to wait 60 days until your wife gives birth. She'll go around her business like normal until the 60 days have gone by. On the morning of the birth, Doctor will come by and help with the delivery of your son. Now you may have a son although he isn't going to be much fun as a baby. Your wife will carry him around when she's home, but if she has to go to work then the baby ends up in the bed until she gets home. You can't talk to your son at this stage and you can't even give him gifts. After another 60 days your wife will wake you up in the morning. She says that when she woke up she found the child on the floor! Your baby is crying and looks like he might be hurt. Your wife will ask you what you two should do. You can reply that he'll be fine or if you think you should take him to the Clinic. If you tell your wife that he'll be fine, she gets mad at you and takes him to the Clinic anyway. The correct answer would be to volunteer to take him to the Clinic in the first place! When you all return home your kid now can crawl around. Once your little squirt starts crawling you can finally start to give him gifts to raise his heart levels. Your kid likes Cakes (Cheese, Hot, etc.), Ice Cream, Honey, Yarn, Grapes, Milk recipes, and Noodles.
