 Not only do you have to be equipped with the ability and the machinery, but you have to have a grasp on what it is you're doing. Here are some basic terms you should start incorporating into your vocabulary:Maximum Heart Rate. A basic starting point is 220 minus your age. For your specific maximum heart rate, consult a professional. Do you know yours?

Set. This term is used during weight training. It's the same exercise repeated a specific number of times. You might hear someone say, "I did three sets of 12 on Monday and 4 sets of 10 on Wednesday."

Repetition or "rep." This is the number within the set. As in, "I did three sets of 10 reps each."

Warm up. This is not the same as stretching. Warming up is doing very light exercise, like walking before a run. It increases blood flow, heating up your muscles. Stretching should come in at the end of your work out.

Cooldown. Never do a full-stop; your body will have no idea what happened. Instead, go at a reduced speed for whatever activity you were doing, cuing your body that it's nearing relaxing time. Stretching is often part of a cooldown, for the record.
 You need to choose the right type of shoe for the kind of workout you’ll be doing. And yes, it does matter. A shoe made for running is very different in a number of ways from a shoe made for basketball or tennis. Even walking shoes differ from running shoes.


Running shoes have no lateral stability built into them because you don’t move your feet laterally when you run. You’re only going forward. A running shoe is built to give you support and stability as you move your foot through the running gait cycle. Basketball and tennis shoes both need to be stabilized laterally. That's because you move your feet side to side a lot when playing these sports. runners land more on their forefoot while walkers have a heavier heel strike. So for running you want a shoe that has more cushioning on the forefoot, while walking shoes should have stiffer rubber to support the heel., Sometimes it's the little things that help the most. Get some nice workout clothes—something you feel good in. Invest in an iPod or MP3 player to make the time go faster. Another possibility is a dog, but there's a lot less guilt involved about shoving an iPod into a drawer and forgetting about it.


If you're hitting the gym, get a good water bottle and towel. Having items set aside for this specific purpose somehow makes it easier to get going. You feel more invested and you have concrete reminders of your efforts.
 Gyms are, by no means, for everyone. And for those of us that don't live in perfect weather 300 days out of the year, home equipment may be the easiest solution. Think about investing your dollars into one or more of the following:Treadmill. An easy way to get in the cardio is to invest in a treadmill. Start at a walk for that 30 minutes a day that's recommended and up it from there.

Free weights. To strength-train, purchase some barbells or dumbbells (for beginners, choose the latter). Some sets are adjustable, making it a one-stop shop, regardless of progress.

Other strength training equipment. Think about medicine balls, weight stacks, and flexible bands or rods. They're good ways to change up your routine, especially if you're starting to get bored.

Exercise ball. With this one, make sure you have a grasp on what you're doing before you get on the ball and just end up having a bouncing good time. If you don't do it right, you could either hurt yourself or not end up working the muscles you intended.

Exercise videos and DVDs. Some DVDs and videos are tripe, so watch it (or get recommendations) before you go about the routine. Once you find one you like, nail down the proper form by working in front of a mirror if possible.
 For a monthly fee, you'll have access to rooms full of equipment, classes, and possibly a trainer. Everything you could possibly need will be at this location. It couldn't be much easier, especially if you find one close to work or home.


That is, as long as you actually go. Sign up for a class—having the same weekly schedule will make it easier to stick to. Or train with a trainer or friend -- when someone else is expecting you at 2 PM, you have the added pressure of letting them down.
 Okay, so you don't literally need a team, but something akin to that is a good idea. Join an intramural volleyball team or a rock-wall climbing group. Having other people to break a sweat with you makes it a lot easier—and the time passes by more quickly, too.


If a team sport is a bit too much to ask, get a buddy. Even if they can just accompany you to and from the gym (but not necessarily during), great. They'll hold you accountable and make the pre- and post-workout more enjoyable.

