 This clay behaves the most like commercial polymer clay, but it might shrink (polymer clay doesn't shrink). It can shrink up to 30% by weight, not in size. Be aware of this when working on projects.


You may want to build your project a bit bigger so that when it shrinks it will be the correct size.;
, The pot should be either sitting on the counter during this step or if it is perched on the stove, make sure the flame is not on. Stir well until fully combined.


PVA wood glue works best for this recipe although the normal white children’s glue will work well also. The children’s glue may result in clay that is a bit weaker than clay made with wood glue.
 Stir well until completely blended. If you cannot find pure mineral oil then you can use petroleum oil (not jelly) or baby oil as a substitute.


If you want, you can add food coloring or acrylic paint to the mixture at this point to color it. Be careful not to add too much paint or else you could change the texture. If you want vibrant colors then you should simply paint your creation once it is made.
 Simmer over low heat/flame. As you heat up the stove, stir constantly to keep the liquid ingredients moving. Don't let the mixture sit still, as this will compromise the integrity of the clay’s texture.
 Once it turns to the mashed potato consistency, it’s time to remove from the heat/flame and place onto a cool/flat surface.


Consider placing a hot pad or towel on the counter to protect your countertops.
 The oil will coat and grease your hands as you knead it so that it does not stick to your hands.
 You should do this while it is as hot as possible, as long as your hands can handle the temperature.


You can also use either rubber or work gloves to protect your hands.
 The consistency should appear like well-worked pizza dough and be completely blended together. Roll into a ball when finished.
 To keep clay fresh and avoid having it harden, remove as much air as possible before sealing the bag and storing it.


If the clay is still warm, place in the bag but leave a small amount of the bag open. Once it has cooled completely, then you can seal and store it.
 Now that you have made your dough, you can use it to create anything you choose. When working with the dough it helps to put a little hand cream on your hands to allow you to smooth the clay easily.


Allow your creation to dry for at least 24 hours, or more if it is not yet dry.
Paint with your choice of paint. Tempera paint works well but other types will work as well.
You should paint even those areas that you want to remain white because it can start to look translucent if you do not.

