 Whether tasked with teaching drama class at your school or interested in incorporating drama into a lesson in a different discipline, it can help to recognize the strengths associated with dramatic education. For one, teaching drama facilitates the learning of lessons that would otherwise be nearly impossible to teach in the classroom setting.Note that role-playing historical or even contemporary social-political scenarios will allow students to more comprehensively consider the topics you want them to be familiar with.
 This will immediately help introduce or explore different perspectives on big, multifaceted issues. This can be done at every level of education, as the content of almost any discussion - at least in most disciplines – can be explored via role-playing.Hold debates where students take on characterizations that reflect their assigned or chosen roles. This will allow them to more freely convey their thoughts, through the screen of an adopted persona.
 So – despite a blatant lack of experience – you’ve been asked to teach a drama course, or directed to include a dramatic element in your lesson plans? You don’t know where to start. Thankfully, there’s plenty of help available online in terms of specific activities and even complete lesson plans.Know that most of the materials that are designed to help people teach drama do not assume that the instructor has had much – if any – experience. Most will walk you through everything you need to know!
If you’re hoping to incorporate role-playing into a specific type of course, such as language instruction, you can find guides tailored towards these pursuits!

, Organizations including state government educational departments and other non-profit organizations have made age-specific lesson plans for pre-K through high school level drama classes. For instance, the Kentucky Department of Education has made a wide-ranging set of drama lesson plans freely available online.For additional guidance on lesson plans and activity ideas:


Theatre folk has a whole slew of scenes for different groupings, as well as lessons and tips on acting and all the other elements of theatre production.The Drama Resource website is easy to navigate and offers all sorts of games to play during drama class, as well as other resources that are also available on the Drama Resource app.The Theatre Education Database hosted by BYU provides resources to help theatre educators make lesson plans and more., Hopefully, you aren’t too worried about seeming unprofessional or overly playful in front of your students. If you are, reflect on whether these sentiments are coming from a sense of nervousness about teaching something you haven’t taught before. Recognize the fact that teaching drama will inevitably increase your own abilities and enjoyment of acting. Further, participating in drama exercises altogether will increase the comfort and ease with which you and your students interact.Conceptualize your role as taking part in an experience that everyone is learning from.
Stick to activities that you’re comfortable participating in. If you’re hesitant, start with just a few simple role-playing exercises.
As the course progresses, you’ll likely be more willing to try out new exercises!

, If you’re teaching drama as part of a curriculum that requires it, recognize that some of the students may not want to be there. Never force a student who is shy or hesitant to participate to do so. Instead, ask them to contribute by commenting on other students’ performances and offering ideas about how to act things out in another way.


By asking a student to talk about acting something out, you will encourage them to get closer to actually doing so. Soon enough, you’ll have a room full of stars.

