 Fresh sweat is odorless, but if you let sweat linger on your skin, bacteria will begin to thrive and produce the infamous sweat smell. Wash your underarms whenever you notice an odor or damp patches. Pat yourself dry afterward without rubbing harshly.;
, Antiperspirant deodorant may not be enough for everyone, but it's a great start. Research Apply two or more times per day if necessary.
 Pick up an extra-strength antiperspirant from a pharmacy, or visit a doctor for an even stronger prescription. Apply for a few days each month for long-lasting protection, or as the label instructs.


Switch products or visit a doctor if the product irritates your skin or fails to reduce sweat.
Continue to use regular antiperspirant deodorant while between extra-strength uses.
 Light, cotton shirts allow air to pass through and cool down your underarms. Cotton will also absorb more sweat than synthetic shirts. Heavy or synthetic shirts may have less noticeable damp patches, but they trap sweat and heat, causing your underarms to sweat indefinitely.


If this still doesn't fix your problem, consider wearing a cotton undershirt. This may wick the sweat away from your armpits without staining your over-shirt.
 Hair traps sweat, and hairy armpits may require frequent washing to remove the stale sweat odor. Shave your hair away, and more sweat may drain and evaporate.
 Look for these in pharmacies: they are sold under names like "cotton guard" and "underarm shield." Wear absorbent sweat guards to absorb moisture throughout the day.
 An absorbent powder in your underarms will absorb moisture, minimizing damp patches. You may use any type of body powder, but talc is the most readily available.
 Cut a lemon in half and remove the pips. Gently rub your underarms with one of the halves to cover odor and clear your pores. Do this in the shower and rinse your underarms afterward.
 Mix a few drops in a bowl of water and apply to your underarms. Leave in overnight and rinse in the morning.
 If you have a significant problem with excessive sweat, you may have a condition called hyperhidrosis. If you are diagnosed with hyperhidrosis, a physician can recommend stronger treatments. For example, Botox injections can block nerve signals to the sweat glands.

