 Before you attempt to treat your skin inflammation, you should familiarize yourself with common types of problems. This way, you can more effectively identify your ailment. This will help you figure out the safest, most healing treatment.Eczema is a medical term used to describe several types of skin conditions that are characterized by redness and irritation.
Psoriasis is another common skin problem. A common symptom of psoriasis is a thick, red, scaly area that covers parts of the skin.
Rosacea typically affects facial skin and is a common disorder that causes redness and irritation. Make sure to consult your doctor if you suspect you have any of these conditions.
 Your skin inflammation might also be caused by external factors. Sunburn is one of the most common, but other causes include allergens such as food and plants. If you touch or eat something you are allergic to, you might see inflammation in your skin.Many people suffer from dermatitis if they wear jewelry that contains even a small amount of nickel. If you know that your skin is sensitive, make sure to find out what your accessories are made of.
Plants are also a common irritant. Some of the most common plants that cause dermatitis are poison ivy and poison oak. Your skin can be effected not only if you touch the plant itself, but if you touch another person or animal who has been in contact with it.
Food allergens can also cause skin inflammation, and often times, hives. If you regularly suffer from hives, you should see an allergist to help you determine the cause.
 Some skin conditions are inherited. These are passed from generation to generation through your DNA, and there is no way to prevent this from happening. One common genetic disorder is ichthyosis vulgaris, which includes symptoms such as severely dry and scaly skin.


Another genetic condition is xeroderma pigmentosa, which causes extreme sensitivity to light. This results in frequent blistering from sunburn.
If you have a chronic skin condition, make sure to consult your doctor. Ask if you might have a genetic condition that can be treated.
 In addition to healing your skin inflammation, you can also take steps to prevent it from occurring in the first place. One way is to avoid foods that are known to cause redness and inflammation. Spicy foods are one of the common culprits. Instead of flavoring your food with black or cayenne pepper, try more gentle flavor additions such as ginger or turmeric.Limit your alcohol intake. Drinking large amounts of alcohol over a long period of time can result in chronically red skin.
Dress appropriately for the weather. Bundle up in the winter, taking care to cover your face. That is where your skin is the most sensitive. Also, make sure to cover your skin whenever you are exposed to the sun.

