 This method will allow you to change the color and pattern of your shoes. It will work best on a simple pair of shoes with as few seams as possible, such as ballet flats. It is not recommended for sneakers. Here's a list of what you'll need:Ballet flats (or similar)
Foam brush
Mod Podge
Craft knife
Scissors
Fabric
Acrylic sealer

, Place the shoe down on your table and drape the fabric over it. Cut around the fabric where it meets the table. You will end up with something that looks like a rectangle or an oval., Start at the heel and cut down the middle until you are ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the toe part. Do not cut past the shoe opening. If you can see the top of the toe area, you have cut too far., Lift the fabric up so that you can see the toe. Brush on a thick coat onto the toe, then press the fabric down onto the Mod Podge. Smooth out any wrinkles with your fingers. The fabric needs to lay as flat and smooth as possible. Don't worry if the glue soaks up through the fabric; it will dry clear., Work in small, 1 inch to 2 inch (2.54 to 5.08) wide segments. Again, try to keep the fabric as smooth as possible., You will need this space and extra fabric so that you can "hem" your fabric and create a new "seam.", They will be overlapping each other, but you will fix that in a moment., It will be extending past the seam by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Don't worry, you will be covering it up with the other side., Cover the underside with Mod Podge first. Then, fold the edge in by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Glue it down onto the back of the shoe with more Mod Podge. The raw edges should now be completely hidden by fabric., You want to be able to tuck this into your shoe. You should end up with something that looks like a long oval., You will need the most slits along the curve that is facing the toe of your shoe, and hardly any slits along the side. You may need a few slits on the side just above the heel. Each slit should go from the raw edge down to wear the fabric meets the shoe., Use your foam brush to apply some Mod Podge to the underside of the top hem. Fold the top hem over the top of the shoe opening. Press the fabric firmly against the inside of the shoe.

If the fabric won't stay put, secure it with some sewing pins or metal clips.
 Try to cut as close as possible to the seam between the sole and the body of the shoe., If you see any bunching or wrinkling, use your fingers to smooth the fabric down. If necessary, cut in a few slits or notches., Be careful to cut just the fabric, and not the shoe. Continue smoothing the fabric down with your fingers. The cut edge of the fabric should now by flush with the top of the sole.

If you can, try to tuck the fabric into the crease. Use the top/dull side of the craft knife to do this.
 It will take about 12 hours for the Mod Podge to completely dry and cure, and two to six hours for the acrylic sealer to dry and cure.

Unless you want shiny shoes, be sure to get a matte finish for both your Mod Podge and acrylic sealer.
 Just because something feels dry does not necessarily mean it is fully cured and ready to wear. Also, the acrylic sealer will protect your shoes from getting damaged, but you might want to avoid getting them wet. Moisture may cause the Mod Podge underneath to dissolve, bubble, and warp.