 You want to know things like, their adult size, what their natural environment is, what other fish they are compatible with, and what kinds of things they eat, what temperature range they live in, and the pH range they will tolerate.;
, Not the size they are now, but the fish's adult size! Your fish should have no problem turning around in the tank once they reach their adult size. Each fish should have several gallons of water for just them.
 sand for salt water fish, pebbles for river fish. You should have 1 pound of substrate for each gallon of water

, There are many out there, each requiring different amounts of care and maintenance.
 Many fish will be more comfortable and less shy if they have dark places they can go to hide if they feel nervous or are just trying to get out of their light.
 Make sure you get one that will be able to heat the amount of water in your tank

, Lots of fish can be good jumpers and need to have the tank covered so they can't exit the tank.
, When adding the water, it works well if you put a large plate one the bottom of the tank so the water doesn't move all the substrate.
 Its advisable to let it run for at least a month before adding fish, adding fish food to feed the beneficial bacteria that should start to grow in the filter. There needs to be a high level of beneficial bacteria to get rid of the waste produced by the fish when you add them, otherwise the fish will die slowly and painfully in the toxic water.
 either buy a 35 dollar test kit or take in a water sample to a fish store. You should check for pH, ammonia, nitrites, and nitrates! The pH should what the fish you intend to keep would have in the wild, ammonia and nitrite should never be above 0 or the fish will get sick. Nitrates help plants to grow but too much causes algae, it shouldn't be above 40ppm.
 Not all at once though. Too many fish at once will mean that the filter bacteria cannot cope with all the waste. No more than 1 large or 5 small fish should be put into the tank within a week period.
 Do this so they can adjust to the temperature. The add a small amount of tank water to the bag every 10 minutes or so for about an hour, or more if they are sensitive fish. This helps the fish prepare for the unique water conditions in your tank.
 Do not feed your new fish until a day has passed from purchase. Stressed fish will most likely not eat or it will produce a lot of waste. Let it settle and get used to its environment before trying to give it food.
 Invest a gravel siphon(vacuum) and dechlorinator, this should be added every time tap water is put into the tank, as chlorine is very painful for fish.
