 Now that your child is familiar with the entire chart, drill them. Drill them over breakfast, during commercials, and for a few minutes before bed. As you progress, get faster and faster and faster.


At the beginning, start in order. As you get more and more convinced that they have it down, start mixing it up. They'll slow down initially but then should spark right back up to where they were.
 By this point, you both may be wondering what those squiggles in each number really are. Spice it up for the both of you with games and contests.


Have your child make a set of flash cards. Write the problem, like 4 x 9, on the front and the answer, 36, on the back. The act of writing out the multiples will provide another repetition/reinforcement. Use a timer to see how many cards they can go through in a minute. Can they beat that score tomorrow?

You could also do this with a blank chart. That's an easy way to monitor which ones they're struggling with.


Grab a deck of cards. This game is similar to War, but with multiplication. You each get half the deck to place face down in front of you--don't look at the cards! Each player flips their first card simultaneously--the first person to say the answer based on the two numbers gets both cards (the object of the game is to win them all). If the two of you flip a 7 and a 5, the answer to shout out is 35. For Jacks, Queens, and Kings, you can use 11, 12, and 13, use them as 0's, or take them out entirely.
Say a number, like 30. Can they list all of the possible combinations that multiply to it? 5 x 6? 3 x 10?
Say a number, then ask for the next multiple. For example, start at 30 and ask for the next multiple of 6. Or start at 18 and ask for the next two multiples of 9. You could even start at 22 and ask for the next multiple of 4, even though 22 is not a multiple of 4. Be tricky once they have it.
Try multiplication bingo. Your child fills in a six-by-six grid with whatever numbers they want. You read off a problem like "5 x 7." If they have 35 on their bingo card, then they mark it off. Continue until someone has a "bingo." What's the prize they could win?

