 The first thing you should do when adjusting your camera's settings is make a decision between auto or manual focus. In auto focus, your camera will focus in on pictures on its own. When using manual focus, you will have to focus the camera yourself.


In auto focus, the camera will choose a spot on frame and focus on that just before you take the picture. In manual focus, you are able to choose an area of focus on your camera's lens. You usually do so using the scroll wheel.If you're new to photography, you should go with auto focus for the most part. There are few shots where manual focus will benefit you. If you get into photography on a professional level, you may want to consider manual focus down the road. For casual photography, however, auto focus should be sufficient., Shutter speed is how quickly the camera's shutter moves, effectively allowing you to choose how fast you want to take a picture. A higher shutter speed will allow you to freeze action in a shot. To capture moving water in detail, for example, pick a higher shutter speed. A lower shutter speed will blur action. If you want a hazy photograph of a waterfall, pick a low shudder speed.If you're shooting at a low shutter speed, shaking your camera could result in blurry photos. It takes awhile to get a steady hold on a camera when taking pictures. Therefore, it may be a good idea to see if your camera has a shake-free shutter speed option. If it does, set your camera to the shake-free option when operating at a lower shutter speed. This will help your pictures come out crisper., Aperture refers to the opening of a camera lens, which is formed by a set of blades. Adjusting the aperture settings allows the blades to open more or close more, letting more light into your shot.The aperture setting you want depends on the type of picture you're taking. For portraits, faces, and other close-up photos, select an aperture between F1.4 and F5.6.For landscapes, an aperture between F11 and F22 should work well. For the sharpest possible landscape photos, you can go as high as F23.For any other pictures, stick to an aperture between F8 and F11., A camera's ISO speed is the speed at which a camera picks up light. A higher ISO speed results in brighter photos, but pictures may become grainy if your ISO speed is too high. For the most part, you will not need to create brighter photos. Leave the ISO speed alone until you're a more experiences photographer., The default file setting for pictures in most digital cameras is JPEG. JPEG photos are easily shareable. However, as JPEG files are compressed, some information is lost when photos are uploaded. If you want to avoid having your photos compressed, consider switching to RAW picture quality. This setting does not compress or tamper with the pictures when you upload them onto your computer or other device.