 For some kinds of surveys, you might want short true or false questions, while for others you might want a long written questionnaire with space for extensive written answers. Are you looking for a large volume of quantitative answers, or a smaller number with qualitative answers? This will tell you how to format your survey. Some possible formats include:True or false answers
Spectrum answers -- strongly agree to strongly disagree
Multiple choice answers
Open-ended questions with either short or long answers

, The shorter the survey, the more likely people are to complete it. Try for a survey that can be completed in less than five minutes. Make sure all of the questions are short and to the point. If you are providing multiple choice answers, do not list more than ten options -- survey takers are likely to get overwhelmed and stop reading., Pay attention to the order in which you ask the questions -- try and put them in some kind of order so your survey taker can easily follow along. Start with broad questions and move to more specific questions. Be very careful and clear in the wording of your questions. Avoid leading words like might, should, or could.


An example of a bad survey question would be the very open-ended: “How could we make the bridge situation better?”
A better question getting at the same data might read: “What steps could the mayor and city council take to help the neighborhood deal with the increased traffic from bridge repairs?” and provide 6-8 choices that survey respondents could rank., Avoid questions that are vague or use jargon that your respondents might know. Asking questions like “What do you think about President Obama?” end up being pretty useless because respondents could go in so many different directions that the answers would not be measurable. In terms of jargon, if your survey is about computer usage, for example, you can’t assume that your survey takers know about IP addresses, so you would need to explain that piece of jargon. You cannot assume knowledge on the part of your respondents., Give your survey to friends or family and get their feedback. Ask them if they found any of the questions confusing, or if they have any suggestions. Were there any questions they thought you should not include? Feedback is important, because typically you’ve been working on the survey for a while and it’s hard for you to see its possible problems. Fix any problems your friends and family have identified.