 This includes the way you interact with the kids, your spouse and the discipline you use. You cannot ask the kids not to tease each other if that is the way you joke with them. Kids will model what you do but often take it to an extreme.Be mindful about always “fighting fair”, meaning you model positive ways to solve problems instead of blowing up in an aggressive way.This may include allowing everyone to participate in the process of brainstorming solutions together. You can model this by giving the kids opportunities to think up fair solutions to everyday problems.
For example, if you and your partner are disagreeing and shouting, you might call for a time out and then regroup at a later time to discuss the problem more objectively. Similarly, the children can call for a time out while everyone goes to brainstorm some possible ways to fix the problem. Once they regroup, everyone can take turns sharing their solution and everyone votes on the most sensible plan.
 If you know your children will argue about who gets to do what, come up with a plan to rotate privileges so that everyone gets an equal opportunity. Talk about these systems with the kids and let them come up with the rotating schedule so that they all feel invested in sticking to it.Encourage the kids to compromise and create their own system to balance things out. For example, if they always argue over a prime seat in the car, suggest solutions that will make it fair to everyone like every other turn they switch off.
At first you may need to be the neutral party who keeps track of who went last and who is first the next time, but once they get used to the system, the kids should be able to do this together.
 You can even implement a system for rewards like a token reward system. A system based on token rewards basically mean that for times when you see positive behavior that has already been defined you can give the kids a token or point. Within the system a certain number of tokens add up to a reward.The reward can be something as simple as a special activity, but it should be something the kids value. It also needs to be something they can actually obtain, so start with smaller values to add up to the reward.
Praise might also be verbal. For instance, you might say "Well, look at you two sharing without being asked. Great job!"

, The level of rivalry may change as your family changes, so be aware that this conversation is not a one-time thing but on going. These conversations can be with a parent, with a trusted adult or even part of a program for kids in similar situations as long as the person is willing to listen and engage.At home, you can have one-on-one check-ins with each child to encourage sharing. "Robert, I've noticed you seem distracted. Why don't we talk about what's been going on?" is a great start to getting your child to open up. Plus, he or she will probably appreciate that you noticed a change.
Examples of classes for kids in unique situations would include families that are expecting a new baby and the changes that come along with that, or even sibling groups for families that include one or more kids with special needs. These situations may increase sibling issues and require more supports.

