 Hand washing is one of the simplest and most effective ways to avoid getting hepatitis. The steps to effective hand washing are:


Wet your hand with clean water.
Apply soap to your hands and work up a generous lather.
Scrub your palms, the back of your palms, each finger, in between all your fingers, your fingertips, and your fingernails for at least 40 seconds.
Rinse your hands thoroughly in clean water.
Dry your hands with a clean towel.
Rubbing alcohol, hand rubs, and hand sanitizers can also be used. Be sure to scrub for 20-30 seconds.;
, Because different strains of hepatitis are so easily spread through infected blood, never share needles with anybody.


This includes drug needles, tattoo needles, and medical needles.
Be sure to use only new and unused needles, and remember to dispose of all used needles in a sharps container.
 Viral hepatitis can easily be transmitted sexually.


Using condoms properly and limiting your number of sexual partners can help lower your risk of contracting the disease.
 If you are ever in a scenario where you will be handling any sort of bodily fluids, or where you may come into contact with bodily fluids, be sure to wear the necessary protective gear.


Wearing protective gear while performing physical work can also help you avoid cutting your skin, making it harder for your blood to come into contact with the bodily fluids of others.
Here are some common and effective pieces of protective gear:

Gloves
Face masks
Goggles



, To minimize your chances of getting hepatitis, avoid sharing your personal toiletries with others, especially those items most likely to come into contact with blood or other bodily fluids such as:


Toothbrushes
Razors
Nail clippers

, Since hepatitis is transmitted through a variety of different substances, it’s helpful to avoid coming into contact with or ingesting the following:


Contaminated food, especially from places with poor overall sanitation.
Unclean water, especially from unknown sources or from regions with poor sanitation.
Residual stool or urine on surfaces such as toilets and urinals, especially in areas with poor sanitation.
Doorknobs, handrails, and other items touched by many peoples’ hands.
Tip: Washing your hands and, whenever possible, disinfecting surfaces using a disinfectant that contains at least 70% alcohol can help minimize the potentially negative effects of coming into contact with these types of unclean surfaces.

