 If you would like to volunteer abroad through UNHCR, you must be at least 25 years old. You also need a university degree and at least two years of work experience related to the volunteer work you’ll be doing. If you are interested in volunteering in your home country, you must be at least 22 years old.There may be other restrictions for individual volunteering projects, but you will need to ask about those when you are offered a position.
In general, these restrictions only apply to potential UNHCR volunteers abroad, or for specific domestic volunteer projects. If you just want to raise money or host an event, you may not need to meet any minimum requirements. But it’s always better to check with UNHCR first (by contacting your local office) to make sure you’re meeting all of the requirements and doing everything by the book.;
, If you wish to volunteer in person, you’ll need to register online in their “Global Talent Pool” at https://www.unv.org/become-volunteer/volunteer-abroad/register-our-global-talent-pool. You’ll create a profile that includes some basic information about your life, your level of education, and your work experience. You can complete this profile in English, French, or Spanish.The application process takes about 45 minutes and provides the administrators with enough information to link you with a volunteer opportunity that suits your skills and your personal situation.
You will be contacted when a suitable position becomes available.
 If you wish to volunteer for UNHCR via online work, you may browse through the postings for online-only volunteer opportunities at https://www.onlinevolunteering.org/en. These positions can be done from anywhere in the world, as long as you have a computer and internet access.To apply for one of these positions, simply read the project description and then click on the “Apply” button on that page. You’ll need to fill out a registration form and an application that must be approved before you can begin the work.
The volunteer positions are broken down into categories based on various kinds of specialties that you can match to your specific skillset. You can choose translation, art and design, research, technology development, healthcare services, or a number of other categories.

