 When you push the button on a camera, this causes the shutter to open and close very quickly. All of the light that goes through the shutter hits a sensor in DSLRs, or film in film cameras. The light is then transferred into an image. All of the light from the time the shutter opens to the time it closes gets stored as one picture. This is how you get a blurry photo from moving objects. If an object significantly moves between when the shutter opens and when the shutter closes, each point of that object's path is recorded as a single image. The faster your shutter opens and closes, the more accurate and in focus objects will be, despite how quickly they are moving. If your shutter speed is 1/1000th of a second, and you take a picture of a person throwing a punch, you may get some blur. If your camera's shutter speed is 1/52,000th of a second, that same picture will show someone throwing a punch with perfect focus. Of course, a camera with a shutter speed of 1/52,000th of a second is extremely expensive.;
, If your camera's shutter were to be open for several minutes in pitch black, there would be no image, since the sensor or film would not register any light. This means we can be very sneaky and trick our camera into taking high speed shots by leaving the shutter open in a pitch-black environment, and then using a flash of light that only lasts 1/52,000th of a second. You can buy a decent camera with adjustable shutter speed and a remote-activated strobe light for a fraction of the cost of a high-speed capable camera.
 You can buy strobe lights and flashes for very reasonable prices. Shop around and look for the following features: Remote operation, single flash, high strobe/flash speed (some are as fast as 1/62,000th of a second!), and the ability to strobe or flash only once at the push of a button.
 You will need to block a room of ALL light. This room needs to be absolutely pitch black. Have a light that you can turn off and on so you can set up your shot before turning off the light. To shield your eyes from the sudden intense light, it is advisable to wear dark sunglasses and look away from the light source as it flashes.
 Put your camera in position, and set up your subject. A tripod is ideal. At first, use a stationary subject until you get used to the process. Adjust your shutter speed so that the aperture will remain open for as long as possible when you take a picture. Set up your strobe light in position to light your subject.
 Turn off the light, then push the button to take a photo, and with the aperture still open, flash the strobe once. Wait until the aperture closes again, and turn the lights back on.
 Once you are comfortable with the routine; timing the strobe properly, and are getting decent results with your stationary subject, try taking a picture of a fast-moving object. Try things that spin, since they will remain in one spot while still allowing you to see the effects of high-speed photographs on objects in motion. Some things that look really cool-but may require more precise timing- are; dropping food coloring into water, lighting a match, opening a soda can that was shaken vigorously (protect your equipment from getting wet first), and any other sudden events that intrigue you. Experiment and have fun with it.
 A clear vase full of water and a couple clicks with a laser pointer in pitch-black during a five second exposure can look really amazing! Let your imagination run wild, be safe, and try whatever you think would be fun. Don't resign yourself to the myth that you need fancy expensive equipment to obtain great results.

