 You can use your favorite search engine to find a number of websites that offer the opportunity to consult a lawyer online. When you begin your search, don't limit your results simply to free services, you may miss out on the best option for you by focusing solely on the cost of the service.A general search such as "online lawyer consultation" will bring up numerous websites that provide the ability to ask questions directly to lawyers online.
Pull up several services so you can study the lawyers who do consultations there and find the service that will work best for you.
Legal services in many states offer free consultations online. However, they may need information about your income before you can ask your question to make sure you fall within their guidelines. These programs are designed to assist low-income clients with legal issues.
 Before you sign up, you need to have an understanding of what the service is all about, including the types of questions answered and the background and experience of the attorneys available.Each website will have information about the types of attorneys who provide online consultations on that site, the states in which they are licensed, their areas of expertise, and how much experience they have.
You also want to get a good idea of how much consultations may cost on each of the services you're reviewing.
Keep in mind that if a website allows you to ask attorneys questions for free, the website itself may be selling various products or services. Find out what the website is selling before you commit to asking a question.
 Rather than just finding a service and running with it, look at several online legal consultation services the same way you would compare several attorneys before you hired one to represent you.Compare the services offered to what you need and make sure the site can help you. For example, if you have a question about your will, you need to find a website that has attorneys who specialize in wills and estate planning.
If you need an attorney licensed to practice in your state, check the sites to make sure there are on-call attorneys near you.
While you should compare costs, you shouldn't make cost alone your deciding factor. If you ask a question at a website that has forms or guides available for sale, a free consultation may end up being little more than a sales pitch for a product related to your legal issue.
You also want to verify, to the extent possible, that your question will be answered by a licensed attorney rather than a paralegal, assistant, or law student.
 Once you've decided which service you want to use, you typically have to create a user account so you can log in and ask your question. Creating an account may provide other benefits such as the ability to ask follow-up questions or continue working with the same attorney.You may have to provide debit or credit card information on some websites, particularly those that offer paid or subscription services – even if you intend to use free services only.
Setting up a user account may give you a level of privacy. You need to decide whether you're comfortable asking a question that may be posted in a public forum, or if you'd rather work privately with an attorney one-on-one.
 Before you jump right in to asking your question, take a few minutes to write out a chronology of events or brief summary of the situation. This way you'll be prepared if the attorney with whom you consult asks you questions or needs additional information to appropriately assist you.Generally, the attorney will want to know a bit about your legal issue. If you have documents you can show or share with the attorney online, this may be helpful.
Some services don't allow you to upload documents for attorneys to review, or charge a fee if you want to do this, so if you need an attorney to review a contract, will, or other document, make sure the website you're using allows for document uploads before you begin.
You may want to write up a paragraph summary describing your legal situation that you can copy to the attorney.
The question form on some websites only provides you the space of a few characters to ask your question. Keep in mind that in most cases this won't be enough room to give the attorney enough detail to answer your question accurately and effectively.

