 Most don't cover damages done by a renter, so you'll have to purchase an additional policy to cover not only your home and any contents you leave, but also liability issues in the event the renter is injured on the property.;
, If not, you may need to obtain a variance to rent your home.
 Short term rentals, typically 4 months or less, are usually rented furnished. You'll want to make the renters feel at home, while protecting heirloom furniture and other treasured possessions. Storing them offsite is safer than simply warning tenants about fragile chairs or delicate fabrics. Consider purchasing inexpensive basic furnishings to use in place of irreplaceable family favorites.
 As much as you would like to trust your renters, things can disappear while owners are far away. Take family collectibles, special toys, electronics, cameras, and silver out of the house. Simply putting it out of the way in the attic or a closet is not sufficient protection for your valuables.
 It's easier for you to make needed repairs or replace them before you go than to try to arrange it from another state, or worse yet, come home to find that the tenant has tried make repairs on their own!

, The former has the advantage of saving you from a tenant who calls in an expensive service person for minor repairs, while the latter means you only pay or services actually used.
 This prevents disagreements when it come to security deposits.
 Even for a short term rental, you need protection against tenant damages or rent defaults.
 Basic background checks online cost anywhere from $7.95 to $150, but are well worth the money for the peace of mind they provide.
 Having mail forwarded is slow and often unreliable, and could result in late payments and penalties.
 Take them with you or board them while you are gone. Even if a neighbor offers to feed and water a pet, remember there will be strangers in your house and that could lead to bites and scratches.
 A renter who feels a part of the neighborhood is more likely to care for your home.
