 Ringworm is not very common, and the biggest risk is being around people or animals that are infected — ringworm can infect both humans and animals.Since ringworm is spread by contact, if you touch a person or animal that has it, you stand a chance of contracting ringworm yourself. Ringworm is most common in school-age children, as schools or daycares are where outbreaks usually occur.Only pick up pets you know and occasionally check them for ringworm.Do not handle wild or stray animals as they may carry many diseases, including ringworm.
Check your pets for ringworm. Ringworm can look like a small hairless patch, with red skin.
Sometimes your pet may not have any symptoms, so always wash your hands after handling them.
Ask your veterinarian to check your pets for ringworm if you suspect they may have it.
 You can get ringworm on your scalp, which can be difficult to treat. A simple technique that you can use to prevent ringworm on the scalp is to shampoo regularly, about every-other day. By keeping your scalp clean, you can lower the chances of getting ringworm.Wash your hair well by massaging shampoo into your scalp.
Avoid sharing any hats or hair care items with other people.
Use anti-dandruff shampoo if you are prone to dandruff.
While some people can tolerate daily shampooing, for many people this dries out the scalp and can actually increase the risk of infection. You may think it is best to shampoo every day, but pay attention if your scalp seems dry.
 Ringworm is spread through contact and is highly contagious. Washing your body with soap and water will help to remove any fungal spores from your body, if you have come into contact with them. By staying clean, you can help reduce your chances of contracting ringworm.Shower regularly and wash thoroughly.
Wash your hands throughout the day to keep them clean.
Always fully dry off whenever you wash.
 Don't scratch or touch the infected area. Although it may be tempting to scratch the affected area, you should avoid doing so. Scratching the area can lead to spreading it to other parts of your body or even other people. Limit the infection by not scratching.Avoid giving any personal items, such as clothing or a hairbrush, to other people.
Always wash your hands after touching any infected areas. Touching the area and then touching another person can spread the infection.

