 The top ear on any stalk will mature faster than the lower ears. Instead of harvesting all the ears at once, you should expect to harvest the top ears off your stalks first.


The top ear should be visibly plumper than the other ears on the stalk. It will become so plump, in fact, that it should start to lean away from the stalk so much so that it is nearly perpendicular with it.;
, Feel the corn to determine if it is consistently plump throughout the cob and check the silks coming off the ear to verify that they are dry.


The silks should turn brown and feel quite dry. If you try to handle the silks, they should also peel or fall off in your hand without much effort.






Note that the silks will be tinted red and will feel soft and wet if the corn is not yet ripe.
Feel the end of the ear to determine whether or not it has filled out completely. A mature ear will have a rounded or blunt end, but an unripe ear will feel pointed.
It is best to harvest corn as soon as it matures on the stalk. Ears of corn contain the most sugar at peak maturity, so they will be sweetest as soon as they turn ripe. The ears of corn gradually lose sweetness as they remain on the stalk since the corn starts to convert its sugars into starches at that point.
 If you are not quite certain about whether or not an ear is ready for harvest, you can peel back a small amount of the husk and check the kernels underneath. The end of the ear should look filled out and the kernels should be a creamy yellow or white color.Test the ear further by piercing a kernel with your thumbnail. The liquid inside the kernel should be white or milky in appearance. If the liquid seems watery or clear, the corn is still unripe. If the liquid seems too creamy, the corn might be overripe.
You should avoid opening the husk unless you cannot check for ripeness any other way. An unripe, open ear of corn is vulnerable to attacks by birds and insects.
 Removing corn from the stalk is a simple process. You should be able to grab and ear and pull it downward, then twist it off by hand.If possible, harvest the corn from the stalk in the morning. The ears are still fairly cool at this point, and the conversion of sugar to starch slows down in cooler temperatures.






Steady the cornstalk with one hand and use the other hand to twist the corn of the stalk. It should come off in your hands. You should not need to use shears to remove the ears of corn from the stalk.
 The conversion of sugar to starch speeds up after you harvest corn, so to maintain maximum sweetness and flavor, try to eat the corn within 24 hours of harvesting it.

Note that super-sweet varieties can stay sweeter for longer periods of time, but traditional varieties will convert more than half their sugar content to starch after the first 24 hours.






You can slow the rate at which corn converts its sugars to starch by keeping the corn cold. Lay the ears in single layers inside a refrigerator and cover them with a damp cloth to keep the corn as cool as possible.






In the refrigerator, corn should retain its sweetness for about a week.
 After the top ear becomes ripe enough, the remaining ears of corn on the stalk should ripen in another ten days or so.


Most corn plants will yield a minimum of two ears per stalk, if not more. Hybrids tend to produce more than pure varieties.