 Too few members may mean that the conversation will run dry too soon, while too many members could make some uncomfortable and may make it impossible for everyone to get a turn to talk.


Consider the atmosphere you want to create. Generally, romance book clubs tend to be a little more personal and close-knit, so you may want to shoot for a limit of four to eight members.;
, Women are generally more likely to join a book club, and this is especially true for romance book clubs. While you probably won’t have many men asking for admittance, you should still decide whether or not to even allow them to join. Romance novels tend to be fairly intimate, and some women may feel uncomfortable talking about them in when men are around.
 A 16 year old single girl is likely to have different ideas about romance than a 32 year old married mother of three. You do not need to put a strict limit on who can join, but setting an age range may help your group to focus its interests.
 The easiest way to find new members is to ask friends and family with a passion for reading to join you. You can also spread the word to friends who would not be interested in joining, just in case they know someone who might be.
 Put a flyer up at your local library, take out an ad in the paper, or post about your new club on a free classifieds website with a section for your region. Describe the purpose of your group, the types of romance books you plan on reading, and any restrictions on membership.
 Message boards and blogs dedicated to the discussion of romance books are a good place to start. Even though these websites already offer book discussions, a few of the members may be interested in breaking off into a smaller group to discuss a specific book. Similarly, if enough members are from the same geographic location, they may want to meet in person to discuss their favorite romances.
 Message boards tailored to women or those that discuss love and relationships are likely to have a few members who enjoy a good romance novel and have an interest in joining your club.

