 Look for the "mall grab,” which is carrying the board by the trucks. The mall grab is generally considered to be a poser red flag.If they hold their board at their side with the grip tape facing their body, they are probably a poser (or possibly a newbie). The correct way to hold a board is under your arm at the middle of the board, with the trucks facing out.There is a lot of controversy about whether or not the "mall grab" truly indicates you're a poser, since a lot of skaters these days hold their boards like that. The mall grab only indicates you're a poser when combined with a lot of the other red flags mentioned here.
Definitely inspect how they hold their board, but you also should see if they ever actually ride the board that they carry around with them.
Some posers will actually buy and carry a board around with them just to look cool, like a fashion accessory. That’s bad enough, but then they won’t even carry it correctly!

, Or do they show up, ride around once, then spend the rest of the time standing around, chatting, smoking cigarettes, texting and getting in the way of actual skaters? Classic poser moves.


Real skaters will spend most of their time skating and practicing tricks when they’re at the skate park.
Real skaters pay little to no attention to the social gathering going on around them at the skate park.
 If you have the opportunity, ask them flat out to show you some tricks. A real skater won’t hesitate to show you their moves, even if they’re newbies. Newbies aren’t posers – everyone has to start somewhere and at least they’re out there skating.


You could say, "Hey Paul, show me your ollie!" or ask, "Can you show me your frontside and backside moves? I've been working on my frontside and wouldn't mind seeing how you do it."
Posers will use do everything they can to worm their way out of actually skating, since they don’t know how.
If they don't have a board on them when you ask, invite them to come skate with you at the park or even offer them your board.

