 While this is not a cheap option, it does work and can reassure you that a particular zone of your home is safe from rattlesnakes. In fact, you don't need to even wall off the whole backyard - you can select an area for the children to play in, for pets to frolic in and for entertainment purposes and only fence off that part. This becomes the "safety zone". Just make sure these specifications are followed in order for the fence to be effective:


Use mesh that is not wider than a quarter of an inch in diameter or use solid material. Any untextured material is best because snakes cannot climb smooth surfaces as they cannot get a grip.
Make the fence to a minimum height of three feet.
Take care with corners, so as not to create a "bellyhold" (snake for "toehold") on the fence.
Bury the fence to a minimum of 12 inches (30.5 cm) under the ground.
Be careful with any gates. If you don't join the fence to the walls of your house, it is important to ensure that any gate has no gaps on the sides and sits flush with the ground. It can help to place a concrete slab directly under the gate going into the ground as a deterrent - this must sit flush with the base of the gate. This is a time when precision building is very important.
Maintain the fence - all gaps, holes and dirt collapses must be dealt with quickly to prevent possible entry-points from weakening the fence.;
, Do not lean anything against the fence that a rattlesnake might be able to use as leverage to crawl over.
 Look for gaps, areas that a rattlesnake can access underneath the house and fill, plug or board off these areas. Under the house is an ideal environment for a snake, so take care to discourage this. Check the walls, the foundations, steps, etc.
 If you already have piles, be careful when removing them.
 Don't provide a tasty food source. Get rid of mice, rats and other rodents feasting about your home and you will remove a major source of rattlesnake attractant. This is especially important around areas where animal food is stored on farms.
 This means keeping pet food inside or covered. Garbage cans should be securely covered at all times.
 Potential homes for rattlesnakes should be removed from the area around your home. This includes such things as wood piles, rock piles, garbage piles, long grass, brush, undergrowth, piles of building materials, animal burrows, etc. Think about the places that would be cozy for a snake to move into and remove them. But be careful when you remove them! There may already be a rattlesnake in residence.
 A short lawn or field is not a great place to hide and makes it very easy for you to spot a rattlesnake taking a shortcut. Be careful, however, not to provide sheltering places such as piles of timber or rocks that create safety stations for snakes crossing short grass, or you will not succeed in discouraging them.
 Some snakes can be good to have around as they deter rattlesnakes from hanging about through natural competition. Of course, this depends on your own level of squeamishness about having any snakes at all in your backyard! If you don't mind the snakes, consider encouraging:



Gopher snakes (they get quite irritated with encroaching snakes on their territory)

Kingsnakes (they kill and eat rattlesnakes)

, If you do discover a rattlesnake in your backyard, keep calm. Send children, pets and scared adults indoors immediately. Wait for the snake to leave. Call for professional assistance if you are concerned that the rattlesnake may be settling in but if you have made your yard as unfavorable to a snake as possible, the snake will leave if given the chance. Most rattlesnakes will only strike if acting in self-defense. If you remain out of the way, there will be no strikes.

