 Remain proactive, too, to mediating any pre-disposed snap decisions or responses from other leaders and directors. Instead, use data analysis and provide a means for exchanging ideas and perspectives as they relate to helping individuals.;
, Instead, work with co-operative methods.—The more able should help the less able in group settings, not by overbearing or demeaning, but by providing gentle guidance and supplying behaviour to emulate. Primary emphasis should be on each individual self-identifying the most helpful, supportive strategies to use with others.
 Allow the inner satisfaction of achievement to blossom. Squish any tendency within the group to belittle the achievements of others.—Return focus to positivity and the small actions which build and strengthen core confidence of each individual.


Sell the strategy to empower the least contributing individual by strengthening confidence in his or her core competency to the point at which they are indeed one of the more productive contributors in the group. If each member is lifted, the power of the group grows exponentially and, with it, the power within each individual is amplified.
 Whether you agree with the outcomes and consensus or not, validate the awakening of group feelings and the formation of ideals that all can embrace.
 As an adjunct, avoid favouring any person or group on the basis of bias or prejudice. Try to level the playing field by affording no one an unreasonable advantage or any undeserved opportunity.


Talk about difficulties and problems openly as group.
Talk about individual opportunities for individual purposeful endeavor. To highlight the concept, have individuals take turns doing different jobs in the group and in the class.
 Strive to empower the students to build co-operation and communication skills. Work on the model of building a co-operative which honors and utilizes the unique insights and abilities of each team member.



Recognize that fairness is not just one thing or the other. Many express the view that treating everyone the same with no differences is one kind of fairness while others feel that treating each person as an individual and, therefore, providing multiple opportunities for success to each person is fairness of another kind.
 These are called core intelligences by Howard Gardner, i.e. different learning modes. The theory has been widely argued in the psychology and education communities--whether or not the intelligences are just names for talents or personalities. Despite these criticisms, the theory has received a great deal of consideration among educators for about twenty years.Musical–rhythmic
Visual–spatial
Verbal–linguistic
Logical–mathematical
Bodily–kinesthetic
Interpersonal
Intrapersonal
Naturalistic (added in 1997)

Existential and moral (considered worthy of addition)

, This promotes personal feelings of understanding that each person is an individual with value and provides everyone an equal opportunity to excel.
 Expect to modify the responsibility afforded each individual to his or her ability or talent. Utilize the proclivities of each individual when filling various roles. Particularly, recognize those who specialize in helping others with their assistive engagement.


Respect diversity and work on unifying the community. At the same time, provide ample opportunity for each student to improve his or her skill set and to build understanding of the unique proclivities of each and every individual in the group.
Revel in the diversity of individual difference. Encourage the group members to highlight areas of strength in their teammates, e.g., knowledge, talents, abilities, and understanding. Seek to promote identification of resonant skills and activities—things that seem right and come naturally—both in themselves and in others.
 Afford to each team member multiple, diverse chances for personal fulfillment and opportunities to use skills for the greater good.


Engage each student's individuality. Such opportunities lead to unique contributions and become a primary force for improving society.

