 There’s tons of research out there showing how mindfulness supports a healthy body image. Since mindfulness is a key component to self-compassion, you should start here. Mindfulness focuses on present-moment awareness. Learning this technique can help you better tune into your body.Mindfulness involves taking it slow and being able to sit with uncomfortable thoughts and feelings. You can incorporate mindfulness into your daily routine in a variety of ways.
For example, when you are eating, don’t do anything else. Focus completely on the sights, smells, tastes, and textures of the food. Chew slowly and savor the food.
When you have a difficult thought about your body, sit with it. Notice how the thoughts affect your mood. See if you can locate any tension in your body caused by these thoughts.;
, A body scan is a terrific way to mindfully check in with your body and learn to soothe it. A 20-minute compassionate body scan should allow you to connect with your body and show it gratitude and love.To practice this meditation technique, lie down somewhere quiet and distraction-free. Place a hand over your heart to remind you to be compassionate towards yourself. Beginning with your feet, move up through your body, paying attention to the sensations in each body part.
If you begin to judge your body during this practice, return your hand to your heart and radiate gentle feelings to yourself. Breathe deeply and continue your practice.
 Affectionate breathing is another self-compassion meditation you can do alone or in conjunction with the body scan. Quickly scan your body and spot any sensations. Take three deep breaths to release any tension you may feel. This practice should last about 20 minutes.Then, return to a normal style of breathing. Notice where the breath feels strongest. Don’t try to control your breathing, just act as a non-judgmental observer. Form a slight smile as your breathe in and out.
With each breathe, set the intention to pull in affection and kindness for yourself. Similarly, breathe out affection and kindness for others. If your mind wanders, don’t judge yourself. Simply return your attention to each breath and allow them to generate positive feelings within you.
 Carve out 10 to 20 minutes each day to soothe and comfort any feelings of distress. This meditation helps identify any negative or judgmental thoughts about your body and help you be present with them.First, tune in to your environment, noticing sounds or sensations. Take a few deep, cleansing breaths. Call to mind a trait that brings up negative emotions in you (e.g. my thighs or my double-chin). Find the physical representation of this trait in your body. Locate where the strongest emotions lie. Simply allow them to be.
Now, place your hand over your heart and soothe yourself. Silently repeat the self-compassion mantra to ease these difficult thoughts and feelings: May I be safe. May I be peaceful. May I be kind to myself. May I accept myself as I am.


