 Be patient and gentle with your child, even if you’re frustrated by their behavior. Don’t make a habit of scolding or criticizing them, or they won’t want to open up to you. Show them that you care about them and want to listen to them.If you need to discipline your child, don’t do it out of anger. Stay calm and make sure your child understands why the discipline is happening.
Build trust by listening to your child when they talk to you. Take their feelings and concerns seriously.
 During an opportune moment, ask your child if they want to talk about anything. Bring up any concerning symptoms you’ve noticed.For instance, you could say, “What’s been on your mind lately, Elise? I’ve noticed you don’t come out of your room much these days. Is everything OK?”
Choose a time when you and your child are not busy or distracted.
Many kids just need a little prompting to start talking, but if your child clams up, don’t push them to open up to you. Try again another time.
 Whatever your child tells you, give them your full attention. Don’t interrupt. If your child seems to be having a hard time expressing themselves, ask questions to help them find the words they need, but don’t put words in their mouth.For instance, if your son is having problems making friends at school, you could say, “It sounds like you’re feeling bad about yourself because the other kids don’t ask you to play with them. Is that right?”

, Your child may not know how to identify and express their feelings, especially if they’re young. They may also feel embarrassed to talk about their problems. Pay attention to their body language and the things they’re not saying in addition to what they’re telling you.For instance, if your daughter squirms and folds her arms while telling you that nothing is wrong, she may not be telling the truth. Try asking a few gentle questions to help her open up.
 Make a habit of talking to your child every day. Learn what their life is like – who they spend time with, how they feel about school, and what their hopes and worries are. When you’re in tune with your child, you’ll notice more quickly when something is off.