 Getting good grades in any grade level is crucial. College professors look into your past grades and achievements to ensure you deserve the spot at their college. Studying is the key to knowing answers for tests, homework, and your general class participation. As soon as you come from school have an hour of brake time; don't go beyond 2 hours, you'll get too comfortable. Afterwards do your homework, and then study for at least 10 minutes on each subject (language arts, math, science, history). Taking notes during class insures that you have a back-up 'brain' if you forget some material (this also helps for studying). Depending of where you live, for getting good grades, you can get trophy's for your achievements or an honor roll breakfast.;
, It is the most important thing! Showering your body daily is crucial to smelling fresh & clean! If you do not wash your hair daily, you can wear a shower cap (it can be bought at any local beauty shop or dollar store). Putting on deodorant (of your choice) daily, cleansing & moisturizing you face (I recommend clean&clear or Neutrogena) daily, making sure your nails are trimmed weekly, and applying hydrating lotion (I recommend Victoria's Secret PINK lotions, Bath&Body works lotion, and Lush's lotion if you want organic materials) daily.
 You can wear what you want! All I suggest is to wear clothing more on the feminine side. Skirt, capris, jeans, dresses, tube tops, spaghetti straps, shorts, etc. works fine enough! Wear whatever colors you want! I am not telling you to JUST wear pink or blue or purple, WEAR what YOU want! It's your choice, style, and life; I am not going to tell you how it should be. Depending on your personality, depends on your clothing; that's why I'm telling you this. It's not the same for everyone. Be yourself, just amp up your feminine side a little & be happier. :)

, I am not telling you to apply make-up, it's your choice. I say this because you have plenty of time to wear it when your older; let your natural young beauty shine first. I would recommend lip gloss and CLEAR mascara if you would like to enhance your features now. :) If you do want to use make-up, go right ahead, no one's stopping you; it's your decision. (:

, No one likes a grumpy, mean fella anyways. Be realistic though; if your hurt don't say it's no big deal, express it.
 In your bag you should have your cell phone (if you have one), lip gloss, perfume, travel size lotion, mints/gum, mini brush, nail file, female products (if you've had your period), a mirror, & of course your school necessities. :)

