 The amount of reading you'll need to do to help you reach your goal will vary based on what your goal is. To begin with, try to develop a general sense of how much reading you'll need to do. This will drive the rest of your planning.


For example, if your goal is to recognize edible plants in your area, one or two good books on the subject will probably be adequate. By contrast, if you are planning to start a new career as a botanist, you'll want to read as much as you can on botany.This would include all the best known books in the field. It would also include many articles from journals and other periodical publications.
Some goals will require reading about many topics. For example, if your goal is to start a winery, you will obviously want to read some books about wine making. But, you'll also some books about running a small business. You will also want to read about laws in your area that govern the production and sale of alcoholic beverages.;
, Not all reading material is created equal. Before you start reading, take some time to determine what the most important things to read will be. Do some research and find out what the most important books related to your goal are.


There are many ways to find books that relate to your goals. You can go to a bookstore and peruse the the shelves, or ask the staff for recommendations. Your local library may also be able to provide some suggestions.
Many online booksellers also provide recommendations based on other books you've looked at.These can be helpful in determining which books to read, even if you don't buy them online.
If you know someone who is already very familiar with your topic, get some recommendations from that person., If your main goals require a lot of timely information, you may also want to include periodicals such as magazines, and newspapers in your reading goals.


For example, if your goal is to master stock trading, you'll want to read current information on the ups and downs of various stocks. This could include the business section of each day's newspaper. It might also include any of the numerous magazines that deal with investment and finance.
Again, you can go to you local bookstore or news vendor. You can also do some online searches using your topic and the words "magazines" or "journals" as search terms. For example: "wine making magazines."
University libraries often maintain lists of academic journals in various fields of scholarship.
 For topics that require a lot of reading, it is a good idea to read content from a variety of perspectives. This is doubly true if your topic is one which inspires a lot of debate or includes many schools of thought.


A well-rounded understanding of the topics you are reading about is important for those who want to truly excel in their goals. This is especially true for complex or long-term goals.
For example, imagine your goal is to become an economist. You'll quickly find that the neoclassical perspective on economics currently dominates the field. That doesn't mean you should focus your reading only on neoclassical economics, though. There are many other schools of thought in economics, including Keynesian, Marxist, and New Classical., After you have determined how much you need to read and which readings will best help you reach your goals, make a reading list.


At this point, your list should include anything you think might help you achieve your goals.
 It is often a good idea, when setting any type of goals, to rank them in order of importance. This helps you set priorities when you work toward your goals.This is equally true for your reading goals.


You can rank your reading list based on which readings you believe are most important for you to read or are most highly recommended.Or, if the topic you are reading about is new to you, you might want to start by reading some basic, introductory texts. Then, work your way up to more advanced materials.
For example, imagine your goal in life is to become a film director, but you don't know much about making films yet. A good place to start would be a book that covered basic directorial techniques and concepts. By contrast a book that described author theory in great detail but covered no other topics might be something to read later.
 Once you have ranked your list, it is time to set some goals about what you will read and when. Create a schedule for reading the books and/or periodicals you think are most important.


Be specific about what you want to read and when, setting deadlines for finishing each book or even each chapter. These deadlines will help you stay accountable to your schedule.Be realistic about what you can achieve. It would be great to read four books a month and keep up with the important trade publications of your field. Most people don't have time for all that though. Consider your own reading speed and the amount of time you have to dedicate to reading. Based on this, set goals you can achieve.
Setting goals that are too ambitious sets you up for failure and discouragement. This can weaken your motivation to try to reach your next goal. That can defeat the purpose of setting goals in the first place., Once you start reading, it's a good idea to keep organized notes about what you have read. This will be helpful if you need to revisit some information at a later date. Ideally, your notes will provide the information you need, so you won't need to go back to the original source.


When taking notes, aim to capture big ideas rather than minor details. These ideas are often those that come repeatedly in the text. You may also be able to use visual clues such as bold or italicized text, chapter titles, or the use of charts, graphs and figures.Using an outline, note cards, binder tabs, or some other organizational device will help you more easily locate your information later.Research shows that effective note taking also helps you better understand and remember what you read., Set aside a specific period of time each day for reading. It might be 15 minutes or might be an hour, but try to read at the same time each day.


Making reading part of your daily routine will help to make it a habit. After a little while, reading during this time will become more or less automatic.For example, many people read before bed each night. Others make a habit of reading on the bus or train on the way to and from work. Still others like to read first thing in the morning.
 Unless you absolutely must, do not skip your designated reading time. If you have to skip it for some reason, try to reschedule for another time. You don't want to break your routine.


Remember that to accomplish any goal, you must put in the time and effort it requires.There is no way around this. If you are serious about your reading goals, you must read regularly.
 As you work your way through the reading list, stop to assess whether what you are reading is contributing to the goal. If not, revise your list!


You might decide that one of the books you chose isn't adding anything new to your understanding or knowledge. If that's the case, you might want to skip that book, and possibly other similar books.For example, you might at some point feel you've mastered the concepts of Keynesian economics. If so, reading more books that cover this topic is probably not your top priority.
By contrast, you might find that many of the readings you've chosen refer to some other topic that you don't know much about. If nothing on your list covers that topic, you may want to add additional readings.For example, imagine you are reading about wine making. You might come across concepts from chemistry that you don't understand. In this case, you should consider adding a book on basic chemistry to your list.
Finally, you might find that something you've chosen to read is more advanced than you are ready for. Rather than trying to push through and failing to understand much of what you are reading, move it down the list and revisit it later. It may be a more valuable reading after you've learned more about the topic.
 Motivation and perseverance are key to achieving any goal. Keeping your motivation will be important to following through on your goals.It's a good idea to have a plan in advance with some ideas about how to stay motivated and overcome any discouragement you might encounter. This could include a having friends around who know you might need a pep-talk, or a system of rewards for reaching certain milestones.
Use reinforcement to help boost your motivation. When you reach a milestone such as finishing a book (or even a difficult chapter), give yourself a little reward. For example, you might treat yourself to a tasty dessert, a trip to the movies, or a new pair of shoes for finishing a book on your list. This helps create a positive association with reaching your goal and will spur you on to reach the next milestone.If obstacles arise that make it hard to keep up with your schedule for a while, it's ok to revise your plan. For example, imagine a loved one has a medical emergency. This might make it hard to focus on books about wine making for a while. Once things settle down, go back and revisit your plan. You might be able to make a reasonable plan to catch up with your schedule by adding a few minutes on to your daily reading time. If you are too far behind for that though, adjusting your deadlines doesn't mean you've failed.
 Another great way to boost your motivation is to track your progress regularly. Take note of the books you've finished, or how far along you are in a specific book, as compared to the schedule you set.


The deadlines in your schedule will help create a sense of urgency and accountability for completing your goals. No one wants to feel like they have failed.Use a journal, calendar, or app to track your progress and updated it regularly.

