 Because switchel is such a simple drink, each ingredient is important. That being said, those ingredients should be the best ones you can find. Look for raw apple cider vinegar, and make sure to choose pure maple syrup, rather than one that lists dozens of ingredients on the label. Avoid syrup that says “fat free” or “sugar free,” as those certainly aren’t pure. Purchase the freshest ginger available.High-quality ingredients may be a bit more expensive, but they will last you awhile. You only use a small amount for this recipe.;
, Because you’ll need to thoroughly mix your ingredients, it’s good to use a container with a lid so that you can shake it. If you don’t have anything big enough, you can certainly just stir everything with a spoon. The switchel will have to steep in your fridge, so make sure to choose a container that fits!

, This is simply a matter of personal preference. If you are planning on using your switchel as a sports recovery drink, you may want to stick with regular, still water. If you like a little bit of fizz, use a seltzer or sparkling water.Note that depending on which type of water you use, your instructions will change slightly to ensure fizzy water doesn’t go flat.
 Some people enjoy adding a splash of lime or lemon juice to their switchel. If you’re of legal drinking age, you can certainly use your switchel as cocktail mixer. If you’re going to be serving this drink to friends, you can make it look fancy with a sprig of mint. There are lots of possibilities to get creative with this drink., Use measuring spoons or cups to make sure you are adding exact amounts. When it comes to the syrup, start out with less than you think you need. Because the syrup is so sugary, you can ruin the switchel by adding too much. You can add more later, as needed.If you've never grated ginger before, you can learn how here.
 If you are using regular water, pour in into your container over the ingredients.If you are using seltzer or sparkling water, you can skip this step. Instead, you will mix the other ingredients together, and only add your fizzy water right before serving. This will keep your carbonated water from going flat.
 If you can’t seal your container, just stir it thoroughly with a large spoon.Keep stirring until the maple syrup has dissolved. The grated ginger will naturally settle to the bottom over time, so you’ll need to re-shake or re-stir every time you drink your switchel.
 Pop your container into the refrigerator for 12 to 24 hours.If you are using carbonated water, you can either let the ingredients – sans water – steep, or you can add the carbonated water now and serve it without steeping. If you are using regular water, steeping it with strengthen the flavor, but you can serve it immediately instead if you choose.
 Pour your switchel through a strainer in order to catch any pieces of ginger. Serve your switchel with ice to make it extra cold and refreshing. If you’re feeling fancy, add a sprig of mint as a garnish. This tangy, unique drink is sure to be a crowd-pleaser, whether you’re sharing with your family or serving it at a party.

