 The Internet is going to be your best tool for searching warrant records. If you have a location in mind where you would most expect the warrant to exist, you can search for that city, county or state’s official website.Official government sites typically end in .gov or .us. The information on these sites is generally kept very current, and you can search anonymously.For example, in Florida, you can search the Florida Crime Information System Public Access Center.That site asks you to provide the name, race, gender and birth date (if available) for the person you are searching.
The Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services maintains a website at www.dpscs.maryland.gov. At that site, you can find information about outstanding violation warrants for parole violations or the “most wanted” list.;
, If you cannot find a searchable online database that contains the information you seek, you may try calling the court clerk directly. When you call, if you have a specific case number to reference, that may assist the search. If not, you can just ask the clerk to search for any outstanding warrants for any name. You may do this anonymously and just ask, “Will you search for any outstanding warrants on record for John Smith?”You may need to specify whether you are interested in criminal, civil, or both.


Criminal warrants are a matter of public record, and you should be able to get the information whether you are calling for yourself or about someone else. Some civil matters are more confidential and may not be available over the phone.
You will need to have some idea of the area where a warrant may have issued. State courts are generally divided by county or into circuits. You can look up the state’s official court website to get telephone contact information for any given county or circuit.
Be aware that the courts or police could trace a telephone call and use the information to locate and arrest you. If you are truly concerned about your anonymity, you could call from a public phone, or ask a friend to make the call for you., Many courts offer public access computer terminals that will allow you to search the court’s own records for outstanding warrants. Courts are public buildings that you can enter without having to show identification. Similarly, you will be allowed to use the search terminals without having to identify yourself. You can search the records by name or by case number, if you have one.If you are truly concerned for your anonymity, you may wish to have someone else visit the court and conduct the search for you. If an arrest warrant is outstanding, you risk being taken into custody if you are recognized by a court officer.

