 Recent studies have found that even very caring teachers can exhibit sexist and racist behaviors in the classroom, such as listening more carefully to boys than to girls.These unconscious biases can be harder to identify and remedy than more blatant sexist actions (such as sexual harassment).Tell yourself that even though you are a very caring and good person, there are structures at play that might make you view women in a sexist way. Some of the more common stereotypes people have about women include the following:Women are small or weak
Women are passive
Women are supposed to pay more attention to their appearance than men
Women care more about domestic duties than "hard" skills such as science, math, or engineering
Women are flirtatious and manipulative

, As many as 15% of women report experiencing bias in the workplace.Improve your perspective on women--and improve women's experiences in the office--by supporting zero-tolerance policies in your workplace. Such policies help ensure that women are paid equitably and are not harassed because of their gender. If your office has a positive view of women, you will likely follow suit.
 Whether consciously or not, some men automatically believe men more readily than they believe women. This can lead to women feeling singled out or misunderstood.To improve your perspective on women, try to listen carefully whenever a woman speaks her mind. Before dismissing her opinion as silly or inconsequential, ask yourself whether you would believe what she was saying if she were a man. Confront your own biases head-on in order to treat women respectfully.
 Studies show that people--even other women--are more suspicious of women leaders than leaders who are men. This effect can be seen even among children and teenagers.Be supportive of women and girls who display excellent leadership qualities such as forthrightness, intelligence, and effective problem-solving abilities. Encourage your children to do the same in order to build an entire generation with an improved perspective on women.Encouraging the women and girls in your life to attend leadership conferences and activities is another great way to support women in leadership positions., Unfortunately, women are often demeaned through biased language. Pay attention to the words used around you: do you notice any sexist insults or patronizing language used toward women? Watch your own language, and encourage those around you to watch their language as well.Some unconsciously sexist language that might enter your vocabulary includes the following words and phrases:


Universalized male subjects--such as assuming all persons of consequence are a "he"Specifying "women's" issues as a fringe subcategory. For example, some people might refer to a "women's" sports team, which implies that "real" sports do not include women.Be wary of terms like "women's literature," "chick flicks," and the like.
Patronizing pet names used for women who are coworkers, acquaintances, or strangers. These include things like "sweetie," "sweetheart," "honey," or "darling."
Commenting about a woman's appearance in an inappropriate situationReferring to women by their first names when you refer to men by their last names or titlesCalling adult women "girls"

, Many mainstream movies depict the lives of men more than the lives of women.Moreover, many movies and shows that portray women do so in a sexist way, where women are valued for their appearance more so than for their bravery, intelligence, or morality.Be on the lookout for stereotypes against women in the media. By spotting them, you can help resist their implications.
 While diversity training is not a sufficient tool for improving your perspective on women, it can raise awareness about gender bias and stereotyping.Perhaps your work requires diversity training, or perhaps there are optional workshops you can attend through your professional organization. Attend these programs and pay careful attention to the specific suggestions the diversity training provides. For example, the diversity training workshop might let you know about how to improve sexist language, how to encourage women to succeed in the workplace, and how to respect all women you encounter through work.
 Studies show that men are more likely to exhibit sexist behaviors when they are feeling anxious or insecure about themselves.Try to find ways to bolster your own self-confidence without relying on women to be either a damsel in distress (for you to rescue) or to be a villain (for you to compete with). Instead, work on improving your job skills, pursue your creative pursuits, and view yourself positively.


If you find yourself in a negative pattern where you treat women badly during your lowest periods--such as when you have gone through a breakup or have a stressful day at work--consider talking to a therapist. A therapist can provide you with better ways to improve your self-confidence.
 Your past negative experiences with women do not apply to all women in all situations. To put your past behind you, you should express your anger but take care not to dwell on it.Get out and be social to start creating new memories and experiences. Most importantly, avoid inflating a single bad experience into more than it really was. Be rational, and avoid hyperbolic language such as the words "never" and "always."