 This forms the majority of Black Widow's outfit. It has a V shaped neckline, long sleeves and is tight fitting. In the comic books this is made out of a PVC-type fabric, but I wouldn't recommend trying to find one online - try looking out for more cotton based ones, spandex at a push. If in doubt, use plain black leggings, and a zip up, plain black, long sleeved jacket.;
, Black Widow wears a S.H.I.E.L.D eagle patch on both upper arms of her jump suit - these can be found online.
 If you want something taller, try black wedge trainers, or black boots with a heel - avoid anything taller than 4", and stiletto heels.
 In the comic books, Black Widow wears a belt around her hips made of a series of gold disks, the center one having an hourglass engraved into it. In the films, she wears two belts made of black webbing. The bottom one, around her hips, is attached to two gun holsters on her thighs, and the top one has a red hourglass buckle, with black utility pouches.
 She wears 'Widow Makers' on both of her wrists - her main weapon. These bracelets can deliver a fatal electric charge. You may have to make them - you can get cheap strings of fake plastic bullets from fancy dress shops, to go with military outfits. Often the bullets can be unclipped from each other. Unclip two sections big enough to go around your wrist , and use black (for the film) or gold(for the comic books) paint to colour them. If you can't find the bullets, make your own by rolling up strips of paper, roughly two inches wide, and long enough to make a bullet shape. Use elastic tread and a needle to fasten them together after they've been painted.
 Aside from her Widow Makers, Black Widow tends to favor pistols over larger guns. Look up some fancy dress shops - most fake guns will not be black, so you may need to paint them.
 Black Widow's hair has a slight curl to it, and is naturally dark red. Use overnight rollers, or a curling iron, and a wash-in-wash-out dye if you need to.
 While posing undercover as Tony Stark's assistant, Natasha favors plain dresses, with short sleeves and knee length, straight skirts with black high heels. At the end of Avengers, we see her in combat boots, dark skinny jeans, a red t-shirt, black sweater and a brown leather jacket.

