 It is important to talk to everyone when you arrive on an island. Some characters say different things, so talk to everyone twice and that will ensure you know a lot about the island, a lot about what you're doing on that island and even some secrets that might be on the island.;
, Whenever you get to a new island, make sure you have bait and get one of the fish jumping out of the ocean to plot the island on your chart. Your sea chart is extremely useful and the sooner you can get this out of the way, the better. You can also defeat the wind god that lives in the big cyclones once you get the bow and arrow. This means you can warp to any island and get them charted quicker.
 When facing foes, equip the Grappling Hook which you will get in the Dragon Roost Island dungeon. L target the enemy and tap the Grappling Hook item; it will swing at the enemy and you are guaranteed to get a spoil from them (depending on the type of enemy). This is good for when you are low on hearts, or you need to collect an item like joy pendants or golden feathers.
 Get a fairy in a bottle and go visit Grandma. Stand as close as you can get to her and use the fairy. It will go up you, and down onto Grandma. Grandma is now happy and full of life again, and she will offer you soup which can double your attack power for the first ten moves before you're hit. It will also replenish full magic and full hearts. She gives you two portions in each bottle and will only give you one bottle at a time. Make sure to get a bottle before facing the final boss.
 Make sure you check your magic meter before you fly every time. Magic is also used up from the fire and ice arrows and the special spin attack. When trying to land, look at the ground which you want to land on and wait for your shadow to appear, then it's safe.
 Make sure you read closely to what the sea chart fish have to say. Write it down; some information they give is vital to the game.
 Typically, there will be more rupees in flowers than grass. Go to the Savage Labyrinth on Outset Island, which is only available after you get the Power Bracelet. At the end of the challenges, there are a lot of rupees and if you use the Grappling Hook on all of the enemies, then you will get tones of spoils. Treasure hunting in the ocean is a good way to get rupees. Some will only show up at night.
