 Walking around your school and leaving notes of where things are, or even drawing a rough draft can really help.

If you attend a large school and can't do it all in one day, take multiple days to go around your whole school.;
, While going around your school, make sure you don't miss anything. You can do this by going over the whole building again, or just by checking a blueprint of your school and seeing if you missed anything. If you missed some parts, add it to your map!, If you decide to do a rough draft before the final, then don't spend a ton of time on the rough draft. Just sketch it and spend the time to get the fine details in on the final draft., You really should use your rough draft as a tool to check your work and see if everything's correct.

Don't make your map an edited version of your rough draft. Start over on a new page, so that it's clean and clear.
 Before everything else, you should draw the big parts first. For example, drawing the different grade wings of the school might be a good first step., After the big parts, you should draw the less important sections, such as the offices, lobby, or special use rooms., When you have those two parts done, you should then draw the least important; such as stairwells, bathrooms, and other sections. Depending on the layout of the school, you can do these three steps in any order., Make sure everything is in it's correct spot, an go over everything a few times on your map. If you checked it, your rough draft should be correct, and this can be a good way to see if you got your map correct., Adding detail is an important part of making a map. Now draw the doors if you haven't already, draw the small parts of the school, label the areas, and check over your map again just to be safe., As you can probably tell, this is a very important step and thing to do. Look over your map, and see if everything is in it's right spot, see if the labels are correct (if you did any), see if the room sizes are right, etc. So, basically, revise your map., If you want to, feel free to color the background, color certain rooms in, just let your creativity run wild!, Add a key if you want to, make it color coded, or just keep it plain., You can add a little description for about three or four rooms on your map, and it can be for ones that wouldn't have an obvious purpose to the average person., You should add a title of the school it's suppose to represent so people can know. You can write who it's by under it.