 Most eczema sufferers are allergic to one or more thing, including certain foods and chemicals. One or more of these items may actually cause an eczema flare-up as part of the allergic reaction. If you know what items can trigger a flare-up, avoid them. If you aren’t sure what items are causing your eczema flare-ups, try to keep track of when flare-ups occur, what you were doing, wearing, and eating in the days leading up to the flare-up.Some food items to avoid are those that are commonly known to cause allergic reactions, such as: dairy, soy, citrus, peanuts, wheat, fish, eggs, corn and tomatoes.
You may also want to avoid processed foods, especially those with added sugar. These types of foods can cause inflammation.
 A soak in a warm bath for 10 to 15 minutes will help your skin absorb the moisture it needs. But you can also add other items to the bath for specific treatment purposes.Bleach Baths — Add ½ cup of bleach to a full bathtub, or ¼ cup of bleach to a half-full bathtub, then soak for 10 minutes and rinse off your skin. You can have a bath like this 2-3 times per week. The bleach acts as an antibacterial for your skin and helps decrease the possibility of infections.

Baking Soda or Oatmeal Baths — You can add baking soda or oatmeal directly to the bath water, or you can mix them with water to form a paste to apply directly to your skin. Either method should help to reduce the intensity of itching caused by eczema.

Vinegar Baths — Add 1 cup of vinegar to your bath water before a regular bath. Vinegar also acts as an antibacterial and can help prevent infections.

Salt Baths — If you’re experiencing a flare-up, and you find bathing or showering painful or uncomfortable, add 1 cup of table salt to your bath water. The salt water helps to eliminate the discomfort so you can stay in the water long enough.
 A wet wrap is pretty much exactly what it sounds like — a wrapping of wet fabric around an affected area. Normally wet wraps are used when you’re experiencing a flare-up and are applied after the area has been cleansed and moisturizer is applied. Several layers of wet fabric are placed on top of the skin (and moisturizer), followed by a layer of dry fabric (to keep the moisture in).Wet wraps can create a cool sensation that relieves itching. They also prevent itching because of the multiple layers of fabric.

