 It's located at https://getadblock.com/.
 This blue button is in the middle of the page. Doing so will take you to your browser's respective extension installation page.
 This process will vary depending on which browser you're using:



Chrome - Click Add extension when prompted. Chrome will refresh the page when the AdBlock extension finishes installing.

Firefox - Click the green Add to Firefox button, then click Install.

Safari - Click the download arrow in the top-right side of Safari, then double-click the setup file and click Install when prompted.

Microsoft Edge - Click GET in the Microsoft Store window, then click Turn it on in your Edge window once the extension has downloaded.
 It resembles a red stop sign; you should see it in the top-right area of most browser windows, though it will appear on the left side of the URL bar on Safari.


For Microsoft Edge, first click ... in the top-right corner of the window.
 Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu.
 It's near the middle of the drop-down menu. This option will take you to the AdBlock options page.


For Microsoft Edge, you'll click Manage in the drop-down menu, and then click Options on the right side of the page.
 You'll find this near the top of the AdBlock page.
 This address is https://easylist-downloads.adblockplus.org/fb_annoyances_sidebar.txt. To do so, To do so, two-finger click or right-click this address and click Copy link address.
 You'll do so in the text field at the bottom of the screen, to the right of "Or enter a URL" text. To paste, simply two-finger click or right-click the field and click Paste.
 This button is to the right of the text field. Clicking it will add your filter to AdBlock, thereby preventing Facebook from displaying sidebar ads.
 It's https://easylist-downloads.adblockplus.org/fb_annoyances_newsfeed.txt.
 Again, you'll do this in the text field at the bottom of the page.
 This will prevent "Suggested" or sponsored posts from appearing in your Facebook News Feed.
 Doing so will allow AdBlock to fully assimilate your changes.
 It's at https://www.facebook.com/. If you're logged into Facebook already, this will open the News Feed.


If you aren't logged into Facebook, you'll have to enter your email address (or phone number) and password in the top-right area of the page and then click Log In to continue.
 If you scroll down and don't see ads on the right side of your Facebook window or in your News Feed, your AdBlock extension is working as it should.


If you do still see ads, try refreshing Facebook a few times. AdBlock will sometimes fail to block ads if the page loads too quickly.

