 If you want to adopt through a breeder, there are many different routes you can take. You should look for reputable breeders in a variety of places. It may take a while to find a breeder that suits your needs.


The Poodle Club of America provides a list of breeders and can verify which breeders abide by their ethical guidelines. This is a good resource to find an ethical breeder near you.The American Kennel Club also provides lists of breeders for a variety of breeds.
If you do not find anyone through these resources, you can do a google search on your own. Be careful, however, as many puppy mills masquerade as reputable breeders. If someone is eager to sell you a puppy without having much contact with you, this may be a puppy mill.Have some patience. It can take a while to find a breeder. When you do find a breeder, it may be a while before they have puppies available for sale. Keep in mind, going into the process, it may take a few months to find a poodle through a breeder.
 As you begin to contact breeders, watch for signs of quality. You do not want to go through an unethical breeder. Your puppy is far more likely to have health problems if you go this route.


A good breeder will not shy away from questions. She will be happy to provide pedigrees, health certificates, and other information about her puppies.A quality breeder will have a lot of questions for you. Do not be alarmed by this. The breeder simply wants to match the right person with the right puppy. It's a good sign if you get a lot of questions when contacting a breeder. This means the breeder is dedicated to finding good homes for her dogs.A good breeder should also provide some kind of written documentation for you to sign. This usually assures you the breeder will take the dog back in the event any problems occur. The breeder should also provide you a written document proving the puppy's parents have had their hips, eyes, knees, and blood examined by a vet. This is to check the parents for inheritable disorders before breeding them., You should be aware of signs of a bad breeder. You're far more likely to get a dog with health or behavioral problems when going through an unethical breeder.


A breeder's first questions should be about you, your lifestyle, and how you plan to care for your puppy. If a breeder instead asks you how quickly you can buy a dog and then presses you for information about your payment method, this is a bad sign.If a breeder is unwilling to answer questions or provide documents you request, this is also a bad sign. There may be something wrong with his dogs. Your poodle may be at higher risk for inheritable health problems., The terms "royal poodle" and "teacup poodle" do not signify specific breeds. They're colloquial terms used in the poodle community to signify very big or very small toy poodles.


If a breeder is using these terms to signify breed, he may be trying to trick buyers into thinking they're getting something rare or special. Really, he's just selling dogs that are slightly smaller or larger than average.Also, very small poodles, referred to as "teacup poodles," rarely live a full lifespan. Due their size and fragility, they're more prone to health problems.