 The most obvious method of evading gunfire is to avoid places such as war zones and bad neighborhoods where guns are used. But as the world is a place of wonders and terrors, we'll assume you might not, and that the reader is a civilian who just wants to escape.;
, Cover is an obstruction or area that blocks bullets, e.g. cars, large buildings, and ditches. Concealment is something that blocks the shooter's view but not bullets, e.g. bushes, large signs, and smoke.
 Upon indication of gunfire -- either hearing it, seeing the shooter, or noticing bullets coming your way -- drop anything you're carrying and sprint for the nearest cover or concealment. Don't bother trying to figure out where the gunfire is coming from unless it's the only cover and concealment and the shooter may be occupying it. The nearest cover may be something lame like a wet gutter or a fire hydrant, but don't pause for your dignity -- it's your life. If there's absolutely no cover at all within a 2 to 3 seconds sprint from where you are, drop to the ground and crawl to it.
 Once behind cover or concealment, breathe deeply, think "I will live," and assess the situation. Keep your head down. But if you have to expose your head to look, try to look around the side of your cover or concealment instead of over it if it allows, e.g. if you're hiding behind a car, peek around the bumper and not over the hood or roof. If peeking around a building, do so at ankle- to knee-height. Where is the gunfire coming from? Are they single shots or machine gun fire? Are there bullets coming so near you it look likes you are being targeted? Are you injured? Where is the next available cover or concealment the farthest from the shooter? Your next action will be based on what you assess.
 Generally if you're hurt, you feel the gunfire is far away and not specifically targeting you, and the cover is ideal, you should stay. But even if you do stay, the situation may change, so stay aware and prepare to move. Ditch any heavy items you're carrying and ladies should abandon their high heels. Removing any bright clothing may help if time permits.
 Use this also if you're stuck in a place where there is no other cover for hundreds of meters. Dodge and weave to upset the shooter's aim.
B) If you think the gunfire is intense but not necessarily close or targeting you specifically, crawl on your belly to the nearest cover or concealment. If there are slight rises in the ground or street curbs, use them along your route. Provided you're sure the shooter won't run up on you, it may be worthwhile to use them even if they don't go directly to safety.
C) The 2 to 3 second rush. This is for if you're really close to the shooter and feel he's either shooting at you or will as you make your move. Determine a route to safety that includes as much cover and concealment on the way. Use it by sprinting in brief rushes that last 2 to 3 seconds at a time from one hiding place to the next. The average marksman can only sight on a target within 3 to 4 seconds. So, ideally, using this technique, you'll be behind the next cover or concealment before he pulls the trigger. Try to stay low and dodge and weave if you miscalculate the distance. It isn't perfect, but it is a proven infantry technique.
 Each time you find new cover and concealment, ensure you reassess the situation. Your enemy is a human being and really may be out to get just you.

