 Before you begin meditating, you will want to find a quiet place that is free of any distractions. Make sure that there is nothing in the room that might break your concentration. Turn off all electronic devices or leave them in another room.Try to avoid places with lots of people or that have heavy foot traffic.
If there is outside noise that you find distracting, consider playing some soft ambient music.;
, In order to facilitate your meditation, you will want to get as comfortable as you can. You should wear lose fitting clothes that breathe easily. Be sure to sit on a chair or cushion in a way that is comfortable for you. Although practitioners of meditation are often depicted sitting cross-legged, this is not an essential pose. However, you will want to sit in a way that facilitates your breathing, so be sure to keep your back straight.If you intend to make meditation a regular practice, you may want to consider purchasing a meditation pillow.
You may be interested in walking meditation. However, this is typically done by more advanced practitioners.Avoid lying down, which might cause you to fall asleep. With meditation, you want to be relaxed yet alert.
 Once you are in a comfortable position, state to yourself what you want out of your practice. If you are looking for self-discovery, say things like “I want to know myself better” or “find my strengths.” Stating your goals will give your practice purpose and help you better focus.


Try to make your goal a mantra. For example, “strength” or “knowledge” may be good mantras for self-discovery.
 After you state your goals, close your eyes. In your mind, check out how your body feels.Concentrate on and investigate any sensations that come along.Take some time and mentally move through your body, examining all its sensations.
 Take deep breaths in and out. You will want to fill your lungs with air and slowly release it. Concentrate on your breathing and the movement of your body.Try to breathe from your diaphragm. This will help you take in more oxygen and slow your breathing, helping you relax.
 Once you have started your breathing, continue to concentrate on each breath. Place all of your attention on your breathing. This frees your mind from the stress and anxiety that can cloud it.You might want to try repeating a mantra to help you focus. This is a word that you will repeat to help your focus and express your intention. For example, if you are trying to better understand yourself, try mantras like “truth,” “discovery” or “authentic.”
You may also find that looking at an image or stationary object helps your practice. Some people concentrate by looking at the flame of a candle.

