 Once you find a video, watch it thoroughly. Do not start trying until you have watched the whole thing. If you can't find any videos on YouTube (or they aren't very helpful), search wikiHow for more help.;
, One of the most important attributes of a gymnast is flexibility. To become proficient in gymnastics, you must have at least one forward split down, but splits are not the only thing gymnasts need to be flexible in. Stretch your back, shoulders, pike, toes and wrists.
 A gymnast doesn't eat McDonalds everyday, nor do they eat fat-free everything. Eat a well balanced diet daily.
 You cannot learn gymnastics in a day. You must start small, and work your way up.
 You do not need a $60 leotard, but you do need some comfortable clothes, such as leggings and a t-shirt. Also attain mats. Though this is not mandatory, it will help you enormously if you have even a single mat. You may also(though this is more expensive) find gymnastics beams or junior kip bars. If you are unable to acquire mats, find an open gym near you.
 This can lead up to front and back tucks eventually.
 Arguably the most important skill in gymnastics, the handstand is the building block of nearly all gymnastics skills.
 One of the most basic moves in gymnastics, the cartwheel is almost as important as the handstand, because after a cartwheel comes the most important skill in tumbling: the roundoff

, This stretches your back and is the position for a backhandspring and back walkover.
 As mentioned above, this is one of the most important skills on floor for tumbling.
 This is a very flashy move that is easy to master if you stretch every day.
 A chin stand is a move that requires a very flexible back, but if you are flexible, you should be able to do it with practice.
 These are the skills working up to front and back handsprings.
 Doing a back handspring is every beginner's dream, but be very cautious. Master all previous steps before attempting and make sure you have a spot on your first time.
 The ultimate self-taught gymnast's achievement, learning to do a back tuck is a very exciting skill, and fun to show off. However, this is the most dangerous of the skills you can learn at home. Go outside, or into a huge open space. Get a spotter to help you. If you have a trampoline, try it first and master it there.
