 This could be dry skin, itching, redness, rashes, scaly skin, oozing, crusting, swelling, and/or dark colored patches of skin.Make an appointment to see your doctor to make sure you don’t have any complications or related conditions. They can also prescribe a treatment plan for your individual symptoms. In the meantime, however, there are steps you can take to decrease your flare ups.;
, Have you just bought a new shower gel? Does your new job require to wash your hands more than you usually would? If nothing has changed recently in your life that you think could have caused a flare up, it may be that some of the ingredients in products you use every day have changed.


Take a thorough look through all of your household items, and see if at least one of them could be causing or exacerbating your eczema. Does anything make it better or worse if you eliminate something, like your lotion or your face wash?

, If your flare up is located on a patch of skin covered by clothing, there is a good chance that might be the cause. If you find that clothing is causing eczema because of the way it is washed, you only need to change your laundry detergent. If it is due to the fabrics and materials themselves, you may need to get rid of that article of clothing.


Next time you wash your clothes, make sure they are rinsed of detergent completely. If you still have skin problems, the problem could be with a certain article of clothing.The rivets or buttons may be giving you eczema. Check clothing for rivets or snaps that may contain nickel.
Your skin may have a sensitivity or allergy to a blend of fabric. If changing detergents did not help, you may need to quit wearing that article of clothing.
 Have you been exposed to abnormal levels of poor air quality, bacteria and viruses, heat or humidity, chemicals, or dust and pollen? Have you been sweating or had higher levels of stress than normal? Are you in the midst of a season change? If any of these are true, it is possible that returning to a normal lifestyle will allow your eczema to subside., Eczema is a symptom of some food allergies, such as dairy, nuts, and shellfish. If you have persistent eczema with no identifiable environmental risk factors, see a doctor. They will be able to test you for food allergies and determine if that is the cause of your eczema., You should not hesitate in making an appointment with an allergist or dermatologist if your eczema is negatively affecting your life. A professional will be able to help you determine what's causing your eczema and how you can treat it.

