 Do this by tapping the App Store icon on your device.;
, Type in “Marvin” on the search field, and wait for the results.
 You will be brought to the apps information page.
 Tap on the “Install” button to download and install the app.
 Locate Marvin on your iOS device. The app has a red background with a big M on it. Tap on the icon to launch it.
 On Marvin’s home screen, tap on the “Get books” link at the bottom-right side of the app. The different methods of getting eBooks into Marvin will pop up. Tap on the Dropbox icon.
 A confirmation message will appear to authorize the link with your Dropbox account. Tap the “Link” button.
 A Dropbox window will launch and get your confirmation to proceed with the integration. Once permitted, Marvin will be able to access all the files and folders in your Dropbox while it’s searching for eBooks.


Tap the “Allow” link, and the authorization process will start.
 Once done, you will get a confirmation message. Tap “OK.”


Dropbox is now integrated and linked with Marvin. Marvin won’t ask for another authorization to access Dropbox. All it takes is this one-time linkage.
 This is the starting point to get eBooks into Marvin.
 On Marvin’s home screen, tap on the “Get books” link at the bottom-right side of the app then tap on the Dropbox icon.


Since Dropbox has been successfully linked, Marvin will now be able to access and load the compatible files.
A list of eBooks from your Dropbox will be displayed.
 Scroll up and down to view the all eBooks available.


It is advisable that you also have the Dropbox app installed on your iOS device. This will make the loading faster and easier.
You can also opt to save a local copy of the files within Dropbox to eliminate the need for Dropbox and Marvin to download from the cloud.
 At the bottom of the My Dropbox screen, you will see sorting options. You can either sort with New on top or sort Alphabetically. Tap on the respective sorting methods to sort the results.
 Use the search field found at the middle part of the screen to search for specific titles from your eBooks. The results will immediately be filtered to match your search parameter.
 Tap on the eBook you’d like to load to Marvin. A download confirmation message will appear. The eBook needs to be downloaded locally and loaded to Marvin. Tap the “Download” button to begin.


After the download is completed, you will see the eBook loaded into Marvin’s Library.
 If you’d like to load multiple eBooks at once, tap on the check icon found at the upper-right side of the screen. This will allow multiple downloads. Once enabled, the check icon will turn red.


Tap on all the eBooks you’d like to be downloaded, and then tap the red check icon. You will be presented with a confirmation message.
Tap on the “Start” button to begin the multiple downloads.
After the download is completed, you will see the eBooks loaded into Marvin’s Library.

