 Stink bugs are likely to come into your house by way of cracks or holes on its exterior. Go outside and give the outside of your house a thorough check for possible entry points.









Pay special attention to areas near doors and windows. Are there gaps under the doors or between the windows and the walls?
Seal cracks with caulk or another hardy, impenetrable material.
 If you like to feel the summer breeze when the weather is warm, keep stink bugs (and other creatures) out using screens. Make sure the screens are fitted into the frames properly so that the stink bugs can't squeeze around gaps or holes.









If you have older screens, take a look to see if they need repairing or updating. Metal or fiber screens often get holes, and it only takes one to let a stink bug inside.
Windows aren't the only openings that need to be screened. Screen the opening of your chimney, pipe or gutter openings, drains, vents, and any other opening through which stink bugs can make their way inside your home.
 Stink bugs eat fruit and vegetables, and they lay their barrel-shaped eggs in clumps on the undersides of leaves. Look for the eggs when temperatures warm up in the spring, and take measures to get rid of them.









The soapy water method works as well outside as it does inside. Use a stick to knock the eggs - and any nearby stink bugs - from the leaves into a bucket of soapy water.
If you have a garden or a fruit tree that you think may be a home to stink bugs, consider trimming it back or getting rid of it. It's difficult to completely eliminate stink bugs from an area if they still have a food source around.
Trim back bushes, weeds, and areas of overgrown foliage to prevent stink bugs from laying their eggs in your yard.
 Stink bugs are attracted to yellow, a weakness you can use against them by placing yellow sticky traps around your garden. The stink bugs land on the traps and aren't able to fly away.









This color can work to your disadvantage, too, if you love yellow daisies or sunflowers. Remove yellow flowers from your yard, or plant them well away from your house, to avoid attracting stink bugs.
Yellow sticky traps will attract and trap beneficial pollinators in addition to stinkbugs. If your garden is dependent upon bees/other pollinators, you may want to consider another method.

