 For most countries, you will find that you can reach the record keeping office online to get a copy of a marriage certificate. Run a simple Internet search for the name of the country and “marriage certificate” or “marriage certificate copy.”


For some countries, like the United States and Canada, for example, there may be individual offices for each state or province. You will need to know the state or province where the original certificate was issued in order to get a copy.For states in the U.S., you can usually begin by searching for the individual secretary of state's office. The secretary of state may be able to help you directly, or you may need to get redirected to the town or city clerk.
For Great Britain, you can begin at the site www.gov.uk. From there, you will find links to get information from England, Wales, Scotland or Ireland.In the United States, there are some websites that contain general nationwide search information. You might try searching at Vitalchek.com. From that home page, select "Marriage Record," and then you will be directed to a page to choose the state you want.
Some non-governmental sites require a fee to conduct the search. Be prepared with your credit card if you choose to use these sites.;
, Once you locate the state, province or national office that controls official records, you will need to read the information about applying for a duplicate marriage certificate. You will need to check for the following requirements:who may request a marriage certificate (in some places, only the two parties on the certificate may request a copy)
whether you can request online, by mail, or even over the telephone
whether a fee is required
whether you need to submit a particular application form or if a simple letter will suffice
what form(s) of identification you must provide to make your request
any other relevant details.
 If you have any questions beyond what you can learn from the website, or if you need any further clarification, call the office directly. While you may have to wait on hold (government offices can get busy), you are likely to get someone who can answer your specific questions., It seems self-explanatory, but the first piece of information you will need is the identification of the parties on the marriage certificate. It will be helpful, though not always necessary, to know the bride’s maiden name., You should be able to provide the date, month and year of the marriage, in order to pinpoint the certificate that you want copied. Most governmental records will be sorted by year, and then alphabetically., In some states within the U.S., licenses are not only arranged by state but by individual counties within the states as well. You will need to know the city or town where the wedding took place, in order to help locate the document you need., In some places, you will need to provide this information, although this is not always a requirement.You should be ready with an explanation, in case one is requested.
 In most places, you will be required to pay a small fee for a copy of a marriage certificate. The fee is to cover the costs of researching and locating the certificate in question and the copying charge. A credit card is usually the easiest and most accepted method of payment.For example, in the state of New York, the fee for a copy of marriage certificate is $30.In the U.K., a copy of a marriage certificate will cost £9.25.
 Many governmental offices will accept applications for marriage certificate copies online through their websites. This will often be the easiest, fastest and cheapest way to get what you need.


For example, the U.K. General Register Office has a direct online application available. The process takes only about ten minutes, and you can pay the required fee with a credit card.The state of New York does not accept online requests directly. However, on its website, it does provide instructions for requesting a marriage certificate online through a partnership with www.VitalChek.com. Obtaining the certificate through VitalChek in this manner will require an additional fee., In some offices, you may be able to request a copy of a marriage certificate by telephone. If this is available, you should have all your identifying information available before making the call, and be prepared to pay with a credit card for the search and copying fee.In the U.K., for example, you can telephone the General Records Office (GRO) and make a request for priority service over the telephone. For a fee of £23.40, you can submit your request and then receive it the next day (if you call before 4:00 p.m.).
 Most offices will process a request for a duplicate marriage certificate in writing. You should check the website to see if a specific application form is required. Alternatively, you may be able to provide the necessary information in a simple letter.A request for a duplicate marriage certificate might just say, “Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to request a copy of a marriage certificate for the marriage between John Smith and Abigail Adams, which occurred in Louisville, Kentucky (U.S.A.) on July 4, 1975. Please send the copy to John Smith at _____. Thank you.”
Be sure to include a check to cover the fee for the marriage certificate. You should generally not send cash in the mail.

