 From the main home screen on the device, open the application drawer. Scroll through the icon list and find the Google Play icon. It should look like a white shopping bag with a play icon in the center.;
, Near the top left of the screen, there should be a button that says “Movies & TV.” It should be right under “APPS.” Tap to open the new menu.
 Once the new page loads, there should be a series of options at the top of the page. Starting from left and going right, these options should be “Categories,” “Home,” “Top Selling Movies,” “New Movie Releases,” “Pre-orders,” “Top TV Shows,” and “New TV Episodes.” Tap on any of these options to open the new page.


There should also be a magnifying glass in the upper right hand corner of the page to do a custom search. Tap and type in the name of the movie or TV show in the provided search bar.
 Once the specific movie or TV title has been found, tap to open the renting and buying menu.
, Either “Rent HD,” which tends to be more expensive, or “Rent SD.” Tap either option to continue.


When choosing HD, please make sure that the Android device currently being used is capable of High Definition video viewing.
 A small box will pop up with a red “Rent” button. This will also have the last 4 digits of the credit or debit card that Google has on file for the current user’s account. Tap “Rent” to continue.
 To confirm the users identity, another box will pop up and ask the user to enter the password associated with the currently active Gmail account on the device. Enter it and hit “Confirm.”

, The “Rent” or “Buy” options should now be “Download” and “Play” options.


Tapping “Play” should pop up a small box informing the user that the rental will expire in 48 (sometimes 24) hours once the Play button has been hit. Tap “OK” to continue watching.
Tapping “Download” will open a small box that shows the current settings for downloading the movie/TV show. The top option is how to download it, either over Wi-Fi only or using mobile data. The bottom option is for the quality of the movie, either HD or SD download. If the user purchased the HD version, both options will then be available. If not, only the SD option will be available. Tap “OK” to begin the download.

