 In general, you do need to pursue higher education beyond a master's for most types for most types of counseling. However, some careers involve providing counseling-like services without requiring a higher degree.Try working as a parole officer. In this job, you talk to convicted criminals and help them get their lives on track and coordinate with counselors and therapists.
Rehabilitation specialist and case managers help with care and recovery plans for people with physical and mental disabilities. You coordinate with doctors, therapists, and other professionals to help people struggling get their lives on track.;
, As a psychology degree requires a lot writing, attention to detail, and interpersonal communication, many psychology majors find work in sales or related positions. Advertising agents, for example, have to research target demographics and know how to communicate with different types of people. Sales positions at various outlets can be ideal for psychology students familiar with interpersonal communication.If you already have experience working in something like advertising or sales, such as having worked at a clothing store part time, this could help you launch a career in sales.
 Many people with a bachelor's in psychology have excellent research experience from internships, thesis work, and coursework. If your college career involved a lot of research, see if you can find professional research positions.Market research involves a lot of statistical analysis and collecting/analyzing data.
Look for lab positions where you would be working under the supervision of a professional psychologist. Research assistantships can help you build an excellent resume if you plan to one day go to graduate school.
 If you got any kind of teaching certification in addition to your psychology degree, teaching is an option. There are also teaching and education positions that do not necessarily require a teaching degree.Think about working as a guidance or career counselor. You would help high school or college students carve out a path for their future based around their interests and skills.If you have a teaching certificate, look for teaching jobs in elementary, middle, and high schools.
 Working as an assistant or technician to a psychiatrist, psychologist, or other professional usually does not require more than a bachelor's degree. Things like being a mental health technician, laboratory assistant, or social work assistant involve assisting with tasks related to counseling, research, and technical labor. These positions can be great jobs to help you explore your career options., Employers look for employees who are passionate about their work. You have a better chance of landing a job if you're doing what you want. Reflect on the kind of work you enjoyed during college, both in and out of the classroom, and ask yourself how that could translate to a professional career.Think about the traits you exhibit, the interests you have, and the kind of environment you want to work in. These factors can help you find the best job for you.
For example, if you're naturally empathetic and outgoing, look for jobs related to counseling. You could be something like a guidance counselor or a parole officer.
 Many psychology majors are interested in the hands-on aspects of the field that involves working with others. If this is the case for you, this can work to your advantage on the job hunt. Think about ways you developed your interpersonal communication skills, and bring those out when job-hunting.Psychology majors often have intern or volunteer experience related to interpersonal communication. For example, maybe you worked at a crisis hotline over the summers.
Research often requires communication. If you conducted interviews during your senior thesis, this is great to include on your resume.
 A lot of people fail to recognize the writing skills that go into getting a psychology degree. As many job postings call for excellent written communication skills, find a way to highlight how your psychology degree helped you develop that skill set.If you did any professional writing during your internship or volunteer experience, jot this down. For example, if you had to summarize case studies, this can really showcase written communication skills.
 Many undergraduate psychology projects involve working with others. Research conducted in the field of psychology also involves a heavy amount of teamwork. Write down any experiences you had working as a team as an undergraduate. Later, you may need to include this information on a resume.In addition to coursework that requires teamwork, think about internships and volunteer work. Maybe you worked with a group of interns as a research assistant one summer. This is something to emphasize on a resume.
 Connections are one of the best means to find a job. Reach out to anyone you've met over the years who could help you. This includes bosses, those who supervised you for internships or volunteer work, professors, classmates, and colleagues.Send out e-mails letting people know you're on the job hunt, the kind of work you're looking for, and politely ask them to let you know of any leads.
 When writing your resume, tailor it to the job you want. Do not simply include all your work experience on a resume. Think about the job you're looking for and highlight your most relevant work.Say you're applying primarily to research positions. Place primary focus on things like research jobs, coursework that involved research, studies you conducted, and any publications you have. Under a heading that says "Additional Experience," list jobs and volunteer work related to psychology, but not research.
 If you're still in school, talk to your career counselor and ask them for advice about how to find a job. If your school offers any job placement programs, definitely take advantage of these. Even if you've already graduated, some schools allow recent grads to see career counselors on campus.If you've already graduated, you can also try going to alumni events or the alumni office.
 When hunting for jobs, you can look at traditional online job boards. However, keep your search diverse. Contact the hiring department of companies you're interested in directly, look through the newspaper for want ads, and attend networking events., When you do land an interview, make sure you practice basic interview skills. Nailing an interview is essential to obtaining a great job with your degree.Do your research. Read about the company online and practice answers for common interview questions ahead of time.
Wear professional, clean clothing for your interview and be sure to minimize distracting, gaudy accessories.

