 You must have an account on Facebook before you can play the game. If you don’t have it, then you must sign up first.


Do not worry about having no friends yet because there is no exchanging lives or tickets among players here.;
, Type in Dead Trigger 2 in the search bar, with a magnifying glass icon, and then click the application, not the fan page.


You may also visit this link: https://apps.facebook.com/deadtrigger_ii/?fb_source=search&fb_appcenter=1

In the app page, click “Play Now.”

, The loading bar of Dead Trigger 2 will start to fill in.
 When starting a game as a new player, you must wait until the downloading of game data is finished. The process may take 10 minutes or less, so be patient.
 After downloading the game data, the game will start.
 Dead Trigger 2 is a first-person shooting game, so when you move your cursor, it will turn your head into the direction of your mouse.


Moving your cursor forward will make your character look up.
Moving your mouse backward will make your character look down.



Hit W to move forward.
Hit S to move backward.
Hit A to move to left.
Hit D to move to the right.
 A navigation arrow will guide you to the goal of your current objective. It is a white arrow with the length of your current location to your objective. It is in the top of screen.
 In every mission, there is an objective. Follow the rules to go further.


In the start of the game, the first objective you will see is to “Go to the Library.” Move your cursor forward to get in there.
Follow every objective to accomplish your mission.
 You will encounter these walking dead throughout your mission.


Change your combat by keying letter Q.
Close combat using melee weapon, like wrench, knife, crowbar, or chainsaw, is when the zombie is not aware of your presence. Just move closer to the opponent, and it will automatically attack them.
Range combat using a weapon with ammo supports, such as handgun, shotgun, etc., is when the zombie will closely attack you. Aim the crosshair at the zombies, and it will automatically attack them.
You can change your controls in Setting if you prefer tapping the left click of the mouse when firing.
 Before using these hotkeys, assign the items to the numbers first.
, In your journey, you will find Ammo Box. Replenish your ammo by aiming the crosshair to the box.
 You will accomplish your mission if you complete objectives. At the end of the mission, it will reward you with cash that you can use for upgrades and buying weapons.
 In some missions, you will encounter a few characters that you need to help along the game. The first one is the medic.


Once you finished saving the medic from zombie’s attack, she will turn you over to their hide-out.
In your hideout, she will help you produce painkillers to cure your HP when zombies attacked you during your mission.
Click the medic and go to “Produce” to create.
The number of items that can be produced depends on their level. Upgrading them will cost you money.
 Finding them will complete the workers in the Hide-Out and help you along your journey. Just like the medic, you will need to help the workers get away from Zombie attacks.


The gunsmith is able to produce new weapons and upgrade already owned ones.
The tech or scientist takes care of hideout technology. Higher tech levels allow you to upgrade workers.
The engineer is able to produce items such as grenade, boom chicken, and mine, and upgrade them.
The smuggler can get you exclusive items in exchange for gold.
Gold can be earned as an award through the game or be bought via credit card; the same goes for in-game cash.
 Equip your best weapon to survive the game. Do not forget to upgrade your items from the workers too.
 If you have enough gold, you can buy boosters from the gunsmith to make your gameplay easier.
 Your Facebook friends who play Dead Trigger 2 are automatically added to your friends list, but you may add other players all over the world.
 The chatbox is just in the left corner of your screen, the black trapezoid button with > symbol.
