 Lemon balm has been found to help people fall asleep and stay asleep. Fill a small pot with ¾ cup lemon balm and add just enough water to cover the leaves. Bring it to a boil and reduce the heat to simmer. Place a lid over the water, but keep it cracked open so half of the water can evaporate. Strain the leaves and add honey to taste.Take this concentrated tea by the spoonful a half hour before bedtime.
 Lemon balm packs a cold fighting punch by being full of antioxidants and antiviral properties. Make a tincture to take when you feel an itchy throat or upset stomach coming on by filling 3/4 of a jar with fresh leaves and topping it off with 80 proof or higher alcohol. Keep it in a dark cabinet for four to six weeks and remember to shake it occasionally.Take the tincture by the teaspoonful and keep it for a year or more.
 Lemon balm is reputed to help soften fine lines. Make a lemon balm oil infusion to rub into your skin by drying out a bunch of herbs first. Do this by tying some upside down in an empty closet for four weeks. Fill 1/4 of a glass jar with the dried, crumbled herb. Pour sunflower oil in the jar until it's nearly full, and let it sit in a dark cabinet for four to six weeks.Keep your oil infusion for about a year.
 Because of the herb's anti-inflammatory properties, you can make a poultice out of fresh, crushed leaves and olive oil. Add just enough oil to make a paste and rub the mixture on bug bites, and minor skin irritations. Make sure to cover your skin with a band-aid or plastic wrap so it can fully absorb the medicine., Lemon balm contains effective anti-viral components. So much so that it is a common over-the-counter treatment for cold sores in Germany. Crack a fresh leaf open and rub the oil from it directly on a cold sore., The light mint flavor of the herb makes it great to use as a natural breath mint. Pull a leaf or two off a plant, rinse it with water and chew for minty fresh breath.
 Lemon balm is natural mosquito deterrent. Use the plant's aroma on you several different ways:


Rub a lemon balm oil infusion on exposed skin.
Rub a lemon balm poultice on exposed skin.
Rub cracked leaves on exposed skin.

