 Acinetobacter bacteria pose very little risk to healthy people within their day-to-day lives; however, very ill people within hospitals, particularly if they have weakened immune systems, chronic lung disease or diabetes, are much more susceptible to Acinetobacter and risk dying from the infection.As such, the goal is to avoid being in an intensive care unit (ICU) as a patient or visitor.


Most people admitted to the ICU have little chance of preventing it, but following medical advice for any chronic lung diseases or diabetes can prevent your condition from taking a turn for the worse and needing emergency care.
Getting transferred out of the ICU into another part of the hospital for recovery may also reduce your risk of an Acinetobacter infection. Ask your care givers about your recovery options.
Healthy people aren't normally at risk, but visiting ill relatives at hospitals can increase it, especially if you spend significant time in the ICU.;
, A crucial way for reducing your risk of getting any type of bacterial or viral infection while staying in a hospital (or visiting one) is washing your hands properly and frequently. Wash your hands after going to the bathroom and after you touch any person (patient or hospital staff) or surface outside the bathroom. Be especially cautious with door knobs, light switches, bed railings, curtains, bedside tables and any type of medical equipment.


Warm water and regular soap is probably enough to sanitize your hands from bacteria, but consider using an alcohol-based cleaner also.
Use the paper towel you dried your hands with as a barrier against door knobs and bedside rails. Once you climb back into bed (as a patient), throw the paper towel away in the garbage.
Make sure to have some hand sanitizer within reach of your hospital bed at all times.
 Even if you're frequently sanitizing your hands as a patient or visitor to the hospital, try not to habitually touch your face (especially your mouth and eyes) with your hands. Bacteria on your hands are usually harmless, but they can enter your body through your mouth or eyes and become infectious. As such, focus on keeping your hands by your sides or on your lap.


If you don't wear eyeglasses, consider putting on some plastic eye protection to prevent touching or rubbing your eyes.
If you're a woman, be very cautious about transmitting bacteria (and other germs) while putting on eye makeup and lipstick. If you're a hospital patient, it's safer not to wear any makeup.Pay attention to other objects people commonly put in their mouths without thinking, like pens and pencils, and anything shared, like phones or games.
 While in a hospital, it may be tempting to compassionately touch patients, but that dramatically increases your risk of Acinetobacter infection — particularly if you're also a patient and quite ill. Hospital patients can harbor antibiotic-resistant bacteria (such as Acinetobacter) on their skin, clothing or personal items.


Talking, listening and supporting hospital patients is certainly helpful, but avoid touching them, especially if they're in the ICU.
If you're a patient in a hospital, avoid sharing any towels, washcloths, razors or clothes with other patients.

Acinetobacter spreads to susceptible patients by person-to-person contact or contact with contaminated surfaces.
If you're near a coughing patient(s), consider wearing a surgical mask for additional protection. Bacteria can travel within droplets of saliva/mucus.
 Whether you're a patient or a visitor, never touch any medical equipment or machines while in a hospital or clinic setting, especially while in an ICU or emergency ward. They are often a source of bacteria and other microbes, and touching them may also alter their function or change the settings, which can be life-threatening.Don't let curiosity get the best you and keep your hands to yourself and let the professionals deal with and clean the medical equipment.


Medical equipment most likely to be contaminated with bacteria include urinary catheters, intravenous equipment and respiratory tubes/paraphernalia.
In general, any equipment that deals with giving or taking blood/urine/fluid from you is higher risk of being contaminated with Acinetobacter and other microbes.
 In addition to medical equipment and other patients, another source of Acinetobacter contamination is the hospital staff — doctors, nurses, assistants and technicians. They get trained on how to prevent spreading bacterial infections by washing their hands and keeping clean, but some are more conscientious about it than others. As such, remind or request that all hospital employees wash their hands and sanitize their equipment before treating and touching you.Offer them the use of your alcohol-based hand sanitizer if they don't have any. Be polite and try not to offend them.
Wearing disposable gloves protects hospital staff from patients, but ask caregivers to change their gloves in front of you for your protection from Acinetobacter and other harmful microbes.
Hospitals that have more conveniently placed hand sanitizer dispensers have higher hygiene compliance from staff — up to 80% or more., Aseptic techniques are procedures used in hospital settings designed to sterilize any equipment or treatment materials used on you during your stay.All diagnostic equipment and instruments used on you should be brand new (never used), sanitized with alcohol or covered in some sterile protective covering.


Caregivers should change their gloves, masks and sanitary covers just prior to treating each patient (preferably within your view).
Caregivers should not wear rings, jewelry and even watches while treating patients because they are hard to clean and keep sanitized.
 Acinetobacter, especially the baumannii strain, is recognized as a very difficult antimicrobial-resistant bacteria to control and treat.In general, the overuse of antibiotics within hospitals has created these drug resistant "superbugs," and the incidence of potentially life-threatening Acinetobacter infections are increasing.


As such, first-, second-, and third-generation cephalosporins, macrolides and penicillins are virtually useless against Acinetobacter activity and may actually promote their growth.The most common problems caused by Acinetobacter colonization are bacteremia (blood infection), pneumonia, meningitis, urinary tract infections and wound infections., Acinetobacter is resistant to most antimicrobial drugs, but not all of the newer, stronger ones. Antibiotics usually effective against A. baumannii include carbapenems, polymyxins E and B, sulbactam, piperacillin/tazobactam, tigecycline and aminoglycosides.Which one your doctor recommends depends mainly on where your bacterial infection is, how your immune system is combating it and your overall health.


As a general rule, carbapenems (imipenem, meropenem, doripenem) are the top choice for treating A. baumannii, though carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter strains are becoming more common in the U.S. around the world.
Some other drugs used against A. baumannii include colistin, amikacin, rifampin and minocycline., Combination therapy means using two or more antibiotics at the same time within an infected patient. It has a synergistic effect on the drugs and makes them more powerful and effective — kind of like a 1-2 punch.However, side effects can be more severe also, and include stomach / intestinal problems, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Discuss the pros and cons of combo therapy with your doctor.


In general, combining rifampin with imipenem, tobramycin or colistin are the most effective, at least against Acinetobacter-caused pneumonia.
For most patients, monotherapy (using just one antibiotic) is just as effective as combination therapy, although if a patient is very ill with a severely weakened immune system, combo therapy is often their last hope.

