 Keep soil type in mind, as well as whether or not the garden gets full sun, partial sun, or shade. You should also keep in mind that if you choose plants that die back during the winter, your rock garden may look rather desolate during that season. Because of this, you may want to select year-round evergreens to form the backbone of your garden.Lower growing, clump-forming, smaller plants work well in rock gardens, so consider Alpines and Sedums, as these plants display well against rocks. There are many evergreen Alpines to choose from. Examples include Celmisia ramulosa, Dianthus, some perennial Penstemons, and Picea.






It’s also common to incorporate small conifers; however an Acer (Japanese Maple) is a more attractive and elegant choice for providing some height and year-round visual interest.
 Some plants suitable for rock gardens, such as Leptinella potentillina or Creeping Sedums, tend to cover the ground so thoroughly that they also suppress weed growth.
 Large rocks have a habit of retaining heat well, so heat-loving plants will do well growing next to these rocks. Plants that need a lot of water or that don’t do well in high heat, however, may not fare as well in your rock garden.
 Many gardeners aim to conceal visible ground or soil when planting a bed. Rock gardens are different because the aim is to display the background rocks as well as the plants themselves. For this reason, you don’t need to cover the rock garden completely with plants.


Ideally your rock garden plants should spread slowly, so give your plants space to grow.
 While many rock garden plants tend to be very independent (which means they don’t require that much water) you may want to spend some time weeding your garden every few days. Weeds will be less of a problem if you chose to put down newspaper or organic fabric as described in Method 1.


You may also find that ants can be a bit of a pest as they may set up their home in between your rocks. If you are alright with this, leave them be. If you’d rather not have them around, ant killer can be purchased at your local garden store.

