 Launch your favorite web browser by double-clicking its icon on your desktop.;
, On the address bar at the top of the browser, type in http://www.adrive.com and hit Enter.
 Click on the “Log In” button found at the upper-right side of the page. Input your email address and password you use for a drive on the fields provided then click the “Log In” button to proceed.
 ADrive’s landing page can be a little cluttered. You may go directly to your main file directory by click on the “My Files” button found on the left side of the page.
 Navigate through your ADrive folders by clicking on them until you’re in the folder where the files you want to share are located. Tick the check boxes beside the files to select them.


You can tick as many as you need.
 On the right side of the page is an Actions section. This section only appears when you tick on a file. Click on “Share link” from there, and the files can now be shared, with their own share links generated.
 Even if you shared multiple files together, each of them will still have their own share link. Get them one by one.


Tick on the checkbox of the first file you'd like to share. Click on “View Public Link” from the Actions section, and the share link will be displayed. Copy this.
Repeat this step as needed for all the shared files.
 Paste the links on your email, IM, Facebook, Twitter, and others. Send, share, or post them accordingly.


Anybody who has access to these share links can now access the files you've just shared.
 Navigate through your ADrive folders by clicking on them until you're in the folder where the file you want to share is located. Tick the checkbox beside the file to select it.
 On the right side of the page is an Actions section. This section only appears when you tick on a file. Click on “Share link” from there. The file can now be shared, with its own share link generated.
 ADrive has a built-in email client or function. You don't need to go out of its website to send the share link via email. Tick on the checkbox of the file you’re sharing then click the “Email a friend” link from the Actions section.


You will be directed to another page with an email form. Input your recipient’s email address, an optional message, and the authentication numbers in the appropriate fields.
Click the “Send Email” button when done.
 Check with your recipient if he was able to see your email in his inbox. If not, have him check his spam or junk folder. The email will come from download@adrive.com.

The email will contain the name of the file with its share link. Your recipient can use this link to access and download the file.
 Navigate through your ADrive folders by clicking on them until you're in the folder where the files you've shared are located. Tick the check boxes beside the files to select them.


You can tick as many as you need.
 The “Unshare” link under the Actions section will only appear if all the files you've selected have a share link. If one of them don’t have it, it won’t appear. Be sure to select only those with share links.
 From the Actions section, click “Unshare link.” The public link generated from will be removed, and the files will become unshared.

