 The USDA National Agroforestry Center states that planting trees and shrubs is a natural noise buffer that can lower noise by five to ten decibels. It’s important to note that they should be planted closest to the source of the noise rather than the area being protected. Using plants that have dense as well as varied foliage shapes will help make your “plant wall” more sound absorbant.The closer together you plant your trees and shrubs, the more complete and effective the barrier will be.
Trees like evergreens will provide year-round protection as their leaves never drop.
If tall trees are restricted due to zoning, use the tallest shrubs you can and perhaps consider ground cover that will help create a solid wall.
 If they are making too much noise or the music is up too loud, politely ask them if they mind turning it down. This can be a touchy subject as some neighbors are more amenable to being asked this than others. Usually, however, if you approach them and build a rapport they will comply because they know that one day the situation just might be reversed.
 Show your neighbors respect by remembering that you are capable of being the noisemaker as well. Just because you’re enjoying the sounds of your life doesn’t mean your neighbors are. Keep them in mind and keep your own noise to a minimum. Here are some of the ways you can make a difference:When you listen to music, keep the volume down and close the windows.
Use manual lawnmowers instead of electric or gas powered ones.

Commute by bike rather than driving a loud, polluting car.
Keep the noise level at parties down.
Don't make noise at night.
 If there are specific, consistent noises that are ruining the quality of life for your neighborhood or near your office, consider raising the issue with the local or city government to do something about it. Solutions can range from large-scale replacement of road surfaces and building barriers to lowering speed limits and banning trucks on certain roads.Lobby companies that make too much noise by writing letters to those that are producing a lot of noise that interferes with neighborhood peace.
 If a new business is being built in your neighborhood, be sure to attend any and all land use meetings and request that the builders use this method to minimize the impact of noise on the surrounding community. There are many things they can do, including:Increase the distance between the source of the noise and the surrounding community.
Put nonresidential portions of the property like parking lots and utility areas between the source of the noise and the surrounding community.
Place insulating barrier-type buildings that run parallel to the noise source (or highway).
Point the noise source away from the surrounding community.
They can also design the area containing the noise source to be windowless, to be acoustically sound-proofed, etc.

