 All states that allow online voter registration require that you hold a state issued driver's license or identification card. If you do not have one, contact your local Secretary of State office and begin the process of obtaining one., Most states require that you be a resident of the state for 30 days before registering to vote. Wait until you have secured residency in the county to which you will apply. In some cases, you may need to supply a piece of mail or utility bill to verify where you live., In order to vote in the United States, you must be over the age of 18, a US citizen, and you must not be serving a prison sentence., As of June 2016, 31 states (as well as the District of Columbia) offer online registration. Another seven states have passed legislation to implement online voter registration programs, but have not yet put them into practice. You can visit the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCLS) website to determine whether or not your state qualifies., Most election offices require a lead-time for online registrations. In some places, you may be able to apply in-person closer to the election day, but it is better to be safe than sorry., To access online voter registration forms, go to your state's Secretary of State (SOS) website. If your state does not appear to allow online voter registration, you will be able to print out a form and mail it in., The location of this link will vary depending on your state. Alternatively, you can search the phrase “voter registration " and the direct link to your voter registration page should appear., Answer the initial questions to confirm you are qualified to register to vote. If you have been previously registered, you may also be asked to supply the address where you were last registered to vote.You will be asked your age, your citizenship status, your local address, and whether or not you are serving jail time.
 You will asked to include your name, address, date of birth, driver's license (or ID) number, your telephone number, and your email address. Remember to have this info handy when you begin the application process.If you are registering for a primary election, and your state uses a "closed primary" system, you will also be required to choose a party affiliate. (Currently, Delaware, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Pennsylvania, and Wyoming have closed primaries.)
You may also be asked to supply your gender and ethnicity.
 Within one day of submitting your request, you should receive a confirmation email. Keep an eye out for this email, and when it arrives save it in a safe place. If you do not receive this email within a day or two, contact your local SOS office., After you have registered to vote, you should receive a voter registration card within 30 days. If you do not receive this card, you should contact your local SOS office., Look over the information on your voter registration card and/or in your email. It is important for all of this information to be accurate, or you may have problems when it is time to vote. Submit changes (via the SOS webpage) if any details are incorrect., When it is time to vote, it is best to bring both your voter registration card and a picture ID. Although voter ID laws vary from state to state, bringing these items with you ensure that there will be no problems and that you will be able to cast your vote.

