 Having a party that isn't involved in the argument to help mediate can give perspective to all people involved and help to resolve the conflict. A mediator can help frame things in a way to make listening easier, especially when there's a lot at stake or there are high emotions on both sides.

The type of mediator you use will depend on the situation. For example, you might consider enlisting the help of an objective friend, if the argument is between you and another friend. You might enlist the help of your human resources manager if the argument is between you and a coworker. Or, you might see a marriage counselor if the argument is between you and your spouse.
 If you are in a situation where you are simply arguing over a fact, then take a moment to settle the matter by simply looking it up online. This is a great way to solve a simple factual argument, such as Justin Bieber’s birthday, or the distance between the Earth and the Sun. There aren’t going to be a lot of variant answers for these kinds of questions unless for some reason the answer is not clear.However, for some facts, it is important to use credible websites, meaning sites that have some level of credibility based on expertise. For instance, the Audubon Society website is more likely to have good information on the habitat and diet of the house wren than a personal blog about birdwatching. Some locations that are almost always credible include university websites (ones that end with .edu) and government websites (ones that end with .gov). Other credible sources with a wide variety of information include Google Scholar,Pew Research Center,and a number of mainstream news sources.With news sources, however, it is important to be aware if they are real (there are a lot of fake news sites out there),and to be aware of any biases they might have.The more controversial the fact, the more necessary to consult credible sources.Snopes.com can be a great source for fact-checking as that is the mission of the site. If you find a source you're not sure is credible, you can check there to see if Snopes has anything about it., Sometimes, only an expert can provide the answer, whether it is a doctor, a lawyer, or some other kind of specialist. Depending on what you are asking, this might actually cost money or require visiting the expert in person. However, many experts such as astrophysicists and molecular biologists now participate in social media sites such as Twitter. It may be possible to ask them directly via a tweet.Getting an answer from Neil deGrasse Tyson should solve any astrophysical factual argument you have!

, Sometimes you have to agree to disagree if you want to keep a relationship. That may change the relationship dynamic depending on what you're arguing about. However, if you can truly let it go, you can maintain a healthy relationship with your friend or acquaintance. After all, it isn't healthy to have only friends who agree with you on everything.Try telling yourself something like, "This disagreement is not worth losing a friend over. I want to move past this disagreement and continue our friendship."
Consider what might be stopping you from letting go of the issue. For example, if it is a political disagreement, then your friend's opinions might be threatening part of your identity. Or, if it is something your friend said or did that hurt you, then it might be affecting your self-esteem. Becoming more aware of why the problem is hard for you to overcome may help you by giving you a chance to examine yourself more closely.

