

Name-calling
Exclusion/ostracism from a group
Threats or violence
Discrimination based on a marginalized identity (racism, sexism, ableism, etc.)
People distancing themselves from you or disagreeing with you is not mistreatment (unless they are disagreeing with your human rights).;
, Are you discussing your beliefs as a personal choice, or are you openly criticizing people's beliefs/identities? Are you allowing for the fact that people with different lifestyles from you can still be good people?

"I'm an atheist" or "I'm a Democrat" are personal beliefs. "Meat eaters are evil murderers" or "disabled people should not exist" are beliefs that directly criticize others for their beliefs or identities.
Voicing beliefs that target marginalized people (women, people of color, LGBT+ people, religious minorities, etc.) can cause serious harm, and people will react to that. You can get fired for this, and people may distance themselves from you.
You are allowed to criticize others' beliefs; there is no law against it. However, if you want to do so, be prepared for pushback. This is not automatically mistreatment, although it can be if it goes too far.
 Is there a chance that they are upsetting you by accident, such as teasing about something and not realizing you dislike it? Or, are their actions malicious?

A well-meaning person will listen when you tell them how you feel, such as "I feel upset when you poke fun at me for being a vegetarian." A person who does not mean well will dismiss, ignore, or relish your hurt feelings.
 If you feel confused or uncertain about what's really going on, you may find it helpful to talk to a person who has good judgment. Look to a mentor who is a good listener.

There is a chance that the person will be wrong. If you don't feel heard, take time to think about why and what the problem is, or ask another person who listens better.
 If they don't seem to realize that they're upsetting you, you can express your feelings with "I" phrasing. Using the format "When you _____, I feel _____" can help you express how you feel in a clear, non-blaming way.

People who are intentionally upsetting you are not going to stop because you say you're upset.
 Keep a journal stating the facts of what happened, and how you felt. Write the date, what happened, and your reaction to it.

Be specific and factual. For example, instead of "Bethany is a raging ableist jerk," write "Bethany called me the r-word and teased about the noises my wheelchair makes. I tried to leave, but she was blocking the ramp. I wanted to curl up and stop existing." This is clearer, and will help keep people from thinking you are name-calling and thus contributing to the conflict.
 Bullies are going to keep mistreating you, no matter what you say, so talking to them is not going to help you.

Some people like to pretend that bullying is not a big deal. If an authority figure is not taking you seriously, find another one.
 You are under no obligation to put up with their negativity, so if you can spend less time with them, do so. See if you can rearrange your schedule to cut them out of your life as much as possible., Bullies want to see a reaction from you, and if they see one, they will get even worse. Avoid name-calling, snark, or hitting. Stay polite, and use scripts like "Please let me be" or "I'm not interested in talking." Keep repeating them if you're ignored; the bully can't keep pestering you without looking like a massive jerk.

If authority figures see you retaliating, they may decide that you are equally at fault, even if this is not the case. It's unfair, but it's the way things are.
This doesn't mean that it is your fault for getting upset. It's natural to be sad or mad.


Tell yourself "I'm okay, they're mean."
Use a redirection technique, such as pretending that they complimented you, pretending not to hear, or agreeing with them. It can help to make it into a game (which the bully can't win).
 You are not responsible for the actions of other people; they are the ones who chose to be cruel.

It's okay to feel upset about being treated badly. It's their fault for behaving badly, not your fault for feeling bad about it.
 Consider friends, family members, mentors, and other people you care about. If you are getting too upset, try spending time with someone who makes you feel better., It's hard to be mistreated, and there are emotional costs. If you are having a hard time coping, look for a counselor who can help you through it., Spend more time at the mosque, get together with your vegetarian friends, or attend a pro-choice event. This can help you remember why your beliefs are important to you, and remind you that it's okay to believe in what you feel is important., It may mean quitting robotics club, no longer attending family reunions, or ending a friendship. However, if the attacker adds a lot of negativity to your life, it may be worth it, because you'll be free of them. Carefully consider your next steps.