 Diaper rash presents as inflamed, red and tender skin in the areas covered by a diaper. It often appears on the butt, thighs, and genitals.Other symptoms include:Warmth to the touch
Red rash.Pimples, blisters, or other sores;
, In addition to physical signs of a diaper rash, watch for behavioral signs. These include:Seeming uncomfortable, especially during diaper changes
Fussing or crying when you touch the diaper area
Crying when diaper area is cleaned. If you notice this, try wiping with just a water-dampened cloth rather than baby wipes, which can be irritating.
 Look in the creases of your baby’s skin on their buttocks, thighs, and genitals. If you see red dots scattered around these areas, it might be a bacterial or yeast infection causing their diaper rash.The rash may present as red spots, similar in color to raw beef, that look inflamed. It may also have sharp, raised borders.If your baby took antibiotics, they may have contracted a yeast infection. See your child’s doctor if home care doesn’t help the rash, as yeast is a fungus and special ointment may be warranted., The most common cause of diaper rash is friction from too-tight diapers or clothes.Look directly at your baby’s buttocks or the inner thighs for signs of a rash. Check under the elastic areas covered by the baby’s diaper. If the rash is concentrated in these area, friction may be a cause of the diaper rash., Stool enzymes and irritants such as harsh soaps, baby wipes, detergents or topical medication can also cause diaper rash. These cases often occur on the exposed areas of skin such as on the round part of the buttocks. They generally don’t appear in skin folds and creases.Irritant rashes may also appear on other parts of the body exposed to these substances.Eliminate potential irritants one by one until you figure out which one is causing the diaper rash.
 A baby’s skin can be sensitive or allergic to things such as diapers, wipes, detergents, lotions, and foods.An allergy rash also generally presents on exposed areas. It looks like a poison oak rash.These often have red, inflamed skin and bumps or blisters that itch.Recognize that an allergic rash may occur in combination with an irritant rash.It may also appear on other parts of the body exposed to the allergen.This may also be contact dermatitis, a skin reaction to something your baby touched., Moist heat can cause a common form of diaper rash called intertrigo. This occurs in the deep folds of a baby’s skin. Intertrigo presents as thin-looking skin. It may even look like the skin has lost several layers.Intertrigo rashes can also occur on other parts of the body exposed to heat or moisture.This is especially true for sensitive skin under the chin.Miliaria, a type of prickly heat rash, can also present like diaper rash.
 If you detect a salmon-colored rash with greasy skin and yellowish scales, the child may have seborrheic rash.This type of diaper rash may be worse in skin folds or even appear on other parts of the body.A seborrheic rash may also indicate atopic dermatitis or Seborrheic dermatitis, or eczema in rare cases. These conditions usually affect areas other than the diaper area. Consult your child’s doctor if the rash doesn’t go away with home care., Diaper rash generally responds well to home treatment.Moist skin or exposure to fecal matter often causes diaper rash. Changing the baby’s diaper as soon as you notice it is soiled can relieve cases of diaper rash. It may also prevent future outbreaks.Avoid fastening the diaper too tightly. This can keep soiled parts close to the skin and make the diaper rash worse., The best treatment for diaper rash is making sure the child’s skin is clean and dry. Gently wipe away any urine or fecal matter before putting on a new diaper.Clean the area with warm water and a soft washcloth or scent- and alcohol-free baby wipe.Pat the area dry to minimize further irritation.
 Swipe a thin layer of a product such as zinc oxide, petroleum jelly, or diaper paste on the affected area. This can soothe the skin and protect it from further exposure to moisture and/or irritants.Ask your pharmacist or doctor for specific recommendations on protective creams. They may suggest A + D, Balmex, Desitin, or Triple Paste. Some may also recommend Lotrimin for a diaper rash caused by yeast.

Try ointments made of witch hazel, calendula, or aloe vera. These can effectively soothe diaper rash and promote healing.Use products designed for babies. Avoid anything containing baking soda, boric acid, camphor, phenol, benzocaine, diphenhydramine, or salicylates. These ingredients may be toxic to babies.
Wipe away the product as needed. This may be at every diaper change or once a day., Expose your baby’s skin to the air as much as possible. This could include letting them go without a diaper for short periods during the day and avoiding airtight plastic pants. This can treat diaper rash and prevent future outbreaks.Use a larger diaper than usual until the diaper rash disappears. This increases airflow to the baby’s skin.
Avoid overdressing your baby in winter. Loosen their clothing when you are inside during this time of year to prevent irritation and keep moisture from developing.
 Give your baby a warm bath until the diaper rash clears. Wash them with a mild, fragrance-free soap. Lightly pat them dry. Increase airflow by letting the baby be naked for a few minutes after the bath., Switch to different products if your baby’s diaper rash is a result of disagreeable diapers and wipes, detergents, or food. Keeping them out of the heat and can also help relieve and prevent diaper rash.It may take a few tries to figure out what specific irritant is causing the diaper rash.

Use products that are labeled scent-, fragrance-, and dye-free.
 In some cases, a baby may need medical treatment for diaper rash. Let the doctor know when the rash started and what you’ve done to treat it at home. Seek medical attention if your baby’s diaper rash:Persists for three days or more
Gets worse
Is more red-dotted than solid, which can indicate a yeast infection
Is accompanied by a fever
Seems very painful
Presents with blisters or pus-filled sores, which can indicate Impetigo., Depending on the severity of the diaper rash, your doctor may prescribe different medications to treat it. Following any dosing and application instructions your doctor provides. Your doctor may prescribe the following for more severe cases of diaper rash:Hydrocortisone cream
Antifungal cream for fungal and yeast infections
Topical or oral antibiotics for bacterial infections

, Some cases of diaper rash may keep coming back. The best way to figure out the reason is seeing your pediatrician, who can rule out more serious conditions such as a staph infection, malabsorption syndromes, or allergic contact dermatitis.The following may also help prevent or relieve recurrent diaper rash:

Removing potential food allergens such as cow’s milkTrying scent-, alcohol-, and detergent free diapers, wipes, and cleansersSwitching to natural fabric, breathable clothing that isn’t too tight
Discontinuing use of baby powders or cornstarch on the affected area

