 Most people gain access to Illustrator when they or a company purchase the Adobe Creative Suite. With the release of Adobe Illustrator CS6 in May of 2012, you can only download the newest version from the Adobe website.;
, Give it some time to load. This program will yield the best results on a new computer with a mouse.
 Click the "File" tab and select "New" when the program opens. You can also choose "New from Template" to access some of Adobe Illustrators pre-made documents.


Choose the size of your new document. Name your new document. These columns are labeled "Width" and "Height."
Choose whether you want to measure in inches, pixels, picas, points, mm or cm. Choose the measurement format you are used to unless otherwise instructed by your employer.
Create a bleed at this time according to the same unit measurement.
Click on the "Advanced" tab at the bottom to choose RGB colors over CMYK colors. You can also select your raster effects dots per inch.
 This is where you will access most of the drawing and selection tools. If you know you will be using 1 kind of tool a lot, you can drag it into the center to create an easily accessible dialog box for that tool.
 You should have several panels available when you open the document, such as "Swatches" and "Brushes."


If you do not see a certain panel window that you use frequently, go to "Windows" in the top bar and click on the item in the drop down menu.
Click on a panel that you use frequently and drag it away from the bar. Many graphic designers choose to keep their "Pathfinder" or "Brushes" outside the panel bar nearer to the document.
 When you have moved all of your tools where you like them, go to "Windows." Scroll down to the "Workspace" arrow, click "Save Workspace" and name your workspace.



Hold your space bar down as you move your mouse to move the entire document from side to side or up and down. You will be able to move from 1 area of the document to another very easily this way.
Click on a shape. Click "Shift" and click on another area to copy the shape.
Press on the "Control" button and press "1" to make the document 100 percent of its size. Use "Command" and the plus or minus keys to make the document larger or smaller. You can also press "Alt" and use your mouse wheel to make the document larger or smaller.
Hold down the "Shift" key as you make new shapes so that you can make perfect shapes.

