 When you take out this type of loan, you will essentially be borrowing from yourself. The money that you are using is the money in your own pension plan. Similarly, any interest paid will be going back to you. Take this into consideration when deciding whether or not to take out a 401(k) loan.Borrowing from your own plan in this way is much simpler than the alternative, which is using your funds as collateral for a third-party loan. Collateralizing a third-party loan with pension funds would mean that you would not withdraw the funds, merely pledge them.
Under ERISA, qualified plans cannot be pledged or assigned, so the lender cannot obtain or enforce a security interest. This makes borrowing from a third-party in this way difficult.
Most lenders will not accept a pledge of retirement plan for collateral, as it is difficult to foreclose on the collateral in the event of default.
 Loan balances that go unpaid may be treated as withdrawals. This would leave you responsible for income tax on the loan balance and a 10 percent early-withdrawal penalty if you are under the age of 59.5. In addition, interest paid on your loan is effectively taxed twice. The first time is when the interest is paid (using your after-tax dollars) and the second is when you take the money out in your retirement.


For example, if you take out a $40,000 loan from your retirement plan and pay $3,000 in interest on it, you will be paying back the interest with your income, which has already been taxed.
Later, in your retirement, this $3,000 will be withdrawn again as part of your retirement benefits. At this point, it will be taxed again.
The $3,000 will then have been effectively taxed as income twice., At most, the IRS allows borrowers taking out a loan against their retirement plan to borrow up to $50,000 or 50 percent of their retirement plan, whichever is smaller. This loan must be paid back with interest. If you quit your job before repaying the loan, you must repay the full balance within 60 days.If this amount is less than you need to borrow, you will have to seek other loan options. This loan ceiling cannot be raised.

