 These clouds are usually under 6,500 feet (1,981 meters), and they help to cool the Earth through reflecting back the Sun's heat away from the Earth's surface. They're usually a grayish-blue color and they are often rain clouds because they are filled with water droplets. Early morning low clouds might dry out before they have a chance to rain if the sun is able to evaporate them, which will result in a clear day, but expect rain if this is not the case. In fact, low clouds are the most likely source of rain or snow because their precipitation doesn't have a chance to evaporate before reaching the ground.


Rain or snow is fairly guaranteed if you see a lot of low clouds with dark bases. Low clouds of 3,000 feet (914 meters) thickness tend to mean precipitation; since you probably can't guess that height accurately from your observation point, look for the darkness.
 Nimbostratus clouds are dark, low level clouds, followed by light to moderate rainfall, and often continuous in nature. This cloud type frequently forms what looks like a sheet of cloud. Low lying clouds are generally made of water droplets, and can bring snow as well as rain. They're distinguishable from the aforementioned clouds because of their dark, big, and gloomy looking appearance.
 This cloud is easily distinguished from other clouds by its massive nature. Cumulonimbus clouds can fill up much of the sky with their massive and puffy pile, making it easy to tell them apart from cirrus or altocumulus clouds. Cumulonimbus clouds are mostly affiliated with thunderstorms, lightning, heavy rainfall, blizzard or hail. They can turn into super cells or tornadoes.


This cloud type can look like a big explosion or some see a resemblance to an anvil; the anvil tip points the direction that the weather is moving in.
In the event of extreme atmospheric instability, you might see what is known as a towering cumulus cloud. This cloud can have its base as low as a low cloud (6,500 feet) and reach as high as a high cloud. It's a warning sign because it can indicate gusting high winds, lightning, heavy rainfall and hail. In some areas, this cloud can also indicate an oncoming tornado.
This cloud brings with it a nasty weather system, but usually it is short lived. The weather following this cloud is often clear.

