 It’s much easier to organize a demonstration for a cause many people believe in and understand. For example, “the government is bad” is too vague, but “the state government has cut funding for education” is specific enough to attract supporters., Most demonstrations are going to be too big to organize on your own. Talk to people who believe in your cause and ask them to form an organizing committee with you.


Look for committee members at other demonstrations, online groups dedicated to your cause, and among your social circle.
Ask potential committee members if they have experience organizing demonstrations. It’s not a requirement, but previous experience will definitely help!
Try to organize a diverse committee. This will help your event be inclusive and aware of issues you might not consider, such as disability access., Picketing is a group of people holding signs and marching in front of a specific location while chanting loudly. This is good for smaller, local protests focused against something very specific, like a business accused of mistreating workers.
 Vigils consist of people standing quietly at a specific location, often at night while holding candles. This kind of event is good for large or small groups, and is especially useful for larger, symbolic causes, like ending community violence.
 Sit-ins involve a group of people walking into a space and refusing to leave until their demands are met. Sit-ins are more controversial, and are best for smaller groups with very specific demands, like the resignation of a public official.
 Marches are organized groups of people disrupting traffic by walking a planned route through a city. Marches are best for very large groups, and work well for general, nationwide causes, like a disputed election., Daytime weekend events in the spring and summer months are best for gathering the largest groups, but if your cause is tied to a specific event like an election, time it as closely to the event as possible. Locations should be in easy-to-find places and in an area with high traffic, like an urban park, the main street of town, or the front gates of a university., Protests can’t happen without money, so start planning right away for expenses! Be flexible with your budget--if your event grows unexpectedly, so will your costs.


Permits may cost money in some areas. Check ahead of time to be sure.
Megaphones and sound systems will be needed at even small protests.
Supplies for signs and banners can add up quickly.
Large events will require food, water, and public facilities.
If you are supporting a controversial cause or live in an area with significant unrest, a legal defense or medical expenses fund may be a good idea., Most jurisdictions require you to obtain a permit before holding a protest--check with your city government for local requirements. You might also have to get permission from additional authorities, such as the police, university administration, or the parks department., A powerful public speaker can energize your protest and win bystanders over to your cause. A speaker doesn’t have to be somebody famous.Try asking leaders of local activist groups, university professors, union leaders, and even members of the organizing committee., Your friends probably have similar beliefs--talk to them about your protest! Get your friends and family involved first, but respect their wishes if they choose not to join in., Don’t just focus your publicity on worldwide social media platforms. Make sure people in the immediate area know what’s going on! Put up flyers at the protest location, ask local businesses to put a flyer in their window, and post to neighborhood-specific online groups., Set up a public page and link it across multiple social media platforms to reach the largest possible audience.


Be clear and concise! Your page should have an easy-to-find FAQ with basic information like time and location.
Update your page regularly, especially if the date or location changes!
Assign someone to moderate the page, especially if your cause is controversial., Having the local news at your protest will attract attention and interest, and will spread your cause further! Call or email your local newspaper or station--they are interested in local events and will want to know about your protest. Be sure to tell them the time, date, location, and cause., The event will be much easier to set up if everybody has an assigned task. Important jobs for a demonstration can be helping people find the location, updating the event page during the protest, coordinating food and water deliveries, setting up a sign-making party, and picking up litter after the demonstration ends., Be sure your protest site is visible to oncoming traffic, is on level ground, and is accessible for ambulances and fire trucks. If your protest is controversial or there has been unrest in your area, check to be sure your supporters are safe from physical attack by making sure they have an escape route and are clearly visible to the public., This is a great opportunity to have fun with your supporters. You can organize a casual get-together with everyone to make signs, or encourage them to make signs on their own and post them to the event page.


Gather your supplies--you’ll need cardboard, markers or paint, wooden stakes, and cloth for banners.
Plan your slogans before you make the sign.
Use contrasting colors for high visibility, such as black on white or red on yellow.
Make your signs as clear as possible. People who don't know anything about your cause should be able to learn something from your signs.
Be clever. Witty signs have gone viral online, spreading the cause worldwide!, On the morning of the event, check to make sure everything is in order. Make sure the organizing committee and speakers are accounted for, supplies have been delivered and set up, and all your permits are complete and ready to be presented., Make sure your supporters are safe from attack, arrest, and accidents, then take a moment to reflect on the event. You’ve made a difference in your community and brought people together for a common cause. That’s something to be proud of!

