 If you haven't already, you need to stop doing the activity that caused the stress fracture in the first place. You should have some idea of what caused it, as it probably started hurting while you were doing it.Stress fractures are caused by doing the same thing over and over again. That's why you need to not do that particular activity at the moment.For instance, you may need to stop running for a little while to help your leg heal.;
, You need to rest whatever bone you fractured. That means taking a break from all regular activities for that limb, not just the activity that caused the fracture.Your doctor will tell you when you can put weight on your leg again, if the fracture is in your foot or leg., Elevation means putting the injured area above your heart. At the very least, it should be off the ground if it is your leg or foot. Elevation helps cut down on pain and swelling.Try propping the limb up with a pillow.
 If you're not in a cast, which is likely, you may need to ice the injured area for the first day or two. You can apply ice up to four times a day, but make sure you don't apply it to bare skin. Always have a towel or cloth between your skin and the ice pack. With your doctor's permission, you can take off your boot to apply ice to the area, if you have one.Don't apply ice for more than 20 minutes at a time.
 You can take acetaminophen (Tylenol) or NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve) for pain. The choice is up to you, though they both have advantages and disadvantages.NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory, meaning they can help reduce swelling, which can help with an injury like a fracture.On the other hand, other studies have shown that NSAIDs may not be as good when you're trying to heal a bone due to their blood thinning properties, so it may be better to take acetaminophen.The American Association of Family Physiciansrecommends acetaminophen.
Do not give aspirin to children. If you have heart disease, high blood pressure, kidney disease, or have had stomach ulcers or bleeding, talk with your doctor before using these medicines., Once you start being active again, go slowly. It's important to not start the activity that caused the fracture again right off the bat because you can re-injure yourself, causing more pain.At first, it's best to choose activities that do not put weight on your injury, such as swimming or water walking., Your muscles support your bone, so they need to be strong enough to provide that support.As you heal, you need to perform stretches to lengthen the area. If you're unsure how to begin, consult with a physical therapist to learn which exercises to start with. It's best to begin slowly. Also, focus on strength training exercises, such as weightlifting, to strengthen muscles in that area. Again, it's important to begin slowly, starting with smaller weights and working your way up.In addition to strength training, stretching and aerobic exercise can help muscles re-adjust to a stressful activity.
 Certain orthotics can help reduce the stress on your foot. For instance, you can try inserts for your shoes, the kind designed to take some of the shock off your foot as you step.