 Also attend to stains before they set. Then go to bed and resume the cleaning in the morning.
 It's easier said than done, but while you are behaving like an irritated bulldog, things are not getting any better. Calm your nerves, take a pill for the headache and get ready for action. Turn on some relaxing music and get to work.


Don the gloves. Always wear gloves before cleaning the house after a wild party. You never know what you might be picking up.
 This is likely the most “infected” room.;
, Pick up bottles and cans and place them in the recycling bin. If you haven't already, take all dishes to the kitchen.
 Nuts are rolling on your mother's expensive white carpet? Don't even think about the vacuum cleaner. Almonds and peanuts have the annoying habit to cause heavy blockages to vacuum cleaners. You'll have to collect them with your bare hands. Look also for coins and other small objects that can be dangerous when sucked up.
 If you find stains on anything, these must be treated quickly and properly. Use a stain removal guide, such as wikiHow's own stain removal category. Carpet burns are harder to deal with and may require strategic placement of furniture followed by either cutting out that piece of carpet and replacing it with a square of the same carpet or calling a carpet laying professional.
 Double check that everything is still there. You did put away all inessential peripherals before the party, right? Then bring these things back out and reinstall them as usual.
 Kitchens are often middle “damaged” from the mess after parties. The fact that the kitchen is supposed to handle mess helps, so get ready to dig in and get things back to their clean state.
 By getting these items out of the way quickly, things will start to become clearer. Use a large garbage bag to toss everything into, such as plastics, paper and disposable cutlery.
 Store them in the sink in readiness for hand-washing, as required or when you have no dishwasher. Large dishes, dishes not meant to be in the dishwasher and excess dishes are usually best done by washing in the sink.


Scrape off all uneaten food into the garbage bag or compost bin. Stack the plates and dishes that have been scraped, in readiness for cleaning.
Empty all the half-drunk drinks from glasses and cups. Then stack these up waiting for their wash, either in the sink or in the dishwasher.
Cut the grease before washing certain dishes. If you ate a really greasy pizza last night, the situation is pretty serious. Soak the affected plates into hot water mixed with detergent in order to soften the litter. Leave them for approximately thirty minutes, then let the cleaning games begin. May the odds be ever in your favor!

, It is probable that you'll need several loads, so leave following loads waiting nearby to be transferred in as the clean dishes are transferred out.
 So, whose idea was purchasing vodka and whiskey? And tequila? And the smell! You'll have to deal with it somehow.


If you're tackling any vomit messes, first of all, buy a new cheap mop and clean the repugnant substance. No cleaning solution is needed in the very beginning. Get rid of the solids first. Once you succeed, apply some disinfectant. Then use the baby wipes to bring some fresh odour to the place.
Clean off the urine stains. They're bound to be around and beyond the toilet bowl as well as on the toilet, so clean further afield.
 No matter what they look like, they need a good clean.
 Any towels left out during a party are fair game for use in all manner of ways, so reassure yourself that they're hygienic by giving them a good wash. Replace with clean towels.
 Clean down hand washing basins and the faucets (taps).
 Any bed that looks as if someone has slept on or in it should have the sheets changed and washed.
 Collect up all bottles, cans, glasses and any debris. Be especially vigilant for broken glass on pathways, lawns and anywhere else that people might walk.
 All of these are likely to have experienced high traffic.

