 The night before, clean around your bike's bleed screws. You may need to spray your bleed caps with WD-40 to loosen them.
 Park your bike in a flat, safe place. Turn your bike's front wheel into the position needed to make the brake fluid reservoir, also known as the master cylinder, level. Lock your wheel into position.


Make sure you find a safe location to park your bike as you work, away from traffic.
 If your brake levers are adjustable, set them at their most open setting .
 Remove the rubber caps from the bleed screws. Remove the brake fluid reservoir's cover to expose the brake fluid.
 Using a turkey baster or similar siphoning system remove all of the old brake fluid from the reservoir. When empty, use a clean cloth to remove any sediment from the interior of the reservoir.


Be very careful that you do not spill any brake fluid on your bike's painted surfaces, as it can damage your paint.
Dirt particles can contaminate brake fluid and cause brakes to fail.
If you find that the brake fluid is low upon opening the brake fluid reservoir, you have a leak. The brake system is a closed system and you should not lose brake fluid over time . If you have low brake fluid, the leak needs to be addressed by a professional to insure safe riding.
 Once the reservoir is clean, refill it with new brake fluid to the fill line.
 Attach the first vacuum hose from a bleed screw to the pump bottle using an adapter as needed. Attach the second vacuum hose from the bottle to the vacuum pump.
 Squeeze the pump handle until the pressure registers between 10 and 20 mmHg . While under pressure, loosen the bleed screw a quarter turn. Fluid should be seen filling the bottle.


Tighten/loosen the screw for an even, controlled flow. If the bleed screw is too loose the fluid will flow too rapidly and air will get into the system.
 As the brake fluid drains, you will notice the brake fluid level in the brake fluid reservoir falling . Continue to pour new brake fluid into the brake fluid reservoir to maintain the fluid level. If you do not maintain the brake fluid in the reservoir air will enter the braking system.
 When there are no air bubbles visible in the hose and the brake fluid runs clean, you are done. Tighten the bleed screw, before turning off the vacuum .
 Repeat the steps "Attach the vacuum hoses", "Vacuum out brake fluid", "Keep reservoir full", "Stop" on the alternate side caliper.
 Repeat steps "Vacuum Pump Method" section on other tire's brake lines.
 Slide one end of the clear tubing over the nipple on a bleed screw . Submerse the other end of the tubing into a few inches of clean brake fluid in a disposable container (an old water bottle works).


You want to submerse the tubing in clean brake fluid to prevent air from being sucked up into the braking system.
 Pump the brake lever about five times.
 Hold the brake lever down with one hand, and open the bleed screw with a box wrench with your other hand. This will allow old brake fluid to flow into the catch bottle .
 Only after closing the screw are you safe to release the brake. If you release the brake while the screw is open you will suck air into your braking system.
 Repeat the steps "Pump the brakes", "Hold the brake and drain", "Close the bleed screw, then release brake" at least five times.


While repeating this process make sure to regularly check the fluid level in the brake fluid reservoir. If you do not keep the reservoir full, air will enter the braking system through the empty reservoir. Add brake fluid as needed to keep it full.
Repeat this process at least 5 times. Repeat until the brakes feel solid, if you just want to bleed the brakes; or until the brake fluid run cleans, if you want to replace the fluid.
,, When satisfied, make sure the expansion gasket on the reservoir is clean and close the topped-off reservoir. Press the gasket into place. Remove the catch bottle and tubing, and replace the rubber caps over the bleed screws .
 Make sure no brake fluid has spilled. If any has spilled, use brake cleaning spray to remove it.
 Squeeze the brakes a few times without the motor running until all the slack in the line is removed. Then go for a slow test ride to see if the brakes are functioning correctly before going for a long ride.