 Imaginative ideas cannot always be forced out of your mind through discipline and training. In many cases, you have to allow a problem to incubate for a while before your great idea emerges.This is why so many people have great ideas in the shower: their brains and bodies are relaxed enough that their thoughts could incubate properly, giving rise to a great idea.Remember not to force your imagination. Instead, let yourself relax every once in a while. To relax, you can:


Take a shower
Go for a walk
Cook your favorite meal
Exercise
Meditate;
, Scientists found that very imaginative people--such as improvisational jazz musicians or freestyle rap artists--are able to silence their inner critics and simply create new musical arrangements.Practice turning off your Executive Attention Network (or the part of your mind that critiques and evaluates your actions) and simply let yourself create. You can critique your own work when you're in the editing stage; resist the urge to do so during the imaginative phase of your work.Some excellent ways to achieve a state of "flow" include:


Set a timer for 20 minutes. Resolve to create imaginative art for all of that time. It could be music, knitting, writing, or painting: whatever medium you use to express your imagination.
Allow your instincts to guide you: simply create your artwork without second-guessing, deleting, or erasing any of it.
Close your eyes when you write so that you can resist the urge to edit as you go along.
If you begin to question yourself, tell yourself that you cannot worry about what you are creating until after the 20 minutes have passed.
After your timer dings, you can decide whether you would like to continue making your art or whether it is time to take a step back and evaluate what you have done, editing or revising when necessary.
A state of flow is more likely to occur in a field where you are an expert, not a novice. If you are learning a new skill, you might need to practice the fundamentals for a while before you are able to reach a "flow" state.
 Your imagination should not play it safe, and neither should you. Don't be afraid of criticism or to color outside the lines if you wish to be truly imaginative. Break a few rules, do the unexpected, and throw off arbitrary constraints. You might find that you have your best idea by pushing boundaries.For example, you might:


Use unexpected colors. If you are painting a forest, perhaps you might try incorporating a surprising mixture of colors in addition to dark green: red, yellow, or purple--while unexpected--might spark something in your imagination.
Stretch the rules of poetic form. Many poetic forms, like the sonnet, have rules about the meter, rhyme scheme, or number of lines. You will learn a lot by adhering to these rules, but you might also consider breaking some of these rules. You might find that your poem is more powerful and meaningful.
Combine two genres of music to make something new. Experiment with bizarre, unexpected combinations of sounds and genres to discover what you like.
Write in an unpopular genre. Some people worry that the stories they write might not be marketable. Rather than write for a specific audience, however, try writing for yourself. What genre would YOU like to read? Write what you are passionate about, even if it is not very popular at the moment.
 People are at their most imaginative when they are happy. Boredom, depression, sadness, and anger all stifle the imagination.To keep yourself happy, optimistic, and upbeat, you should take breaks every now and again to do a fun activity and keep yourself happy. For example, you could:


Listen to your favorite comedian
Meet a friend for drinks
Walk to your favorite coffee shop
Read your favorite poem

, It is true that most imaginative people have the discipline to learn a field deeply and to write down their ideas. however, allowing your mind to wander is just as important as focusing deeply on a task.Let yourself get distracted every now and again, and let your mind work freely--even if you should be accomplishing another task. Give your mind the space to solve problems on its own.


Daydreams are most effective when they involve you imagining your own successful future, and they are least effective when they involve you thinking about being criticized, harmed, or insulted.Try to keep your daydreams positive and goal-oriented, and resist the temptation to daydream about negative, harmful things.

