 In order to fully master the game, observing minute details of the map is very important. The better you can see and observe, better will be your game-play.;
, Set the sensitivity that you are comfortable playing with. Try a few different sensitivity options and see which one suits you the best.
 Playing more than one part (or version) of the game will acquaint you to the different maps and situations of the game. Try using multiple guns and see which one suits you the best. Different maps may require different types of guns.
 Playing multiplayer will help you face tougher situations and will make you think of different strategies/ tactics.
 Communication is a very important part of any Call of Duty game. Most of your communications will be taken up with relaying or receiving locations or enemies or objectives.
 Watch other players and observe their tactics. Try using YouTube to watch game-play and tactical videos.
 Use button layout for drop shooting. This allows your player to drop while still shooting. Try disabling vibration. This will allow your controller not to rumble when shooting someone. It can cause a distraction and we need none of those.
 Learning your maps and the hot spots, will only add on to your kill-streaks, and make the game difficult for the other players. Master the maps, you master the game.
 Aiming is your bread and butter. Learn how to perfect it. You'll know when you mastered aiming when you see 3 threats heading your way, facing your direction, and you take out all 3 of them, without having to reload. Dodging and using cover is your peanut butter and jelly. Learn to master dodging and using cover, will make you a hard target to hit. You'll know you mastered dodging and using cover when, you have 4 threats shooting you from different directions and you don't get hit by any one of them, then you take them out.
 Use your brain. If you shoot someone and don't kill them, don't go chasing after them, unless you know for sure you'll get the kill. Instead, chill, let the enemy go. Living is better than dying.
 But only the best will dedicate themselves to it and do it everyday and give it 150% every time. That's what a master does. That's what the best do.

