 Don't let yourself get so nervous that you forget basic conversational skills. Instead, try to stay calm and open the conversation in a low-pressure way. If you've never chatted with the person online before, you may even find an excuse for talking to him, like asking a question about homework or talking about a sports team you both like. If you're texting a person for the first time, make sure he or she knows who you are and that they don't feel creeped out. Here are some ways to start a conversation through text or chatting:


"Hey, how's it going?"
"Did you see/hear ?"
"How's your week going?"

, The majority of people are most comfortable talking about themselves because it's a topic they know well. Instead of taking the easy way out and discussing you endlessly, encourage the other person to talk about him or herself. However, you can and should occasionally throw some personal facts in the person's direction to help them to ask questions about you in turn. The key is to leave it up to them to pursue an interest in things relevant to yourself.


This tactic actually serves two purposes: Not only does it keep the conversation going, but it allows you to find out more about your crush.
You don't have to possess prior information about the other person to do this step. If you don't know him or her very well yet, you can ask:

"How did your day go?"
"So, what do you do with your free time?"


If you do know the other person a bit, focus on a hobby or interest you're already aware of. For instance, maybe he's really into basketball, or you know she loves to read. "Did you see the game last night?" or "Have you read any good books lately?" would be great starts.
 You can keep the discussion lively and interesting without probing too deeply on personal topics. For instance, asking your crush what exactly he or she likes about running cross-country would be a great idea; asking him or her for more details on family relationships or close friendships would be too much, too soon. You can do it in a joking, flirtatious bantering way that doesn't feel too serious, or like you're interviewing the person. Here are some ways to ask for more information flirtatiously:


"So are you planning on spending all night online or do you have more exciting plans for this evening?"
"Are you going to kick some butt in tonight's game?"
"I've noticed the cute kitty in your profile picture. Is that who you spend most of your time with?"

, Don't chicken out and skip this step — it might seem difficult, but it's incredibly important. A compliment communicates that you're potentially interested in dating, and steers you away from the dreaded friend-zone. If you skip paying your crush a compliment and simply keep the conversation on a friendly level, it might be too late next time. Here are some basic compliments you could use:


If you don't know your crush very well yet, but you're working on it, use a compliment oriented in this direction. Say something like, "It's so easy to talk to you," or "I kind of can't believe I'm getting to know someone as interesting as you."
Try weaving the compliment into the conversation. For instance, if the girl you like is talking about how she had a terrible day, you could say something like "I hate seeing someone as beautiful as you feel so unhappy. What can I do to help?"

, If none of the suggestions above appeal to you, go for broke and pay your crush a bold compliment. Try these possibilities, using the adjective that fits your crush best or substituting your own:


"I hope you know you're gorgeous/beautiful/amazing/my favorite person to talk to/etc."
"Sorry if this is too forward, but I have to say that you're incredible/an amazing person/so beautiful/etc."

, Avoid loading compliments with feelings too early. Leaving a person slightly uncertain of the extent of your feelings for them can increase your attractiveness, giving you a bit of a mysterious edge. The point is not to make the person question whether you like them at all, but to make them wonder how much you like them. If you just openly say, "I have a big crush on you" or "I've always thought you were so hot," then you're taking the mystery out of the exchange.


Instead, you can send a text or a message that says something like, "You looked cute in your new sweater today" or another comment that is nice and flirtatious without giving it all away.
 Though flirting should let the person know that you like him or her, you shouldn't make it seem like you're doing all of the work. Instead, you should be just flattering enough so that the person knows you're interested, but leave him or her to wonder just how much you care. To achieve this, try phrasing compliments objectively rather than subjectively. Here are examples of objective vs subjective compliments:



"I really like your eyes, they're so pretty." On the surface, this compliment may seem fine, and it probably would be appreciated. However, a common flaw in phrasing a romantic compliment is to constantly use the words "I like/love *insert trait here*". They tell the person that they've succeeded in winning your heart. This is great if you've already built up a solid relationship, but early on it can make you seem "too easy".

"You have great eyes, they're very pretty". Although technically both sentences are you conveying that you like the person's eyes, this one makes it more of an observation than a personal opinion. It implies that you find the person attractive but does not confirm it outright. As such, the receiver will feel both flattered and drawn to figure out how much attractive you find them.
 Because you can't use body language to communicate over text or chat, you'll have to rely on your words to keep the mood light and fun. Rely on inside jokes (based on events you were both present for), sarcasm ("Yeah, I'm SURE you look like an ogre in the morning ;)"), and exaggeration ("You're probably a million times better at this than I am") in the beginning.


Make it clear that you're kidding. The drawback of using text to communicate is that you can't always read the emotion behind the words. If you're going to flirt with someone by teasing them, make extra sure that you're implying it's a joke. You can use winking smiley faces, all caps, or exclamation points to communicate this. Just don't overdo it with the emoticons or it'll begin to feel corny for the other person.

If you've already sent something that could be interpreted the wrong way, make your meaning crystal clear. Say something like "(joke)" or "jk" to make a quick save.
 As much as you might want to text this person forever, it's best to bow out before the conversation goes stale (as all conversations are bound to do at some point). The best way to avoid an awkward pause is to leave before one happens. Ending the conversation on a good note will lead your conversational partner to look forward to the next time you can chat.


Set up your next interaction before you go. Throw out something like "Hey, so I'll see you around tomorrow?" or "I'll talk to you soon."
If you're chatting online, note that you enjoyed the conversation just before you leave. It doesn't have to be complicated — a simple "This was awesome" or "I had a good time talking to you" is enough. If you're texting, you can be a bit more casual about it.
Be careful not to over-compliment your crush. Your compliments will have a lot less meaning if you bestow them for every single positive trait the person has. Instead, reserve them for meaningful things that are important to the person, such as complimenting a skill they take pride in.
 Keep in mind that flirting is supposed to be fun and try not to be crushed if your efforts aren't successful — not every interaction will be a perfect 10. Stay positive, and try again with someone else. As with anything else, flirting improves with practice. Flirting also doesn't have to have an endgame; not every flirtation ends in a date. Sometimes, you may just want to flirt for the fun of it, instead of hoping it will go somewhere.


Flirting can help you meet new people, feel more comfortable, and learn to mingle. You don't need to put any pressure on yourself to make it mean something or to be perfect.

