 A walk into any gourmet grocery store will give you more than a plethora of chocolately options. Here's a few things to consider (as discussed previously):


White and milk chocolate can be a bit temperamental. But white chocolate can be dyed with oil-based food coloring! It'll work just fine if you remain diligent.
Are you eating this chocolate? You'll want to keep it around 70-75% cocoa. Any more and it'll be rather bitter (but if you like bitter, go for it). At around 85%, it's best for baking.
 There are generally three methods to choose from:


In your microwave. This method is outlined in detail in method 1 above, but the long and short of it is this: put your chocolate in small chunks in the microwave on half power in one minute intervals, stirring periodically to prevent scorching.







In a double boiler. This method is outlined in detail in method 2 above, but the long and short of it is this: put your chocolate in small chunks in the double boiler over low heat, stirring frequently. This method takes longer, but the chances of scorching are minimal at worst.







Over the stovetop. Over low heat, place your chocolate into a saucepan, stirring regularly. Keep an eye on it as this method is particularly dangerous. Too long or too hot and your chocolate can burn.
 Once it's melted and smooth, your chocolate is ready to pour into a squirt bottle. You can scoop it, too.
 On a baking pan lined with wax paper, start drawing shapes! An open-ended heart is a great garnish on the side of a glass or plate. You can also draw words or complicated art pieces to adorn a dessert, adding that professional touch.


Always make more than you need. Some will break. Accept it now and get to work.
If you like the side of a plate idea, draw the shape directly onto the plate and then chill it in the fridge.
These make great "nametags" too! Get creative.
 And not the other way around. If you peel the chocolate up, you risk ruining your perfect creations! So take the shape in your hand and gently peel back the paper. It should come off just fine if it's cooled all the way.

