 Faux fur isn’t only for coats; there are countless faux fur accessories out there including faux fur hats, headgear and stoles, faux fur-trimmed boots and gloves, and even faux fur purses. Wearing a faux fur accessory is a good way to wear faux fur if you don't want to go for the full-on look of a coat., Although faux fur accessories are more subtle than a faux fur coat, it's still a good idea to wear one or two faux fur accessories maximum.If you have a bold accessory like a faux fur bag, try to make this your only faux fur accessory. If you have a more subtle faux fur accessory like faux fur trimmed gloves, you can pair your gloves with a faux fur hat. Try to wear approximately the same color faux fur so that it looks like they match.
 It’s hard to pull off multiple faux fur garments, especially if one of those garments is a faux fur coat. The best rule of thumb is to not wear other faux fur items if you are already wearing a faux fur coat, but it is something that you can do if you pick the right piece.If you are already wearing a fur coat, pick a small dark or neutral colored faux fur accessory. For instance, if you are wearing a brown faux fur coat, wear a black faux fur headband or brown faux fur-lined gloves instead of wearing a large faux fur handbag or scarf.
 Faux fur vests are trendy items that can be extremely glamorous or funky and cool, depending on how you pair them. Creating your outfit around your faux fur vest is very similar to creating an outfit around a faux fur coat, except that since vests don’t have sleeves, the kind of top you wear under your vest is very important.


For a chic, glamorous look, wear a tank top underneath your faux fur vest so that your arms are exposed. You may also choose to wear black leather leggings or dark colored skinny jeans, along with a pair of heels.
For another chic look, wear a long sleeved black dress under your vest with a pair of patterned heels.For a more causal look, wear your fur vest over plaid shirt tucked into a pair of dark blue skinny jeans.

