 Ginger is a natural remedy for nausea, though it may not work for everyone.It is available in "natural" anti-nausea supplements that you can purchase over-the-counter.If you are already on the boat and do not have any of these supplements with you, you can look for food with ginger in it such as ginger cookies, or drink ginger-ale.


Taking small and frequent sips of ginger-ale may help to alleviate nausea and, generally speaking, it is easier for your stomach to tolerate than food is when you are feeling nauseated or sea sick.
Note that the ginger must be real ginger (in a drink or in food), and not just artificial ginger flavoring.
Talk to your doctor before taking ginger, especially if you are taking blood thinners or have a heart condition.;
, This is an anti-nausea patch that is placed directly on your skin behind your ear, and it absorbs through your skin into your bloodstream. It is available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore.The patch is designed to slowly release medicine over three days, but it takes approximately 4 hours to kick in. Therefore, apply it at least four hours in advance of your trip to prevent seasickness!
Side effects of the patch include dry mouth and sleepiness.
The good news about the patch is that it is long-lasting, and can be effective for up to three days., Antihistamines like Meclizine or Dimenhydrinate (Gravol or Dramamine) are helpful in preventing nausea.You can get this at any pharmacy or drug store. The downside to this, however, is that it is a sedative as well, meaning it can cause you to become drowsy. However, this makes it an excellent option for before bed as it can help you to fall asleep more quickly as well as combating nausea.If you know you are prone to nausea and seasickness, speak to your doctor prior to your trip or boat excursion and he or she may be able to give you stronger prescription medications or additional strategies for combating the nausea.
 Chewing and sucking foods both create saliva. The extra saliva can help neutralize acids in your stomach while reducing the overall feeling of nausea. Some good things to bring include apples or hard candies such peppermints or lemon drops.