 Pull out your albums and look through them. Focus on the emotions captured in the photos. Connect these emotions back to the choices made by you or your husband. You will find that your photos often depict positive moments that you created with your spouse.


For example, your wedding photos might remind you of how happy you were before the ceremony. Or, you might see a photo of you and your husband laughing as you drove away at the end of the night. Acknowledging the past can help you look forward to the future.
 If you are feeling negative, you may avoid being physically close to your husband. Try to reach out in small ways. Give him a quick hug or a small kiss on the cheek. Reach out and squeeze his hand. The goal is to get back to a state where you enjoy physical contact., It is tempting to get so caught up in day-to-day life that you rarely plan anything ‘special’ with your spouse. Rekindle the affection in your relationship by setting up a date night each week. Let those close to you know that this is your time to go out.Reserving the time and making it a priority is just as important as the date itself. Don’t worry too much about the details of what you will do. When you are out, try to focus on what you are enjoying about your husband and the date.
 Challenges help people bond and tackling a new task will help you once again view your husband as a partner. Enroll in a cooking class. Take a course on ballroom dancing. Study together at home in order to learn a new language. You are building positive memories with each action.Try to find an activity that interests you both and neither one of you have much experience doing. It is best if you both start off as beginners so you don’t fall into a teacher/student situation and instead work together as equals., Reserve at least 15 minutes each day for one-on-one interaction with your husband. Take a bubble bath together, listen to music, or just sit on the couch and talk. Some couples find it especially helpful to wind down each day by ‘pillow talking’ about what happened and what tomorrow looks like.Put away your electronic devices and silence your cell phone during these times. This will let you focus your attention on your husband and he will, hopefully, return the favor for you.

