 Don’t approach your supervisor with a list of complaints. Instead, suggest solutions to make your workday more efficient, or to adjust your schedule to avoid on-call evenings. If your supervisor does not accept your suggestions, ask for alternative ideas to reduce after-hours work. Here are a couple examples:


"I'm happy to be on call for urgent tasks, but I've been receiving a few non-urgent emails late at night. Could I fit them into the next day's work to better manage our priorities?"
“I tend to bring a lot of work home at the end of the month, when our orders are processed. If we could move this to a biweekly schedule, I could work more efficiently with less overtime."

, If you struggle to manage your time, this can lead to staying later and working longer hours. Begin to write a to-do list each morning to organize your tasks for the day. Allow enough time for each task, and consider doing them in order of priority. If you have a large project, break it up into mini-deadlines to keep you motivated to work on it little by little.Spend some extra time on the onset of tasks to make sure you do it right the first time. It’s better to spend some extra time upfront than to have to do the task over again later.
Even if you have to work after hours, divide up your time so that you can use it as efficiently as possible.
 If you’re sick of working after hours all the time, consider making some adjustments to your current job. Ask for fewer hours each week or for less work. If you were promoted to a more stressful job, ask for a transfer.Your employer cannot always tell how reasonable your workload is unless you communicate with them. Be respectful, but be honest and assertive.


Ask about ways to tailor your job to your skills. For example, say, “I’d like to work more with my hands than I currently am. Is there a way to do this more regularly?”
You can also say, “Is it possible for me to come in earlier in the mornings so that I spend less time at work late at nights?”

, If working after hours becomes a regular responsibility of yours, you might want to consider your working circumstances. When management increases your responsibilities and working hours, it may be a longer lasting arrangement than you signed up for. Consider whether you are okay with the circumstances or whether you need to find a new job.It is much easier to replace your job than it is to replace your health, family, or friends.


If you are too overwhelmed by work to search for another, consider using an employment agency, resume specialist, or other service.

