 Most times the doors will automatically open and you'll be able to enter through without lifting a finger, while other times you'll have to open them with your hand on a handle.;
, Let the employee know how many pieces of baggage you have, as rules have changed how many pieces each passenger may carry with them onboard the aircraft. Realize that only the luggage pieces should be checked in at this desk at this time.


While you are this desk, most often times, international airports will have a place where you can print your boarding passes or ask the check-in person to print them for you (if you don't own a smartphone or don't have access to a printer). Printing these boarding passes are a part of their job, when asked by the traveler.
 The security agent will need to see your boarding ticket and photo ID. The two names on each item must match the other item. If they don't, the FAA will stop you from boarding until either form has been corrected. For those carrying mobile boarding passes on their phone, you must place your phone down onto the podium where they will scan for the chip holding this pass (which should only take a matter of two seconds).
 Make sure all your belts, keys, jackets, coats, shoes/sneakers, mobile phones are taken off and placed in the bin. If you are carrying a laptop in a bag, you must take this out of the bag and place this item in it's own separate bin that can travel along the conveyor belt. (TSA Pre-Check (which is a paid yearly service) travelers do not need to follow this advice of removing extra pieces, but they can if they feel up to doing so.)


Unless otherwise asked by the agent, you may leave your socks on now when walking through the next few processes, however, shoes/sneakers must be off.
 While most international airports have switched to body scanners (body scanners do have a smaller rate of error), there are still a few international airports that still have medal-detectors in place and you must be able to follow those directions instead.


For those wearing medical devices such as heart implants or certain other machines, you must be able to have the security agent pat you down instead with their 'magic wand' from head to toe.
Be careful of following through a full body scanner. They can be triggered by excess amounts of water, such as when a person is sweating profusely. As long as there's a reason to the place the person is sweating, you could be okay with walking through the rest after the body scan.
Follow all prompts as the TSA agent asks you. Certain machines will have certain methods you must abide by to get you through the machine while following their special rules.
, While most mobile passes have your most recent updated boarding passes, printed boarding passes don't have that luxury and will mention the boarding gate the last time it was known to have been updated at the time you checked in for your flight. Knowing this information is crucial to knowing where to go to find your plane that will lift you off to your determined location. Look around for monitors that mention the new location of your boarding gate (if any changes at all, have occurred).
 Walk quickly but don't run; don't stop and dawdle. Try not to stop at walking-path shops unless all other guests can quickly get around you and anybody nearby. Use the moving sidewalk to your advantage, if the gate is far away and the gate isn't directly next to the sidewalk (where you'd have to get out before the sidewalk ends) by either walking along it, running with your bags on it, jogging or forever moving with it to get you to the gate quicker. If you have extra time, you may walk from the security checkpoint area, but most often people tend to run to their gate as quickly as possible.
 The gate agent will ask you for your boarding pass; have them scan it. If you are carrying a mobile boarding pass, most often, you'll need to turn on the device and open up the app carrying your pass on it, until the flight data barcode/QR code is shown.


For those operating mobile phone apps for your boarding pass, you'll be operating your phone to show the boarding pass to the pedestal before the gate leading you to the plane.
Sometimes, you'll need to increase the brightness of your phone up to maximum brightness to ensure the scanner can properly read the barcode.
Almost all iPhones have a pass app on it. Download the pass to Passbook and use this item instead of the app. The passbook passes are better known to the airline industry than the airline's own app. Plus, these passes have all the data you'll need without scrolling the pass up and down on the screen to ensure the entire code is scannable all at once.
Some Android phones have similar pass apps that you can use. Use them when available. Some Samsung phones themselves also have their own pass system that is available for an airplane flight from an international airport.

