 Have a good soul-search and see if you come up with initial ideas.;
, That way, if you're nervous, then you can join a group. (It'll also be good to meet the other cosplayers anyway for advice and counsel.)

, Choosing a character with a costume and look that would be flattering to you is a good idea, since we don't all have stick thin waists and busts like anime characters! Think about how you would feel wearing the costumes and narrow your list. If any of the costumes might make you feel uncomfortable then it's pointless to go through the hassle of making it. You want to be comfortable come convention time!

, Things to consider are your skill level (everyone has to start somewhere, so if you've only just learnt how to use a sewing machine then choose something you will be able to get a pattern for. But if you're a seasoned pro you can probably make your own patterns from scratch.), and budget. If you're on a tight budget you can source cheap fabrics on the internet or at local fabric stores but beware that thin or cheap looking fabrics will show up on cameras and to other more experienced cosplayers. If you don't mind saying happily "Oh no, I just did this cheaply" then that's fine! If you don't want to enter competitions and you have the money then you can also get your chosen costume custom made for you. Price up how much your costume will cost to buy or make and pick the one that fits your budget and skills best.
 If you think you can handle it all with both timescale and budget then I'd say you've got your costume choice.
), take some time to make sure you nail every detail. Other cosplayers will definitely appreciate your fine eye! If you can't manage all the details or can't manage to buy clothing store-bought and alter it, you can always take your own design choices. Ask other cosplaying communities for their support and advice.
 Try acting in character, and try posing in front of the mirror as you would do for photographs in character. If your character is serious and pensive then a big daft grin won't display your character very well! Also take in mind the props and limitations of the costume so you don't come up with grand poses which you can't actually do. If you intend on taking part in a masquerade, take steps to ensure you can walk in your costume! (Some characters have costumes that like to defy gravity and would fall off any normal person and we can't have your costume falling apart around you!)

