 When your heart starts beating quickly, as it does when you have atrial fibrillation, the rest of your body gets less blood supply because your heart is beating less efficiently. When your body’s blood supply slows down, oxygen levels in your blood decrease, which will make you feel like you can’t catch your breath.You may experience this feeling of breathlessness when you are climbing the stairs, exercising, or simply just walking.;
, Having palpitations means that you feel like your heart is pounding or fluttering. When you experience atrial fibrillation, you may feel like your heart is trying to beat out of your chest., One symptom of AF is a feeling of dizziness. If you experience this, sit down right away. When your heart beats to quickly, the rest of your body can have a hard time keeping up. You might suddenly start feeling light-headed or nauseous, as well as dizzy.If you get too lightheaded, you might faint, so its important to sit down when you start feeling this way.
 When your heart is working overtime, as it is when you have atrial fibrillation, you will get tired more easily. When AF occurs, your heart’s ventricles don’t fill up as fast, causing you to feel tired or fatigued.
 When your heart beats irregularly, your blood flow gets messed up. This means that your brain will be receiving less blood than it is used to. Because of the lack of oxygen to the brain, you may feel confused or disoriented., Chest pain generally only develops as AF progresses. Some people describe this kind of pain as squeezing or pressure that builds up around your heart. You might also feel really full, even if you haven’t eaten anything. You’ll feel pain when you are exerting effort or straining in some way. This pain is created by the heart not getting enough blood due to its irregular heartbeat.


If you feel chest pain, go to the hospital because this could mean you are going to have, or are having, a heart attack.
 AF and stroke both have similar symptoms but are very different conditions. Atrial fibrillation is an irregular heartbeat, while strokes are caused by a blood clot forming somewhere in your body that is stopping the circulation of blood. The way to tell the difference between the two is to check for an irregular heartbeat by checking your pulse--if your heartbeat is irregular, you have AF.


However, AF can lead to stroke, so it is important to get AF treated as soon as it is diagnosed.

