 DCSS has a website dedicated to helping you calculate child support based on the statutory guidelines. To start, visit http://www.childsup.ca.gov/resources/calculatechildsupport.aspx.
 Once you are on DCSS's website, you will click on the link titled "Go to Calculator." It will take you to https://www.cse.ca.gov/ChildSupport/cse/guidelineCalculator#. From there you will choose the number of children you have using the pull-down menu. Once you have done so, you will click start.
 While you can choose to dive right into filling in the blanks on your screen, you should consider downloading the support guide to help you through the process. The support guide can be found at http://www.childsup.ca.gov/portals/0/resources/docs/gdlncalculator.pdf. It will walk you through the process step-by-step. It will tell you about:


The calculator;
How to enter information about your children;
Tax information;
Monthly income information;
Monthly deduction information;
Children with hardships;
Monthly add-ons; and
Your results., In addition to the guide, you should also gather as many of the following documents as possible:


Parents' tax returns;
Parents' pay stubs;
Parents' 1099s or W-2s; and
Documents that describe disabilities, child care expenses, health insurance premiums, mandatory contributions, and other child support obligations., With all of your documents in hand, go back to your computer and start filling in the blanks on the screen that pops up after you clicked "Start." Here you will submit tax information; custody information; deduction information; and other information you may have.


Once you have filled everything out, you will click the "Calculate" button at the bottom of your screen., You will receive a number of calculations when you complete the online calculator. Take time to carefully read and understand what has been calculated. In general, you will see the following:


Monthly support totals, which is a list of estimated support that one parent will pay to the other.
Monthly child support per child, which is an amount broken out for each child.