 Stress causes the “fight or flight” response in your body to kick in. Your heart beats faster, you may have trouble focusing, and your breath becomes shallow. Deep breathing is a great exercise to practice when you’re feeling stressed and overwhelmed. Controlling your breath sends the message to your body that it’s okay to relax. Plus, you can use this technique anywhere, at any time.


An easy way to remember how to do deep breathing is with the 4-7-8 approach. This involves taking a deep breath in through your nose for 4 counts. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale the air through your mouth for 8 counts. Repeat until you start to feel more calm.;
, Music is one of the most beloved art forms as there are sounds that can match almost any mood you’re in. Use music to your advantage and turn on some tunes when watching the kids becomes stressful.


There’s no limit to the type of music that you can listen to. Choose some songs that help you feel relaxed and inspired and add them to a playlist.You can even get the kids involved for some fun stress-relief by having a karaoke show. Compile a list of songs to which they may know the words and take turns performing. This will not only relieve tension, but it can also show you have talented they are.
 Sometimes, looking after kids can result in anxiety because you’ve been cooped up inside far too long. Have everyone put on shoes and appropriate outerwear and go on a little field trip. Being in a natural environment can reduce stress and positively benefit both you and the kids’ well-being. The great outdoors lowers heart rate and blood pressure, eases muscle tension, and decreases stress hormones for an all-around better mood.Make it fun by playing a game of pretend. Be a general leading his troops through enemy territory. Or, have a contest to see who can find the most interesting leaves or rocks.
 Whether you are a parent or a caretaker you can achieve calm by doing relaxing exercises by yourself or with the children. Progressive muscle relaxation involves gradually tensing then releasing different muscle groups to help you identify tension and notice what relaxation feels like.


Have everyone sit on the couch or in chairs. Instruct them to take a couple deep breaths: “In through your nose and out through your mouth.” Then, starting with the feet, contract the muscles in your toes and ankles. Hold for a few seconds. Release. Notice what that feels like. Then, move to the next set of muscles: your calves. Continue until you have completed the entire body.You can close off a session of progressive muscle relaxation with some stretching exercises. This can further help loosen tension and give the kids some time to wind down.

