 If you don’t have Clean Master on your device yet, you can download it from Google Play at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cleanmaster.mguard&hl=en Google Play. It’s free.


Apps such as Clean Master will be able to inform you when the device is not performing as well as it should. This app monitors the space taken up by your applications, as well as space used by media on the device (pictures, videos, etc.).
Applications continuously store cache, which allows the app to remember certain information that you have entered. This helps the app to load faster. However, this process can also take up a lot of storage space, which will eventually slow down the device.
 Locate Clean Master on the home screen or app drawer. It should look like a small hand broom. Tap to open.
 Once the app is loaded, there should be four options shown on the main screen. There are two options that are going to be useful in helping you to keep your Android from lagging––these options are “Junk Files” and “Phone Boost.” Tap “Junk Files” to continue.


The app will begin searching the device for old junk cache data to delete. There will be a number that keeps increasing at the top of the screen. Wait until this finishes, then hit the “Clean Junk” button at the bottom of the page. The number at the top will go down again, then disappear.
Press the Back button to return to the main menu of the app.
 This app has the ability to boost the RAM memory on the phone. This will make the phone snappier in its response times. Tap “Phone Boost” on the main screen to continue.


At the top of the page will be listed the total amount of RAM on the phone and the current amount being used. Above these will be a “freeable” amount of RAM (301 MB, for example). To free up this RAM and make the device more responsive, tap the green “Boost” button at the bottom of the page. Doing so will boost the phone.
 Your Android device should no longer lag. If you do notice some lagging again, just repeat the process to free up old cache and memory.