 If you want to be an inspirational person, think about the people who inspire you. Do a little brainstorming. Why do you admire them so much? What is the message they send through their actions? How can you have a similar affect on others?;
, As you start to consider how you can be a role model, try to develop faith in yourself as a person. What are your strengths? What do you do well? Remember that even simple attributes in yourself can have a drastic affect on others. Ponder your strengths and develop an image of who you are and who you want to be.
 As you gain confidence in yourself as a person, develop an attitude to match. Don't just try to fit into "subcultures." While there is nothing wrong with having a group of friends who share your interests, try to be your own unique person.Don't try to "force" anything. You don't need to worry about what other people think, you simply need to worry about yourself. Other people will accept you as a role model or not, you cannot force this.Be yourself. Remember none of this should come at the expense of you. Don't try to change for anyone, develop confidence within yourself everyday!


Just be yourself and feel confident in what you do. Don't copy what others are doing, stand out. If people copy it just proves that they're insecure and not original unlike you!

, People admire someone who makes decisions for themselves, rather than under peer pressure. Always think of how you want to be. Always try to better yourself, for you, not for someone else. There is always room for improvement.
 Role models don't brag about their accomplishments. Don't expect to see the results of your actions in others right away, if ever. You cannot force someone to adopt you as a role model, often times those who most admire you will be shy and lack their own confidence. A role model does not seek "fans" or popularity, they simply seek to be a nice person. Do not put other people down or shun others with your new found confidence. People such as this hurt others, instead of inspiring them.Don't become arrogant. Your "style" and personality should be augmented by your respect for others. Don't think being a role model means placing yourself on a pedestal.
 Once you have a good positive image of yourself and your relationship with others, stick to it! Remember this shouldn't be an act, it is a way of living. Let your desire to be a role model guide you in everything you do, from the decisions you make about drugs and alcohol, to the effort you put into sports. There is no aspect of your life that can't be inspirational!

