 In order to move the third valve slide as quickly as is necessary to continue from note to note, especially with 8th or 16th notes, you’ll need to keep the slide slick. For “slow” slides, like the main tuning slide, that remain stationary during play, grease is typically recommended. However, for the “fast” third and first valve slides, you may want to use oil instead.


Oil is lighter, and it allows your valves to move more quickly.
Slide grease can become sticky over time making it more difficult to move slides to quickly tune shorter notes., Snakes consist of two brushes on either end of a long chord that is typically made of metal. Remove the valve from the trumpet, and push one end of the snake through the opening at one end of the valve. Gently push the brush all the way through the u-bend and out the other side of the valve. Pull the other end of the brush through the valve.


Every part of the trumpet collects spit, debris, and bacteria from the mouth, and requires regular cleaning to maintain optimal function. The bends in the instrument make it easy for buildup to collect.
In order to keep the tiny u-bend in the third valve slide clear, use a snake to clean it at least once a week. , As you play, you may notice a gurgling or bubbling noise. When this occurs, you likely have spit trapped in one of your valves. Most trumpets and cornets come equipped with water keys or “spit valves.” To clear the third valve water key, press down on the third valve, open the water key, and blow into the trumpet. Water will be released from the key.


If the gurgling sound continues, empty your tuning slide water key by pushing down all three valves, holding open the water key, and blowing., You’ll need to completely clean your trumpet, especially if you’re practicing for at least an hour a day as is advised. Fill a bathtub with warm water. Remove all of the valves, caps, and slides from the trumpet, and place the body of the trumpet in water. Let the main portion of the trumpet soak for about half an hour. In the meant time you should carefully clean, oil, and grease your valves and slides as necessary.


Remove your trumpet from the bath, and allow it to dry for half an hour.
Then, use a cleaning rod covered in a cleaning cloth to remove excess moisture inside the valves, slides, and bell of the trumpet., Use sterile gauze or a cleaning cloth to remove moisture from pistons and their caps. Use a snake to remove moisture from all slides: first, third, and the two main tuning slides. Oil the pistons and the first and third slide, and grease the two tuning slides.
 Apart from water, avoid consumption of any food or beverage that might introduce sugars and other foreign debris to your trumpet. This may lead to a build up that causes the growth of mold or bacteria. These sugars also cause valves and slides to get sticky, impeding fluid motion.