 You'll need a large amount of cardboard, so with your parents help, try to find as many cardboard boxes as you can, the bigger the better.


The more cardboard you collect, the bigger the clubhouse you can make.
 Find your largest cardboard box and open it up so it's in box form. Cut the top flaps of the box off. Then cut out the corners of the box, including the bottom. The corners should be about five or six inches on both sides.


Place the corners in a square shape with the dimensions that you want for the clubhouse.
 If you don't have any cardboard tubes, you can substitute them with flat cardboard folded into long and skinny square tubes and then taped to keep their shape. Cut the tubes down so that they're the same height as the corners. Then use tape to attach the tubes to the insides of the corners.


This will strengthen the structure so that it doesn't fall apart.
 First, get or make two more tubes. Cut the tubes down so that they are the same length across as two sides of the clubhouse. Then cut notches in the ends of the tubes so that they can be placed on top the corner tubes without falling. Tape the tubes to the corner tubes so that they run parallel to each other across the length of the clubhouse.
 Get two flat pieces of cardboard that are roughly as long on one side as the length of the roof tubes. Tape the two pieces of cardboard together along one edge. Then tape the other edges to the tubes so that it forms a triangular roof for the clubhouse.
 Measure the dimensions of the ends of the roof, the triangular holes on either side of the clubhouse. Then cut out two pieces of cardboard of the same dimensions. Tape those cardboard triangles to the ends of the roof to make the roof of the clubhouse completely enclosed.
 You can either tape rectangular pieces of cardboard to cover all the open areas of the clubhouse except the front, or you can cover the back and then make windows on the sides. You make windows by taping rectangular pieces of cardboard that don't go all the way up the sides of the house, leaving gaps which work as windows.