 Secure the section with a mini hair tie or clear elastic. You should have something that looks like the start of a French braid or a half-up, half-down ponytail., If you have very long hair, twist the top section into a loose bun first, then clip it to the top of your hea., Use your thumbs to sweep your hair back from your temples and gather it into another half-up, half-down ponytail. Tie it off with a mini hair tie just below the first ponytail., You will end up with a left section and a right section. Don't do anything to the bottom ponytail just yet., Be sure that you are pulling it between the left and right sections. Clip it out of the way to the top of your head. Do not clip the left and right sections., Let go of the left and right sections. Use your thumbs to sweep back more hair from your hairline, just above your ears. Gather the hair, along with the two sections, into a ponytail, and tie it off with a mini hair tie., Pull the bottom ponytail up between the split, and clip it out of the way. Gather the bottom sections into a ponytail, adding some hair from the hairline. Tie it off into a ponytail. Continue repeating these steps until you reach the nape., If your hair is too thick, use a hair tie that matches your hair color. At this point, you can stop and call it a day, or you can continue "braiding" your hair., Push your thumb or a rattail comb horizontally through your hair to divide it in two. You will end up with a top and bottom section., You want it to be about 2 inches (5 centimeters) down from the base of the ponytail. Don't do anything to the bottom section just yet., Make a hole in the top section, right above the hair tie. Slide your finger down through the hole, hook it around the bottom section, and pull it through. The bottom section is now the top.This technique is similar to making a flipped or topsy-turvy ponytail.
 Wrap another hair tie around the top sections, 2 inches (5 centimeters) down. Make a hole, then pull the bottom section up through the hole. Keep doing this until you run out of hair, then tie it off with a hair tie., Use your fingers to gently tug the outer loops of the braid out. You can do this for just the bottom braid, or for both the bottom and French braid. This will help give you more volume and conceal the hair ties.If you'd like to, you can add a bow or another pretty hair accessory.