 Plant your mint in the spring for best results; you can also plant it in the fall if you live in a climate that's free of frost. Either buy a mint seedling from a nursery, or start with a cutting from an existing mint plant – it is difficult to grow mint from seed. Follow these steps to cultivate a mint cutting:


Cut a sprig a centimeter above a stem junction to allow new branches to grow in its place. The sprig does not need to have many leaves, and almost any sprig will do.
Place the sprig in a glass of water. Within a week, small white roots should appear under water.
Wait a few more days to another week to allow the roots to establish themselves. Add water to the glass as necessary., When you plant your mint or place down your potted mint plant, you'll need to chose an area that receives morning sun and partial afternoon shade. You want the plant to get some light without drying it out completely. Mint grows best in deep, moist soil, so you want to keep it that way. You can even place your mint pot indoors, on a windowsill, as long as it's in a location that will get enough sunlight.


In winter, don't leave the plant on or above a radiator. The hot air will dry the soil rapidly. If it is very cold outside, don't let the leaves touch glass – this will chill and kill them.
 Potting mint is the most popular way to grow it: you can easily keep its growth in check, this way, and you can keep the pot near your kitchen so that you can harvest herbs frequently. Use a 12-to-16-inch wide pot for one plant. Plant the rooted sprig or seedling 5 centimeters deep. If planting multiple seedlings, plant them 15 centimeters apart. This will give each seedling enough room to grow.


Mint spreads rapidly, and its roots have a tendency to choke out the roots of other plants. Thus, it is usually best to plant mint in a container without other plants.
Consider adding a water-retaining polymer to the potting soil so that it stays moist and doesn't dry up.
 Be aware that mint spreads by sprouting along its long, tendril-like roots, and it can quickly grow out of control. Try planting it with a pot or other barrier around the roots. Submerge your mint in a pot or a mesh bag that is at least five inches deep. Leave the rim of the container above ground level so that the plant's root system will be contained.


Plant mint in a damp area with full sun or partial shade. The best conditions for growing mint in the ground require a fertile soil with a pH that is between 6.0 and 7.0. Though it can grow on its own without a problem, a little bit of fertilizer every few weeks won't hurt it. Make sure that the soil is moist by placing some mulch around the plant to protect the roots.
Never plant mint directly in the ground if it isn't native to your area. If it doesn't naturally grow in your area, letting it reproduce could choke out native plants and disrupt the local ecosystem. Plant it in a pot or a raised bed instead.
 Test the soil with your finger to determine how dry it is. Keep the soil damp, but don't soak it. Water mint more frequently if it's in direct sunlight. Check on it frequently to make sure that it gets plenty of water – but not too much.
 Mint is relatively low-maintenance, but there are a few things you can do to keep your harvest in top shape. Trim the top of the plant to ensure a stronger and more consistent harvest. Keep the flower buds in check so that the plant doesn't spread seeds across your yard. Split your plant every 2-3 years to keep the roots from getting cramped.Keep the top of the plant trimmed. This prevents it from growing too tall, and encourages it to grow more leaves to the side. If the leaves grow laterally, they'll be less likely to shade the leaves below them. An even sunlight distribution creates a better harvest.
Trim the flower buds. A mint plant's small flowers will typically bloom from June to September. Trim the buds before they have a chance to open so that the plant doesn't grow out of control. Pinching off the plant's flower buds as they appear will also extend your plant's harvesting season.
Split your plant every 2-3 years to keep a strong scent and flavor. After a few years, your mint will match the size of the container, causing its roots to become cramped. De-pot it and carefully split apart the mint into several plants.
 Pinch the stems with your fingers, or use a small pair of clippers. Only harvest as much mint as you need at any given time. Never harvest more than 1/3 of the leaves at once, and allow the plant to regrow before harvesting more. If you have a larger harvest, wait until right before the plant blooms, then cut the whole plant just above the first or the second set of leaves.Consider air-drying your mint. Hang the stems upside down in small bundles or just spread them on a small tray. Once the stems and the leaves are brittle, you can remove the leaves and place them in airtight containers.
Harvest as much mint as possible before the frost each year. The roots will survive the frost and regrow the following spring, but the above-ground plant matter will die off. Protect your mint roots by covering the plants with a layer of mulch before winter.

