 Making friends can sometimes be tough, but bringing up a conversation can lead the way! Start by talking to the person you are sitting next to in class. How about saying something like: "Where did you go before coming here?" "Did you watch the new scary movie that was so cheesy?" "I like your pencil case, where did you get it?" Be funny and sweet. If you have nothing to talk about, just listen to what happens in the room (but don't be a snoop!) , or if you know what the person's hobbies are, then talk about that! Also, a friendly smile can go a long way!


Find interesting topic starters. You will not get an answer every time from "What's up?" Ask them about the weather, or what kind of music they like.;
, To make friends, be nice to everyone, every person from every culture and religion, so you can be known as a friendly person! Give people some compliments, but don't lie about them, or go overboard with your compliments. If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say it. Some people can get really offended at the smallest thing.


The best way to make friends is to compliment them. Say something like, "I love your shirt! Where do you go clothes shopping?" Or point out something funny if they look like they need a good joke. You could even ask if they live by the school too, but don't just say where do you live because that might creep them out.
 It always helps to go to dances or social events. This shows people you care about things like having fun and friends. It also showcases that you know how to have fun.
 If you have started your conversations with your future friends, you can invite them over to sit with you at lunch! Or, maybe invite friends that you've gotten to know for quite a while already to your house, or somewhere else, such as the movie theater.
 A club or a society is a great way of making friends. You'll have common interests and plenty of opportunities to get together outside of classes.


You can discuss everything with club members after meet-ups or activity sessions. This will help you to make friends.
 If there is a clique at recess or at some other place, perhaps you can join it. If you see someone in the clique that's quiet, start making small talk to her/him. You will most likely make friends with them. Don't be discouraged if it doesn't work immediately, persistence is key.


Do not forget to be yourself. If you can't be yourself around them, then they aren't worth it.
If a clique isn't your thing, form a looser friendship group with varied friends who don't necessarily have to copy each other or live in one another's pockets all of the time. This freer grouping may allow you to have a wider range of friends with varying interests than a clique would otherwise provide.
 When your future friend has told you a secret, make sure you don't tell anyone else no matter what. They trusted you enough to tell you something that no one else can know! Or if she/he gives you a compliment, don't get confused and say: "Umm, thanks, I guess?" Because that would hurt their feelings.


Make sure you care about what they say, and be a good listener! That's always a good way to make new friends or replacing old ones, and to make a good conversation! But nobody's perfect so remember to forgive and forget.
 Being nice will always pay off, and that's a good thing! Continue to be true to yourself and stand up for others and yourself. Do not lose sight of yourself by being too nice.
 Never ignore them, and try to make time to hang out with all of them if some of them don't get along. Nobody likes anything less than when a friend starts ditching them for anyone; whether they're their best friend who's in another class, or one of the popular kids. It feels terrible; and it can turn people away from you and make you lose your friends.

