 If you are a new parent, your life has suddenly changed drastically, and you're still learning to juggle all the different aspects and demands of your life. Keep in mind that your children's grandparents are also adjusting to the new addition(s) to the family.


Before you angrily confront your children's grandparents about their behavior, try to determine whether or not you are still all in the midst of an adjustment period. Do you think that with time and patience the current discord will resolve itself?
If you'd rather nip things in the bud—you just can't handle the frequent, unannounced drop-ins, for example—make a list to yourself of the specific behaviors that troubling you.
 If you happened to have read the first method on coping with your own annoying grandparents, you'll notice that many of the steps here parallel those above. Even though your relationship with your children's grandparents is of course different in many ways from that of a grandchild-grandparent relationship, there are still commonalities. We're dealing with interpersonal familial relationships, and any time we face conflict, it helps if we first attempt to consider the other person's perspective.


It's quite likely that you or your partner will need to have a direct conversation with your children's grandparents, but thinking about why they are acting as they are will help better prepare you for that talk.
For example, you may be annoyed with your mother's constant inquiries into your newborn's feeding schedule (which you may take as thinly disguised criticism), but is it possible that she may be anxious on your behalf because of the difficulties she had when you were a baby?
Similarly, you may be entirely frustrated at the unannounced pop-ins, but your perspective on the situation may change once you realize that you haven't been so great at extending invitations to your children's grandparents to visit. Most likely, the grandparents are simply overly eager to spend time with their beloved grandchildren.
 This step naturally follows from the previous: you are doing your best to consider the grandparent's perspective; very little good will come from automatically assuming the worst about their motivations. You may think that your mother-in-law has been waiting for a chance to paint you as a failure, which explains in your eyes why she is forever bringing over food (does she think you are incapable of feeding your own family?), but don't dismiss the possibility that she is merely trying to ease your burden.
Perhaps your parents have barely called or visited since you've brought your newborn home, which leads you to believe that they aren't interested in their new grandchild. While this is a possibility, start from a charitable position and consider the possibility that they are trying to give you your space. It's quite possible that they are anxiously awaiting your first move.
 You have your own unique relationship with your children's grandparents, but you may not know know as much about their experiences with their parents or in-laws. Their behavior now is surely informed by their own experiences as parents, and they thus may have different expectations about how much or little to be involved with your children.


Ask your children's grandparents specific questions about their early relationships with their parents or in-laws: “Mom, how often did Grandma visit when I was a baby? Did you ask her for lots of advice?”
Similarly, ask your children's grandparents specific questions about their experiences raising children: “Mary, was John fussy as a baby? How did you deal with that?”
Learning as much as possible about your children's grandparents will help you begin to understand them as individuals and may help you identify ways to begin to improve your relationship.
 It's hard enough for you to sort through the conflicting and ever-changing advice on how to best care for and raise your children. Learning about how standards have changed (sometimes drastically) over the years will help you understand where your children's grandparents are coming from.


You may be thoroughly frustrated at your mother-in-law's constant nagging about introducing rice cereal into your weeks-old-newborn's diet, but once you learn that her pediatrician recommended this, it will make her current behavior more understandable.
Similarly, much less was known about SIDS, for example, even a generation ago, and it wasn't so long ago that parents were warned against placing babies on their backs to sleep. While this is certainly not a point you want to give in on, understanding that your children's grandparents were given different instructions will help you as you decide how to talk with them and make clear your expectations. , Rather than pushing the grandparents out completely or setting down an absolute, inflexible set of rules, find areas in which you can seek their advice and make them feel involved. You may have good reason to want to keep your young children on a set sleep schedule, but take note of Grandma Kayoko's baby-whispering skills: If she's able to lull any baby to sleep in minutes, ask her for a tutorial. When the baby sleeps over at her house, you can then ask Grandma to be prepared to rock baby to sleep at precisely 7pm.
 It's important that you remain as flexible as possible as you deal with your children's grandparents. There are of course going to be some issues, particularly those concerning safety, which you want to be firm on, but try to determine which behaviors on the grandparent's part are mere annoyances. For example, while it's important that your child have a nutritious and balanced diet, a couple of extra treats when Grandpa visits will not undo all of your hard work.
On the other hand, if you can't trust that Grandpa will put the baby down on her back without pillows and stuffed animals in the crib, you aren't going to be able to let him babysit at nap or bedtime. , It's important that you not expect your children's grandparents to be able to read your mind and automatically know what you want from them.


You've worked carefully to create a routine and set of rules that work best for your children after doing tons of research and consulting with their pediatrician. When your children are going to be under their watch, make sure that you are clear and specific in your expectations.
Similarly, while you may want your children's grandparents to be a regular part of their life, you may not have anticipated that they'd be visiting every other day. If you want them to scale back their visits, be clear: “Mom and Dad, we love having you over, but weekdays are a bit crazy. Could we all get together on Saturday or Sunday this week?” , First and foremost, you are your children's protector. If at any time you feel that your children are harmed as a result of their interactions with anyone, to include their grandparents, you must take steps to protect your children.


There is no rule that we must retain ties with abusive people just because they are blood.
Nonetheless, the relationship between grandparent and grandchild is potentially one of truly great reward and love.
It is also your job to try to surround your children with people who will love and protect them; improving your own relationship with their grandparents will only help to foster the bonds between grandparents and grandchildren.

