 While it may seem common sense not to touch a hot burner with your bare hand, you should always use caution when touching any surfaces that may be hot. You may forget that a pan is hot, or you may not know that someone recently turned a stove burner off and that it’s still hot. Treat all pans, pots, cookie sheets, and stove burners as hot until you verify that they aren’t.Put empty pans, pots, and baking sheets on empty burners while they cool down.
Wrap potholders around hot handles or set them on top of lids, but make sure that you’re not blocking any steam venting holes in the lid when you put the potholder on there.
If you need to use your stove but have a pot or pan that needs to cool down at the same time, put your pot or pan on a trivet on the counter. Just make sure that it’s out of the way so that you don’t accidentally bump into it.
 Take care when using the microwave, as microwaved food may be steaming, boiling, or have reached an internal temperature that will easily burn you. Remove microwave food lids carefully to avoid being scalded. Always assume that food cooked in the microwave is just as hot as food cooked by conventional methods.Put a plastic spoon in a cup or other smooth vessels when heating liquid in a microwave. A plastic spoon can prevent the liquid from spattering, preventing possible scalds.
Read the bottom of a container to make sure it is safe for the microwave oven before using the container to heat foods or liquids. Use only containers marked, "Microwave Safe."
Purchase microwave ovens that turn off automatically when you open the oven door.
 When air bubbles heat up enough, they pop, and if those bubbles are in oil, the oil can “pop” and send bits of hot oil shooting out of the pan. If you’re standing too close, the oil can jump on to your arm, hand, face, or clothes. To prevent yourself from being burned, stand a few feet away from a pan or pot that has hot oil in it. And use long tongs when you work with food in the hot oil.If oil or grease catches fire, slide a lid over the pan or pot. This will remove the air that the fire needs to keep burning and put the fire out quickly.
Under no circumstances should you ever put water on a grease or oil fire. This will only case the fire to flare up aggressively.

