 Formal styles tend to have symmetrical designs while informal styles tend to have asymmetrical designs. Instead of contrasting these features, compliment them. If, for instance, you have a formal style home, like a Colonial Revival, you should choose a fairly formal landscape garden that closely frames the perimeter of your house. For less formal styles, like ranches, curvy casual landscape borders are the way to go., The exact amount of space your border should take up will depend on how large your yard is, but the average suburban home can handle a border that is about 2 to 3 feet (2/3 to 1 meter) out from the house.


The border can follow the entire perimeter of your house, or you can choose to highlight certain areas. You can also add visual interest by creating a curved, uneven path rather than one with straight lines and sharp corners.
 Clearly marking where the border begins will make it easier to work with. Hammer wooden stakes in the ground, several feet (approximately 1 meter) apart from each other or by using enough to clearly form the necessary curves of your design. Tie plastic tape or rope around the stakes, connecting them together to create a visible yet temporary border.
 Use a shovel to dig out the grass and weeds about 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep, sliding the shovel beneath the turf and lifting it out gently.
 Use a spade to make the ground as even as possible.
 Position the first brick so that the top corner rests against one of the wooden stakes. The brick should be perpendicular to the side of the house. Place other bricks at each stake to gauge the right distance. Then, move the stakes and the tape back so that they are at the bottom of each brick, measuring out the brick border itself.
 Cut into the ground another 1 inch (2.5 cm), removing the soil and leveling the area out as much as possible.
 Remove the guide bricks and fill the area in with wet mortar.
 Place the bricks directly over the mortar, just below the level of your lawn. Leave a little space in between each brick rather that packing them together closely. Pack them in place with a hammer or mallet.
 Pack dry mortar in between the bricks using a trowel. Clean of the extra with a small brush.

