 Find articles from different newspapers or media outlets covering the same topic. Read critically to look for the different newspapers’ biases and compare them to one another. Use these comparisons to find facts that appear in both pieces. You can then make your own judgment about a debate, person, or event., This is especially important if the reporter is covering a hot-button debate. Both sides should be represented in unbiased articles. If the article is about a particular group of people, and the reporter didn’t quote any of those people, this could be a warning sign for bias.For example, if you’re reading a story about an environmental issue, and the article only cites politicians, think about why they didn’t quote any scientists. Is it because the topic was only related to politicians, or is the reporter ignoring one side of a debate?

, Most articles could be written entirely differently by a person with a different perspective. Look for articles written by people from different age groups, genders, regions of the country, political parties, and racial backgrounds. Think about how multiple perspectives add to your understanding of one, single topic.This may mean that you read one newspaper article and one blog post. It’s okay to read different kinds of sources to check on the bias of newspaper articles. Just be sure to read critically and carefully no matter where you find your information.
As you read more articles or sources, you’ll find that people, events, and debates are always super complicated. This means that there won’t be one simple explanation for any issue. Don’t get stressed out by this. Just try to learn as much as you can by reading widely. The more you know, the more prepared you’ll be to deal with complex problems.
 Sometimes, newspapers articles make people angry, frustrated, or (less often) excited. You can run a Google search to check if your article generated this kind of response. You might also want to check out Twitter if your article was published recently. Controversies over biased coverage can quickly go viral.Looking for this feedback can tell you a lot about who supports the content in the article and who doesn’t. While this won’t necessarily tell you if the article itself is biased, it’s a great way to discover who appreciates the reporting. This will help you figure out who the article helps and who it hurts.

