 To get through a long text without losing focus, try reading your bible for a regular amount of time every day. You might read for twenty minutes to an hour, depending on your reading speed and attention span. If there is a time of your day when you can count on having a certain amount of quiet time, read then.


Keep a calendar and track your progress. Tick a box every day you do your reading.
If you have an average reading speed and you read for about ten minutes a day for a year, you should finish with time to spare. To be able to take off some days and spend extra time on dense passages, try reading for at least twenty minutes at a time.;
, Take the number of pages in your edition of the Bible, and divide it by 365. Then, read that number of pages every day. For example, if your edition of the Bible has 1,760 pages, that's 4.8 pages a day. Round up and read 5 pages a day. Check your progress every month to make sure you've made your monthly page count.


If dividing your reading up by day doesn't work, because you have a changeable schedule, try setting weekly or monthly reading goals.
 You might find it easier to meet your reading goals and boost your comprehension if you have company. Join an existing reading group, or form your own. If you attend a church, an interfaith organization, or a secular organization such as an anarchist free school, propose a reading group and decide on a pace, order, and meeting schedule that suits your group. Members of your group can read together in a room, or read separately and come together for monthly meetings.


Alternatively, ask a friend or family member to read along with you. Even a long distance friend can be a good reading buddy—set reading goals together, and make a weekly discussion date online, in person, or over the phone.
Take a class. Search online, or at your local community college, church, or free school, for Bible study classes. Taking a course that requires you to read the whole Bible will motivate you to read, while providing valuable historical context.
 Taking in a text is very different from skimming. Choose to read in a way that lets you really absorb the words in front of you. Reading aloud can help you retain what you read.Rereading can also be helpful.


If you are a morning person, read in the morning. If you focus better at night, read then.
If you find your mind wandering, try reading in sections. For instance, read for twenty minutes, stand up and have a glass of water, then read for another twenty.
 If you have trouble comprehending reading, or would just like to hear the Bible while you do your daily chores or exercises, download a recording of someone reading it. If you search online, you can even find audiobooks that are designed to be listened to over an entire year.


Even if you are also reading the Bible, you might consider listening as well. If you are reading one translation you might choose to listen to a different translation, for example.
 You can sign up for a plan that emails you your daily readings. If you have trouble picking up a book regularly, but are very prompt with emails, you can motivate yourself by marking your Bible email "read" each day.
 If you are reading for purposes of devotion, include your reading in your daily faith routine. Pray before or after you read. Read purposefully, as if you were praying. Ask for guidance in your reading. Read with a question in mind, or read blindly and allow your mind to absorb the wisdom of the words.

