 If you want to build a cute, functional wardrobe you have to be strategic. Avoid heading into a clothing store (or browsing online) without a specific list and a plan. You don’t want to be swayed by cute items that you don’t need. You’ll end up wasting money, wasting time on extra laundry, and cluttering up your kid’s closet.Instead, shop for items that:


Have a classic look (like jeans and sweaters).
Have solid colors or basic patterns.
Will work with items you already have.
Are not overly trendy or flashy (these items tend to have short shelf lives).
 Armed with your list, be sure to hit the clearance racks first. You can often find off-season items for a fraction of the full retail price. If you are aware of which items your child needs, you can make browsing the clearance rack a regular part of your routine.Try not to buy things you don’t need just because they are cheap.
Look for items you can mix and match.
 Retailers often have online sales that are not offered in stores. Even if you find an item in a physical store, it is a good idea to check the price online. Regularly check online retailers for sales and deals.Search for special online sales.
Search for online coupons and coupon codes.
 Children grow so quickly that their clothes are often grown out of before they are worn out. Investigate used children’s clothing to find gently used items to improve your toddler’s wardrobe.Keep an eye out for higher end brands. You might look at:


Thrift stores.
Consignment shops.
Garage sales.
eBay.
 If you have kids of varying ages, hand-me-downs are likely already a part of your practice. But even if you have just one child, parent groups and other organizations in your area may organize clothing swaps for kids clothes. You can also ask for hand-me-down from friends with children.
 When possible, selecting higher quality clothing items will help your toddler’s clothes last longer. This is especially true for outerwear, sweaters, and sturdier items. T-shirts, on the other hand, and likely to end up stained either way.Check used clothing stores for high-end brands.
Wait for sales at higher quality retail stores.
Having a little less helps you focus on high-quality, fashionable items and avoid bogging you down with too many clothes.

