 The circadian rhythm refers to both physical and mental changes that occur over a twenty four hour period. The main force behind the rhythm is exposure to light or dark. This rhythm effects your sleep-wake schedule.Exposure to light will send the message to your body that it's time to be active.
When your optic nerve is exposed to low or no light, your body produces melatonin, which is responsible for making you feel the need to sleep.
 Don't stay up any later than you must after work. Go home immediately and sleep. Staying up any later will start to shift your circadian rhythm in an unbalanced direction.


Take the shortest route to work. Stay alert on your drive home.
If you feel too drowsy to drive, pull over.
 Whatever sleep schedule you find works best for you, stick to it. Regular sleep schedules over time will help establish a natural rhythm. This rhythm will help you sleep easier and allow you to be better rested.If you do get off schedule, try to get back on it as soon as you can.
Ease into any new sleep schedule slowly if possible.
Keep your work night sleep schedule, even on nights off.
Changing your schedule can lower the amount of sleep you get overall.
 Your sleep should be lengthy, deep, and restful. It can be hard to fall asleep and stay asleep, so monitor how many hours of sleep you get and the quality of that sleep.


Keep a sleep journal to log the length and quality of your sleep.
Though eight hours a night are recommended, every person is different.
Pay attention to how you feel, get more sleep if you think you need it.
Even though you work nights, you still need your normal amount of sleep.
 If possible, spend a few nights getting used to any new schedules of sleep. Ideally, you should keep the same sleep schedule consistently. Not all shifts allow for such regularity however, so any changes that do arise should be eased into.


If you know a change is coming, spend a few nights before adjusting.
If you know a string of night shifts are coming up, stay up later than normal a few nights before.Gradually working into a new shift schedule will make the change easier and allow you to perform better at work.

