 (That person who is always causing trouble, stirring up a mess and sticking their nose where it isn't wanted.) This gift says, "watch it, we think you're a pot-stirrer". For the less obtuse, this present is nicely pointed.;
, A bottle of deodorant and some shampoo speaks volumes for this person. Make sure to wrap it in clear cellophane.
 It's time he understood that cooking is for anyone in the household, not just your daughter.
 Let them know that always being late for nearly everything is annoying, by buying them a watch so next time they're late you can ask them what's wrong with the watch i got you?

, She'll be embarrassed at what possible thoughts are going through your head about her relations with your son! (But be forewarned that given even as a joke, you may forever be labeled as a Dirty Old Man or Woman by everyone present!)

, So they didn't put your picture out with the rest of the family, or at least not one large enough to match the others? Make up for it with this wonderful "in-your-face" addition to the family photo collection. It's a difficult gift to wriggle out of displaying. Make sure your smile is large.
 Give this to the bossy person in your life. It sends a message to them that you haven't exactly enjoyed their need to tell you what to do and when.
 A song you know they don't much like can turn into an entire CD by the artist in question. After they open it, insist they play it for everyone to hear. This is a great Christmas show-stopper. An album or mix CD with lyrics that touch on your frustration with this person can also have an interesting effect.
 It doesn't have to be real knives; plastic toy ones from the dollar store still carry the message perfectly well.
 It is meant to be a light-hearted response to real challenges that you are facing in your relations with certain people in your life and you must accept that it can and will backfire with some recipients. If that is an outcome you are prepared to face, these gift ideas might be for you. If not, try more constructive means for approaching the nagging mother-in-law, the overbearing boss, the faithless lover, or the whining friend.
 Most won't get the "Scarlet Letter" reference, but you will!

