


Don’t bother selling a product you can’t vouch for. The reason is simple: nobody will buy. You may not be the original producer or know everything about the product. But you must have understood the benefits of the product by use and be able to share your pleasant experiences with the prospect. Every potential buyer, client or investor is extra-sensitive when it comes to parting with money.
What they want to see is a salesperson or businessman who is sincere and can defend his or her claims on what the product is capable of offering. The best way to win a sale is to speak with confidence and conviction.;
,


Prospects recognise sincerity in boldness when they it. Don’t try to mention a benefit that your product or service is not capable of offering the prospect. If your product has a limitation, admit it. List out the possible questions a prospect might want to ask about your product and prepare an appropriate response in advance.



Visualize your prospect as a pleasant and reliable person. How do you approach a colleague you know is very pleasant and likeable? Your answer should determine the way you should approach every prospect. Good emotions are contagious and people are more than willing to return kind gestures if you offer it to them first. A genuine and friendly smile would win any sane person anytime, any day.



Not all prospects you meet would be interested in your product. Not even all those that are interested would be willing to buy immediately. But if you have created a great first impression, then you can be sure that they will call you, recommend you or come back to request for that product or service.
Except for window shoppers many people want to take their time before buying a product especially when it is a substantial item like a car, house, large investment, insurance policy and so on. If a prospect doesn’t buy your product or service, just assume that it is because of lack of sufficient funds, or that she needs some time to think through the offer.
Don’t always think it is because of your inability to sell effectively; even the very best sales or business people get turned down sometimes. When you meet someone who is not ready to buy immediately, be nice, then drop your contacts before you move on. Who knows, she may turn up a few days later to discuss the offer.



Understand that every ‘NO’ could become a ‘MAYBE’ and every ‘MAYBE’ could become a ‘YES’. A ‘No’ may mean ‘I need more information on your product/service’ or ‘show me more benefits of your product’. Understand that the most rejected people in the world are the most successful salesmen. HOW?

,


While it is good to risk rejections often by approaching more customers, make sure you learn from your mistakes and improve your capacity to win more sales with less attempts.
One small negative attitude may be hindering your enormous potentials in selling. Study your selling process. If your choice of words is not working, change them. Adjust, modify, adapt and improve until your performance begins to increase.
Outlined below is the flow path of using the pains of rejection to accelerate business success.
Risk rejection
Learn
Correct
Improve sales

