 Use your hands instead of a washcloth, which can irritate your skin and wash with a gentle cleanser. Use lukewarm water, since hot water can dry out and irritate your skin. If you use water that is too cold, then your pores can close up.You should wash your face twice a day, probably once in the morning and once at night to remove makeup. Avoid washing your breakout too much, because doing this can irritate your skin and actually make it worse.
Use a gentle cleanser. Acne prone skin is sensitive, so use a soap or face wash that is gentle to skin. Choose soaps that are "gentle" or "sensitive", and if possible choose unscented over perfumed.;
, Use a very soft towel and carefully pat your face dry. Do not rub the towel over your skin. Then, softly apply a non-cosmedogenic moisturizer, which is designed to not clog pores., You may opt to look to your kitchen before purchasing acne treatments. While many of these lack scientific backing, many people claim they help clear up breakouts.


As with any acne treatment, watch your skin for signs of irritation after trying any new treatment.
Lemon juice is a popular at home treatment. Simply dab your blemishes with a cotton ball soaked in lemon juice. Let sit for thirty minutes, then rinse with cold water. Lemon juice is a disinfectant that can kill the bacteria causing acne. It is also a natural exfoliant and can lighten the skin which can hide inflammation from blemishes.Honey is well known for its antiseptic and antibacterial properties. While you can apply it directly to the skin, let sit, and then rinse off with water, you can also make an herbal honey mask. Combine honey with milk, applesauce, yogurt, aloe vera, or egg white and apply to your skin. Let sit and then rinse off with water.Avoid using toothpaste, which can actually trigger pimples and cause allergic reactions.Likewise, you should avoid applying crushed aspirin, since it could also irritate your skin., Most stores which carry health and beauty products will also have acne treatments. Common ingredients for these products include benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, and tea tree oil. Pay attention to how your skin reacts and stop using if you notice inflammation, irritation, or dryness.


Benzoyl Peroxide is used to kill bacteria that can cause acne, but it may take up to four weeks to notice results. Salicylic Acid can unclog pores and reduce redness or swelling. It too requires time and constant use. Tea Tree Oil is also a milder way to kill bacteria that causes acne. Be sure to dilute it before applying.Most moderate acne will require a combination of treatments. If your acne doesn't start clearing up after about six weeks, you may need to get a prescription for a systemic treatment.
Often, there is no simple way to know what will work for you, as what works with one person will not work for another. A lot will come down to trial and error.
In general, it is best to try a product with a lower dose of active ingredient, rather than go for the higher. The more active ingredient, the more likely there will be drying, irritation, or other reactions.
 If over-the-counter treatments are not enough, you may need to go to a medical professional, such as your general practitioner or dermatologist. A general practitioner may be able to rule out other conditions that can be confused with acne, look at your overall approach, and prescribe medications like antibiotics or Retin-A. Dermatologists are experts in treating skin conditions, and can also be helpful in coming up with the right treatment for you.


Oral treatments are often prescribed by a dermatologist and include antibiotics, retinoids or vitamin A derivatives, and oral contraceptives (for females). Oral treatments are used for moderate to severe acne and may have noticeable side effects.Antibiotics are usually prescribed to treat the inflammation of severe acne. Most oral antibiotics are used for less than six months, since your they will gradually lose effectiveness. For this reason, oral antibiotics are often used in addition to other treatments that focus on the cause of your acne.Examples of oral antibiotics include tetracycline, minocycline, and doxycycline.
Oral retinoids or vitamin A derivatives are reserved for the most severe acne that has not responded to other treatment. Side effects of Isotretinoin include increased risk of depression, suicide, and inflammatory bowel disease. Pregnant, nursing, or women not using contraception should never take Isotretinoin due to the risk of severe birth defects.Oral contraceptives can only be used by women since they contain "female" hormones that counteract "male" hormones that can trigger acne. (Both men and women have these hormones, but an imbalance can trigger acne). Although uncommon, side effects can be noticeable and in some cases, treatment must be agreed to by your gynecologist. Like oral antibiotics, oral contraceptives will only be effective for several months before gradually losing potency., Be sure to hold ice in a soft paper towel to avoid a mess and hold it in place for just a minute or two., Use an oil-free and non-comedogenic concealer that will provide enough coverage to hide the breakout. Be sure it is close enough to your skin tone to not be noticeable. You may be able to find a concealer with salicylic acid. Very gently blend the concealer into the area surrounding the blemish so that the makeup is not noticeable.


If you can, try to avoid using makeup during a breakout. Makeup tends to clog pores, even if advertised as non-comedogenic. This can help your skin heal faster and can prevent further irritation from the fragrance, oil, and chemicals in makeup.
If you cannot avoid make-up, try to take it off as soon as feasible. Just using soap and water may not be enough. Be gentle when washing your face with lukewarm water and a mild cleanser, but be sure to remove every last trace of the day's makeup.Do this every day to help your skin heal. Be sure to rinse off every bit of cleanser too.
 This should be applied evenly all over your face to create a uniform tone. Avoid using heavy foundation with powder and blush, as these can be harsh on your already sensitive skin.Keep your makeup minimal during a breakout.
 Makeup brushes should be washed and air dried weekly to prevent bacteria from growing.Wash your pillowcases once a week (or more) since oil from your face and hair will build up. Frequently wipe down your cell phone with disinfecting wipes since it comes into direct contact with your skin., You may have heard that eating greasy food causes breakouts, but that is untrue.On the other hand, eating fresh fruits and vegetables containing lots vitamin A can improve your complexion.Some foods that are high in vitamin A include sweet potatoes, carrots, dark leafy greens, dried apricots, melons, and tuna.
 These make your blood sugar spike which triggers insulin production. Insulin production also leads to oil production which can clog up your pores., While stress itself does not actually cause acne, it can lead to a more noticeable breakout. Find relaxing things to do on a regular basis. Meditation, exercise, reading, or learning a new skill are great things to add to your schedule and might keep the breakouts at bay.


Stressing about acne can make it even worse. Not only will your mental state aggravate acne, but getting too aggressive about treating acne (such as scrubbing, harsh chemicals, or too frequent washing) can also aggravate the problem.
Typically, you are the only person who notices your own acne. Other people will usually not scrutinize your skin as closely as you do.
Use your acne regimen as an opportunity to relax and take care of yourself. The actions of washing the face, drying the face, and smoothing on moisturizer all massage and can help you feel good. It can be a calming ritual in your day. Slow down and enjoy. An approach like this can help you relax, feel good about taking care of your skin, and make you feel better about yourself.
A typical acne breakout will generally resolve itself within a few days, even if untreated.
If you take on a new sport or like to exercise, be sure to wear loose fitting clothing so that your skin doesn't come into prolonged contact with sweat. Also, shower immediately after so that the oil and bacteria doesn't sit on your skin.