 However this phobia developed, it is probably being made worse by the silent voice of your thoughts.


Try this exercise - grab a pen and a notebook. Sit down and either think about swimming, sit in a place where water is visible, or look at picture of water or people swimming. Listen to your self-talk.
What kinds of things are you saying to yourself about water and swimming. Examples may include "That's dangerous" or "They are crazy to go out there".;
, Having a fear of swimming means you also have a negative or irrational viewpoint of swimming. In order to overcome this fear, you must change these thoughts.Once you have taken the time to listen to your thoughts, you may notice how they are not serving you. An effective way to cognitively restructure such thoughts is by examining the evidence for or against the thought.Let's take the thought "That's dangerous" in reference to swimming. How much evidence is available that confirms this statement? Maybe you had a past incident in which swimming or water was, indeed, dangerous. However, that incident may have been one among few. In general, many people who are able to swim enjoy water and find the activity quite relaxing.
Can you think of times when people went swimming and nothing disastrous or dangerous happened? Switch your statement around to take this into consideration. You might say "Swimming can be dangerous, but it is safe if you follow best practices and have a lifeguard present."

, Maybe your whole frame of thinking in regards to swimming is from a negative point of view. Change your point of view by searching for ways to view swimming in a positive light.For example, in the summertime, swimming is a wonderful activity to play and keep cool. Swimming is a terrific way to get exercise. You might also consider that the act of swimming allows humans to see all the wonders beneath the sea, such as fish, turtles, and coral.
 Whether you are a child, teen, or adult, you should not feel embarrassed about your fear of swimming. Aquaphobia is a very real and debilitating concern, but many people go on to overcome this phobia and become proficient swimmers.