 If you ever have any health concerns regarding your period, make sure you talk to your doctor. You should also consult your doctor if your menstrual cycle is abnormal or becomes abnormal suddenly. Some factors that should warrant a discussion with your doctor include:


If you do not start your period by age 15, you should contact your doctor, as you may have a hormonal imbalance that is affecting the rest of your body as well.If your period is extra painful and you experience very heavy bleeding or bleeding that lasts longer than a week.If your period becomes irregular, delayed, or you have bleeding between established cycles., Amenorrhea is the lack of a menstrual period. Women should start having periods by the age of 15 and if you or your daughter has not received their first period by the age of 15, consult your doctor.If you have missed your period for more than three cycles after having regular periods, you may be experiencing secondary amenorrhea. Secondary amenorrhea may be a symptom of polycystic ovary syndrome.The most common cause of secondary amenorrhea is pregnancy.
Amenorrhea may result if you are unhealthy and your body is not able to support a regular period. This may be because of excessive stress, a hormonal disorder, or an eating disorder.If your amenorrhea is hormonally linked, then your fertility may be at risk. Talk to your doctor right away, especially if you are concerned that you suffer from polycystic ovaries., Dysmenorrhea is a condition in which periods are unbearably painful. You may be able to take over-the-counter medication, such as ibuprofen, to ease very painful cramping but if this condition continues, consult your doctor.In teens and younger women, dysmenorrhea is often caused by an excessive amount of prostaglandin. You may be able to regulate the amount of this hormone in your body by eating a healthy diet and maintaining a healthy weight most of the time.In more mature women, dysmenorrhea may manifest due to a serious medical condition such as endometriosis,fibroids, or adenomyosis., You should know what a normal period feels like if you have had regular periods in the past. Keep an eye out for abnormal bleeding. Talk to a doctor immediately if you have irregular bleeding.


Discomfort and bleeding after sex are serious signs of possible medical conditions. Make sure you talk to your doctor if any sexual activity or intercourse results in bleeding.Spotting between periods and heavy bleeding during your period can result in discomfort and are also warning signs that you need to heed., Different factors can lead to abnormal periods. Maintaining a healthy weight and seeing your doctor about possible illnesses help you to have normal periods.


Dysfunctional ovaries can lead to hormonal dysfunction and cause you to have abnormal periods. Polycystic ovary syndrome and premature ovarian insufficiency are two examples.Abnormalities in your reproductive structures caused by disease or infection can also cause you to have abnormal periods. Have your doctor check you out for endometriosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, or uterine fibroids.High stress, low body weight, and eating disorders take a large toll on your body and can disturb normal menstrual cycle., You should have annual pelvic exams to ensure that any menstrual irregularities are diagnosed as soon as possible. Tracking your period and monitoring your symptoms can help your doctor diagnose you properly and create a treatment plan.Your doctor may prescribe you oral contraceptives or progesterone to treat your menstrual irregularities.