 If you are teaching or learning about separating materials and/or making solutions, think about using salt and sand as your mixed materials instead of salt and sugar. It is a bit easier, much safer, and equally interesting.


Separating salt and sand involves adding warm water to the combination in order to dissolve the salt, straining out the sand by pouring the water mix through a fine sieve, then carefully boiling the water to leave the salt behind. It does not involve flammable liquids or potentially dangerous fumes.The safety issue is likely the main reason why it is hard to find lesson plans or legitimate scientific advice about how to separate salt and sugar. If you insist upon doing so, however, take every precaution. Do not try it at home unless you are well-versed in chemistry and have observed all safety measures.
First and foremost, always have a working fire extinguisher nearby.
 The larger the amount of salt and sugar, the more ethanol you will need to use. There must be enough alcohol that the sugar dissolves without being oversaturated.If at all possible, consider using only a small amount of salt and sugar, or doing your separation in batches if you have a large amount. Ethanol is flammable and using too much will increase your fire risk.
 Once the mixture settles, the salt should be sitting at the bottom of the beaker.


Granulated sugar is an organic substance that is soluble in alcohol and other organic solvents (such as acetone, for example). Table salt, however, is far less soluble in alcohol than it is in water, because the former’s lesser polarity provides less attraction to salt’s sodium and chlorine ions., Your strainer should have gathered all the salt particles. Let the strainer dry and then pour the salt into a separate container.


Remember that table salt has an average grain size of 100 microns, so you will need a strainer with smaller mesh openings than that.You may want to instead use a coffee filter placed inside the sieve.
 To make a steam bath, place a small saucepan filled one quarter full with water on your heating element. Make sure you can set a glass bowl directly on top of the saucepan, so that the bottom of the bowl does not contact the water in the saucepan.


A steam bath is similar to a double boiler used in cooking., Turn on a fan or a hood and wear a mask to avoid breathing in the alcohol fumes.Only after placing the alcohol solution in the top bowl, heat up the water to a low boil on medium heat. The steam bath is designed to gently heat the solution because of the alcohol’s volatility. Other methods can cause a spark and light the alcohol.
Do not let the alcohol solution come in contact with the heating element or any open flame.
Stay away from the steam forming at the top of your open container of sugar and alcohol while it distills.
 The sugar will be left in the open dish. Pour the sugar into a separate container.Exercise caution until and even beyond the conclusion of the experiment. Any remaining alcohol residue could be ignited by the still-hot heating element.

