 To separate your business from your person, create what is a called a dba, which stands for "doing business as." This will allow you to open bank accounts and file the proper federal and Texas state taxes.;
, There can be no duplicate names, so if the name is taken, you will have to change yours.


Go to the county clerk's office in the county in which you are doing business and ask to search assumed names, or you can go online.
Log onto the Texas Secretary of State website and click SOSDirect to create an account, and proceed to assumed names check.
 You can register with the county clerk's office or online at SOSDirect with your account. There will be a small processing fee for registration.
 Examples of licenses according to occupation include general contractor's license, paramedic license or master electrician license. If you are a bar owner, you will need a liquor license, or you may need to obtain zoning, health or fire permits.


Log onto State of Texas website to search for the appropriate licenses.
Proceed to "Licenses and Permits" and click on "Occupational Licenses and Permits." The website will allow you to choose from a variety of occupational licenses and pay online with a credit card.
 You will need to have this number for all financial business you conduct in the state of Texas, and you can obtain an EIN through the Internal Revenue Service.


Log onto www.irs.gov.
Click on the link for "Apply for an EIN."
Fill out the application and submit it. Information you will need to supply on the application will include your name, address, social security number, your business name and type of business, and questions about the nature of the business (such as whether it involves gambling, firearms, or how many employees you have). Obtaining an EIN through the IRS is free.
 Consider what type of account will be best for the type of business you do. For instance, you may need to have a savings and a checking account, or you might want to consider what type of benefits different accounts offer, such as interest paid or overdraft protection. Bring all necessary paperwork to the bank in order to set up your account, including your newly obtained EIN.

