 Most bullies will look for easy opportunities to victimize someone, or “easy targets”. Try to avoid being an easy target by being aware of the bully’s movements when you are in the same room with them and focus on keeping to yourself.For example, choose a table further away from the bully at lunch, or a seat in class that is not within eyesight of the bully.
It’s also important to keep an eye on your belongings and avoid giving the bully an opportunity to bully you. For example: maybe you leave your lunch on the table while you go to the vending machine for a drink. When you get back to the table, your lunch is now in the hands of the bully. To avoid this, bring your lunch with you or leave your lunch with a group of friends or individuals you trust.
If you're trying to avoid a bully at the office, plan your lunch so you aren't in the lunch room at the same time or schedule a meeting so you don't have to cross paths with the bully.
By being conscious of the presence of the bully, you avoid leaving yourself open to bullying.;
, Most bullies want a reaction from you, whether it be turning red with anger, pale with embarrassment, or expressing fear with tears. Most bullies enjoy when they can tell their words and actions bother you and will continue bullying you to get the same reaction over and over again.The term “poker face” is used to describe how people make bets in a poker game - they use a blank expression on their faces when betting so other people in the game cannot read their expression or tell that they may be bluffing.
When a bully starts taunting you, put on an emotionless and expressionless poker face to send a message that the teasing and bullying will not get to you. Don’t give the bully the satisfaction of showing a reaction to their hurtful words or actions.
 You want to try to avoid baiting or encouraging the bully to tease or taunt, so deny them any attention to diffuse the situation and force the bully to leave you alone. Even if the bully is making eye-contact, look away.


Try putting on your headphones and listening to your favorite song instead of the taunts of the bully, or close your eyes and silently count backwards from 10.In the office, tune out the bully by walking away and starting a conversation with someone else in the room or at another desk.

