 As you head out of Pallet Town into Viridian City, you'll notice a gym already there. Surprisingly enough, that's going to be where you get your last badge. You're going to head north of Viridian City to the Viridian Forest and make your way through.;
, The Pewter City Gym leader is Brock, the gym leader of rock types.
, Keep going through the path until it leads you North to a Pokémon Center. To your right will be a cave entrance leading to Mount Moon. Go inside and find your way through the cave.
 Cerulean City is home to Misty, the gym leader of water types.
,(A reminder for people thinking about capturing Mew later on in the game, remember which trainer not to battle)

,, Go inside and out the back where you'll battle a Team Rocket member.
 This is the Underground Tunnel which will lead you to Vermillion City.
 Go up the stairs and exit the building. Go South of the building and fight your way through the trainers to Vermillion City!

, If you've already went to the gym, you'll notice a tree in the way of the path to the gym. Before you can battle the Vermillion City gym leader, you have to go on the St. Anne to get the HM01-Cut.
 Follow the path of the dock and you'll see a sailor who checks your ticket and lets you onto the boat. There are a lot of trainers on board looking for a battle, so if you need to train up your Pokémon, feel free to battle the trainers! Don't worry about the ship leaving if you need to heal your Pokémon, the ship does not leave until you have gotten the HM Cut and you have exited the ship.
 After you have battled him, go North through the path and go into the room. You'll see the captain by the garbage can feeling seasick and you have to rub his back to make him feel better.(Stand next to him and click the B Button) He will thank you and give you HM Cut! Unless you want to battle more trainers, you can now exit the ship and challenge the Vermillion City gym leader!

,, First things first, you'll want to get HM Flash. Go East past the docks in Vermilion City where you went to get HM Cut, and keep going East until you see a cave.
 After go make in through the cave and exit out, go South towards the big building and go inside. Inside you'll see one of Professor Oak's assistants, talk to him and he'll give you HM Flash.
, Use CUT to cut down the tree and make your way through the path.
 This is the Rock Tunnel, go inside and use Flash. Make your way through until you come out the other side.
 There are no gym leaders in this town, but it does play an important role later on after you obtain the Rainbow badge.
 At the end, you'll notice two buildings; the building directly on your left you cannot go through yet, but the building in the North is another Underground Tunnel, this is used to get to Celadon City where you can get the Rainbow Badge.
 To gain access to go back and forth through these buildings in Green/Blue/Red/Yellow, you'll need to go to the Super Mart in Celadon, buy a drink and talk to the guard inside the building. Same goes for Leafgreen/Firered except you'll obtain a tea from the old lady in the Mansion in Celadon City. Talk to the guard and he will take the drink from you. Now you can go back and forth through this building and all the others without having to go through the Underground Tunnels.
 Heal up your Pokémon and head towards the South in Celadon City. You'll find a wall and along the wall is a tree. Use CUT to cut down the tree and go on through. Head West towards the Celadon City Gym.
, To do this, you'll need to go into the Celedon Gaming Building, go up towards the Rocket member, (guy in black) defeat him, and click on the poster that was behind him when he runs. A staircase will appear and you'll need to complete the mission inside, defeat Giovanni, and get the Stilth Scope.
 Complete your mission inside and rescue Mr. Fuji. After you save Mr. Fuji, talk to him back at his house(it will automatically take you there after you save him) and get the Pokeflute from him.
 After you defeat/capture him, you'll want to cut the tree above you, go West through the building, go inside the house, and get the HM Fly.
 Bike Road will automatically take you down towards Fuscia City.
 Koga is the gym leader of poison type Pokémon.
 Go North in Fuscia City to the Safari Zone. In Safari Zone, you'll find two main things: HM Surf and Goldteeth.(Don't worry, Goldteeth is very important in getting HM Strength!)

, You already have HM Surf, but you still need HM Strength! To the right of the Pokémon Center in Fuscia City, you'll see a pair of houses. In one of the houses, you'll find the game warden. Give the game warden the Goldteeth and as a reward for finding his chompers, he'll give you HM Strength!

, Go onto Saffron City to defeat Team Rocket! Saffron will be North of Vermillion City. In Saffron, you'll find a tall building, go inside and complete the building challenge.
 Saffron City is home to Sabrina, the gym leader of psychic Pokémon.
 Fly back to Pallet Town, go south, and surf. You'll surf all the way down until you get to an island called Cinnabar Island.
 Go to the Cinnabar Mansion and search for the key of Cinnabar gym.
 Cinnabar Island is home to Blaine, the gym leader of fire Pokémon!

, Remember the gym in Viridian City that was locked? That's your last challenge and the final step to getting all of your badges. And guess what? Giovanni, the leader of Team Rocket, is the Viridian City gym leader! Giovanni will use similar Pokémon to the ones he's been using in the battles you've had with him in the past.

