 It is important that the boxes all be about the same size, or at least that they fit together end-to-end with no gaps in between the boxes. You’ll be cutting holes in the boxes and you don’t want your bunny to be able to squeeze out of the maze in gaps between the boxes.


You’ll probably need at least five boxes, depending on the size of the boxes and the amount of space you have to build the maze. If you have more space, you can use more boxes.
 Put the boxes together and decide where to cut the holes. You’ll want to put holes only on some sides so that the rabbit is led towards the end of the maze. However, you might also include a few dead ends to keep your rabbit thinking.To make a dead end in the maze, you’ll just cut a hole in a box that goes one direction, but then have no other holes in the box it leads into. That way, your rabbit will have to turn around and go back the way it came to continue the maze.
 Once you have designed your maze, start cutting holes in the boxes with scissors or an X-Acto/utility knife. Make sure the holes are big enough for your rabbit to hop through without getting stuck or feeling restricted.It might be helpful to decide what size and shape you want the holes to be beforehand and create a template. Then you can simply trace the template on each box where you want the hole to be so that you’re sure all the holes will be big enough for your bunny.
Make sure you use extreme caution when using a sharp blade of any kind. If you are a kid, ask your parents to help you or supervise you during this step.
 Once you have cut holes in all the boxes, you’ll need to make sure the maze sticks together. If you forget this step, the boxes may start sliding apart as your rabbit hops around inside.


Use glue or double-sided tape (or tape that you fold around to make it double sided) to stick the sides of each box together. You could even tape together the top edges of the boxes for added security.
 Now your maze is complete and you can let your rabbit wander through. Try putting some treats at the end of the maze to entice your rabbit to go all the way to the end.You can also add some newspaper or bedding throughout the maze to make it more comfortable for your rabbit.

