 Look at the interests of whoever you're buying toys for. Are they fascinated by trains, superheroes, or princesses? Knowing their interests will help you choose toys they’ll enjoy playing with. If you’re not sure, bring them along to the store with you or ask them what they like.;
, Preschoolers are growing individuals and they’re starting to learn how to be creative. Choose toys that will give them an outlet for their newfound creativity.There are a variety of toys out there that can help with this stage of development:


Crayons and markers.
Play dough.
Construction paper.
Child-safe scissors.
Finger paints.
Books.
Chalk.
 Preschoolers love to make-believe, and it’s a great way for them to develop important skills for later in life.Buy clothes for dress-up to encourage playing pretend, or consider other toys that foster imagination and fantasy:


Child-sized furniture.
Play-kitchen set.
Puppets.
Dolls.
Toy cars.
Construction sets.
Building blocks.
 Preschoolers are at an age where their bodies are growing rapidly, so choose toys that facilitate muscle development.Any toy that gets preschoolers to move around and use their bodies is great for this, so there are a variety of toys to choose from:

Tricycles.
Balls for throwing and catching.
Wagons.
Tunnels and climbers.
Plastic bowling set.
Children’s toolkit.
 Not all preschoolers are alike. Some struggle with counting while others need help learning how to share. Buy toys that will meet the individual needs of the preschooler (or preschoolers) you’re shopping for.If the preschooler you’re shopping for needs help learning how to cooperate with others, buy toys that require two or more people to play, like games or a ball for catch.
Books, games, and art supplies can help foster a positive attitude towards learning in preschoolers who are struggling in the classroom.
 This will save you the hassle of having to return toys that are defective or boring. Online reviews are a great way to check if a toy is safe, and you can watch video reviews to find out exactly how a toy works., Safe toys are labeled non-toxic, they don’t have parts that could pinch a preschooler’s fingers, and overall they are well-made. Toys are also labeled by age appropriateness, so check to make sure whoever you’re buying a toy for is old enough to play with it before you make a purchase., You don’t have to go to a toy store to buy great preschool toys. Shop for toys online for more options and make sure to compare prices so you save on your purchase.
 Brick-and-mortar toy stores offer a wide selection of toys for preschoolers, and you'll be able to bring them home or to the classroom immediately.

Shop at large toy retailers if you're looking for popular brand-name toys or if you have a specific game you're looking for. You'll have an easier time finding it there then if you were to visit a smaller toy store.
Buy toys from a small local toy store to find toys that are unique and to support a local business.
 New toys may pose health and safety risks for young children. Monitor them as they play with their new toys so you’re better equipped to catch any safety issues that arise., Just because the toys you bought were designed for a preschooler doesn’t mean you won’t also get enjoyment from playing with them with whoever you bought them for. Playing with preschoolers is a great way for you to bond, and because most of their toys are learning-based, you’ll be helping them develop a positive attitude toward learning., Toys, especially plastic ones, can get dirty quickly, so check them frequently and clean them when necessary. Some toys are dishwasher safe, while you might need to use dish soap and water for others., Preschoolers can be wild and adventurous, and broken toys come with the territory. Fix them if you can or toss them in the trash and invest in some new toys. Broken or worn toys can pose a safety risk, so it’s important to check preschool toys regularly.