 If your green card is about to expire (or has expired) and you meet the necessary requirements, it might be a better idea to apply for permanent citizenship rather than renewing your green card again. This will save you a lot of time and money in the long run (renewing a green card every 10 years is expensive!) and provide you with many benefits such as the right to vote and travel with a U.S. passport.


You must have lived in the U.S. as a lawful permanent resident for 5 consecutive years before you can apply for citizenship. Check the issue date on your green card, next to where it says "Resident Since." You can become a citizen exactly 5 years (to the day) after this date.You must have lived in the same place for at least 3 months before applying for citizenship.You must also meet other requirements, such as knowing how to speak, read, and write basic English, having an understanding of U.S. history and the constitution, and having good moral character.Even if your green card has just expired, you still retain your official status as a permanent resident. Therefore, as long as you fulfill the requirements, you can still apply for a citizenship with an expired green card. That said, try to do it as soon as possible!

, You can begin the application process for naturalization 90 days before your 5 year anniversary of being a lawful permanent resident, or anytime thereafter., This is the Application for Naturalization and can be found at http://www.uscis.gov under "Forms." Make sure all the information you provide is accurate and complete.
 These are all outlined in the N-400 form. The documents serve as evidence that you meet all the requirements to become a citizen and have good moral character.


Attach two identical passport photos and a photocopy of your green card.Include the naturalization fee. The fee consists of a filing fee of $595 and a biometrics services fee of $85 for a total of $680. This can be paid either by check, mail order, or credit card.When your N-400 form is filled out and you have prepared all of these attachments, you can send your application to your local USCIS office.
 After you submit your N-400 form, you may be summoned to a biometrics appointment for any necessary fingerprints and signatures. All applicants are required to attend an interview, where you will be tested on your English reading, writing, and speaking skills as well as your understanding of U.S. civics.You have two opportunities (per application) to take these two tests. If you fail the first time around, you can retake the tests between 60 and 90 days from your initial interview., The whole process can take up to 6 months, and sometimes even longer.After you receive confirmation of your citizenship, you will attend a ceremony to take an Oath of Allegiance to the U.S (pledging your loyalty your country). There, you will also exchange your green card for a Certificate of Naturalization.