 A magnetic duster or Swiffer duster will be perfect. Magnetic dusters make use of static charge to attract and hold dust, while a Swiffer duster’s specially designed material grips and locks in dust so that it doesn’t go flying. Magnetic dusters are typically a couple of feet in length, so they’ll work well for a person of average height (though you might still need a step-stool). If you go with a Swiffer duster, you’ll also need a handle extender which is cheap and can be bought alongside the regular duster at any home goods store.An extendable duster handle and pack of disposable heads can be purchased for less than $15., In order to attract dust, your magnetic duster needs to build up the proper static charge. To accomplish this, take a simple plastic shopping bag and grip it around the head of the duster, then rub it back and forth to fluff the dusting fronds and create static electricity. Your duster should now be able to “magnetize” nearby dust without even touching it.Watch out when touching metal surfaces after using a magnetic duster. Any time you work with static electricity, there’s a chance of a slight electrostatic shock, which can startle and sting.
 If you’re using a Swiffer duster or another kind of long-handled disposable duster, start by attaching a fresh dusting head or pad. Used pads that are clogged with dust won’t hold the new dust that they come into contact with, and you might even lose dust and make a new mess. Fit a new pad or dusting head onto the end of the extendable handle and you’ll be ready to take on fresh dust.
 Hold the handle of the duster overhead and drag the duster over the top of the fan blade. The grippy material should capture even thick coats of dust in a single pass, making the fan a breeze to clean. Repeat this process of the remaining blades.


Go slowly so you don’t sweep dust onto yourself!

, The fan may be especially dirty or the dusting head or pad may run out of usable area before you’re finished. Should this happen, pause long enough to switch out the dusting head. If you don’t you may just end up sweeping dust off the fan and into the floor. Duster replacements are inexpensive, so it should be no problem to make sure you’ve got more than one to get the job done right.

