 If your toddler is a bit older, perhaps around age three, play hide and seek with them in your home. Tell them to hide while you count to ten. Since they are so young, they will unlikely be able to hide very well, but as you are searching for them despite their obvious hiding place, you can say “I wonder where Mary is!” while you are walking right by her or even touching the place where she is hiding. Your child will often laugh, giving away their location even more.You can also try hiding, as well. Hide in a very obvious place that they will find funny, like behind something that is much too small to cover you.
With younger toddlers, you can have them hide underneath a blanket while you pretend not to be able to see them. Throw the blanket on them and say “Where did Henry go?! I can’t see him anymore!” They will erupt with laughter.
 This is a classic way to elicit laughter from your toddler Remove your child’s socks and shoes and then put each one of their toes between your fingers one at a time while repeating the classic children’s rhyme "This little piggy."Let them do this to you and you will find yourself laughing, as well.
 Another thing that toddlers find hilarious in this age of technology is when adults pretend to call them on their cell phone. This works particularly well if your toddler has a toy phone. Take your phone out and pretend to call them by saying “Hello, can I speak to Charlie? This is very important!” Your child will pick up their phone and laugh while having a conversation with you.You can also pretend to call Santa or the Easter Bunny in reference to your child.
 One surefire way to make your toddler laugh is to wrestle with or tickle them. Pick your child up and toss them gently on the bed or couch, let them jump on your back, and even pretend to fall over when they playfully push or hit you. Tickle their belly as well to make them laugh.Put pillows or a thick blanket on your floor if wrestling on hardwood to prevent your toddler from getting hurt.
 Have a fun dance party with your toddler! Turn up some of you and your toddler’s favorite tunes in your house or in your car and then dance along with them. Make your craziest, most hilarious moves and your toddler will likely follow you while laughing.You can even pick up your toddler and dance with them in your arms, dipping and spinning them around.

