 Place the nylon in a bowl of warm water and allow it to soak for 20 to 30 minutes.


Pre-soaking the nylon will make it easier for the dye to penetrate its fibers. As a result, the dye will soak into the material more evenly, resulting in a more level color.
 Pour 1 to 2 cups (250 to 500 ml) of boiling water into a microwave-safe container. Add one packet of powdered drink mix to this water, stirring until the powder is dissolved.This process is only suited to small batches of nylon—for instance, one or two pairs of nylon stockings. Do not use it if you have more than 1/4 lb (110 g) of nylon to dye.
You'll need a container that can hold roughly 1 qt (1 L) of water for 1/4 lb (110 g) of nylon or less. Do not use a smaller container even if you have less nylon. If you have to bunch up or crowd the nylon inside the container, it may not dye evenly.
 Place the nylon in the dye bath, pushing it down with a spoon or similar utensil until all of the material has been submerged.


Since the nylon should still be heavy with moisture from your pre-soaking step, it should sink to the bottom of your container instead of floating on top of the water. The entire piece of nylon must be submerged throughout the process if you want it to dye properly.
 Place the container in your microwave, nylons and all. Microwave on full power for 1 minute. Stir gently, then let it rest for another 1 to 2 minutes. Repeat the process as needed, microwaving and stirring the nylon as it sits in the bath, until the dye has been absorbed.


Gradually, the nylon should begin to absorb the dye. When this happens, the material will look brighter and the water will look clearer. The entire process will usually take three to six rounds of microwaving.
 Fill a large bowl with cool water and add a capful of white vinegar, mixing the latter in well.


The vinegar should help the color set.
If you are unable to measure by the capful, use measuring spoons to measure out 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of vinegar per 2 cups (5 ml) of water.
 Remove the nylon from the dye bath and gently squeeze out the excess water without wringing the fabric. Soak the nylon in the prepared rinse to remove the dye.


You may need to dump the water and refill the bowl several times. Eventually, the rinse water should appear clear. That's when you'll know that all of the excess dye has been washed out.
 Gently squeeze out any excess moisture, then hang the nylon up and allow it to air dry.

