 If you want to get rid of chickenpox scars, see your dermatologist and ask about a punch excision. This is a method where scars are removed by a doctor cutting into the skin surrounding a scar and removing it.The doctor will use a round, sharp-edged tool to remove the skin surrounding the scar. Then, she will close up the skin surrounding the wound.The main downside to a punch excision is that it also leaves behind scars; however, the scars are much lighter and smaller than the original.;
, The punch elevation method is usually used to treat deeper, more set in scars. This is a surgical method and will involve the use of local anesthetics but may be effective if your scars are particularly deep.Similar tools used in the punch excision method are used for punch elevation, but the cuts made are slightly deeper and you will be put under for the procedure.Punch elevation is usually effective in reducing the appearance of scars. The downside is, as with punch excision, it does also leave scars behind; however, these scars tend to be less noticeable as they're less elevated and lighter., A chemical peel is a procedure in which the top layer of your skin is removed. This can reduce the appearance of chickenpox scars.Chemical peels come in a variety of forms depending on the intensity of your condition and the desired outcome. Talk to your dermatologist about what type of peel would be right for you given your scarring.Chemical peels may take up to two weeks to heal. While they are not extremely painful, the procedure can sting. Side effects may include temporary redness of the skin, scarring, and the appearance of cold sores., Laser therapy can be used to treat chickenpox scars. Ask your dermatologist if laser therapy is right for you. Laser therapy is sometimes preferable to other methods as it's a non-invasive procedure with a fairly low risk of causing scars. It will not completely remove chickenpox scars but will lessen their appearance., If you're treating chickenpox scars in young children, procedures like punch excisions and chemical peels are not the best option. Try using a silicone-based cream that contains zinc. This can result in a reduction of chickenpox scars. Follow the directions on the bottle to know what dosage to use and how often to apply the cream.