 Some dentists’ offices have an on-site endodontist, while others work with one who visits on specific days. Ask your dentist, friends, or family to recommend a local endodontist. This may help you find someone you like and trust more quickly., You can also easily locate endodontists through websites such as the American Association of Endodontists and online reviews.Consider factors such as office hours and location. You may prefer someone who has extended or weekend hours or is close to your home.
 Being an endodontist requires specialized training beyond dental school. The number of endodontic procedures they perform can also be a good indicator of their skill level. Some things you may want to consider include:Education and training
Board certification
Experience in performing root canals and other oral surgeries
How long the endodontist has practiced the profession
Surgical technology and pain-relief options they offer, If your dentist suggests endodontic care for your teeth, make sure your insurance company will cover it. Endodontic care can be expensive and having at least some coverage may defray the cost. Your insurance may pay for all or part of endodontic care, depending on what type of policy you have.Ask if your policy requires endodontic care from an in-network doctor or if you can pay extra to see someone out of network. If your potential endodontists aren’t covered by your insurance, ask a representative to provide you a list of in-network doctors.
 Once you’ve compiled a list of potential endodontists, call their offices and ask if they are accepting new patients. Let the receptionist know important information such as your type of insurance and why you are seeking endodontic care. Mention if your dentist has recommended the doctor to you.Inquire if there is a waiting period for new patients. If the office is not accepting new patients or the waiting period is too long, ask if the office can suggest another endodontist.
 Most endodontists will meet with a patient before providing treatment. This gives them a chance to diagnose you and discuss treatment options. This consultation also gives you a chance to meet the doctor and figure out if they are a good fit with your needs.Ask the scheduler what paperwork and information you need for your preliminary endodontist visit.
 Confirm your appointment a day or two in advance. Most endodontists’ offices require that you will out paperwork before your appointment. Arriving early or on time gives you time to fill out paperwork, provide records from your dentist, and clarify insurance and payment information.Bring a list of all medications you take or have taken in the past month.
Contact the office as soon as possible if you need to reschedule or are running late.
Observe if the doctor and their staff treat you well and make you feel comfortable, An assistant may ask you questions about your history and symptoms before you meet the doctor. They may even take an initial set of X-rays. You will then meet with the endodontist, who will review any information you provided, including from your dentist or any diagnostic testing. This gives you a chance to get to know the doctor and see if they can provide the type of care you want and need.Let the endodontist know of any questions or concerns you have. Answer any questions they have as honestly as possible. This can ensure you get the right treatments.Look around the office and exam room at overall cleanliness. If the office doesn’t appear clean or sanitary, you may want to consider another doctor.
 The endodontist will discuss their diagnosis with you after evaluating your case and talking with you. They will then talk about treatment plans and the associated costs. The endodontist should discuss the benefits, options and risks of any treatments so that you can understand how they will help you. They may also review possible post-treatment decisions including crowns or bridges.Ask questions if you are unsure of something or would like to know about potential alternative treatments.
Be aware that some endodontists may ask if you want to proceed with treatment at your visit. Don’t feel pressured to agree if you’re not ready. Tell the doctor you want to think about your options before committing to treatment.
 Review the notes from your preliminary visits. Tally up any negatives and positives about each endodontist, their office, and suggested treatments to help you further narrow down your list. From this, you can choose the endodontist with whom you want to work.