;
, First thing you see when you start playing is 2 little spinning things, a matchbook box, and a big building.

You see the gray gear thing that's spinning? That's called a Pebble Shiner. This harvest pebbles as 'resources' and you can use those to build other buildings.






The brown bottle cap thing is a Twig Snapper. These also harvest resources and the harvest twigs (hence "twig snapper"). Anyway, you also use these to build things.






The Red Matchbox building is called a "General Store", Use this to buy certain things, such as resources.






The biggest building you see is called a "Town Hall" Upgrade this to upgrade your other building, as well as unlock them.
 To do this, click and drag your mouse toward where you want to look.
 Click the "Buildings" option, and select the building you want. This takes some resources, and also takes up space in your yard.


To upgrade a building, you click on it and select "Upgrade" (note this causes you to use resources) When you upgrade a building some features of the previous level will become better, or new features will be added. Try upgrading all your buildings as fast as you can.






To get rid of a building, click on the building, then select "more..." then click "recycle." This will give you 80% of the resources you spent on it, and the building completely disappears.
 The Tutorial is pretty straight forward, showing you the other two resources to gather, how to attack/build defenses, make monsters, and what shiny is. (the little "gold" used as currency that you can speed up upgrades with, and you buy them with real money) So if you missed anything in the tutorial, this is what you should do.

Build a Goo Harvester and a Putty Harvester. These collect the other two resources.






How to attack: First, build a Hatchery (found in the "buildings" section) and select the monster "Pokey" (these cost goo). This is a monster and when you attack someone they will do damage to their buildings. But where do you put these Pokeys? It's called a housing. These can be found in the "buildings" section. You have a capacity of these housings, meaning you can only have so many Pokeys. When you have enough Pokeys on your first attack (say.. 20) then build a map room & catapult. Both can be found under the "buildings section."






Click "attack" on somebody. This will take you to somebody's yard. On the side of the screen there is an icon that shows how many Pokeys you have and a + or - sign.






Click on the + sign to add Pokeys to your attack.






Once you added your 20 Pokeys from your housing, click "fire". This sends all of your Pokeys to attack someone. They will damage their buildings, and the object of attacking someone is to destroy their town hall. (But, beware they can attack you back if you attack them)







, If you attack someone, chances are they will attack you back. So you need to build defenses, right? Well, click on the buildings section, then click the Defenses tab. Then build walls around your base for protection. (monsters can break through the wall, it just acts as a light barrier) After that, click on cannon tower and sniper tower. Put these strategically where all of your buildings are protected. This takes brains to completely protect your base, but at least you won't get destroyed by the person you attacked!

, Walls can be upgraded, so upgrade those too. Resources harvest more resources per hour when you upgrade them, as well as increase their holding capacity.
 When you upgrade this you can capture outside post who will help you with your resources. When you get it from a wild monster tribe, you will start again with the yard. When you get it from another player, you get control of all his buildings

