 It doesn't have to be too elaborate, but should be large enough that all of the ducks can hide at one time, if needed.;
, If a duck's enclosure gets too messy, or the ground that the duck walks on is abrasive to the padding on the feet, the duck can develop a condition known as bumblefoot. Bumblefoot is a bacterial infection that swells the pads of the foot and makes it very painful for the duck to stand. If left untreated, bumblefoot could eventually cause infection or even death.
 Water dishes work fine, but ducks have the habit of turning the water chalky brown or muddy just from playing around and looking for bugs like they do. The dish needs to be deep enough to fully immerse their bill.
 Without access to clean water in which the ducks can bathe and swim and immerse their entire bodies, they cannot maintain their waterproofing. Their waterproofing is essential in order for the ducks to thermoregulate (keep cool in the summer, warm in the winter) and to prevent them from drowning. The water must be clean and easy to get in and out of (a kiddie pool is fine if there is a ramp for exit/entrance, something larger that is flush with the ground is even better, but it must have a shallow grade or ramp for exiting.
 A common thought is that ducks can survive on bread, but this is untrue. Bread may be sufficient as a snack, but it lacks the proper nutrients required to keep a healthy duck. The most commonly used duck feed happens to be chicken feed or scratch from the local farm supply store. This is a good choice, and paired with greens like peas and salads, it will keep a healthy flock. Make sure the chicken feed is un-medicated, though. Mazuri, a brand of animal food producers, puts out a duck maintenance which is also an excellent choice of feeds, but it is costly. One 50 lb bag can cost in excess of $25.
 Ducks can make awesome single pets, but a lot of attention has to be poured into one to keep them happy, because they are flock animals. Two or more ducks can still be personable, but don't rely as much on the owner for attention.
 They are clowns, and will constantly be making you chuckle as they perform their wild antics!

