 Read out loud to your children even when they are infants. It will start a good habit, and your children will become accustomed to hearing stories out loud.;
, The United States Department of Education recommends reading to your children for at least 30 minutes every day.


Help your children read with you by asking them to point out pictures in the story, or by identifying letters and words they might know.
Read with your child if he or she already knows how to read. Early readers love to read out loud to people. Help with any words that are unknown and ask questions about the story when you are finished.
 Use short simple sentences before your children can read or talk. As their vocabularies grow, use more advanced words and longer sentences.
 Make sure there are plenty of children's books for your kids to read, and visit the library regularly to check out new books.


Let your kids get their own library cards or memberships. This will give them a feeling of independence, and will make checking out their own books exciting.
Spend some time at the library when you visit. Let your children use the computers and look at magazines. Feeling comfortable in the library will help them enjoy being around books and reading materials.
 Your child will begin learning how to read as soon as school is started. Keep in touch with teachers, reading specialists and other administrators about your child's development and reading skills.


Visit the classroom when you are permitted, to see how your child is doing. Volunteer to read stories to the class and participate as often as you can.
Ask about additional resources that can be used at home. Teachers may have access to good websites and other materials that will help you encourage your children to read.
Address any developmental delays immediately. Talk to your child's teacher about special programs or tutors you may be able to take advantage of. Continue to read to your child if he or she is struggling to learn the skill.
 Reading and writing skills go hand in hand. Make sure your child has paper, pencils and other writing materials available. Help him or her write words, sentences and simple stories.
 Restricting the amount of time your child spends in front of the television will give them more time for reading.

