 Seeing your crush with another guy is not a good feeling, especially if you had no idea she was with someone else already. You thought you had a chance with her and suddenly you realize that you don’t. Your first instinct might be to panic or even get angry. Getting upset is a normal reaction. You might find yourself breathing very fast or holding your breath when this happens. This can make your anxiety a lot worse, unfortunately.


Take a moment to focus on your breathing.Breathe slowly and deeply. If it helps, close your eyes for a moment.
Inhale while counting to five, then exhale while counting to five.;
, The more you look at her with someone else, the more it will hurt. It’s going to be hard, but force yourself to look away. If you don’t, you might start getting visibly upset, which will make you feel even worse. If you're staring, she might notice and get uncomfortable. Her boyfriend might also notice and get angry. You'll feel better if you focus on something else.


Pull out a book or your class notes and focus on reading.
Even if you’re too upset to read, do what you can to keep your eyes on the page.
If you’re not in class, pull out your phone and text a friend or play a game.
 This isn’t always going to be an option, but if you can, get up and leave the room. Try to do this as calmly and naturally as you can. Keep your pace normal as you head for the door. Find a quiet place where you can have a moment of privacy. Your thoughts will probably feel really negative at first. You might feel angry at yourself, or not good enough. This is normal.


For every negative thought you have, try to immediately follow it up with a positive one. For instance, you might think, “He is way more popular than me and better at sports, too. Of course she likes him over me.”
Try to counter this with a positive thought right away. You could think, “But I’m popular, too. I have lots of friends. Maybe I’m not good at sports but I’m good at other things.”

, Make sure it’s someone you trust and can be open with. Tell your friend what happened, even if you feel a little embarrassed about it.


Chances are, your friend has experienced this very same situation. It tends to happen to everyone at some point!
Talking about it with a friend can help you feel a lot better.

