 It’s an app with a gray gear, usually found on the home screen.;
, It will be grouped with your other apps.
 It’s near the top of the page.
 Snapchat will now have access to your location while you’re using the app.
 It's a gear-shaped (⚙️) app on your launch screen.
 It's in the "Device" section of the menu.
 The apps are listed in alphabetical order.
 It's near the top of the menu.
 It will turn blue-green. Now Snapchat will access your device's location to enable geospecific filters.
 It’s a yellow app with a ghost outline. This will bring you to a camera view.
 It’s at the upper left-hand corner of the screen. This will take you to the user screen.
 It's in the upper right-hand corner of the screen and will take you to Settings.
 It’s under Additional Services.
 You’ll now have access to all of Snapchat’s available filters.
 It’s the larger circle button at the bottom of the screen. The photo will be on your screen.
 This will bring you to the filter menus. Swiping right will bring up geofilters; swiping left will bring up traditional Snapchat filters.
 You'll be holding down the first filter so it stays on the photo.
 Continue to hold your first finger down on the snap while you choose another filter.


You can add up to three geofilters, timestamps, temperature icons, or colored filters.
 Tapping the larger circle button at the bottom of the screen will take a photo. The photo snap will be on your screen.
 It’s in the upper right-hand corner of the screen and looks like a piece of paper with the corner folded over.
 It’s at the bottom right-hand corner of the screen. This will bring you to the emoji menu.
 Choose an emoji that is the color you’d like for your filter. This will put the emoji in the center of your screen.


The emoji’s outer edge will end up being the filter.
,, Continue to alternate enlarging and dragging the emoji to the corner of the screen until just the outer edge is enlarged over the snap, creating a color filter from the pixelated, semi-transparent edges of the image.
 It's in the upper right-hand corner of the screen. You'll want to make sure your camera is facing the right way before applying a lens.
 This will bring up the lenses menu.
 You’ll get a preview of each lens so you can see what your snap will look like.


Some effects will prompt you to perform an action, such as raising your eyebrows.
 It’s the larger circle button at the bottom of the screen. You’ll take a photo using the lens.


To take a video with the lens, tap and hold the shutter button for up to ten seconds.
 Add any stickers, text, drawing, emojis, or filters.


You can save the snap to your device by tapping Save at the bottom left-hand corner of the screen.
 It’s at the bottom right-hand corner of the screen.

