 Love requires a significant emotional investment. While loving someone is not always a matter of choice, it may be worth taking a look at the connection you have with a given person and thinking how loving them might affect you. While this step may sound like a warning, it's actually a positive step towards loving them. If you struggle with feeling love, justifying it on a logical basis can be a positive step forward.


Refusing to be realistic about your feelings may be a sign of infatuation, so be warned.;
, Defence mechanisms may arise as a way to protect us from the possibility of loving someone. In order to love fully, you need to push past this doubt and realize that love is worth all of the risks you take in pursuing it.


Positive self-talk is a good way to get past this fear. If you are ever in doubt, don't be afraid to tell yourself aloud: "Love is worth the risk of being hurt." Living in fear is itself a form of pain. If you're able to train yourself to let go of that, you'll be much better for the long run., You have probably heard the metaphor comparing love to a drug, but as far as brain chemistry goes, that is somewhat true.When you love someone, you become addicted to their presence. If you focus on all of the good things about someone, you will become increasingly excited to see them again.


Love as an addiction should manifest itself as missing that person terribly while you're apart., This is not so often the case with love. If you truly love someone, you feel happy for their happiness, and don't let your own jealousies into the mix.
 Though your feelings towards yourself may have nothing to do with the way your perceive someone you love, the fact remains that you cannot give yourself completely over to someone unless you feel secure and stable with who you are. Loving yourself means recognizing your good qualities, and acknowledging that those are the things that define you as a person.The experience of loving yourself isn't comparable to love for another, but it is a strong step in the right direction.
 Arguably the most obvious way of showing love is through words of affirmation.This can range from anything from a simple "I love you" to a more elaborate passage about all the things you admire about the person you love. This applies to love in friendships as much as romantic arrangements.


Often, saying "I love you" says more than most anything else, if only for the fact that people have placed so much emphasis on those three words.
 Touch can be used to a wide variety of positive effects.While the benefits would seem most apparent in a romantic connection, love may be demonstrated in all types of love. Depending on the type of connection you have with someone you love, physical affection may come naturally, and it may be reciprocated in turn. Physical touch feels good, and helps promote good feelings between the both of you.Kissing and cuddling are best suited to show romantic love.
A handshake or a hug can demonstrate platonic love.
 While words go a long way, a gift is a concrete sign of your affection. Gifts can be as small or as big as you want. The important thing is that the gift was given with sincere feelings behind it. The types of gifts you might give depends on the type of love you're expressing:


Flowers are a very common gift to give to a romantic lover.
Less symbolic gifts, like concert tickets, may be given to friends or family.
 When people first begin to love, they rarely consider the long-term ramifications. It can feel amazing to love someone at first, but the greatest rewards come from a lot of persistence and effort from both sides. Once you have a strong relationship, don't get lazy; feed it every day. Whether that's through repeating the steps or exploring new ways, making love last is very important. If love was thought to be short-lived, it would never feel as powerful as it does.
 Before anything else, it is important to base your search for answers on a generally agreed-upon definition for the word love. Love may be casually described as a very strong affection for something or someone, although answers will vary from person to person.Chances are you have your own definition of love. Try to put your own definition into words.


Because love is something you feel, looking to art and music lets you feel someone else's interpretation directly. The Beatles are a great go-to in this regard, but there are great songs about love from virtually every era and style of music.
Writers and philosophers have given many different interpretations of love. You may want to seek out their opinions if you're having any doubt with your own definition., Love covers a wide variety of positive feelings for an all-encompassing range of human relationships. Think of all of the different types of connections you can foster with people. Most connections have the potential for a certain kind of love. A love you have for your parents or your children is distinct from the feelings you would have towards a lover. It is important to first consider these different types of love, and how they might ideally feel. While it could be categorized endlessly, Ancient Greek philosophers categorized love into four general categories:Eros refers to a romantic love. This is arguably the first type of love people think of when the term love is brought up.
Storge refers to a love of family and kinship.
Philia is a friendly love, also known as "Platonic love."
Agape was the Greeks' term for a "divine love", relating to spiritual matters.
Love can also be used to describe affection for an object or a concept. For instance, someone may love their car, or their country.
 However, most often this boils down to a case of infatuation. Judging infatuation as love muddles the value of love as a term. If you are thinking of romantic love, this can often refer to a confusion between love with a mostly physical attraction.


Although there is such a thing as love at first sight, it is much more likely that real love will develop gradually.
 When it all comes down to it, love is idealistic by nature. That doesn't mean it can't be a part of real life, but you do need to be realistic about what you define as love. Love can feel magical, but it's by no means fairy tale-like or perfect. You can love someone and still fight with them or dislike things about them. At the end of the day however, loving someone means the positives outweigh their negative traits, and you would go out of your way to help them out at no benefit to yourself. It is easy to idealize the notion of love, but there is real-life potential for it in virtually all of us.


Being realistic should not be confused with being jaded or cynical. Pessimism is another kind of bias. Just because it doesn't showcase things in a rose-tinted light doesn't mean it's presenting things as accurately as it should. Take the good along with the bad.
 How can you really know if you have loved before? Because love is intangible by its very nature, there is no one way of knowing for sure. Instead, take your personal definition of love and see if it matches any relationship (romantic or otherwise) you have been in. It may also help to categorize any loves you may have, be they platonic, romantic, familial or otherwise. If you know within reasonable doubt that you have indeed loved before, the act of loving someone should become more straightforward.


If you don't think you have ever loved before, it is possible your definition of love is too idealistic and strict.
If you are otherwise sure you have not loved before, the process of learning to love will entail keeping your attention focused on detecting new feelings you have not felt before, or at least a stronger degree of positive emotion than you're used to.

