 The game ending only depends on how you end the story. The puzzle-solving or actions you do during the early part won't affect the outcome of the story.


Play the game until you reach the part where Viola enters the room where the witch is, and then read her diary to trigger the final part of the game.;
, Do not forget to save the game since in this part, you will be encountering many deaths because the legless girl moves ridiculously fast.


Avoid going inside rooms, and head straight to the hallway.
Do not stop until you reach the exit of the house.
Once you successfully leave the house, you will be reunited with Viola's father. The good ending will then commence.
Spoiler: Viola’s father will ask if Viola’s all right. Then as they are about to leave, the legless girl will appear and crawl after them. She will incoherently try to communicate, but Viola's father panics and shoots the girl twice in an effort to protect his daughter. The legless girl will die in a pool of blood and vanish. Viola and her father will then leave the forest.
 In the room, right after reading the witch's diary, the legless girl will start chasing after you. Before leaving the house, retrieve Ellen's knife from the black closet in the upper-right room on the first floor, the closet that initially said “Open when the house returns to normal.”


Avoid the legless girl while doing this.
Don't go to the other rooms to avoid being cornered, and then head straight to the exit.
Just like the good ending, make sure that you have saved your file to avoid losing your progress.
 After leaving the house, approach the patch of roses. Use the little bottle to get rid of them so you can pass through. The legless girl will continue to crawl after you, leaving a trail of blood.


An event will occur, and instead of running away, Viola will finally speak to the legless girl, remarking on her stubbornness before stabbing her in the eye with the knife you retrieved earlier.
Spoilers: Viola, the character you've been using, reveals that she's the true witch, and the real Viola, whom she had befriended and convinced to switch bodies with her, is trapped in Ellen's mutilated body.
Ellen admits that she used Viola's compassion and pity to her advantage until they switched bodies, with a promise of returning it back after a day. However, Ellen refused to return it afterward.
Ellen also explains how the house guided her out the whole way and also senses that the real Viola is worried for her father. Ellen promised her that she will give him Viola's share of love.
Viola's father will show up and rush toward Ellen, mistaking her as his daughter because of her appearance. The legless girl, the real Viola, tries to call out to him, but in the state of panic, he shoots her twice in the head. The father and Ellen leave the forest after that, but Ellen can be seen giggling before exiting the frame.
 To get this ending, you must play the entire game without interacting with the black cat at all, starting from the beginning until the part where you're about to enter the witch's room.
 Once you reach the part where you're about to enter the witch's room, the black cat will greet Viola. Notice that in the regular endings, Viola will only encounter a black cat's corpse in this hallway, but since you avoided the black cat, this event will be triggered.


In a brief speech, the cat will say that it knew Viola would not need its help and that the house acknowledges its true master. The cat will then say “Ellen, my faithful witch” before lying dead on the floor.
Take note that halfway through the dialogue, the name Black Cat will change to Demon, and right after its speech, if you choose to investigate the body, it will say “The corpse of a black cat possessed by a demon.”
Spoilers: At the regular ending, when you read the witch's diary, it barely explains the truth behind Ellen's body, but in this secret ending, it will unlock more content. It goes into greater detail of the reason why Ellen's body is in its mutilated state after switching with Viola.
Ellen in Viola's body gouged her eyes and cut off her legs so that Viola in Ellen's body could not try to find help. She was also given a throat burning medicine that made her unable to speak, ensuring that she could never talk to anyone.
The rest of the ending will be identical to either the good ending and the bad truth ending, depending on the player's actions.
 This is the fourth ending of the game and wasn't written in the game-maker's readme file of the latest version. This ending will require time to trigger but is easy.


When Viola wakes up in the forest at the start of the screen, DO NOT move for 10 minutes.
When the black cat gets bored and tells you to move on, remain still. After 50 minutes without moving, the cat will leave the frame.
After an hour, you will be taken to the other screen where the patch of roses vanished. Viola can walk out from the forest and then the game will end.
To make this work, your window has to be active. Do not tab or do anything else.
If you move even a little, the simple ending won't happen.
This ending gives the players an expression that Viola is still Viola since the truth was never revealed.

