 The Weavesilk website is weavesilk.com. It's free to use, but it's not possible to access the website on mobile web browsers, and you'll have to have internet access on your computer to use it.;
, You will start off on a screen with a small example thumbnail of what can be created with Silk. Click anywhere on the screen to start up Silk. You will automatically start on a new canvas.
 In the upper left-hand corner, there will be a small rectangular menu with the words "New" and "Share", and four symbols underneath it. This is important if you want to change up the settings of your creations. There are six options on the computer version's menu. You can hover over the icons to see what they do.


The "New" button refreshes the canvas, giving you a blank canvas to draw on. You can also press Space to refresh the canvas.
The "Share" button allows you to share your creation to social media. You can post it to Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, or just send it to someone via email.
The icon with four arrows is the Fullscreen icon, and puts Silk into full-screen mode.
The camera icon is for saving photos. On the computer, clicking this will download the image you have created to the file directory of your choice.
The colored circle is the settings of your drawing, which includes the color you're drawing in.
The rounded arrow is the Undo button. You can only undo your most recent edit to the program; pressing "Undo" twice will just put what you removed back in.
 To alter the settings of what you're drawing and get different results, click on the colored circle in the menu. This will bring up a list of things you can change.


There are seven colors available to draw in - red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, and light gray (which shows up as black in the "color wheel"). You can select one color by clicking on it, or draw in multiple colors by clicking and dragging one color into another.

Dragging a color such as hot pink across to blue will give you two colors - hot pink and blue. Don't be afraid to experiment around and find the colors you like.
To reset back to one color, click the color that you dragged.



Rotational symmetry is how many "points" the program draws at a time. Having no rotational symmetry will just create one line; setting it to higher rotational symmetry will create multiple lines and permit for different creations to be made.

"Mirror across center" will enable or disable whether what you draw will be reflected across the screen. If it's set to "On", your drawing will be reflected the same way on both sides from the center of the screen; setting it to "Off" will allow for non-parallel creations.

"Spiral towards center" changes the way that the lines are drawn; as implied by the name, the lines drawn will spiral towards the center of the screen.
 To begin drawing on Silk, click and hold your mouse button, or press and hold on your mobile device. Experiment around with the settings, colors, and different motions to see what you like and what you want to save.


Every time you click, the program will draw a new pattern. This way, you can't create the same drawing twice.
 If you really like what you've created on Silk, you can share your creation to social media, or download your newly-created picture to your computer.


To share your creation, click on the "Share" button and select the social media site that you want to share your Silk drawing with. If you share it to Facebook, Twitter, or Pinterest, you'll be brought to the page of the respective social media site so you can add a caption before posting; if you choose to email it, you will be redirected to your email account and be able to choose who to send it to. You can also simply copy a link to your creation.






To save your creation, click on the "Save Photo" icon, which is the picture of the camera. A thumbnail of your image will pop up; right-click it and click "Save image as...". You'll be asked which file directory you want to save your image to - simply select the one you want and hit "OK" to save your photo.







