 If you want to deal with hair growth on your legs, allowing your hair to grow actually makes surface hair removal treatments more effective. Because the hair strands will be longer, there will be more for a shaver or razor to latch onto.


It's a good idea to shave at night rather than during the day. Shaving at night will leave your legs feeling smoother.;
, Shaving hair is arguably the most common way of removing leg hair. While it may not take hair out at the roots like waxing, it's relatively easy and pain-free to do. Purchase a quality razor from the health section at your local supermarket. Women's razors and men's razors are relatively the same. The only difference is that women's razors are designed to hug around natural curves in the body.


Electric razors are also available, but won't result in as close of a shave.
Getting cut by the razor blade indicates you may need to replace the razor. Razors are durable, but you should switch them up when they begin losing their efficiency.
 It is recommended you use shave gel when you shave. Soap and water alone will dry out the skin.Have a quick shower to moisten the body and open up your pores. Following that, lather the shaving gel over the area you're going to be shaving. It can be helpful to apply gel to a certain area and shave that before moving to other parts.
 Shave down the leg before you shave up. It's a good idea to run the razor along your skin in a gentle, smooth motion. Sudden, jerky movements or thoughtless angles can risk you accidentally cutting yourself.
 If left untreated, it can result in ingrown hairs, which are a bother to tend to. If you get nicked or burned, apply an exfoliating body scrub to the area and give your skin some care. Rub the affected area and remove dead or damaged skin flakes from the area.
 Because electric shavers can be used without first moistening the skin, they're a perfect thing to take along with you on the go.Although it won't leave your legs hairless for as long of a time, the quickness and convenience makes it a good way to deal with it if you're in a pinch for time.


Electric shavers require a degree of maintenance. Change your electric razor blade annually, assuming you're using it on a semi-frequent basis., While shaving is usually the most painless hair removal method, a shave doesn't last very long. Shaving leaves the hair follicles intact, meaning that the hair will grow back in a few days. Additionally, shaving can lead to razor burn, dry skin, bumps/nicks, and possible cuts. Ingrown hairs might form as well. Consider switching to an alternate method that removes the hair at the root.

