 Essential oils can be added to your sanitizer for fragrance alone, but the benefits of essential oils extend well beyond simply providing a pleasant scent.The oils have been used for thousands of years by cultures all over the world to provide healing effects for mental, physical, and emotional ailments.Inhalation of the different scents offers a wide range of psychological and physical benefits known as aromatherapy.Essential oils can also be used medicinally by way of both scent and physical application to provide additional health, hygiene and beauty advantages.
The use of essential oils in your hand sanitizer will not only deliver a terrific smell, but they can also address specific physical and mental health issues.
 Inhaling the scent of a particular essential oil can stimulate your brain to trigger a variety of mental and emotional reactions. By adding them to your hand sanitizer, you can have a therapeutic experience while also killing pesky germs. You can choose one oil or combine oils to create multi-layered effects. The world of aromatherapy is far too vast for a detailed examination here, but there are some specific essential oils that are most commonly employed for use in hand sanitizers.


Cinnamon essential oil has fragrance properties that can reduce drowsiness and enhance concentration.
Lavender essential oil is a rejuvenating scent that can induce relaxation and feelings of calmness.
Rosemary essential oil has properties known to boost information retention, alertness, and memory.
Lemon essential oil has an uplifting scent that can help ease depression and sadness while also boosting energy.
Peppermint essential oil is an invigorating scent that can soothe frazzled nerves and improve mental clarity., Essential oils have naturally occurring chemicals in them that can provide medicinal and curative benefits when inhaled into the lungs or applied to the skin.There are several essential oils that are known to have powerful antibacterial, antifungal and/or antiviral properties. These qualities make the oils ideal for use in hand sanitizer because they will boost the effectiveness of the product with natural ingredients.


Cinnamon essential oil is known to be a potent antiseptic and its fragrance can also decrease headache pain.
Lavender essential oil can relieve pain associated with headaches and migraines pains, and can be applied topically to relieve minor skin irritations.
Tea Tree essential oil is known to have powerful antiseptic and antibacterial properties when applied topically.Eucalyptus essential oil has antibacterial properties and can help relieve achy muscles. Inhaling it can clear sinuses and boost the immune system., Essential oils are highly concentrated and can have negative side effects if used improperly. Pregnant women and those with immune deficiencies shouldn’t use them without consulting a doctor first. If you’re new to the world of essential oils, do a skin patch test before adding it to your hand sanitizer and using it topically.


Never apply an essential oil directly to the skin without diluting it first. Because they are so concentrated, some of them can be skin irritants.When working with essential oils, use the highest grade products that you can find. Check the label for terms like “pure grade”, “aromatherapy grade”, “certified organic” and “therapeutic grade” when purchasing.
 Measure out 2/3 cup of isopropyl alcohol and 1/3 cup of plain aloe vera gel and dump both of them together in to the bowl.Add ten drops of your chosen essential oil(s). Do not exceed 10 drops! Use your spatula (or spoon) to stir vigorously until all of the ingredients are fully mixed together.

