 Since color words typically are used as adjectives, when you say the colors in Spanish they must match the gender of the thing you're describing.Generally, you would change the last "o" on a color word to an "a" if the noun is feminine. For example, if you wanted to say "the shirt is black," you would say "La camisa es negra."
If the color word ends in an "e" or a consonant, it does not change form to reflect the gender of the noun it describes. So, for example, the word azul does not change gender.
 In most cases, you must reflect the plurality of the objects you're describing by pluralizing the color word as well.For most colors, you only need to add an "s" to the end of the word to pluralize it. For example, if you wanted to say "there are two black cats," you would say "hay dos gatos negros."
For three colors, you must add an "es" to pluralize them, rather than simply an "s." These colors are azul (azules), marrón (marrónes), and gris (grises).
 Color words that naturally end in "a" do not change gender and don't have plural forms either. In other words, if you were describing a masculine noun in Spanish as being violet, you would not change "violeta" to "violeto.", If you are describing something as "the color of" the form of the color does not change at all to agree with either gender or plurality.In Spanish you would say "de color" or simply "color," as in "color negro." This phrase can be helpful if you are a beginner and are uncertain whether a particular color should change gender or be pluralized or not. Simply use this phrase in front of the color and you won't have to worry about it for the time being.
 If a color word is modified with another word, such as verde lima (lime green), it does not have to be changed to match the gender or number of the noun the phrase describes.
 In English, the color word typically comes before the word it describes in the sentence. However, in Spanish, you want to put the color word immediately after the word it describes.You may have noted this with the "orange orange" example. To say something about an orange-colored orange in Spanish, you would say "una naranja anaranjada." The word anaranjado comes last because it refers to the color, while the word naranja refers to the fruit.

