 Click the "Image" tab on the menu bar and select "Image Resize" from the drop-down menu.


Adjust the entries in the width and height fields using the corresponding up and down arrows next to each field.
Adjust the entries in the resolution field to lower or increase the resolution of the image. Notice that the preserve aspect ratio field is selected, so that the original aspect ratio will be maintained. Click "OK" when you are satisfied with your changes.;
, Locate the "Rotate Image" icon on the image adjustment toolbar, which is on the far right below the full screen view icon.


Click the "Rotate Image" on the right to rotate the image 90 degrees to the right. Click the icon again to flip the image 180 degrees. Click on the icon to the left to rotate the image 90 degrees to the left. Click the icon twice more to flip the image 180 degrees to the left.
 Photofiltre provides several automatically applied image adjustment features. Most of these features are accessible from the image adjustment toolbar and allow users to alter aspects of an image, such as the color, levels, contrast, sharpness or softness.


Apply the auto levels effect to an image by clicking the "Auto Levels" icon, located on the far left side of the image adjustment toolbar. The auto levels feature automatically adjusts the lighting and shadows of an image.
Apply the auto contrast effect to an image by clicking the "Auto Contrast" icon, located on the far left side of the image adjustment toolbar, next to the auto levels icon. The auto contrast feature automatically adjusts the balance between the brightness and the contrast of an image.
Apply the auto sharpen effect in Photofiltre by clicking on the "Auto Sharpen" icon found on the image adjustment toolbar, in between the blur and reinforce icons. The auto sharpen feature enhances the fine lines within an image, making images appear more detailed.
Apply the blur effect in Photofiltre by clicking on the "Blur" icon found on the image adjustment toolbar, just to the left of the auto sharpen icon. The blur effect softens the fine lines in an image, rendering details less noticeable.
 Click and drag over the section of the image you would like to crop. Notice how the selected area is now outlined with a flashing, broken, square or rectangular shaped box.


Resize the area by clicking and dragging on the edge of the outlined area up or down, or to the left or right. Click the "Image" tab and select "Crop" from the drop-down menu to crop your image.

