 A recent addition to Bangkok transport, the sky train was built to combat the intense traffic situation. If you are out on the street during rush hour, always opt to travel in the sky train. Covering all the major stops in the city, the sky train will take you to your destination in just a fraction of the time that you would spend of the road. The Disneyland space-agedness feeling that it provides makes your journey on the sky train just as interesting as the attractions in your destination. Your bird's eye view of the city will give you a glimpse of the many hundred vehicles crawling their way through the heaviest congestion. Breathe a sigh of relief that you are not down there! The real cherry on the top of Bangkok's sky train are the ticket prices. Cheap in price and soaring above traffic and pollution, there is absolutely no reason to not choose the sky train.;
, If you cannot fly above there is a way down below: the mass rapid transit (MRT), Bangkok's subway system. This subway is pretty much an underground version of the Sky train. In fact, it reaches a number of regions in the city that the sky train does not. There are stations located everywhere and several can be found in close proximity to a number of Bangkok Serviced Apartments as well the famous Anantara Baan Rajprasong Bangkok Serviced Suites. Again the biggest blessing of the MRT is evading the heavy traffic overhead. Since prices for the MRT are just as cheap as the sky train, it is again another sensible option during Bangkok's rush hour.
 Covering the whole Western Edge of the city, this is an excellent mode of transportation to truly appreciate the authentic Bangkok atmosphere. The breeze is heavenly, the water is sparkling, the backdrop is picturesque and the price is dirt cheap.
 These three-wheeled rickshaws are perfect for evading traffic as they somehow manage to squeeze their way from one lane to another, getting you to where you want to go. Tuk-tuks come in handy when you have arrived at your stop via Sky Train or MTS and still have substantial distance to cover within the region. Fortunately or unfortunately, tuk-tuks have little regard for traffic rules and hence it does not hurt their conscience to jump lines and disregard cues. While this can make for a scary or dangerous ride, it will get you where you're going, and fast.
 This is the fastest and perhaps the most exciting way to get around the busy streets of Bangkok. Clad in orange and purple vests, these taxi drivers are readily available to whisk you to your destination. Able to literally squeeze their way through the nastiest traffic jams, this can be a huge help during Bangkok's rush hour.

