 Choosing a bra that you've had in your drawer for the past five years is probably not the best idea. It could be ill-fitting, damaged, or falling apart—there’s a reason why it stayed in your drawer for so long.The band on your new bra should fit properly on the last clasp so that you can tighten it as your bra stretches over time. The straps should feel comfortable and not like they are digging or pinching at your skin.Make sure there are no lumps or bulges.






If you haven’t been measured by a professional, do so right away. You can usually do so for free at your local department store.






Not only do regular bras work, but so do sports bras which some women prefer because they tend to be more comfortable and offer more support.






Negative effects of poorly fitting bras include clogged ducts or mastitis, which results in swollen, painful breasts that require antibiotic treatment.;
, There are only a few supplies required including thread that is the same color as the bra, nursing clips, elastic, sewing needles, and scissors.If you don’t have thread at home, any local fabric shop or store will have it.
As for elastic, plush elastic is recommended as it has a soft plush finish that is made for being in direct contact with the body.Nursing clips can also be purchased at a fabric store or online.
 On the front of the bra, cut about an inch above the seam where the strap and the cups meet. Make sure the fabric is pulled taut to make cutting easier.


Avoid using dull scissors. Opt for fabric scissors that you can find at your local crafts store.
Cut on a hard, flat surface like a table. Cutting on soft or uneven surfaces can result in inaccurate cutting.
Don’t cringe at the thought of cutting up an expensive bra. In order to make this conversion work for you, you have to use something that is well-made and of good quality.
 It is important to do this well in order to ensure your clasps are even and secure. Sew the bottom clasp to the end of the bra strap closest to the cup, and sew the top clasp onto the strap that goes over your shoulder.


Feel free to use your preferred stitch—satin or zig zag will do the trick. For those who aren't adept in sewing, a simple running stitch will work best.






For a running stitch, weave the needle in and out of the fabric to create a "dashed" look.The stitches should be approximately 1/8th of an inch.Remember, the only person who will be close enough to see stitching irregularities is your nursing baby so don't get bogged down with the type of stitching. Just make sure it is secure.Make sure to double check the clasps before sewing into place to ensure they aren't upside down or backwards.






Repeat the same process on the other bra strap.






When done sewing all four clasps, check to make sure they fit together and connect without issue.
 Cut a piece of elastic that is long enough to extend from the bottom of the cup to the top clasp. This will be sewn in to keep your bra strap from falling behind your back during nursing.This step is optional. Other women find that tucking their strap into their shirt works just fine.


Measure a piece of elastic that stretches from the top clasp to the bottom of the cup. Cut using a sharp pair of fabric scissors.






Pull your piece of elastic through the clip attached to the longer piece of the strap and sew into place using a running stitch.






Sew the bottom of the elastic piece to the bottom of the bra cup using a running stitch. Make sure to leave a little bit of slack.






Repeat the process on the other strap and cup.
 Put on your bra to ensure a proper fit and to ensure the clasps are working properly. Your bra should not be too tight, should not pinch your skin, and the straps should not fall down on their own. You should be able to unclasp one side and pull down the cup to expose one breast at a time.

