

Buy a map or a trail guide. The best place to find these is a good outdoor outfitter.
Choose a trail or a woods road that is marked on a US Geological Survey map or a trail map.
Calculate how long you will need to cover the distance you want to cover. A good rule of thumb for all weather, terrain, and conditions is 1 mile (1.6 km) an hour. In winter, progress will be even slower than this.;
, Dress properly for the predicted conditions. The woods will feel colder than civilization.

Take a wool or fleece sweater if the temperature will dip below 68 degrees F.
Carry a raincoat in a small backpack. It can come in handy as a ground cloth if you sit down for a period.
Very stormy day? Stay home and go another time.
Light rain? Walking with an umbrella works well as long as it's not windy.
Be prepared to remove or add layers as you go or stop to rest.
 Consider bringing:

A compass, if you know how to use it.
A good understanding of where north, south, east, and west are by the sun-- almost as good as a compass.
Cell phone. Be aware that reception could be poor. And do not fall into the idea that if you get lost, a quick call will bring rescuers out very quickly. Most local rescue groups will come to you as fast as they can, but you might be waiting for a while, even hours, depending on where you are. The cell phone is a backup.
A basic first-aid kit that includes bandages, painkiller, Benadryl, and an ace bandage.
A flashlight. You probably won't need it. However, if you miscalculate with time, or turn your ankle and are getting out of the woods more slowly than you intended, the sun will go down, and the flashlight will be a giant help.
A snack and a bottle of water.
A whistle and a pocket knife with scissors. You probably won't use either one on a walk of a few hours. But if you need to communicate quickly, or if you need to cut first-aid tape or moleskin in your kit, the knife will be very helpful.
Bring matches or fire starter. Most people never need these, but in an emergency, knowing how to build a fire is a useful skill.
 Maybe even a Plan C or D. Walking alone in the woods means you can go at your own pace, you can be quiet and get a lot of thinking done, and you are responsible only for yourself. But with this comes the necessity of being flexible. You might not be feeling peppy that day. Or the weather changes. Or your boss calls and says get into the office.

If the weather turns bad before you start walking, Plan B is: go another day. The woods will be there later.
If you plan to walk out to a point and then turn around, decide ahead of time what time you want to be finished with your walk, and turn around roughly halfway through the time you have available. So let's say your progress is slower than you thought. Plan C: turn around sooner. Of course, adjust plans for terrain. If the walk in goes up a hill or mountain, the hike out likely will take less time--although that's not always the case. Consult a trail guide for a description of the paths you are taking.
If you plan to walk in a loop on established back roads, multi-use trails or narrow paths, take a guidebook with you and note the landmarks. If you feel the ground isn't looking the way you expected and you're not sure about the rest of the route, go to an alternate plan. Turn around and retrace your steps.
Do not continue if you lose the path. Turn around and go back to the last place where the path was marked. Most woods paths are marked with colored markers on trees or painted blazes. Intersections often will be marked with signs or more painted markers.
 Tell them when you intend to be out of the woods, and tell them where you parked your vehicle. If you don't come out when they expect you, they can call for help. This kind of thing happens rarely, but it does happen. Some people who get lost or hurt or worse would have been safe if they'd left their plans with  someone who could send for help soon after you don't show up.