 When you go shopping, it can be tempting to blow most of your cash on trendy items. However, those same items may be out of style next fall. Instead, spend the majority of what you do have on items that are stylish, yet not so trendy that they'll quickly go out of style.For instance, some things never go out of style, like a wool pencil skirt. Stick to quality items made from long-lasting materials, like wool. They may cost a bit more this year, but they'll last longer than more cheaply made items.
When thinking about what constitutes a staple for you, think about where you spend the most time. For instance, if you spend more time at a professional job, your staples might include professional skirts or suits. If you work from home, your staples will be much more casual.;
, While you do want higher quality items, you can find these items at discount stores that specialize in selling the remainders of items, such as Ross Dress for Less or TJ Maxx. You can find high quality clothing that won't break the bank.
 While shopping online can be risky as far as getting clothes that fit, if you know your sizes in certain brands, shopping online can save you money. You can compare prices at different stores to see which one will save you the most money. However, don't forget to add in shipping costs, as those can add up quickly., Of course, you'll find a lot of junk at thrift stores. However, among all the junk, you'll also find some high quality pieces for a steal. You can even find high-end brands if you search regularly. Look for closely woven, long-lasting fabric, such as wool or linen., While you may not want to buy this year's fall trends at end-of-season sales, you can find solid staples for a lot less than you'd pay at the beginning of fall. This year's trends may not be in style next year, but the staples will., Sometimes, you can find better deals in another section of the store, such as in the men's section if you're a woman. You may even find deals in the children's section if you're petite. You can still get solid staples, but they may be a lot less, depending on where you shop., That is, just because a piece of clothing is seasonal, that doesn't mean you should buy it. When trying on items, consider your comfort level with it. Ask yourself if you'll actually get it out and wear it. If you won't, there's no sense in buying it., One way to incorporate trends inexpensively is to use accessories to give a nod to what's trendy. For instance, if plaids are in season, purchase a plaid scarf to add to your wardrobe, rather than a coat or blouse, as the scarf will likely cost you less., Most stores are going to put their more expensive pieces up front, so you'll see them as soon as you walk in and want to buy them. However, if you walk past them, you'll likely find better deals in the back, particularly on the clearance rack., While it can be tempting to keep hitting the stores, sticking to one shopping trip each season can actually save you money. That is, when you spread out your shopping, you'll likely spend more than you intend, while when you limit yourself to one major shopping trip each season, you may find it easier to stay under budget., If you have an old blouse or dress that you feel like has become a bit boring, try jazzing it up a bit. A brooch or a new pair of cuff links may be all you need. Try something with a bit of sparkle, or for a more fall-like flair, try a leather pieces in jewel tones. Pin it on anywhere you like, but try pinning it in a central location on v-neck or over to the side on other types of shirts., A belt is also a great way to refresh a piece of clothing that's been in your closet a while. Try throwing a leather belt over a long sweater, for instance, or use one to add visual interest to a fall-style poncho. You can also use a rustic leather belt with a pair of wool pants to give them a fall flair., Sometimes, all it takes to give your wardrobe a new look is to try new combinations you haven't put together before. Get out all your fall clothes, and try different tops with different bottoms. Add different accessories, or throw in a different scarf. You'd surprised how different your wardrobe can look with just a few changes., One trend that stays in fashion is making your jeans your own. If you're tired of looking at the same pair of jeans, try changing them up by adding slashes along the knee. Another option is to use patches to create a look that's singularly yours. Plus, patches can mend minor holes that may have kept you from wearing some jeans.You don't need to limit this technique to jeans. For instance, you can cut off the bottom of a sweatshirt to create a cropped sweatshirt., Get together with a group of friends to swap clothes. You may be tired of a sweater, but your friend may find it's their new favorite piece. The best part is, it's free for everyone involved, and you all get new clothes.You may want to lay a few ground rules, such as how many pieces each person is required to bring. You may also want to be sure that everyone has someone to swap with, size-wise, or try limiting it to accessories only.
Another option is to borrow items from friends, while you loan other pieces. You still get to try new pieces, but you don't have to give up ones you love permanently. The fall is a great time to exchange pieces like sweaters and scarves.