 Several major airlines have drastically reduced business-class fares by more than 50 percent. While business class fares may not be cheap, you can still search the Internet for available discounts. Avoid as far as possible peak business travel days like Monday and Friday. Add a Saturday night stay to reduce the fare further.;
, Always use the term 'lowest fare' when doing an airfare search online. Contact your travel agent to see if they improve on your online quote. Also use a specialist business class / first class consolidator who will have access to many unpublished airfares not available elsewhere.
 You can sign up for a premium credit card because premium credit cards generally offer two-for-one specials on airline tickets in business class. Opt for a credit card associated with your preferred airline. Alternately, visit your preferred credit card company and sign up for a premium card associated with an airline.
 A Y-Up is the airline industry's top guarded secret. They are priced like a coach ticket but you will invariably be seated in business class. Insist on Y-Ups fare particularly if you are traveling at the last minute. But remember that Y-Up fares are only available for North American flights.


If you are on European or Asian travel, then look for Z-fare. They are less common, but sometimes you can get a discounted business-class fare by asking for the Z-fare. You will particularly succeed in the month of December as also during the summer season. You'll have to ask the airline through a ticket agent.
 Before trying other means first seek to upgrade your economy fare ticket to business class. If you have already purchased a ticket, then ask the travel agent to upgrade it to business class.
 Always make it a point to book your flight ticket on a less-known airline. For instance, if you are flying transatlantic, from New York to London, consider flying on Iceland Air. Quite often, these airlines undercut the fares of larger airlines.
 Shopping at the preferred stores will earn you 2 to 4 miles (3.2 to 6.4 km) per dollar spent Assuming you spend 1,000 dollars a month, you can earn up to 3,000 miles (4,800 km) just by going through their websites. The products cost the same. Do all your shopping through the airline malls simply to enjoy the benefits of the extra miles.

