 When you log in to your Skype account, contacts that are currently online and available will have a green checkmark next to their username in the contacts list. Windows versions of Skype typically default to showing all your contacts upon login. Find the list along the left side of the Skype window, in a sidebar, with your online contacts automatically at the top of this list.


On Skype for Mac, your view upon login depends on the screen you were showing when you last logged out. To view your contacts, click "Contacts" along the left sidebar. Online contacts who are available to chat will have both a green checkmark and a status which reads "Online" next to their name.;
, Skype also lets you adjust your view of your contacts list. You can view all your contacts at once ("All") or only those who are currently online ("Online"). If you've linked other accounts or address books (e.g. Facebook) these will also appear as viewing options. On Skype for Windows access these options by looking for a small dropdown menu (by default set to "All") under your Contacts menu but above the actual list of names.


On Mac versions, adjusting the list is accomplished by choosing one of the same options along the top of the main window.
Contacts in Skype may also be logged in but inactive. This is indicated by a yellow clock icon. They will be included in online lists and are reachable, however the icon indicates that they have been inactive on Skype for an extended period of time.
 Skype offers a simple way to search for by linking with your Facebook account. On the home screen of the application just click "find Facebook friends" and then sign into your account. This connects your two accounts and will make suggestions for Facebook friends who also have Skype accounts.


On some Windows versions, this option is accessible via the contacts dropdown by clicking "Facebook"
After recommendations are made, you still must make a request and have it accepted before they are added to your contact list and before you can see if they are online or not.
 Mac versions of Skype automatically sync with address book contacts from your computer. Other versions offer the option to import your computer's address book from within the "Contact" file menu. To send a contact request to friends from the list simply click the green plus icon next to their name. To see what options you have for any given contact on this list simply hover over the username. Depending on their account status and your own connection you may be able to call, text, or video chat them.
You still must request a connection via Skype and the other user must approve your request before they are added to your official contacts list or their online status is visible to you.
For friends in your address book who don't have a Skype account, it is still possible to call or SMS text them from Skype, but note that charges may apply.
 if you have a friend's phone number and would like to store them as a Skype contact simply type it into a new contact record. The fields for a new contact will be accessible from within the "Add Contact" page.
 A 2015 addition to Skype is the ability to begin chatting with friends regardless of whether they have a Skype account or the Skype software downloaded on their computer. Simply send them the invite link to your conversation by copying the link to an email.