 If you aren’t already using a paper tray, you’re missing out on both crucial desk space and an invaluable organizing tool. Paper trays feature multiple tiers that you can use to divide up your incoming, outgoing and in-progress documents, which will greatly streamline your workflow. This means you’ll never have to dig through a stack of disordered papers ever again.Consider implementing two separate trays: one for current work and one for files you don’t need but haven’t yet archived.
You can also use a paper tray to sort and respond to unanswered mail that’s been piling up.
 Papers that you don’t need on a daily basis can be ordered, stapled or put in manila folders and tucked away in labelled storage boxes. You can then find a place for these boxes around your desk or office, or in your company’s specified document storage facility.Storage boxes will protect important documents from damage, spills and accidentally being misplaced or thrown out.
Make sure all boxes are properly labelled and filed systematically.
 To prevent loose pens, pencils and highlighters from going missing on the bottom of the junk drawer, bunch them up and group them together in a tray or cup organizer. Make a home for the organizer somewhere on your desktop so that you’ll always have a writing utensil handy.Throw away any utensils that are broken, dried out or don’t have a cap.
Don’t forget to keep a few backup packs of pens and markers in a bottom drawer in case you run out.
 You can use a simple cork bulletin board to tack up notices, stick up Post-It reminders and keep urgent documents in plain sight. If you have an office to yourself, mount the bulletin board on the wall somewhere visible. If you work in a shared space, try rigging it to a cubicle divider or even the side of the desk.Bulletin boards are extremely space-effective, as they allow you to remove objects from your desk entirely.Posting personal photos or decorations on the bulletin board will free up space on your desktop for more essential items.

