 If you're constantly around your former flame, you won't be able to step back and actually get some perspective on what went wrong. Though you don't have to ignore him, you shouldn't call him, go out of your way to talk to him, or even Facebook him right after your relationship ends. It's time to be alone for a while, even if that means not going to a party if you'll know he'll be there at first.


Once you're away from the guy, you'll have a less biased perspective about how you really feel and what you loved so much about the relationship.
If you're away from him, he'll start thinking about where you are. You'll already make him want you more just by pulling away.;
, Before you can try to make things right, you need to be honest about what went wrong in the relationship. Take some time to do some soul-searching and ask yourself what ended the relationship. Where you too moody, too distant, or too flirtatious with others? Think about what you can do to change the dynamic.


You should only try to win him back if you think you can make things different next time. If you ultimately broke up because you were incompatible and just couldn't make things work, then it'll be harder to win your man back than if it was just because you didn't make enough time for him.
Make a list of all the things that went wrong, and highlight the things you can control.
Ask if you were just going through a difficult time in your life or dealing with a major change. You may be more ready for a relationship if you feel more stable and positive.
 Once you've figured out what you may have done wrong in the relationship, resist the urge to call the ex and show off your new found self-realization. Actions speak louder than words. Just be the new improved self, and word will spread.


If the relationship ended because you were too clingy, work on not being so attached to him. Play it cool and he'll see that you're a new person.
If the relationship ended because you didn't give him enough attention, start making him feel special. Tell him he looks nice and that you're happy to see him.
If the relationship ended because you spent too much time flirting with other guys, don't let him see you with other guys too much or he'll be reminded of why things didn't work out.

