 In order for your club to be successful, it should be based on a subject that you and your sister are passionate about. If you're interested in gaining a few members, it may be best to select a topic that you know others can relate to. For instance, if you both love baseball and know that there are other fans in your school, you could start a baseball-themed club. Note that you may have to make compromises, as you and your sister may have different desires. For example, if you want a cat club while your sister is interested in a dog club, mix the two ideas together and form an animal club.


There are a variety of subjects out there that would make a good theme for your club. Examples are arts and crafts, astronomy, books (or a specific book club), singing, baking, and so on.;
, Once you have decided what your club will focus on, it's time to choose a name. Rather than picking a popular name, you and your sister should come up with a unique one that will grab people's attention. It may take a while for you both to come to an agreement, so write down all your ideas and see which ones you like best. You can also create a motto or slogan together, making sure that it's catchy enough to stay in people's memory once they hear it. For inspiration, do research on popular clubs and see what makes their name special.


If you and your sister have trouble agreeing on a name, you could try to combine both of your ideas together.
 Find a place where both you and your sister can hold meetings, ensuring that it's big enough for both of you. Make sure that it doesn't have too much traffic and that you have permission to use it. Examples are a spacious closet, your basement, the dining room, or even your room. If you're planning on recruiting members, it would be wise to find a suitable place that accommodates everyone. If you cannot find an area that's large enough, you may want to consider holding your meetings outdoors, although you should keep an eye on the weather.


You could also get permission to hold your club at school in an empty classroom. The club meetings could occur during lunch or after school hours.
 Make sure that your decorations match the theme that you've picked. You can go to the store and purchase inexpensive supplies - such as banners and stickers - or you could create them on your own by printing out images or drawing. Use your imagination, but make sure to include your sister's ideas as well. Before decorating the clubhouse, be sure that you have permission to do so.
 If you want others participating in your club, the best place to find potential members is your school or neighborhood. Ask your friends, neighbors, and classmates if they want to join your club. Since your club is new, it may be best to only accept a few members at a time so that you don't have to deal with too many people. Expect that not everyone will be interested, and be polite if they reject your invitation. They may want to join in the future, so it's important that you appear kind and welcoming to them.


Be accepting and kind. Allow people to join your club, despite their age or social status. Unless if they are a threat to others (ex: a bully), you should be warm to everyone and not judge them at a first glance. This will help boost your club's reputation and encourage more members to come.
As your club grows, you can invite more people to join your club. However, in the beginning, it's best to start small and figure out whether running a club is really what you want to do.
Gather your members' contact information, including phone numbers or email addresses. That way, you can update them on any cancelled or upcoming meetings. You can also ask them necessary questions, such as whether they'll be able to bring certain supplies or if they have any allergies.
 It's important that every club have a leader who will make important decisions for the benefit of the club and its members. If you and your sister are planning to be the presidents of the club, make sure that you split the leadership role equally. You both should have the same amount of power, and be sure that you talk with one another before making major decisions. However, if you plan on having someone else be the president, make sure that you select candidates who have good traits and the potential to help the club succeed. You should allow your members to cast in their votes before giving the role to someone.


Be sure to listen to the members' ideas and opinions. Remember that you may need to make compromises in order to satisfy everyone.
 It's best to have rules posted in the club to make sure that everyone behaves well. Have a discussion with your sister before writing necessary rules, making sure to cover important topics (ex: Will cursing be permitted? What happens to members who are consistently late to meetings?). Do your best to have as little as possible so that people don't feel like their freedom is restricted. The purpose of the rules is to keep everyone safe and happy, not to show your authority and power over your members. Remember to be fair.


As time goes on, you may find that you need to add a few more rules. Don't hesitate to do so if the need arises, but be sure to inform members of the new changes.
You may need to decide on consequences for those who continue breaking the rules. For instance, if someone disobeys a rule, they may receive a warning. However, after three strikes, they might be temporarily banned from the club.
 Once you have a few members, ask for their schedules and see what times they are available. Then, you and your sister can decide on the frequency and duration of your meetings. Meeting once or twice a week for about thirty minutes to an hour is an ideal amount of time. You should also plan out what will occur during the meetings. It's best to have activities and discussions planned ahead of time in order to keep your members' interest. If they find that the meetings are poorly planned and boring, they may refuse to come and waste their time.


Using a planner or a calendar, write down the activities you and your sister want to do during each meeting, making sure that your members will like them as well. That way, you have time to gather any necessary supplies and set them out for your members.
The day before every meeting, send out texts or emails to your members, reminding them to come if they wish. This will prevent them from forgetting.
 Snacks and drinks are a necessity, as they'll keep your members satisfied and prevent them from leaving early because of hunger or thirst. Talk with your members and assign them certain dates when they'll have to bring food to the club. At the end of every meeting, remind them who is providing snacks at the next meeting so that they don't forget. Be sure to take everyone's allergies and preferences into account so that you don't upset or harm someone.
 Once you have had plenty of meetings, you may be able to tell which members are dedicated to the club. There will be those who come to almost every meeting and others who might not take it as seriously. You can give trusted members roles to play so that they feel important in the club. For instance, one of them could be in charge of making sure people bring snacks. Another person could be a secretary, who takes attendance during meetings and performs other tasks. Be sure that the roles you give members not only make them feel important but also benefit your club.
 Running a club can be difficult, especially since planning may require much time and patience. It can be easy to slack off and give into laziness, but if you really want your club to be successful, you and your sister should try to stay on top of tasks. Work together and help each other stay focused. It may help to ask trusted members for their assistance and perhaps assign them certain tasks, such as searching for new activities on the Internet.

