 They feel great, and your boyfriend will notice the difference in the way you look and feel. It's a good idea to make the hands and feet match if you use nail polish. After all, you want to make yourself a consistent, impressive visual package.


You can moisturize and manicure your hands at home if your budget's a concern. It can take some time to perfect your skills, but saves lots of money in the long run.
 The kind of wardrobe you're wearing shouldn't be completely different from what you're comfortable with, but aiming for suggestive colours can say something on its own.
 A great deal of sex appeal has to do with what someone is wearing. What you wear in particular will have a lot to do with your personal sense of style. As a general rule however, you should try to find clothing that showcases the natural shape of your body. It's not the clothes your boyfriend's interested in; it's what's underneath that counts.


You don't need to dress so provocatively to get a reaction out of someone. Something casual can usually do the trick. It's how you wear it that counts.
 Nothing changes the frame of someone's face like new hair. A new hairstyle has the ability to transform someone's look. Certain hairstyles fit different types of head better than others, but you r best bet is to pick a style that suits your personality and personal tastes. Look at some of the latest trends in hair.Although you shouldn't try to follow fashion unless it matches your own aesthetic, it can be a helpful refresher if you're not sure how you want to reinvent your look. Ask a hairdresser for her advice if you're stumped.


As a general rule, you want your hair to compliment the shape of your face. If your face is boxy, you may want a wavier hairstyle to even it out. On the other hand, if your hair is round, a short cute style can add height to your face.If you're trying to look hot for your boyfriend specifically, it might help to ask him his advice. While you're not doing this purely for him, a second opinion always helps.
 Perfumes and fragrances are a healthy bonus if you want to be really hot. Smell is an underrated way to arouse someone's senses. Although your boyfriend is probably already very attracted to your natural smell, a perfume can attract his scent closer to you. There are lots of different perfumes available, and many of them can be quite expensive.You should go to a makeup counter at a department store or beauty shop and try out a few scents before settling on one in particular.


Perfumes can be tricky, especially if you're wearing them to attract a man. Keep in mind that men and women interpret smells differently. A smell you love might turn him off. If there's any doubt, you should ask him beforehand.
 Eye makeup is arguably the most important cosmetic trick you can do to transform the way someone sees you. Your boyfriend is going to be looking into your eyes most of the time the two of you are spending time together, so it makes sense to capitalize on this opportunity.Try using a bold mascara and an eyeshadow that blends in with your natural skintone. Trying a new makeup look will have your boyfriend looking at you in a new light.


More colourful eyeshadows can make a playful touch. They're not recommended for casual days or nights out, but they can be fun when done once in a while.
Slightly smudged black eyeliner is a great sexy look.White eyeliner underneath the eyelid can make you look more awake and intense.
 Lip gloss and lipstick are such common things to use as part of someone's makeup wardrobe that they're easy to take for granted. However, just as with the eyes, you can recreate the look of your face through choosing a different type or style of lipstick. Try using a bolder shade of lipstick than the one you currently use. A lip pencil around the perimeter of your lips can highlight them and attract attention. Remember, lips are one of the most sensual parts of the face and body, and if you want to look as hot as possible, it wouldn't make sense not to give your lips some extra love.


If you want to make your lips look bigger, you can draw lipstick over an area that's just slightly bigger than your lips themselves. This will plump up the look of your lips. Be careful not to go overboard however, as this will make you look very silly.

