 Teasing that is good-natured, and does not degrade or criticize, can help a guy feel self-conscious is a positive way.When you tease someone, you are trying to provoke a response - such as blushing - by commenting on the other person's appearance or personality. Teasing can be verbal or non-verbal, and is followed-up by indicator that lets the other person know your are being playful and are not serious. Good examples of how to tease in a way that is friendly and flirtatious, and not pushy or insensitive, include:


Pretend his hair is messy and playfully offer to smooth it down or stroke it out of his eyes.
Use an adjective like sweet, adorable, or lovable to describe his personality or what he is wearing.
Say the color of his shirt is so last year and then follow it up with "just kidding!". After a pause, tell him how much you like his outfit.
There is a fine line between teasing and bullying, and some people are more sensitive than others. If they react negatively, apologize immediately. Do not say something like "I was only teasing" or "Can't you take a joke?"., Whisper about something special that you two share, like an inside joke or a common interest. Unless you are already comfortable around one another, do not actually cup your hand around his ear, but simply lean in and tell him something quietly. If he's interested in you, the intimacy of a whisper could cause him to blush.
 Smiling and winking might sound old fashioned and cliché, but it is endearing will probably make him blush. You can do it jokingly, by smiling and giving him an exaggerated wink. If he's interested, he might even smile and wink back.
 When most people think of pick-up lines, they usually respond by rolling their eyes. However, using a humorous pick-up line is a great way to get someone to laugh and make them blush.Avoid pick-up lines that are shallow, offensive, or only offer empty compliments such as "Hey baby, did it hurt when you fell from heaven?".Instead, choose one that is direct or innocuous.Here are some examples of "tasteful" and funny pick-up lines:


"How much does a polar bear weigh? Enough to break the ice, hi I'm (say your name)!"
"I saw you across the room/on the bus/in the store and I had to meet you. What's your name?"
Find a cheesy pick-up line that reflects his interests, such as science or literature.