 Perhaps the most important message you want to get across when discussing your divorce is that you still love and care for your children, even if you are the one who is leaving or moving away. Keep repeating that you love them and nothing that happens between Mom and Dad will change that., Children may unintentionally try to shoulder the blame of their parent’s divorce, even if they don’t come out and say it. Let them know that the reason for the divorce has nothing to do with them. Reinforce the fact that they are not the problem and that the decision is made because Mom and Dad aren’t getting along., Even though the decision to get a divorce is up to the parents, you should be willing to listen as your kids share their frustrations. They may cry, shout, or run away to their rooms. Anticipate a variety of reactions.Encourage them to express how they feel by gently saying things like, "It's okay to cry, but we want you to talk to us about how you are feeling inside - what you are thinking about."

, When your child shares their feelings, try your best to listen to what they are saying and acknowledge their feelings. Supporting them in this way reinforces the parent-child bond and lets them know that, although things are changing, you are still there for them.You might say things like, “I know you’re upset, sweetheart. I’m here for you.”

, Involving the child in an adult disagreement only adds confusion and distress, which may end up backfiring on you later. Both parents should agree to keep the kids out of the nasty aspects of the divorce, such as arguing or name-calling.No matter how upset you may be about the divorce, you are there as a source of comfort for your child—not the other way around. Don’t confide in them or try to “win” them over by assassinating your ex’s character.
 If you are caught in the middle of a vicious custody battle, parents may search for ammunition against the other. It puts children in a difficult position to be told to lie for, spy on, or tell one parent what the other is doing. Leave your children out of it.