 Whether you adopt through an adoption event, a foster to adopt program, a shelter, or a humane society, you’ll need to complete some paperwork. The adoption application provides the dog’s current caretaker with information about you, including personal information (your name, address, and phone number) and a questionnaire that helps the caretaker determine if you’re a good candidate for a given animal. The questionnaire includes questions like:Have you owned dogs before?
Why do you want to adopt this dog?
Who will care for your pet when you’re away from home?
Will the animal live indoors most of the time?

, You should have a dog bowl, dog food, collars, leashes, and ID tags for your dog before bringing it home. You should also have a crate and/or dog bed, and some toys for your new dog to play with.The best water and food bowls will be made of ceramic since they’re heavy and slide about less easily than flimsy plastic and tin dog food bowls.
 Remove hazardous items that your dog might hurt itself on from your floor. For instance, pick up any scissors, knives, or nails that might be laying about. Talk to your family members or housemates about what they can do to ensure the newly-adopted dog feel comfortable and happy.Assign responsibilities to your family members regarding the dog, such as letting it out, playing with it, and walking it.
Set the dog’s food and water bowls, crate, and bed in their appropriate locations.
 If you have cats, other dogs, or other pets, ensure they are healthy and up-to-date on their vaccines and shots. This will ensure that your new, adopted dog does not contract any illnesses from the animals already living in your home., Before you pick up your adopted dog, decide where in the car you’re going to put it. If you put it in a crate while driving home, ensure you have enough space in your car to place the crate. If your newly adopted dog will going to its new home without a crate, ensure you bring someone along to help the dog so it doesn’t get scared or stressed during the car ride. Head straight home, without stopping en route.You might want to put your dog on a towel or two in case it gets sick or urinates.
 When your newly adopted dog is in its new home, it will need time to adjust. Give it a few days to get the lay of the land. You should start walking your dog around the block, but don’t take it for any long car trips or vacations just yet. Too many trips in a short time can be disorienting and stressful.Use this initial period to establish patterns regarding housetraining. Even dogs who were fostered and housetrained will need to learn the protocol regarding how to “ask” to go out in your home. Take your dog out regularly after it eats, before bed, and first thing in the morning until it knows where the door leading to it’s bathroom territory is.
Walks should last 5-10 minutes until you know more about your dog’s behavior.
 Both your newly adopted dog and your family will need time to adjust to the dog’s presence. Be patient and allow the bond between you/your family and your dog to develop.Adopted dogs, especially, might show aggressive tendencies for the first few days. It might also be shy or anxious. Give your dog time to adjust to you and your other family members.If your dog doesn’t seem to be adjusting well to you, your family, and its new home, think about investing in obedience lessons. Obedience lessons are often available at “puppy kindergartens” or “dog finishing schools.” To locate one in your area, ask your vet for a recommendation, or consult your yellow pages.

