 You don't have to use everything from this section. Take a look at your puppet, and decide what character you want it to be. Pick some ideas from the list before, or make up your own decorations!

, Fold a pipe cleaner in half. Fold a piece of felt around the pipe cleaner, then secure it with glue. Trim the felt down so that it is the same length as the pipe cleaner, plus 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Cut one end of the arm into a hand shape, then glue the other end to the puppet.









Repeat this step to make the other arm.
 Wrap some yarn around your hand (short) or a book (long). Slide it off and cut apart the loops on one end. Tie a piece of yarn around the middle to hold it all together. Glue this to the top of the head, right above the eyes.








The more times you wrap, the thicker the hair will be. Wrap it at least 10 times.
You can use a similar technique to give your puppet a mustache!
Leave the hair down or cut it. You can also braid it or put it into pigtails.
You can also make hair out of pipe cleaners or cut shapes out of felt.
 Glue two large pompoms to the top of your puppet's head. The pompoms can be as close together or as far apart as you want. Next, glue a googly eye to the front of each pompom (not the top).
 Here is where you can get really creative! All you need is a fabric marker or a permanent marker. Try one of the ideas from below:









Draw eyelashes if it's girl puppet.
Draw freckles or a beauty mark under the eyes.
Add some thick eyebrows or a mustache.
Outline the puppet's mouth in red for lipstick.
 These can add lots of character to your puppet. All you need are some pipe cleaners, buttons, glue, and extra felt. Below are some ideas to get you started:









Cut a bow or tie out of felt, then glue it to the puppet.
Make a pair of glasses out of pipe cleaners.
Glue fancy buttons to either side of the puppet's head for earrings.
Make a bow out of ribbon, then glue it to the top of the puppet's head.
 Sock puppets look silly enough on their own. You can make yours even sillier by turning it into a monster. Try one of these ideas:









Glue pompoms all over its body to make warts.
Cut triangles out of felt or craft foam to make spikes.
Give it some teeth or fangs. White craft form works the best for this.
Make some horns for it out of craft foam or pipe cleaners.

