 You can get one at any clothing or department store, such as a men's shoe store. If you want to go vintage, check out a second hand store. You can start with just one belt to make sure that this is the right look for you.;
, If you are only going to start with one belt, get one that is versatile and will go with all your clothes. That means a simple leather strap, either black or dark brown, with a simple buckle. You can always buy another belt down the road and you will need to anyway as you grow.
 Try a belt on right over your pants, or through the loops if you can, with your shirt tucked in. A belt will have a buckle with a silver stick one one side, that will have to fit through the holes on the other side of the belt once it goes all the way around you. A good belt fits in the middle hole, but if you are growing fast, get one that fits in the last hole or near. It should feel tight - tight enough to keep your pants up, but not so tight that you can't breathe.


Wearing a belt may feel a little funny at first, but you'll get used to it in no time.

Remember to match your shoes with your belt. Black belt with black shoes, brown belt with brown shoes. If you are wearing sneakers then it doesn't matter.
 Braided or web belts are an option because they fit your trousers more precisely than a belt with holes, and are generally more comfortable. However, they are somewhat out of style and a flimsy cotton belt generally won't hold your pants up as well either; if you have to keep tightening it to do so, it won't be comfortable.


The material in them will also, eventually, get clumped together, requiring you to over-tighten the belt. If you can get away with a cloth belt, go for it, but it won't look good on anything but jeans or shorts.
 A new leather belt is generally pretty stiff and will feel uncomfortable for a day or so as it breaks in. Don't give up on it - give it time to soften and conform to your waist.
 Wear it whenever you're wearing pants with belt loops. Like it or not, men are generally expected to wear a belt, especially when at work or when they are dressing up a bit. In the world of employment, men are expected to wear belts with business wear, with blue-collar work wear, and any time they are expected to make an appearance.


Even if you don't feel that you need a belt to keep your pants up - it's still something that "completes the look" and even if your shirt isn't tucked in, a belt will probably be beneficial - very few men get away without pulling their pants up at least a few times a day.
 As you get more comfortable wearing a belt, you can start getting more belts of different colors, looks, and materials. You can get belts that are made of leather, brown or black belts, or belts that are thicker or thinner depending on what you like.

