 Also, identify the insult, what it seeks to achieve, its validity and truth, the originality, the significance and so on. Understanding how both these function will allow you to see how the person thought of the insult in the first place. Think of this verbal exchange as a boxing match, your opponent has thrown a big hook which has landed square as you were likely not prepared, you however, are not phased. Instead of throwing a big hook back because they will have their defences up, you are going to essentially kick them in the shins and watch them hop about like a fool.;
, Take a deep breath, remember what they have said is just words, if it were in a different language you wouldn't even be able to understand them! People feed off your responses, they want to see you get angry or upset - don't give them the satisfaction, no matter how horrible the insult. By maintaining your composure, you will signify at least equal or greater status than the person who insulted you.
 This requires an analysis of your surroundings, the people, the context of the insult and so forth. Once this has been analysed, use it to moderate your fallacious comeback. Don't reply with something people may deem 'inappropriate' or 'offensive', this will just further harm yourself. A majority of arguments can be won by simply controlling the audience, remember this. Your comeback should exploit this opportunity to win support.
 You should aim for something non-orthodox, off the cuff and unrelated. Such a response will disrupt your opposition's thought pattern and leave them confused, whilst you appeal to the audience for support. Note, you are not technically winning the argument but manipulating the environment to make your opposition seem silly. Consider the following examples.


"Yeah, let's have another one mate" - but say it with a grin or a chuckle. The opposition is forced into either, calling you out for not technically replying, or, responding with another insult that is different. If they call you out for not replying, you can respond by drawing attention to how they are unable to think of anything else. If they respond with another insult, depending on the quality, you can appeal to your audience by laughing loudly and then saying with a grin, "That’s funny, I’m going to laugh like this" and immediately stop laughing and look emotionless at them. Your audiences will likely laugh at your reaction, making your opposition’s insult look less funny than your response.
If the person is of the opposite gender and the context is agreeable, you can accuse them of being attracted to you - "If you fancy me, just say". Such a response will again, likely cause laughter amongst the audience and force the opposition to either abandon their original insult to deal with your accusation, or, point out that you haven't actually responded to their insult. In either case, maintain the grin and say with a hint of sarcasm "alright don't cry about it". And walk away. If they respond again, turn around and say in a slightly frustrated and confused manner, "I don't understand why you keep trying to talk to me?! I don't fancy you". Again, you should be able to feed off the audience and exist whilst the other person looks a fool.
Another suggestion would be to say, "have you got anymore boring, its just I'm going to sleep here". Again, the opposition will likely not be expecting such a response. If they provide another insult, respond by using one of the previous examples.
 You now have the upper hand, the opposition is frantically trying to deal with your non-orthodox insult, and when they respond, get ready to crush them:


A slightly sarcastic but more confused, "Nice comeback" and begin talking to someone else to signify the end of the argument with you as the victor.
Stare at them for a second or two and say, "Do you always kill jokes?" The loaded nature of the question should slip by as the opposition struggles for a response.
If appropriate, respond by looking perplexed and say bluntly, "True", followed by a perplexed laugh to signify you have no idea what your opposition is on about.

