 It's located at https://handbrake.fr/. HandBrake is a free file converter for both Mac and PC platforms.


HandBrake may not work on MacOS Sierra.;
, This is a red button on the left side of the download page. Clicking it will prompt HandBrake to begin downloading to your computer.


In some cases, you may first need to confirm the download or indicate a download location.
You should see HandBrake's current version number (e.g., "1.0.7") on the button as well.
 You'll find the setup file in your computer's default downloads folder.


If you're having trouble finding the setup file, just type "handbrake" into Spotlight (Mac) or Start (Windows) and click the top result.
The HandBrake setup file shouldn't take more than a few minutes to finish downloading.



On Windows:

Confirm that HandBrake has permission to access your computer if prompted.
Click Next at the bottom of the setup window.
Click I Agree on the next page.
Click Install on the next page, then click Finish when the installation is complete.


On a Mac:

Open the setup file and drag Handbrake into your Applications folder.
 In most cases, you'll accomplish this by sliding the DVD into the disk reader on the right side of your laptop (or in front of the CPU for a desktop computer), though you'll need to first press a button on most Windows computers to prompt the disk tray to eject.


Some Mac computers don't have CD slots, though you can purchase an external disk reader for your Mac for around $80.
If inserting the DVD prompts your computer's media player to open, close the player before continuing.
 This app has an icon resembling a pineapple to the right of a drink. You should see HandBrake on your desktop by default, but if you don't, you can search for it in Spotlight or the Start menu on Mac or Windows, respectively.
 You'll see a circular disk icon below the File option on the left side of the HandBrake window; this is the DVD icon.


You'll likely see the movie's name in some format to the right of the DVD icon.
You can also click Open Source in the top left of the application and navigate to your .VOB file instead.
 HandBrake will typically optimize the .VOB file for a seamless transition into .MP4 format, but double-check the following things before continuing:



File format - Under the "Output Settings" heading in the middle of the page, make sure the box next to "Container" says "MP4". If it doesn't, click the box and select MP4.

File resolution - Select your preferred resolution on the right side of the window.
 You'll be prompted to select a destination in which your new video file will be created.
 To do so, you'll click a save folder and then type in the file name in the text field near the bottom of the pop-up window here.
 It's a green button at the top of the HandBrake window. Doing so will prompt HandBrake to begin converting your DVD's .VOB file to a .MP4 file; when the process is complete, you'll see the finished file in your selected save location.

