 Travel websites like Expedia, Hotwire, Travelocity, etc., offer a ‘one stop shop’ for items like hotels and car rentals. These websites allow you to search for car rentals in specific locations and for a specific time frame, but unlike a car rental agency's website, you can compare the prices between multiple companies.Travel websites usually have consistent cancellation polices between rental companies, so you don’t need to look up separate policies for each company.Some travel websites also have their own reward points which can be earned on anything booked via the website, regardless of the company you book with. You can then apply these reward points to future bookings made on the same site.
Travel websites may also display comments on whether a particular listing is considered a good deal or not. This can help direct you towards listings that are displaying discounts and price reductions.
Some travel websites provide you with the option to compare prices between multiple travel websites to ensure you really are getting the best deal possible.Some travel websites may also provide a price guarantee, so if you book a car rental and find a cheaper deal within a certain period of time, the website will honour the lower price (and sometimes give you something extra). Keep in mind, however, that you have to be the one who finds this alternate deal. If you stop searching for a car rental after you’ve booked one, you’ll never be able to take advantage of this guarantee.;
, In addition to travel websites that offer deals on multiple types of travel items (e.g. hotels, flights, etc.), there are also websites that specialize in car rental deals. Two well known sites are CarRentals.com and AutoRentals.com.


Similar to a travel website, simply enter the location where you want to pick-up the car, and the dates you need the car, and the website will search all possible options.
Once the website has finished searching, it will display a list of prices for the location and dates you’ve specified, from multiple car rental agencies. This method allows you to compare deals all on one page.Note that many of these car rental websites are owned and operated by the same companies that operate the travel websites, therefore the deals may not be any different. For example, CarRentals.com is owned by Expedia.
 Many major hotel chains and airlines partner with car rental agencies in order to offer their customers special discounts. For airlines, you can often find information pertaining to car rental discounts right on their website.For hotels, you can speak to someone at the concierge desk, or visit the car rental agency right inside the hotel.Many car rental agencies have offices right inside hotels. While this may be super convenient, it may not always be the least expensive option available.
 Groupon has a Car Rental Centre under their Getaways link that shows all available discounts and deals for car rental agencies.Unlike other Groupon deals where you have to purchase an actual Groupon coupon via the website and then use it at the store, most car rental discounts will simply link you directly to the car rental agency's website with a specific coupon code.
You can then select your location and dates, and the coupon code is already included when you checkout.

