 Before you steam your face, clean it thoroughly.


Before washing your face, it's a good idea to wash your hands first. Wet your hands and lather them in soap. Then, scrub for 20 seconds, making sure to wash between your fingers, under your nails, and on the back of your hands. To keep track of time, hum the "Happy birthday" song from beginning to end twice. Rinse thoroughly and dry with a clean towel or a disposable paper towel.Use a mild soap with limited oils and chemicals and lukewarm water.
If you wear make-up, make sure to get all your make-up off before you begin the steaming process. Make-up can clog pores, leading to acne. It's a good idea to deep cleanse your face before applying make-up.;
, Pour water into a pot and heat it over a stove. Only heat the water until it begins to produce steam. You should not heat the water until it boils, as this can burn your face., Essential oils should be added to the water to help cleanse and nourish your skin.


If you're dealing with pimples or acne, bergamot oils has antiviral and antibacterial properties that can reduce breakouts. Geranium oil is also good as it increases skin elasticity and regulates oil production in the skin. Tea tree oil has been known to eliminate acne causing bacteria. If you're prone to frequent breakouts, lemon oil can reduce pores and decrease the likelihood of breakouts.If you're looking to improve skin appearance, there are several options. Lavender oil can lighten skin and reduce the appearance of scars and blotches. Carrot seed oil also rejuvenates the appearance of skin by encouraging cell regeneration. Myrrh has certain anti-aging properties that can keep skin looking younger and blemish-free.Peppermint or green tea, while not essential oils, can be added to water to increase the steam's moisturizing effect., Once the water is steaming and oil is added, wrap your head in a towel and lean over the pot of steaming water. Allow the steam to touch to touch your face. However, do not lean too far in as you don't want the water to actually touch your face as it will likely be very hot. If the steam feels too hot and you feel like your face is burning, wait a few minutes and let the water cool some before beginning the steaming process., Once 10 minutes has passed, you can wash off your face.


Remove the towel and pour out the bowl of steaming water.
Wash your face with cool water. Some dead skin cells, dirt, and debris that have surfaced during the cleanse should wash off.Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
Use a facial moisturizer to lightly moisturize your face after the cleanse.

