 Even if you don't like the topic, do all you can to get into it. For example, say that you're writing about the differences between polar bears and anglerfish. Don't just groan and say "how boring." Instead, think about it and consider how you can find some really neat new angles to explore. Say "Cool, polar bears! I like those. I don't know much about anglerfish, but this should be cool--why are we being asked to compare a bear and a fish?".;
, For the example given here, the topic would require you to write about the differences between the two species. However, stand back and ask yourself why do you need to analyze differences? It's a fish and a bear; what makes these two similar enough that you need to find the differences? It doesn't just need to be the opposite of your topic. Anything that sounds interesting to you that you can glean, think about. That should lead you back to your original prompt.
 Many essays will require you to use a set article or series of references for obtaining the facts, and you do need to cite your evidence. As such, you can't write it all from your head, but you can use your own opinions, backed up by evidence, to come up with really interesting new ways of perceiving the topic. If all of the information given is dry, stuffy, and known to even the kindergarten kids, use your own head and do some research that goes well beyond the set texts. Maybe you'll be able to combine the dry material with that interesting fact you read off the cover of a National Geography magazine in the doctor's office. Maybe that will lead to the vivid realization you needed to complete this essay.
 The teacher might say, 'five pages,' but if you legitimately cannot find enough interesting content for that last half a page--it's okay. Go back and read through what you've already written. You should probably fill it in for that grade, but don't worry about fillers. Maybe you can add in a nice tidbit of a fact, or a joke, or elaborate on a point. Even a graph or an infographic created by yourself can show your personal effort and add interest to the whole process (just be sure to make these things from scratch and not simply cut and paste them from somewhere else).
 Don't say, "the dolphins eat fish." Instead, shift your language to something more elegant and descriptive, such as: "The sleek gray beasts dart around in the depths, searching out schools of tuna and salmon for their next meal." You don't need to sound like a school textbook; think about engaging the reader, for the more fascinating your writing is, the better the mood you'll put the marker in.

