 Dust mites feed on dead skin, dander, and other things that are found in dust. Therefore, where there's dust, there are likely dust mites. A key to eliminating dust mites is getting rid of their food source, and that means dusting with a damp cloth. Rinse the cloth regularly to avoid spreading dust.


It’s important to use a damp cloth, because a dry cloth will just stir up allergens and spread dust around the house.Items to dust include furniture, shelves, books, decorations, trinkets, pictures, fixtures, and other items that collect dust.;
, Vacuuming is another great way to get rid of dust, skin, dust mite feces, and other allergens from your house. To avoid spreading dust and allergens, it’s important that you use a vacuum outfitted with a HEPA filter that will trap allergens and prevent them from being blown around the house.When vacuuming, pay particular attention to floors, baseboards, furniture, carpeting, rugs, and behind and underneath furniture.
Use upholstery attachments to get the seams, crevices, and corners of your furniture.
 Dust mites can be found all over your bedding. Remove the pillow cases, sheets, blankets, and covers from your bed. Place the items in the washing machine and wash them with hot water and the regular cycle. When the washing machine is done, transfer the items to the dryer and dry them on a hot setting.


To kill dust mites, the washing machine or dryer must reach between 130 and 140 F (54 to 60 C)., Dust mites love heavy curtains as much as they love pillows and bedding. Remove curtains and drapes from their rods or tracks and check the care label for washing instructions.


For washable curtains, remove any hooks or hangers. Transfer the curtains to the washing machine and wash them with hot water. Transfer them to the dryer or hang them to dry according to the care label.
Some curtains may be dry clean only. Take the curtains to a dry cleaner to kill dust mites., Toys, stuffed animals, and other fabric items are great hiding places for dust mites. Collect all washable items and wash them in the washing machine using hot water. Transfer the load to the dryer and dry the items on high heat., There are some items that you won’t be able to machine wash to kill dust mites. With these items, you can freeze them instead to get rid of mites. Transfer each item to a separate plastic bag, and seal the bag tightly. Transfer the item to the freezer and leave it there for 24 hours. Good candidates for freezing include:Pillows
Special toys
Delicate fabrics

, Dust mites love high humidity. The easiest way to decrease the humidity in your house is with a dehumidifier. You can also decrease the humidity by opening windows on dry days. Always use fans and vents when cooking, showering, and other activities that create steam.


By reducing the humidity in your house, you can create an environment that’s not ideal for dust mites, and you will slow down how quickly they reproduce.
Install a hygrometer to keep an eye on the humidity, and keep the level below 50 percent., Dust mites also love high temperatures. The ideal temperature for them is between 75 and 80 F (24 and 27 C). In winter, set your thermostat to 70 F (21 C), and even cooler in the bedroom if that’s comfortable. In summer, use fans, windows, and air conditioning when necessary to keep your house cooler., Disinfectants like Lysol are ideal for killing dust mites, and will make your home inhospitable to them. After your regular dusting, spray the disinfecting spray everywhere that dust tends to collect, including:Corners
Baseboards
Floors
Shelves
Curtains
Near furniture

, Certain essential oils, and eucalyptus specifically, are effective at killing dust mites. There are a few ways you can use eucalyptus around the house to make your home unfriendly for dust mites, including:


Add 20 drops of eucalyptus oil to your washing machine, especially when you're using a cold or warm water setting.Pour about 30 drops of eucalyptus oil into a spray bottle and fill the bottle with water. Use the spray around the house, including on your bed, furniture, pillows, toys, carpets, and other areas where dust mites live.
 Clutter and unnecessary items around the house attract and trap dust, and this creates a feeding frenzy for dust mites. One of the best ways to get rid of dust mites is to eliminate their food source, and while it’s not possible to completely get rid of dust, you can reduce it by throwing out, selling, or properly storing items like:Books
Decorations and ornaments
Picture frames
Trinkets
Home accessories
Decorative pillows

, Regular dusting with a damp cloth is a great way to reduce dust in the house and eliminate food sources for dust mites. Always dust by wiping surfaces with a damp cloth to avoid spreading dust and other allergens around the house.


For the best results, dust your entire house on a weekly basis., Because linens and bedding are such a hot spot for dust mites, it’s important to keep these clean. Weekly washing in hot water that’s between 130 and 140 F (54 to 60 C) will help to control dust mites in your bedroom.Be sure to wash:


Sheets
Pillow cases
Duvet covers
Blankets

, Carpets and rugs are among the worst places in your house for harboring dust mites. While regular vacuuming and washing (for small rugs) will help to reduce mite numbers, getting rid of the carpet altogether will be even more effective.When possible, remove carpeting and replace it with:


Tile
Hard wood
Laminate
Cork
Concrete

, Because things like thick curtains and drapes can house large numbers of dust mites, you can help get rid of them by replacing these items. For instance, you can replace curtains with plastic blinds or wooden shutters, and fabric cushions and pillows with leather or pleather ones.


Not only are these items easier to clean, but they also won’t attract dust mites the way fabrics do., Pet dander is another huge food source for dust mites. To reduce dander in the house, take your dogs and cats outside daily for a thorough brushing. For dogs, you should also give them monthly baths to reduce dander and fur around the house.


Pets can also suffer from dust mite allergies, so keeping them cleaner is beneficial for you both.
 Mattress and pillow covers are plastic or hypoallergenic fabric envelopes that protect your bed from dust mites, bed bugs, and allergens. The covers encase your mattress or pillows and prevent dust mites from getting in, and protect you from allergens that are already present.


To keep these covers clean, wipe plastic ones with a damp cloth and wash fabric ones weekly., Better ventilation means lower humidity, more air flow, and less dust, and all of these are good for controlling dust mites. You can improve ventilation by opening windows, using ceiling and portable fans, and by making use of vents in the house, such as in the kitchen and bathroom.