 Although this can be difficult and intimidating, your high-school experience will be much more memorable and enjoyable if you make the effort to build close personal relations.Be kind and open-minded. Although someone may have a shared interest, it does not mean that this person is exactly like you in every way.
Don’t worry about being popular. Instead, spend time with people who share your interests and values.
Be proactive. Lots of people are shy and too scared to initiate conversation, and therefore, never reach out to you.
 If your parents will allow you to date, spend time with people that you enjoy and are interested in, and who treat you with respect and kindness.


Again, keep an open mind.
Try not to take it too seriously. Teen romances are full of ups and downs, so take a relaxed approach.
Break-ups and broken hearts are inevitable. But do your best to handle the rejection and do not let it make you feel bad about yourself.
When it comes to physical intimacy, go at your own pace. There is no need to rush into sex, but if you do, be safe. , Don’t let anyone pressure you into activities you are not comfortable with; including sex, drugs, or alcohol. And definitely do not pressure others into doing anything they do not want to do. Respect boundaries.


You will not feel good about yourself if you do something that you didn’t really want to do.
If someone is pressuring you, say no firmly and repeatedly if necessary. Leave the situation if they do not respect your feelings.
Talk to an adult who can provide support.
Be with a trusted friend. It will be easier to resist peer pressure if you have back up., Harassment can make your time in high school a living hell. Letting bullies know that you will not put up with such treatment will often take care of the problem.


Try to avoid the bully.
Be aware of other students who are being bullied by the same person. They can be important allies.
Talk to a parent, teacher, or counselor if someone is threatening bodily harm or if you feel you are in danger, or if the harassment is getting out of control or taking an emotional toll.