 If you want to be a nerd, glasses are key to solidify your look. You don't have to wear your own glasses. In fact, if you're going to a costume party, it's a good idea to wear contacts to prevent your glasses from being knocked off or broken. You can easily make a pair of fake nerd glasses with a cheap pair of sunglasses.Purchase a thick-rimmed pair of sunglasses from a local thrift store or gas station. The bigger they are, the nerdier they'll look. When you get home, pop out the lenses. You can wear these glasses to help with your nerdy look.
You can also put a piece of masking tape in the middle of the glasses. Broken glasses are one of the many stereotypes people have of nerds.
 Many nerds are prone to being bookworms. It can help to carry a variety of books with you to solidify the nerd look. Books can be an especially useful addition for a nerd costume at a party.


It can help to select different types of books by interest. For example, you can decide to be a literary nerd and carry around classics like the works of Jane Austin or Virginia Woolf. You can also decide to be a science nerd, and take books by Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking.
If books are too cumbersome to carry around, carry around a few comic books. Many nerds are interested in superheroes, so stop by a comic book shop and get a few books to carry around.
 If you're going to a party especially, a tote bag can help. You can carry your nerd accessories here and bust them out during certain points of the party.


A plain tote bag, made of leather or a similar material, can work here. It can be fairly simply to find.
However, you can go for something slightly more specific. A tote bag in the theme of a nerdy TV show can help with the nerd look. For example, a Doctor Who tote bag with an image of the TARDIS on it can really make you look nerdy.
 If you have pockets, fill them up with nerdy items. Have pens, pencils, and calculators pouring out of your pocket. This can help make you look bookish and nerdy., While bow-ties are generally thought of as a man's accessories, a good bow-tie can help with the nerd girl look. You can try a large, somewhat gaudy bow-tie with an odd pattern. A polkadot bow-tie, for example, can help you look extra nerdy.

