 For instance - your Grandmother made you a sewing basket when you were four? Hide your money in there! There's a bunch of children's books in your bookcase? Chuck all secret notes between the pages! A jewelry box you painted when you were six? Hide small candies or money in it! You can even hollow out a big book and hide stuff in there! Here are some other good places people might think to look, but wouldn't expect you to hide stuff there;


Vents (just make sure the stuff won't burn and start a fire when the heater goes on.) Also be careful of dust.
If you have a box of unused stuffed animals, use that!;
, If you have a cell phone with a cover on it, that could be a great hiding place. Just put anything thin like money or notes in between the back of the phone and the cover.


Inside of your desk, behind the drawers.
 For instance, most game systems such as Play Station 2 (the thick one) and Game Cubes have places that open up. You can put things in them.
 If you have an old board game box, you can throw away the stuff inside it and hide your things in there.
 This works if you have one that is plugged into the wall, but one that runs on batteries can do just as well. Most of these either take a few large batteries or many smaller ones. Just take the battery cover off and put whatever small thing you need to hide in there, then close the battery cover back up. Be careful in case you might need to use the radio on batteries. If you know when it'll need to be on batteries, move your stuff prior to use. Also, if it's a hard object, it may rattle inside should the radio be moved. This can arouse suspicion. To test, put the object in, and close it up, then shake the radio a little. If you hear any noise, take the object out and wrap it in some tissue or cloth or something similar, and then replace it in there. Or if you have an old one that doesn't work, take out the insides and place your item in there and then screw the back on again but make sure you don't take off the buttons, otherwise it will be obvious!

, Then bury it in your fish tank, assuming you have one. No one would think to look in your fish tank with all your fish around. Plus there is no chance of any smells getting out for someone to discover. You can also hide rolled up notes in an empty lipstick.

