 When trying to cope with life, it is friends that can often help you through. A true friend, one that loves you and supports you no matter what, is a rare gift that should be utilized when you need it.


Turning to your friends can mean a lot of things. It may mean just going for walk with a friend and decompressing about the stresses and anxieties in your life. Tell your friend, "I really need to talk some things over with you. Can you take a walk with me the week?"
On the other hand, it may mean asking for physical, financial, or emotional support. This is a more complex conversation that may require a preliminary discussion about your issues and how you think you can resolve them with your friends’ help.
 If you have family members that you can turn to, do it. In many cases, your family members are the people in the world that are most likely to be willing to support and help you.


Turning to your family can mean asking for physical or financial help, or it can just mean asking them to talk. Tell them very clearly, "I really need your help."
Even if you are unsure about what type of help you really need, it's important to have a conversation with your family members when you are in need. Say something like, "I'm not sure exactly what I need but I'm hoping you can help me."
Not everyone has a relationship with their family members that is supportive and helpful. If you can not get help or support from your family, then your best course of action is to create friendships that can serve this function. Families of choice, consisting of relationships with friends that are as close as a family member might be, can be just as beneficial as families of birth., If you don't have friends and family that can give you the support you need, then it's important that you turn to a mental health professional to give you the support that you need and deserve. This could be a psychiatrist, a psychologist, a social worker, or a therapist that deals with your particular problems.Finding the right mental health professional for you can be difficult. Ask trusted friends or family members to give you suggestions. Try asking your family doctor for suggestions. Many health insurance companies can also steer you toward mental health professionals in their systems.If you go to a mental health professional and you don't think that they can help you with your problems, then feel free to move on. It's more important that you get the help you need than it is worrying about hurting your therapist’s feelings by moving on.
 If you're feeling depressed and talking to friends and family has not helped, and turning to a professional has gotten you nowhere, continue to seek out help. There are always more people out in the world that may be able to help you with your problems.


For example, if your therapist is not helping you, find a new one. There are other mental health professionals that will be better equipped to help you to deal with problems or issues you need to overcome.
Never keep depressed or destructive thoughts inside. It is important that you continue to work toward finding ways to cope with the circumstances of your life.

