 Let your child know how you expect them to behave and contribute while they live with you. Tell them what you expect them to pay for, what household tasks they are responsible for, and what your policies are for guests and curfew.For instance, you might specify that your child can have friends over, but they have to leave before 9 PM.
Have this talk as soon as possible, preferably before your child even moves back home.
Be sure to emphasize that these rules are not meant to control your child. They are meant to make living together easier and more comfortable while also helping them to move forward with their goals.
 Ensure that your house rules are clearly defined by putting them in writing. Talk the agreement over with your child to be sure you’re on the same page.Consider including a time component in your rules. For instance, you might agree to let your child live rent-free for three months, but expect them to find a job during that time and pay rent afterwards.
Include consequences for not respecting the house rules. For example, if your child drives your car but doesn’t fill up the gas tank, they might lose their car privileges.
Make sure to specify that you can change the rules at any time.
 If you don’t want your child drinking or using drugs in your house, make it clear. Decide what you will do if you discover they are using substances behind your back.Alcohol, marijuana, and other drugs often contribute to failure to launch syndrome. These substances can impair motivation and make mental health problems worse.
 Your adult child may try to bend the rules or use your sense of guilt against you. Stay firm, and remember that it’s not your job anymore to keep them comfortable and sheltered. You have a right to make the rules in your own house.Giving in sends the message that you don’t really mean what you say.
For instance, if you told your child that you won’t pay for their cell phone, don’t give them money when they’re broke one month.
Be sure to communicate the rules to other members of the household, such as to your partner, so that everyone is on the same page.
 If your adult child becomes abusive or starts engaging in illegal activities, it’s not a good idea to let them live with you. Decide which behaviors you won’t tolerate, and stick to your guns if you feel like your living situation isn’t healthy or safe.If you decide to evict your adult child from your home, then you would need to provide them with a formal eviction notice. You cannot simply call the police and ask to have them removed.

