 Keep good posture by putting your shoulders back and holding your head high. Slouching over or having bad posture shows a lack of confidence and will make you appear less attractive to others.Practice maintaining good posture throughout your day by being aware of how your back is curved while you sit or stand. When you notice yourself slouching over, correct your posture.


If you are prone to slouching over, it may take some time to change the behavior.
 Lean muscle is perceived to be the most attractive body types for men. Try to maintain a fat to muscle ratio of 16% fat and 80% muscle to appear more attractive. A personal trainer of physician will be able to calculate your fat to muscle ratio.. Stay within the moderate rep range, or 10-12 reps, with a weight that remains challenging.Hit the gym or do exercises at home to achieve a leaner, more muscular body.


Do cardio exercises, like running, along with weightlifting exercises like the bench press, leg press, squats, and curls.
You can also join a sports team or take up an active hobby to help work out your body.
Exercises that will help build lean muscle include rock climbing and swimming.
People's tastes all differ, and some will not like the lean muscle.
Work out to feel more confident in your skin and aim to be a healthier person.
Some guys won't be able to attain a lean or muscular body, but it's okay. As long as you are working towards your goal, your chances of being perceived as being more attractive go up.
 Being tan is considered to be attractive by most people's contemporary standard of beauty.To get a tan, you can lay out under the sun, go to a tanning salon, or get a topical spray on tan.The sun isn't the only way to tan. Eating certain vegetables will give you what's known as a Carotenoid tan, which when paired with a melanin tan, or natural tan, will make you appear more attractive.To get a Carotenoid tan, make sure you're regularly eating fruits and vegetables like sweet potatoes, tomato juice, carrots, red peppers, cantaloupe, and melon.Tanning under UV light has been linked to cancer.
The tan you get from Carotenoids is sometimes referred to as a "glow."
Other than making you more attractive, most Carotenoids are also healthy for you.
 Maintaining your personal hygiene is an important factor when talking about your physical attractiveness. If you smell bad or look dirty, others will perceive it as negative. Things like a bad odor or unkempt clothing will often turn people off.Remember to use underarm deodorant and shower or bathe every day. Brush your teeth so your breath smells good.


Having good personal hygiene can also prevent harmful health conditions like head lice, athlete's foot, and infections.