 Keep a journal of your food habits, talk with those around you, and take a candid look at how food has a negative effect on your life. In order to go down the path of recovery, you'll first need to recognize you have a problem that needs fixed.
 Once you realize you have a problem with food that you want to change, you can go about finding help. A therapist can be a great option to deal with issues you have, especially one with experience in food addiction. They will have techniques that help you understand the root causes of food addiction. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a common therapy technique that helps you understand how your mind is perceiving food and reprogramming your body to react differently to food.
Interpersonal psychotherapy focuses on how relationship and interpersonal issues contribute to compulsive eating. By improving communication and relational skills, you can put yourself in healthy social situations that makes binge eating less frequent.
 A psychiatrist or physician can help deal with mental and physical symptoms. If a physician deems it necessary there are even new drugs that help control obesity and food addiction such as Contrave or Topamax. Food addiction can have biological roots. For example, your hypothalamus may not be alerting your body properly when it is full and no longer hungry. Also, low levels of serotonin have been found to be linked to food addiction and compulsive eating. A medical doctor, either your physician or a psychiatrist, can help rule these problems out.
 There are a lot of great programs like Overeaters Anonymous, Food Addicts Anonymous and Food Addicts in Recovery Anonymous.


You can do a simple search on the internet to see which groups are available to you in your area. It may help to be in a group setting where others are dealing with a problem similar to yours. All of these are meeting based groups that offer help and sometimes are only in certain areas. Food Addicts Anonymous offers in person help as well as phone or e-mail help if you are more apt to want to try on your own.
 Get rid of temptation around your house and workplace. If you have access to junk food and other fatty foods that you crave, you're far more likely to eat them. Keep only healthy foods on hand and avoid stocking your cupboards with junk food that you're likely to be tempted by.
 It can be hard to admit that you have a problem, but people who you are around can help keep you accountable and on track.


If you have a loved one you live with, express your difficulties to them and they may be able to offer support that helps you say no to bad choices.

