 Always wash fresh produce before eating it. Run your okra under tap water, turning it as necessary, to clean all sides. Shake off the okra to dry or dab it dry with paper towels., Start by slicing and discarding the stems on either end. Then, slice the okra into thin, round slices.Use a chef's knife or paring knife to slice the okra.
 Okra sometimes comes out a little slimy. To prevent this, soak your okra slices in vinegar after cutting them. Combine a cup of vinegar with a quart of water. Immerse your okra in this mixture. Allow it to soak for one hour., Do not cook wet okra. This can contribute to sliminess. Let okra air dry on a paper towel. If you need to cook your okra fast, you can pat it down with paper towel until it dries., Lightly salt as much water as you need to submerge all your okra. Place your pot over high heat and bring the water to a boil.Try drizzling some lemon juice in the water. Some people find this cuts down on sliminess and it can also add some flavor., Once your water is boiling, add your okra to the sauce pan. Cover the pan and set a timer. Okra takes between 8 and 10 minutes to cook.Okra should be soft and tender when it's done cooking.
 Make sure you get all the water out. Use a colander to drain out all the water. Shake the colander if necessary to get out excess water. Okra is prone to sliminess, so keep it as dry as possible., Okra can be seasoned with a little butter, salt, and pepper. Boiled okra does not require a lot of seasoning, but if you prefer a particular flavor profile you can season the okra how you want. For example, you can add dried basil and garlic to your okra., Fried okra should be coated in flour, cornmeal, salt, and any spices you want. Mix half a cup of flour, half a cup of cornmeal, and half a teaspoon of salt together. Then, add a quarter teaspoon of any spices you want, such as black pepper or cayenne pepper.You should also prepare a liquid to coat the okra in first so the coating sticks. Beat one egg together with one egg with a tablespoon of milk.
 Coat a pan with a light amount of cooking oil such as olive oil. Heat the the pan over medium high heat for a few minutes.To check if the oil is ready, toss a small bit of food into the pan. If it sizzles, the oil is ready to use.
 One by one, coat your pieces of okra. Set them aside on a plate until they're all coated. Dip the okra in the egg milk mixture. Then, dip it in the flour mixture until all sides are evenly coated., Add as much okra to the oil as fits. Pieces of okra should not touch and have a little space around one another. Fry the okra for three to four minutes per side. Each side of the okra should be golden brown by the time it's done cooking., Use a slotted spoon to remove okra from the oil. Place your okra on a plate covered in paper towel. Allow the okra to cool for a few minutes before eating.,