 Generally, you give a milligram per pound of dog. You can give it every 8 hours or so. So if your dog weighs 14 pounds, you can give 14 milligrams of Benadryl every 8 hours. However, it's always best to check with the vet for an appropriate dose.Using children's Benadryl can make dosing easier, as it comes in smaller doses.
In severe allergic reactions, a slightly higher dose may be appropriate, such as 2 milligrams per pound.
Pills are usually easiest because most dogs don't like the flavor of the liquid. However, you can use liquid Benadryl (the children's formula). Usually, every 5 milliliters of liquid has 12.5 milligrams of Benadryl.;
, You can give Benadryl without food. However, using food will lessen the chances of drooling and vomiting.Plus, it will make it easier to get your dog to take it. For instance, you can place the pill on a small piece of bread smeared with peanut butter, which your dog will likely gobble down.
 Another option is to apply the Benadryl to the skin. You can use a spray, cream, or stick. However, be sure not to apply more than a couple of times a day, and don't combine it with oral Benadryl, as that can lead to overdose.It's not as effective as an oral medication, but it can help some., While Benadryl is generally safe, any medication can cause a reaction if your dog happens to be allergic to it. Watch for stomach issues such as diarrhea and vomiting. Also notice if your dog is less interested in eating or is having trouble breathing. Agitation or a fast-beating heart is also an issue. Call your vet if you notice any of these side effects.Also, some sleepiness is to be expected with Benadryl. However, if your dog seems to be having trouble waking up or is non-responsive, you should call your vet.
 While Benadryl is generally safe for dogs, every dog is different. It's best to talk to your vet before giving your dog Benadryl, to make sure it will be safe and to get a dose recommendation.Technically, Benadryl hasn't been approved by the FDA for cats and dogs, but most vets agree it's safe.
Discussing dosage with your vet is important because dogs can overdose on Benadryl., One use for Benadryl is treating anxiety in dogs. For instance, some dogs have storm anxiety, and Benadryl can help calm them down. Often, it works best to give them Benadryl ahead of the storm.Similarly, it can also help out in the car. It can calm anxiety, and it will also assist with nausea from motion sickness., Another common use for Benadryl is to treat allergies. Dogs with allergies tend to scratch more, and if your dog has been diagnosed with allergies, Benadryl can help alleviate the symptoms.However, some experts question the effectiveness of Benadryl for general allergies. While it can be helpful for reactions like bee stings and hives, it may not help as much with the itchy skin that comes with canine allergies., One of Benadryl's side effects is drowsiness. In fact, it's used in many over-the-counter sleep aids. That's why it can help your dog with insomnia if you give it to the dog before bedtime., In the United States, most products with the Benadryl label only contain diphenhydramine. However, this ingredient has fallen out of use in other countries. For instance, in the UK, cetrizine is the active ingredient instead. While this ingredient is also dog-safe, it won't have all the same effects.