 You should use a distilled or filtered water; avoid waters, such as tap water, that may have hard or heavy minerals in them. After the water begins to boil, remove it from heat. Place the pot in an area, such as a table or counter, where you can comfortably lean over it. Consider placing folded towels under your pot in order to insulate your table from heat.


You may want to pour the water into another container or bowl so that you do not accidentally touch a hot pot. Be careful that you do not put your equipment in areas that may be damaged by heat.
You may also avoid putting your water into plastic bowls or containers. Plastic may release chemicals into the water upon heating.Prefer clean metal containers.
 Clean and basic ingredients, often herbal, can enhance your cleanse, making it more spa-like. You can add a few drops of essential oils, such as rosemary, lavender, or thyme, to the water. This will release a fragrance, which acts as an aromatic. Allow the oil to steep for ten minutes.


You can also wrap whole herbs in a cheesecloth and add them to the water, allowing them to steep for ten minutes.
Some herbs, such as dried lavender, act as a stress-reliever. Others, such as anise seeds or rosemary, can aid overly oily skin.Feel free to experiment with which herbs work best for your skin and mental state.
 Use a gentle cleanser to wash your skin, as well as an exfoliator such as baking soda. This will remove any residual dirt, grime, and dead skin cells from your face, preparing it for the steam.

Add the exfoliator to your cleanser, or try a cleansing product that already contains an exfoliator.
 Put your head six to eight inches above the pot, but make sure you avoid contacting the pot or the water. Allow the steam to warm and wet your face. You can put a towel over your head to trap the steam, which will further clean your face.You can steam your face for however long is comfortable. Ten minutes is plenty; those with sensitive skin may want to limit their steam to five minutes.
If your water stops releasing steam, boil fresh water and herbs; don't reuse what you have.
 The best time to use a pore strip is after steaming your face because your pores are open. This will allow for maximum extraction. Apply the strip and wait the recommended time before slowly pulling the strip from your skin., Follow the considerations laid out above: choose a gentle cleanser either with or without medication, and avoid harsh products. You may want to choose an extra-gentle cleanser for this kind of cleanse, as the hot steam will have loosened up much of the oil and dirt in your face.


Simply washing your face with cold water can suffice if you spent ten or more minutes steaming. Make sure you wet your whole face to remove steamed-out oils and dirt.
 You may prefer to use warm water, but cold water can often feel good after a steam. Use what feels best for you.
 Follow the considerations laid out above: consider oil-free or oil-containing products depending on your skin type. Be gentle with your skin; pat the moisturizer in and spend time massaging in areas on your forehead, cheeks, and temples.