 If you ever want to add or take away certain foods from your diet, you might want to consider meeting with a registered dietitian. This would especially be important if you are pre diabetic or diabetic.


All registered dietitians can help you come up with a meal plan that fits your lifestyle and health. However, a dietitian that's also a CDE (Certified Diabetes Educator), will have specific training in managing diets of diabetics.
Talk to your dietitian about your current diet and how you'd be interested in adding more fruits to your current eating pattern.
Ask your dietitian what fruits are best for you, ask them to teach you how to measure serving sizes and even ask if they'll be able to provide you with a meal plan showing how to add fruit to your diet.;
, Regardless of what type of fruit you're going to be eating or how you're planning on adding fruit to your diet in general, the first thing you need to do is measure the portion size.


Sugar, including the sugar found in fruit, will increase your blood sugar after you've eaten it. Most fruits have about 15 grams of carbohydrate per serving.
However, depending on the type of fruit, some servings will be larger than others. A higher sugar fruit will need to be a smaller serving, compared to a lower sugar fruit. The serving sizes will be different, but have the same effect on your blood sugar.In general, the serving size for all fruit is about 1/2 cup, 1 small piece or about 4 oz. If you're eating dried fruit, the serving size is 1/4 cup or about 1 1/2 ounces.Use a measuring cup or a food scale to keep your portions in check.
 All fruit contains the natural sugar fructose. However, some fruits have a higher sugar content than others. Try to choose the lower sugar fruits to minimize your sugar intake.


Some of the lowest sugar fruits include: cranberries, strawberries, blueberries, blackberries, raspberries and apples.Higher sugar fruits include: bananas, pineapple, mangoes, figs, grapes and oranges.
Remember, even the fruits that are higher sugar are still considered nutritious. You just need to measure the portion and ensure you stick to a small portion to minimize their effects on your blood sugar.
 Natural fruits that are whole and unprocessed only contain the sugar that's found in them naturally. However, once you get into fruits that are more processed (like canned fruit), you need to be extra careful of any added sugars.


If you grab an apple or orange from the produce section, you can be confident there is no added sugar in that apple or orange. The only sugar is the fructose found naturally.
However, if you pick up canned fruit, dried fruit or even frozen fruit, there could be added sugars. This will increase the sugar content, calorie content and spike your blood sugar higher.If you're buying canned or frozen fruit, read the label thoroughly. It should only contain the fruit either in 100% juice or water. If it says sugar, packed in syrup (even light syrup), there is added sugar.
Dried fruit very commonly has added sugar. Read the ingredient label on dried fruit to see if the manufacturer has added sugar to these fruits.
 When you're including fruits into your diet, you can choose to eat them plain without any other foods or pair them with a protein or healthy fat to help curb your blood sugar.


When you eat fruit or any other carbohydrate with a protein or healthy fat, the protein and fat naturally help slow down your digestion.This prevents the sugar from the fruit spiking your blood sugar. Instead, it's slowly released for a more subtle rise in your blood sugar over a longer period of time.
Instead of grabbing a lone piece of fruit, try something like: an apple with natural peanut butter, sliced pears with cheddar cheese, blueberries on plain cottage cheese or unsweetened dried fruit and nuts.
Other sources or protein include eggs, poultry, lean beef, pork, low-fat dairy, tofu, and nuts.
Sources of healthy fat include avocados, fatty fish, nuts, and cheeses.
 The glycemic index is a numerical index that rates carbohydrate-rich foods on a scale of 0 to 100. The index measures how much blood sugar rises following the ingestion of a carbohydrate. The higher the number, the higher blood sugar rises. Because fruits mostly contain carbohydrate in the form of fructose and fiber, most fruits have a low glycemic index. Here are some common fruits and their glycemic index scores:

Grapefruit (GI-25)
Bananas (GI-52)
Apples (GI-38)
Oranges (GI-48)
In comparison, oatmeal has a GI score of 54, white rice has a GI score of 64, and carrots have a GI score of 47., Perfect for a summer dessert or afternoon snack, grilling fruit brings out their natural sweetness. Adding high protein greek yogurt can help slow the digestion of these naturally sweet peaches.


Start by turning on your outdoor or indoor grill pan to medium high heat. Lightly spray the grates with vegetable oil.
Slice 2-3 just-ripe peaches. They shouldn't be overly ripe so they're soft or mushy. Remove pit, but keep the skin on them. Spray cut side with vegetable oil.
Put the flesh side of the peach down on the grates. Grill for about 5 minutes or until the flesh has nice golden brown grill marks.
Remove from grill and serve with a dollop of low-fat plain greek yogurt. Sprinkle with cinnamon and serve immediately.
 For a light fruit dish, try marinating your favorite melons. This bumps up the flavor without adding a lot of calories or sugar.Start by using a melon baller to cut out small spheres of your favorite melons. You can try watermelon, cantaloupe or honeydew. Measure out about 4 cups of melon balls total.
In a large bowl, add in 1/2 of diet berry flavored sparkling water and 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of white balsamic vinegar. Stir quickly to combine.
Add in your melon balls and toss to coat the melon evenly with the marinade. You can also added chopped mint or lemon verbena for an extra kick of flavor.
Allow melon to marinate for at least 2-4 hours. Serve chilled with a sprig of mint.
 If you need a quick breakfast or a snack, try making a homemade fruit smoothie. Keep the sugar low by using lower sugar fruits and sugar-free ingredients.In the bowl of a blender, add in 1/2 cup of almond milk, 1/2 cup of plain greek yogurt and 1/2 cup of frozen mixed berries. You can use all one type of berry or use a combination (like blackberries, blueberries and strawberries).
Blend your smoothie on high until there are no more chunks or bits of frozen fruit. You may need to scrape down the sides occasionally.
Taste your smoothie for the desired texture and sweetness. If the smoothie is too thick, add in more almond milk. If it's too thin, add a few more frozen berries. Serve cold.
 Swap out tomatoes for strawberries in this fun twist on a classic salsa. Serve with 100% whole grain pita chips for a nutritious snack.Combine the following ingredients in a medium sized bowl: 1 US-pint (470 ml) of finely diced strawberries, 1 jalapeño seeded and diced, 1/2 cup of diced red onion, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of lime juice and salt and pepper to taste.
Mix ingredient together and allow to sit in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. Stir and taste for seasonings. Adjust as needed.
Serve salsa chilled or room temperature with 100% whole grain pita chips.
 Incorporating the right amount and types of fruits to your diet is just a small part of an overall healthy and balanced diet. Focus on balancing all types of foods in your diet.


A nutritious and well balanced diet is essential - especially for those with diabetes. It will help you manage your blood sugar during the day and in the long-term.A well balanced diet means your'e eating a wide variety of foods from within each food group everyday. That includes higher carbohydrate foods like fruits, grains or starchy vegetables.
However, you need to measure portion sizes of all your foods and include the appropriate serving sizes everyday.
In addition to including all the food groups daily, also choose a variety of foods from within each food group as well. So don't just eat apples daily, but have apples, strawberries, blueberries and pears throughout the week.
 As mentioned, protein-based foods do not contain carbohydrates. They do not affect your blood sugar. However, it's still important to choose nutritious sources of protein.


You need to include a serving of protein at every meal. Not only does this help you meet your daily protein needs, but also can help blunt the release of carbohydrates into your blood stream and read food labels to check for added sugar.Choose lean protein sources since they are lower in unhealthy sources of fat and overall calories.Try naturally lean protein like: eggs, poultry, lean beef, pork, low-fat dairy, tofu, seafood and nuts.
Measure the portion sizes of your protein sources. They should be around 3-4 oz or 1/2 cup per serving.
 When you're doing meal planning for a diabetic diet, non-starchy vegetables are generally considered "free foods." They're very low in carbohydrates and calories and can be eaten without worrying about your blood sugar or waistline.


Non-starchy vegetables are those that do not contain a lot of starch which is form of carbohydrate. These types of vegetables should be included at most of your meals.
They include vegetables like: lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, mushrooms, eggplant, asparagus, brussels sprouts, cabbage, onions or green beans.
Even though non-starchy vegetables are considered "free foods" you still want to measure the appropriate portion size. Measure out 1 cup or 2 cups of leafy salad greens per serving., On the opposite side of non-starchy vegetables, there are high starch vegetables. These are still very nutritious, but they do contain more carbohydrates.Starchy vegetables, like fruit, are typically thought of as "high carb foods" and ones that should be avoided or limited due to their carbohydrate content.
However, starchy vegetables are equally nutritious and contain a wide variety of vitamins, antioxidants and fiber. They include vegetables like: winter squash (butternut or pumpkin), beans, lentils, potatoes, yams or corn.
Because these vegetables are higher in carbohydrate, you do need to measure the portion sizes. It's still a 1 cup serving per portion of these higher carbohydrate veggies., Another food group that's commonly limited and avoided due to their carbohydrate content are grains. However, if you choose 100% whole grains, these foods still offer beneficial nutrients.


Grains typically get pegged as a high carb food - and they are. To make these carbohydrates more nutritious, choose 100% whole grains.
Whole grains are less processed and contain more protein, fiber and other nutrients compared to more refined grains (like white bread or white rice).Try whole grains like: quinoa, brown rice, whole wheat bread, whole grain pasta, farro, barley or millet.
Because grains do contain a lot of carbohydrates, it's essential that you measure your portion size of these foods. Measure out about 1 oz or 1/2 cup of whole grains per serving.