 Since its coat is so thin, it’s harder for a Cornish Rex to maintain its body temperature. Purchase a well-fitting sweater or two from your local pet supply store to keep it warm, especially during colder months.As a rule of thumb, if you’re cold, your Cornish Rex will definitely be cold.
 Also due to their thin coats, cats of this breed are susceptible to sunburns. If your cat goes outside, apply sunscreen to its ears and thinner patches of its coat.You can find a cat-safe sunscreen at your local pet store.
While it’s natural for your cat to seek out warm, sunny spots, try not to let it sunbathe for long periods of time.
 All cats should see their vet at least once per year for a physical examination, booster shots, and routine blood work. In addition to regular visits, take your cat to the vet if you notice any unusual behavior, like trouble moving around or loss of appetite.Taking your cat to the vet regularly will also help you prevent breed-specific disorders, like heart conditions, that can be difficult to identify on your own.
 Required core vaccinations will vary based on your location. In general all cats need vaccinations against rabies, distemper, calicivirus, and herpesvirus. Ask your cat’s vet about their specific recommendations based on your location and your cat’s lifestyle.Vaccinations against herpesvirus and calicivirus will help prevent a range of potential secondary health issues.
 A Cornish Rex is prone to developing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a common form of heart disease. An annual echocardiogram will help identify any potential heart issues. The breed is also susceptible to patellar luxation, or kneecap displacement, so keep an eye on its mobility and bring it to the vet if you notice any problems.Progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) and other vision problems are also common in the breed, so check its eyes regularly for cloudiness, redness, or deformities. Bring it to the vet if you notice it bumping into things or if it otherwise seems to have trouble seeing.