 Conformation is a sport in which dogs are judged based on how they conform to their breed standard, more popularly known as dog showing. This sport is for purebred dogs only. Many kennel clubs, including the AKC, UKC, CKC, and KC, hold shows.;
, Trial obedience tests a dog's intelligence by requiring him to perform commands, find scent articles, and more. Your dog must have basic obedience and respond quickly and effectively; however, at beginning levels, your dog will only have to perform basic commands on leash.
 Agility is a sport in which a dog has to complete an obstacle course as quickly as possible, judged on time and accuracy. You cannot touch your dog or the obstacles, but you can give commands and hand signals. The course is made to be so difficult that a dog could not complete it without human direction. In order to compete in this sport, a dog must be physically fit; decide with your veterinarian on an exercise regimen for helping your dog become fit. Some agility obstacles include the jump, double jump, triple jump, tire jump, tunnel, teeter totter, and A-frame.
 Lure coursing is a sport in which sighthounds chase an artificial lure across an open field, judged based on speed, endurance, and many other traits. This sport is for purebred sighthounds only, and the sighthound must be at least one year old and in top physical shape to compete. Some sighthound breeds include the Afghan Hound, Azawakh, Saluki, Greyhound, Italian Greyhound, Scottish Deerhound, Whippet, and Irish Wolfhound.
 In it, hound and sporting group dogs are judged on how well they can hunt and flush game in the field. This sport is for physically fit hound and sporting dogs only. Eligible breeds include English Setters, Dachshunds, Beagles, Irish Setters, Golden Retrievers, Gordon Setters, Labs, and Basset Hounds.
 Schutzhund is German for "protection dog" - in this sport, which is used to help train dogs for police and search and rescue work, there are three parts: protection, obedience, and tracking. During the tracking part, dogs have to find things by using their noses. During the protection part, a decoy will try to attack the owner or dog, and the dog has to keep the decoy from doing so. During the obedience part, a dog has to follow commands issued by the owner. During one of the three parts, a gun will be fired into the air, (not at anyone) to see how the dog reacts. This is a very demanding sport that very few dogs pass. Eligible breeds include German Shepherds, Boxers, Great Danes, and Akitas.
 Earthdog is a sport that tests terriers' ability to dig for quarry. Usually, the quarry is two adult rats in a cage or artificial quarry capable of movement. The dog has to dig and find the quarry, tested on how quickly he finds them and how long he stays with them (neither rats nor dog are harmed). This sport is for small terriers only. Eligible breeds include Bedlington Terriers, Skye Terriers, Norwich Terriers, and Cairn Terriers.
 Dogs compete in teams of two as they jump over three or more obstacles, hit a machine to receive a tennis ball, take the tennis ball and return over the two fences. Size is not an objection, but dogs must be energetic, responsive to training, comfortable among other dogs, adults, and physically fit to compete.
 Research them to find the sport right for you!

,


Research your sport! Research sources include the internet, books, instructional videos, and dog owners experienced in the sport.

Train your dog. Start with basic training, (if you haven't already) and then start training for your particular sport. Training techniques vary, based on the sport. Ask your local kennel club or someone who is experienced in the sport if you need help. Practice frequently!

, Once you think your dog is ready, enter a competition. Look for a competition being held. You may have to travel; have good traveling equipment at hand.

