 When someone close to you is having a mood swing, it's important to let him talk it out as long as he's not becoming aggressive with you. Sometimes, a listening ear can help someone calm down. Try to pay attention to what he's saying. Even if you do not agree, try to at least understand his perspective.Avoid distractions, like the TV, computer, and your phone. When he's talking about his mood, give him your full attention.
Show that you're listening by making eye contact and nodding when appropriate. Avoid blaming or criticizing him for his mood.
However, you do not have to listen if someone is being aggressive towards you. If the bad mood is directed at you, you should leave the room rather than being insulted. You do not have to listen actively when you're being berated.
 Oftentimes, someone with mood swings may understand they're being irrational. You want to make sure they feel heard. Do not try to talk him out of a bad mood. Instead, say you hear how he feels.Avoid saying things like, "I know you're stressed about work, but that's irrational. You don't have anything to worry about. It'll be fine."
Instead, try something like, "I understand you're very stressed. Work can be stressful, but I'm here to listen."
Again, you should not allow him to express feelings when he's being negative or aggressive towards you. If the conversation gets ugly, leave the room.
 If someone is having a mood swing, try your best to stay calm for them. This will prevent the situation from escalating and potentially becoming unmanageable. Instead of engaging with someone's anger, leave the situation.Oftentimes, someone with mood swings will attack or lash out at you. These situations are the most difficult to stay calm in, but remember getting defensive will make it worse.
You do not have to take put downs or verbal abuse. If someone is making accusations or yelling at you, walk away instead of getting pulled into an argument. Say something like, "You're clearly upset right now. I think it would be better if I gave you some space." Then, leave the room. You can go for a walk or go to a friend's house.
 If he's willing to accept help, offer distractions. It can be hard to talk someone out of a bad mood rationally, but you can offer some kind of distraction. Say something like, "You're upset, so let's try not to think about it. I'm sure there's something we can do to keep your mind off of it."You could make him something to eat or drink, like a cup of tea.
You could watch a movie together.
You could go for a walk together. Exercise often helps regulate mood.
Remember, however, that you are not obligated to help someone who's being mean to you. If he's taking out a bad mood on you, leave the situation. Do not try to distract him.

