 Knowing your learning style can help you retain information in a more effective manner. If you choose the best way for your brain to learn, you will pick up on concepts more quickly. Arrange your study sessions around your learning style.If you are a social learner, form a study group. Ask classmates to join you at a set time and location each week to work together.
Social learners learn best in group settings outside of school, too. For example, a social learner would do best to take a group cooking class rather than reading a cook book.
If you are a solitary learner, plan your study sessions for times when you know you will be alone. If necessary, work out a schedule with your roommates or family members to ensure you'll have the alone time that you need.
 Most people learn best by using a combination of learning styles. Don't be afraid to use different methods to approach one topic or lesson. Combining learning styles can really accelerate the rate at which you learn. Use different methods to take notes. If a skill seems like it is best recalled with words, just paraphrase the lecture. But if a picture would help, don't hesitate to draw a diagram in your notes to help you process the information.
If you are a verbal learner, you probably rely mostly on words. Sometimes, it can be helpful to use an alternate style.
For example, if you are trying to learn to play the piano, you will definitely want to listen to recordings and practice getting a feel for the keys.
 Once you have identified your learning style, you can begin using all of your senses to increase your knowledge. For example, if you are an auditory learner, you will learn to value your hearing. Try using a tape recorder to record lessons instead of just writing things down.Physical learners learn best when moving. Try mentally reviewing your vocabulary list while going for a job.
You could also benefit from standing up when reading or writing. Physical learners retain more information when not sitting still.
If you are a visual learner, try drawing a picture of any concept you want to master. You can also post sticky notes around your house with information. Seeing information regularly is key for you.
 When you are trying to grasp a new concept, look for the most effective way to convey the information to your brain. Choose a method that fits your learning style. Don't be afraid to utilize more than one method.If you are a solitary learner, find a quiet place to study. You can try a library or a coffee shop that isn't very busy.
Challenge yourself to step outside your comfort zone. Supplement your solitary learning style by asking questions or comparing notes with a classmate.
It's important to play to your strengths, but it's also a good idea to flex your mental muscles. You should occasionally try to switch up your method of learning.
 Once you have identified your learning style, you will likely see a change in your mental capabilities. It will likely take you less time to learn a new concept. You will also likely retain information better.If you adapt your habits to fit your learning style, you will eventually have to spend less time studying each topic. This doesn't mean you will spend less time learning--it just means you can learn more information in less time.
 If you feel more comfortable learning new skills or information, you will be more confident. Confident learners tend to learn more quickly and effectively. You will be more likely to seek out new information.Confident learners are more likely to speak up and ask questions. This is a great way to add to your knowledge base.
 Knowing your learning style can help outside of school, too. Use your knowledge to help improve your job performance. You will be able to become more productive and increase your value to your employer.Maybe you are a visual learner. If your job is in sales, make sure to track your output using charts and graphs. You'll be able to easier spot trends and ways to improve.
If you are an auditory learner, ask your boss if she minds if you record your performance review. You can listen to the feedback again later and better absorb the information.

