 Kittens with good personalities are going to at least be curious about your presence. They'll likely want to come over and give you a good sniff, as well. They shouldn't want to cower or hide from you.Play with the kittens. Use a string or a lure toy with a feather, and entice the kittens to play. Most kittens can't resist playing with a toy, so they should be interested. You want a kitten who will be playful and engage with you.;
, Another test to see if kittens are right for you is to try picking them up. They should wiggle a bit. That's natural. However, they shouldn't try to bite you or throw a hissing fit.While it's important for you to be around the kitten, it's also important for other family members to visit, too. Some kittens won't be as comfortable around kids, for instance.
 A safe bet is picking two kittens from the same litter. They will already be bonded as litter mates, and of course, they are the same age. Two kittens from the same litter are more likely to get along.If for whatever reason, you can't adopt two siblings, the next best thing is adopting two kittens who've already bonded. The shelter or rescue should be able to point you to kittens who get along. It's best if they are about the same age.Make sure you tell them you're interested in adopting two kittens. Most shelters and rescues will be more than enthusiastic about having you adopt two at once., Often, the staff at a shelter or rescue will have some idea about the background of the cats and kittens in their care. Ask questions about the kittens to get an idea of whether or not they may be a good fit in your home.For instance, you could ask questions like "Where did these kittens come from? Were they introduced to humans by seven weeks? Have they ever been around kids?"

, Most shelters and rescues will require that you fill out an adoption form. When you do, you'll need to fill in basic biographical information, but you'll also need to answer some questions about your history with pets.They'll likely ask you questions about where you live, your family size, your other pets, and your veterinarian, as well as what experience you have owning pets.
 Once you've been approved for adoption, all that's left is to pay the fee to adopt your kittens. Shelters and rescues have fees to help cover costs for things like vaccinations, spaying/neutering, and food. If the kittens are hold enough, they'll likely already be spayed or neutered when you get them. Sometimes, however, they'll give you a discount when you're adopting two pets., A runny nose, as well as sneezing and coughing, indicates the kittens could be sick.Similarly, the kittens' eyes shouldn't have discharge. They should look clear.Discharge anywhere on the face could indicate an upper respiratory infection., Another indication of unhealthiness is redness in the gums. You might also notice inflammation or whiteness. The gums should be a healthy pink, while the teeth should be bright white., Some kittens may have parasites, such as ear mites. If your kittens do, they may scratch their ears a lot (or shake their heads), or they may have dark brown bits inside their ears.Look for healthy pink insides; redness or inflammation could indicate an issue., Take a moment to feel up and down the kittens' bodies. You shouldn't notice any lumps. Also, the kitten's belly should be round, and you shouldn't be able to feel the kitten's ribs. However, the belly shouldn't be swollen. Check if it's warm to the touch. If it is warm and swollen, that could mean the kittens have worms.While you're checking the kittens' bodies, look at the fur as well. Look for bald patches, which could indicate ringworm. In addition, check for small reddish particles close to the tail and ears, which could indicate fleas., The back end of the kitten should be fairly clean. For instance, you shouldn't notice any feces in the fur, which may mean the kitten has had diarrhea.Pay attention to anything that looks like grains of rice, as they could be tapeworms., Kittens should be fairly rambunctious and playful. When they're not napping, they should be playing. If they have low energy, that's not a great sign.In addition, they should have decent coordination (for kittens).When the kittens are trying to move or do something like eat, look for head tremors. This type of tremor is called an "intention tremor," meaning it happens when they try to do something. This type of tremor is usually due to a condition called cerebellar hypoplasia. In some cats, it may not worsen, but in other cats, it may prevent them from eating and walking properly.
Also, when eating, the kitten should be enthusiastic.
 While you can look for obvious signs of sickness, a vet is better able to evaluate your kittens' health. In addition, you may need to keep the kittens separate from other animals in your household for a period if they are potentially contagious.

Don't forget your kitten will need vaccinations. They should start at about 2 months, but you can wait as long as 3 or 4 months., Get one litter box for each cat plus an extra, for a total of three litter boxes. Pick ones with low sides so your kittens can get in it. You'll also need a food bowl, a water bowl, beds, and collars or harnesses for your kittens. You'll also need kitten food to give the kittens, of course., At first, you should contain your kittens to a small area. A small room works, though you need to make sure to pull up or secure any cords or curtains/blinds strings so the kittens can't get them, as they can be hazardous.Separate the litter box and food/water bowls. They shouldn't be on the same side of the room.
 While the kittens are going to stay in a separate space for a bit, it's still a good idea to make your home kitten proof. Look for anything a kitten could get into, including strings, toxic plants, chemicals, cords, potpourri, and small toys., You'll need a carrier to bring the kittens home. It can help to spray it with a pheromone spray, which will calm the kittens. Also, place some treats and a blanket in the crate to help them feel more comfortable.You can find pheromone spray at most pet stores.
 When you get home, set the carrier in their room and open it up. Leave them alone for a while so they can come out and explore on their own. When you do venture in, do so quietly, and sit on the floor so they can approach you., Once the kittens seem comfortable in their tiny space and with the people in your family, you can let them out. Make sure the kittens are eating, drinking, and going to the bathroom regularly before giving them the full house. Also, keep the food and litter box in the same place for now., Kittens learn from watching each other. When one kitten figures something out, the other kitten will soon learn to do it. Letting them be together will help them figure out things quicker, such as grooming and using the litter box.They'll also learn cat-only behaviors from each other, such as how to talk to another cat and how to say hello to another cat., Kittens do well in pairs because it gives each kitten a companion to play with. Kittens naturally want to wrestle and play bite, and if a kitten doesn't have an animal companion, it'll bite on you instead. With two together, they each have someone to wrestle with. Plus, they can wear each other out.