 They might throw things and lash out at you or their siblings.


They may also be throwing tantrums because they don’t get enough attention and want more limits on their behavior. Tantrums might also be a normal part of their development (especially for teens), or an unconscious effort to test your patience or authority.;
, Compulsive exercise is exercise that pushes an individual beyond their healthy limits. Even if your child – usually a teen – feels worn out and exhausted, their compulsive behavior forces them to exercise more. Kids who spend more than 60 to 90 minutes each day engaged in physical activity are exercising beyond normal limits.


Kids who engage in compulsive exercise usually do so because their parents put undue pressure on them to succeed in some sport. Let your child know that sports and games are meant to be fun, and that if they don’t want to play their chosen sport, you won’t be upset. Tell your child, “It’s okay if you don’t win, or even if you don’t want to play anymore. I’ll still love you.”
Compulsive exercise puts your child at risk for injury.Encourage them to cease compulsive exercising as soon as possible.
 This is especially true in cases where parents are putting too much pressure on children to look slim or beautiful.


Overweight children are not necessarily suffering under too much pressure. They might have other medical issues, or may simply be malnourished. Talk to a pediatrician to identify the causes of your child’s weight problem.
 They may cry excessively, show a disinterest in friends, or demonstrate low levels of motivation. Kids with these problems might say they feel sad, empty, numb, or lonely. Have your child see a child psychologist if you notice or suspect these attitudes and behaviors.
 For example, you might hear your child say, “You are always pushing me too hard to get good grades” or “I wish you didn’t put so much pressure on me to win.” If you hear these or similar comments from your child, take them seriously.


Don’t respond with denial, anger, or sarcasm. Responses like, “Oh, so your failures are all my fault?” or “I put pressure on you to succeed and you should thank me” are not helpful. Instead, empathize with your child and acknowledge they are struggling to meet your high expectations.
Reflect on your behavior and think about how much pressure other parents place on their kids. Do you consider the amount of pressure you place on your child equal to, greater to, or less than other parents?

, Does their behavior suggest that they are under excessive pressure? For instance, do they engage in compulsive exercise and/or throw tantrums? Once you’ve identified behaviors that might suggest they are under pressure, think about whether you’re the cause. If you answer “yes” to any of the following questions, you are probably placing undue pressure on your kids:


Do you encourage them to win every football, hockey, or lacrosse game – no matter what?Do you consistently warn your child that if they don’t get better grades, they will not get into a good college?
Do you insist that your child become the best at everything they do?

, They might even respond to the mounting pressure by acting out in negative ways. In order to move forward in a productive way with your child, you need to acknowledge that the way you treated them led to a negative outcome.


Say, “I’m sorry for putting too much pressure on you. I love you and I’ve only ever wanted what’s best for you, but I see now that my approach was wrong. Can you forgive me?”

, The thing that will keep your kids from feeling that they are under too much pressure, though, is to let them know that even if they fail, or can’t do something well, you’ll stand by them and still love them.


Kids want love and affection. If they don’t get an “A” on their test, don’t tell your child that they need to do better. Instead, say, “I’m sure you tried your hardest” or “I’m happy you’re making progress.”
Get to know your child. What are your child’s limits? What are they good at? Offer words of encouragement if you believe they could do better. For instance, say, “You know I love you no matter what, but I think you could put more effort into this class.”
By challenging your child to be the best they can be while letting them know you completely support them, your child will experience just the right amount of pressure that they need to succeed.
 For other parents, they are motivated not by a goal of setting their child up for success, but by the pride they can gain by raising an all-star or prodigy.Reflect carefully on your own motivations for putting excessive pressure on your child.


Sometimes it’s hard to clearly identify why you want to place too much pressure on your kid. Talk to a psychologist about your reasons for doing so. Psychologists can work with you to help you explore thoughts, attitudes, and feelings you might not even be fully aware of.
 Step back and permit your child to take their next sports event or test review session into their own hands. Children who are not under too much pressure might fail, but in failing, they will learn important lessons.


After failing enough, or badly enough, your child will be able to identify if victory – however defined – is worth it.
Failure helps kids develop a sense of personal autonomy. Over time, your child will learn to perform in a way that pleases them, not others.
 They may, for instance, become fearful and forget what they studied, or freeze up on the field. To avoid these situations, teach your child to think of these situations as challenges and opportunities rather than high-pressure situations. When your child has a puzzle, game, or opportunity before them, they will rise to the occasion and give their best.
 For instance, if your child has a big test, you should say, “Even though this test is really important, if you don’t do well, it’s not the end of the world.”


If you want to provide more specific contextual advice to your child to help them feel less pressured, suggest that they could pick up extra credit assignments later.
In the case of sporting events, you might suggest that there will be other games down the line, and other opportunities to win.
 Reminding your child of how smart, wonderful, and skilled they are will give your child confidence and diminish their perceived feelings of stress and pressure.


Offer words of encouragement like, “You got this” and “I know you can do it.”

, To avoid putting too much pressure on your child, you should avoid constructing a rigid schedule of activities and events for them. If you don’t allow your child to do anything but study, do homework, or go practice their sport, they will become bored and feel trapped by the pressure of the situation. Unstructured time (either alone or with friends) allows them to unwind and reduces the amount of pressure they experience.


It’s best if at least some of this unstructured time is free of phones and other electronic devices. Take your child for a hike in the woods, or go for a canoe trip. Enjoying the great outdoors can help your child (and you) decompress.

