 Peanut sauce is great as a topping or as a dipping sauce for a variety of dishes, including stir fry, rice noodles, pork skewers and other grilled meats. The ingredients are basic pantry items that you can keep on hand to whip up a quick Thai dinner on the cheap.


Mix 2-3 tablespoons of your favorite peanut butter in a bowl with about a tablespoon of brown sugar, a teaspoon each of soy sauce, sesame seed oil, rice vinegar, and grated ginger, and sweet chili sauce to taste. Stir in a small amount of boiling water to thin the sauce to a consistency you like, adding more if necessary. Taste and adjust the spices to your taste. Serve on noodles or stir fry, topped with chopped peanuts, green onion, and cilantro.
 If you’ve got some leftover peanut sauce, a great use for it can be to mix up a cool-spicy coleslaw with shredded cabbage, carrots, bell pepper, green onion, cilantro, and chopped peanuts., While Americans like to claim peanut butter, the use of the peanut in African cuisine predates the use of peanuts in the Americas by hundreds of years. One of the most famous iterations and uses of groundnuts like the peanut is a spicy and aromatic broth flavored with peanuts and meat. It's delicious and simple to prepare.To make your own version, bring a whole chopped 3 lb. roaster chicken to boil in a pot with chicken stock, onion, garlic, two chopped tomatoes, and black pepper. When it boils, reduce to a simmer. In a skillet, gently heat a few tablespoons of chunky peanut butter with some hot water to thin it out and create a sauce. Season with red chili paste, ground ginger, brown sugar, and soy sauce to taste. When the oil starts to release from the peanut sauce, add it to the stock pot with the chicken and the vegetables. Let cook for 30 minutes.
 A fun treat for school lunches or after-school snacks can be making up some simple sushi rolls with sandwich bread, fruit, and peanut butter.Start with one piece of sandwich bread, spread with a thin layer of smooth peanut butter. On one edge, line thin slices of apple, pear, carrot, or other fruits parallel with the edge of the bread. Roll it up tightly, then slice up each roll as you would a sushi roll. Spread them out on a plate and serve them with caramel sauce instead of soy. The kids will love it.
 Of course, there's no better use for peanut butter than with sweet deserts. The perfect compliment for rich chocolate cakes and pies, peanut butter is as versatile for after dinner treats and it is for breakfast. Here are some classic peanut butter-based deserts:


Peanut butter cookies
Peanut butter balls
Buckeyes
Peanut butter brownies
Peanut butter pie

