 These days, it’s easier than ever to learn about a product by reading its online reviews. Interested in a particular model? See what current or former users have to say about it by doing your research.


Websites like Amazon.comand Consumer Reportsare typically good places to find reliable consumer reviews.
Don’t let two or three negative reviews affect your choice -- consider the average review, instead. Many review sites use a star rating system, which can be helpful for gauging customer satisfaction.
Look especially for reviews related to your intended use. Are there many people who use the headphones for studying? If that’s what you’re looking for, that’s great news.
 Headphones come in and out of fashion, and some brands that are really well known do not actually provide the best sound quality. As much as possible, try to avoid letting the brand name guide your decision.


The popular Beats by Dre are good for dub and hip hop, but may drown out other genres of music.Optoma, Sennheiser, and Bang and Olufsen may not have the same sticker appeal, but they provide great sound for a variety of musical tastes., A high-quality pair of headphones should be almost unnoticeable after you put them on. If the headphones feel uncomfortable after half a minute, if they fall out of your ears, or if they’re too tight, it might be an idea to look at another pair. While you’re trying the headphones on, play something to see what you think of the sound quality. Listening to several genres can give you a good idea of what they’ll sound like for a variety of tunes.
Check to make sure the cord seems sturdy enough to withstand daily use, and that is unlikely to fray.
Even if you’re buying your headphones online, you can go into Best Buy or your local electronics store to try them on first. It’s a small investment in time that can help you make the best decision.
 If you're buying headphones over the Internet, remember that if the deal seems too good to be true, it likely is. The headphone industry is especially full of knockoffs -- so know that you’re probably not going to get that top-of-the-line brand for $2.99. Buy only from authorized dealers and resellers.
Check the product’s serial number with the manufacturer to determine whether it’s real or not. Trust your intuition. If you see a lot of typos on the box, if the product seems different from what you expected, or if the color doesn’t match the description, you probably have a fake., Most electronics purchased from a reputable retailer are returnable within a certain amount of time. Hold onto your receipt just in case your headphones end up not working out!

