 Nonfiction is a broad genre, covering anything that is not made up. That can include memoir, personal essays, a history book, a cook book, self-help guides, and even travel guides.Before you start writing a nonfiction book, you should have a pretty good idea of what kind of book you're hoping to write.


Personal essays are often reflective/meditative, and can deal with past or current events in your life. An essay should explore a topic or event thoroughly, examining it from all angles and looking past the surface of things.Memoir tends to contextualize a singular event or situation from the past, analyzing it with new insight from the present. Memoirs often address why an event was significant, what it meant at the time for the writer, and why it's important to her now.Instructive books, such as travel guides, self-help books, and cook books, tend to be equal parts research and instruction. You'll need to know what you're talking about (with credible, authoritative sources) and you'll need to be able to tell a reader what to do and when to do it.
History books require extensive research, and often need some type of authority on the part of the author. If you don't have a degree in history, readers may question why you're qualified to write about historical events.
 Just as a novel requires the author to know where her book is leading, so too does a nonfiction book. Without knowing what your narrative is leading up to, you risk rambling aimlessly trying to get there.


Figure out your nonfiction book's narrative arc. What is everything building towards, and what information/details are necessary to carry a reader along to that point?
Break down your narrative into a series of events and the complications that surround each event. For example, one event in your book might be your birthday party, and the complication might be that your parents forgot it was your birthday.
Each action, obstacle, and person described in the book should contribute towards the book's endpoint. If they're not relevant, no matter how interesting they might be, you may need to cut them out., Unlike a novel, you can't just create characters and scenes in your head. Nonfiction requires the people and experiences to be real, and the dialogue should be as true as possible (taking into account the limiting factor of memory). How you decide to begin your nonfiction book should be a natural starting point for the true story you're trying to tell.


Just like a novel, a narrative nonfiction book (specifically a memoir or essay collection) should have some type of initiating incident. You can't make up the incident as you would in fiction, so figure out what event really set your life up for the larger events your book is about.
Starting the book with the initiating incident, or even beginning it in medias res, can hook your reader with the intensity of the actions or tragedy that occurred in your life.
Many nonfiction books begin with what's called a status quo scene: a depiction of what your life looked like before the initiating incident. It's a good way to draw a reader in, because she knows that something will inevitably shake up the way your life is at the beginning and is motivated to keep reading., It goes without saying that a memoir or personal essay collection will be told from your point of view. Everything that happens in the book should have happened to you, and you're obligated to tell those stories as completely and truthfully as possible. However, many people have a hard time keeping their personal perspective in check while writing about real life events. Everyone experiences an event differently, and everyone will have a differing perspective about the details of what happened, so tread carefully as you write about your life and the people/events in it.


Don't write yourself as a hero or a victim. Even if you feel that way, it will be clear to the reader that there are things being withheld, or it might turn readers off altogether.
Remember that you're just like everyone else: a real, living, slightly flawed human being. You're not perfect, and the people in your life are not objectively bad or malicious.
Everything requires balance in storytelling. Even if your memoir is about your troubled childhood, no reader will believe that you were unhappy 24/7, so balance those heartbreaking moments of tragedy with some lighter moments that depict your best days side-by-side with your worst.