 Avocados are a great all around superfood because they are high in unsaturated fats and low in saturated fats. They are great for sexual health as well. Since they are heart-healthy foods, they keep blood circulating, which can help with arousal. Proper circulation and heart health helps men and women receive blood flow to their genitals.Avocados contain potassium and B6 which promotes blood flow and delays heart disease.
Men with heart disease are more prone to erectile dysfunction than men with healthy hearts.;
, Almonds are related to increased cardiovascular health, which helps keep blood vessels healthy. Promoting cardiovascular health helps reduce the risk of obesity, which can lead to decreased libido and poor sexual health. Healthy blood vessels also help men and women get aroused and achieve orgasm.Almonds contain zinc, selenium and vitamin E. Zinc is associated with the production of sex hormones in men and can boost libido. Selenium is known to help in infertility in women. Vitamin E is involved in improving the heart and cell walls and hence improves blood flow, which is good for the sex organs.
Almonds are also believed to promote passion and act as an aphrodisiac.Almonds are also believed to help with fertility in women and lower the chances of men getting erectile dysfunction.
 While the smell of onions and garlic may not be sexy, the nutritional benefits can help with your sexual health. Onions can help strengthen reproductive organs for both sexes. Garlic is believed to help increase sexual stamina, while onions are supposed to increase the libido.Onion is a great source of minerals. It contains the mineral chromium which helps in regulating blood sugar. Onion also helps in producing good cholesterol.
They both increase testosterone in men., Fish contains high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3s are good fats, which are essential for circulation health. Promoting healthy circulation health in your body helps improve your sexual health since it helps blood flow easier to the penis, clitoris, and vulva.Omega-3 fatty acids are also essential for the health of mucus membranes, such as those of the vagina.


Omega-3 fatty acids DHA and EPA can elevate dopamine levels in the brain, resulting in triggering arousal.
Eat mackerel, tuna, salmon, and wild salmon. These foods have high concentrations of omega-3s.
 Carrots are not only good for eye health. Carrots can increase your sexual health because they help increase your libido. Carrots also contain a large amount of Vitamin A, which helps produce sex hormones.According to a recent study, yellow and orange fruits and veggies, especially carrots, can boost sperm quality and quantity.Carrots were found to improve sperm quality by 6.5 – 8.0%.
 Leafy greens are important for sexual health. They include folic acid, which can help promote healthy sperm production and healthy development of fetuses.They also help with circulation by cleaning the blood, which helps promote arousal.B-vitamins also help increase the libido and sexual drive.


Eat kale, mustard greens, arugula, and spinach. Or try any other kind of green or lettuce. Eat them once a day.
 Black raspberries act as an aphrodisiac as they are rich in phytochemicals which stimulate the brain and enhance libido. They help boost the libido and help with sexual endurance. Try eating at least 10 black raspberries a couple of hours before you plan on having sex., Red produce has been found to promote sexual health. Tomatoes have been found to help men produce less abnormal sperm due to the lycopene found in them.Strawberries are another red fruit that can help with sexual health. Not only is red a sexually stimulating color, but the fruit has folic acid, which can help reduce birth defects and increase sperm count.
Watermelon, a fruit with a pink-red center, contains L-citrulline. L-citrulline is an amino acid that can help make men’s erections harder. Watermelon can also help increase blood flow, which helps with arousal for both men and women., Figs are believed to help with fertility. More importantly, they are believed to help boost pheromones, which can help you and your partner get in the mood. Try eating a few figs before you plan on getting intimate., Cayenne pepper and other spicy foods can help increase your sexual health. Spicy foods, like cayenne pepper, contain capsaicin. This helps promote circulation health, which gets blood flowing to the penis and clitoris.