 In general, stream-of-consciousness writing is tied to a particular character, as it is intended to illustrate the inner thought patterns of that character. For the character’s thoughts, you could choose a multitude of topics, related or unrelated. This could include people, events, dreams, emotions, activities, items, or anything else. It’s sometimes easier to start with a broader topic if it’s the first time you’ve written stream-of-consciousness.Literally any topic will do, as long as you have something to say about it – even if it doesn't seem like much at first.
Using this method, you can connect topics that seem unrelated. For example, you could begin discussing a certain character who loves roses and then immediately switch to a childhood memory of your mother’s rose bushes. This is the way thoughts often work in our heads – so it is also a great way to show how a character thinks and connects ideas in their mind.
 You don’t need to capitalize, punctuate, or even spell correctly. If necessary, make up a word to suit your needs. The point is to get your creative juices flowing, not to focus on line-editing what you write or how you are portraying your character’s thoughts. Remember that the point of this style of writing is to mirror how thoughts naturally flow through our heads, and people don’t typically think in complete sentences with perfect grammar.Ignore sentence structure. You could do an entire page of adjectives, verbs, or nouns related to your topic. Or you could do short phrases, or whatever else comes to mind, as long as it illustrates the character’s thought patterns in a pointed, methodical way.
 Spend a few days away from the writing so that you can look over it with fresh eyes. Think about what you wrote and if it seems to be accomplishing the goal you set out to achieve. Go through several drafts.This type of writing can allow you to provide interesting insights or connections that people normally wouldn’t see. It’s valuable to save this work for future reference to look back over what kinds of connections you made between ideas.
Even if it’s weird or bad, make sure you save your writing. You may want to come back to it at a later time or include it elsewhere in your work.
 Stream of consciousness writing is often used to display the interior monologues of characters in stories. This form of writing is meant to replicate the fast-flowing, free-associating way our brains automatically work when we are thinking inside our own heads. So the inner monologue is a stream of often disconnected thoughts, ideas, or subjects.Many famous authors have implemented this strategy in their writing – including James Joyce, William Faulkner, and Virginia Woolf.
 One of the best ways to master any given style of writing is by reading examples where it is done well. If you find yourself struggling, spend some time reading some texts that focus on the stream-of-consciousness style.You could try reading "Mrs. Dalloway" by Virginia Woolf, Ulysses by James Joyce or As I Lay Dying by William Faulkner.

