 One of the most important things to look out for is a sudden change in any of the data reported by your dog’s device. It’s possible that a change may indicate that your dog has a potential health condition. Fortunately, the app that reports the data makes it easy to look at your data in different ways that will help you spot a change.Most of the apps will organize the data into charts or other info-graphics that will allow you to see how short-term compares to trends over time. For instance, you’ll likely see activity levels change over time if your dog loses or gains weight.
Set your device to warn you about sudden changes in you dog’s stats. For instance, if your dog is suddenly much less active, it may indicate they are suffering from some sort of health malady. Changes in the data may even precede other symptoms that may be harder to notice.
 Some off the apps associated with wearable dog tech will recommend benchmarks to shoot for in terms of criteria like play time, active time, and rest time. These recommended benchmarks are worth paying attention to, as they are based on your dog’s age and breed. Set your own goals as well, and the app will remind you to meet them based on the data the device gathers.For instance, have the app remind you to take your dog for a 15 minute walk twice a day. If you tend to walk your dog in the morning but miss a day, the app can remind you later in the day that you need to make up the missed walk.
Think of the device as a way to change your own behavior, as well as your dog’s. It’s easy to forget about your dog’s need - especially their need for physical activity - if you spend a good amount of time away from your dog every day.
 Aside from things like your dog’s age and breed, it can also be helpful to add other information to your app that the device can’t monitor. For instance, you can log food and medication intake, and notes about any symptoms you observe.Not only will this information potentially help you or another person take care of your dog, it may help a veterinarian diagnose any issues that may arise.
 Try to ensure that the wearable device doesn’t ever run out of battery. Unfortunately, many of these devices require you to take them off your dog to be recharged, which requires down time at home. However, the batteries will last longer if you set the app not to upload data constantly.Instead, update the app with data from the device whenever it is convenient. In short, turning off any “auto sync” features means the battery will last longer in between charges.
Note that most of these devices can employ either Bluetooth technology or wifi to upload information.
 Since your veterinarian is familiar with the specific health concerns that are most relevant to your dog, they can provide advice about certain signs in the data to watch out for. Say something like, “Given Sir Woofsalot’s specific health conditions, what are the vital statistics I should monitor most closely?”