 You might casually bring it up while chatting about your plans for the weekend, or you might ask directly. You should target friends that you think have already been invited, because if you bring up the party to another friend who's uninvited, you might end up making that person feel left out.


If you get into a situation where you and a few friends weren't uninvited to a party, you could throw a party of your own.;
, In most cases it is generally accepted for invited guests to bring a "plus one" to a big to-do. If your friend tells you that he has received an invitation, you can say try to get invited by saying things like: "That's fantastic! I wish I could be there, too."
"You know, I don't have any plans that night. You think it'd be alright if I tagged along?"
"Dude, it's been forever since we've gotten rowdy! We should go together!"

, If your friend agrees to bring you with him, you should show your thanks in some small way, like by offering to drive to the shindig. Be sure to get the particulars from your friend since he has the invitation, and try to be accommodating to his wishes., If your friend says he's made arrangements to go to the party with someone else, be courteous and pleasant. After all, your friend probably didn't know you weren't invited or that you needed a piggyback-invite. Then check with other friends you think may have been invited to see if you can tag along with them.


Even if turned down, you may be able to ask your friend if he has any leads for a mutual friend who is going that you can tag along with.
 This is an especially useful tactic if a good friend of yours has been invited while you have not. This way, you can save yourself and the host some embarrassment by asking indirectly through your friend. You might coach your friend to say to the host:


"Hey Emily, I was talking with my friend John the other day, and he doesn't have anything going on this weekend during the party. I didn't say anything about it in case it wasn't cool with you, but would you mind if I invited him along?"
"Emily! I have a favor to ask. I wanna come to your party so bad, it sounds mad awesome, but I promised my buddy Kris I'd chill with him. You know him? He's real cool - mind if he comes along?"

