 Read how to Buy Property in Nicaragua for details.;
,, Many people go to Nicaragua to live a completely different lifestyle (no electricity, no phone, etc.). Some people may pressure you to adopt this type of living, but it's your decision. It will be your home. You need to be comfortable in it. Let the people facilitating your move know what your requirements are. If they can't provide them, find someone who can.
 The industry is maturing. The number of home-builders is rising, as is the reliability of the contractors. However, the home-building process is not as fast and smooth in Nicaragua as it is in certain other countries. You may need to lower your expectations to some extent. Just know that building standards are gradually improving.


Currently Nicaragua is using many building standards, none of which would be acceptable in more industrialized countries. Your goal should be to build a home which meets current standards in higher-end Costa Rican homes. Currently there are many differences between Costa Rican homes and Nicaraguan homes, involving design, materials and construction techniques. You want to find a contractor willing to meet the higher standards.
 Essentially there is no limit to how cheaply you can build a home in Nicaragua. This is because there is little enforcement of building regulations. A home can be built with no supports, too small a foundation, no hot water, no electrical grounding. It can be built on unstable soil or in a flood plain. This means you should not focus on building as cheaply as possible. Instead, make your home a good investment. Spending an extra $20,000 can add twice that much value to your home.


Labor in Nicaragua is some of the cheapest in the world. This creates an opportunity to build a home you might not be able to afford somewhere else. You might be able to include amazing arched ceilings, arched entry ways, and arched windows, decorative concrete, stamped concrete, stained concrete and rounded corners. The possibilities are limited only by your imagination, so take advantage of a great opportunity.
 There are three categories of contractors in Nicaragua.


Local companies and builders. While this option can be attractive, keep in mind that construction practices would not meet most western builders' standards.
A combination of “Construction Management” and construction companies that offer this service because their clients have requested it. This group of contractors can pretty well guarantee that your project will be completed to a high Nicaraguan standard. These companies will offer homes that rise to a so-called Western standard but one that will not meet U.S. or Canadian levels. You will need a bullet-proof contract that covers building permits, hook-ups and construction. You (and your lawyer) will need to be paying very close attention to the project.
The best option is to hire a truly professional construction company. Some of the best will have subsidiaries in the United States or Canada that can offer a contract that is legally binding in your home country, receive payments and provide contacts, all in the comfort of your home country. These companies hire builders with experience in the U.S. or other industrialized countries. They may also have experience working in hostile areas with varying degrees of difficulty. These companies can build multi-level pools, multi-story structures, decorative concrete finishes, off-grid power sources (see below), etc. These companies will also benefit from extensive local government contacts. They will do the work themselves, rather than subcontracting it to others. They can build durable and attractive homes featuring finishes and other specialties not well known in Nicaragua. Such companies train their employees when necessary and maintain a close eye on their progress.

