 They'll protect your skin from the chemicals and irritants in many calcium removers. Make sure they're free of dirt before you start to clean. Use gloves that cover all or most of your forearm, in case the cleaner splashes.

You can skip this step if you're using vinegar.
 Mix one part calcium remover, such as CLR, and one part water in a bowl or old plastic container. Choose a container bound for the recycling bin. For most taps, 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 mL) of each ingredient is enough.If you don't have much calcium buildup, you can use undiluted white vinegar instead of CLR and water. This method will take much longer, about 24 hours, but it's harmless to bare skin and safe for most faucet finishes.Avoid using calcium remover or vinegar on iron or nickel faucets. These cleaners will remove the finish along with the gunk you're cleaning. Read your owner's manual or contact a local plumber for advice., Use a regular-sized sandwich bag. It doesn't matter if the baggie has a zip seal. Pour carefully. If you're concerned about spilling the mixture, pour it into the baggie through a funnel., Hold the baggie at a slight angle so that the mixture builds up in one of the corners. Carefully slide the open end of the baggie over the faucet. Then submerge the tap in the mixture. Securely fasten the baggie to the faucet with a rubber band. Let the tap soak for one to two hours., Undo the rubber band. Carefully slide the baggie off of the faucet. Do this slowly. Read the label on the cleaner to check for disposal instructions. Cleaners like CLR are biodegradable and can be poured down the drain or toilet., Use an old toothbrush or magic eraser. Scrub in a gentle back-and-forth motion. Periodically rinse the toothbrush or magic eraser if it gets too gunky. Continue to do this until the buildup is completely removed., Move in a gentle circular or back-and-forth direction. Pay special attention to the tap to slow future calcium buildup. Continue until the faucet is completely dry.