 To make a crop top from scratch, you will need to head to a fabric store and pickup several items. Here are some basic things you will need:Fabric scissors
Fabric marker
Sewing pins
Sewing machine
Flexible measuring tape
Newspaper
Fabric

, It is best to use fabric that has a little bit of stretch such as cotton. However, you can choose whichever type of fabric you want.


You will need about 1/2 yard of fabric.
 In order to cut your fabric to the right size, you need to record your basic measurements in inches. Use a flexible measuring tape, and measure your waist, bust, and back length.


For your waist measurement, measure around the smallest part of your waist and add one inch.
For your bust measurement, measure around the center of your bust and add one inch.
For the length, start from you shoulders. The length will vary depending on how long you want your crop top. Be sure to add two extra inches for hemming or altering., Since you will be measuring around your body, you will need to divide your waist and bust measurement in half to compensate for each piece of fabric. When you cut your fabric, you will have a front and back piece that you will later sew together., Before you cut your fabric, cut the shape you want your crop top to be on the newspaper first. You need to cut the pattern to your unique measurements. Here are the measurements to keep in mind:Shoulder to shoulder
Length of top
Neckline
Bust line
Waist line
Armholes

, This will allow you to check out the cut and fit of your soon-to-be crop top. Each piece should come to the middle of each of your sides underneath your arms and have additional room for the seam.


Leave the length longer than you anticipate the final product being so you can leave room for error.
 Use your newspaper cut out as an outline when cutting out your fabric. Place the newspaper flat onto the fabric, and trace it with a fabric marker or pencil.


Remember to cut out two identical pieces that you will later sew together.
 Lay each piece on top of one another with the "wrong sides" facing out. Sew along the edges about a quarter of an inch in.


Don't sew the bottom of your crop top together. Each piece needs to be hemmed individually at the bottom opening.
Finish the bottom hem. To hem the bottom, simply fold in the bottom fabric about 1/2 inch. If you want the crop top to be shorter, cut the additional fabric with scissors and then hem it.

