 A consistent bathroom schedule is a key component of proper house training. It will teach your dog to urinate outside at certain times, such as after waking up, after a meal, and about 20 minutes before going to bed. This is especially important for puppies, since they have weak bladder muscles and are still learning where they should urinate.Bathroom routines are important for adult dogs as well. Be mindful that even an adult dog can urinate inside if it wasn’t properly house trained as a puppy.;
, Having a specific outdoor bathroom spot will teach your dog to urinate outside, not inside. If you have a backyard, put your dog on a leash and take it to an area of the yard that’s protected from weather elements (rain, wind). Allow your dog to pick the exact bathroom spot within this area.Give your dog praise when it urinates in this area, or just shows interest in it.This will not be as important if your dog already has a specific bathroom spot, or you do not have a backyard.
 Playing with your dog can distract it from urinating completely. This is common in puppies, since they can become easily distracted. When you take your dog out, let it do its business without you playing with it.Consider just standing still until your dog finishes urinating., Unless your dog’s bladder is full, your dog may not urinate completely as soon as it gets outside. Your dog may need some time before its bladder muscles relax enough for urination. Also, if you have a puppy, it may need a few minutes to get focused on going to the bathroom.Don’t be surprised if your dog urinates several times. It may need to make several ‘pit stops’ to urinate completely., Give your dog verbal praise, and maybe a treat, when it finishes urinating. This will reinforce the idea that urinating outside is the right thing to do. If you want to give your dog treats, keep them hidden until after it finishes urinating. If your dog sees the treats, it may get distracted from going to the bathroom., If you’re in a rush, you may want to go back inside as soon as your dog finishes urinating. However, to your dog, this can signal the end of ‘fun time’ outside. It may not fully urinate to prolong the fun time, then urinate once it’s back inside. Rather than going right back inside, have extra outdoor playtime or continue the walk even after your dog’s finished urinating.If the weather is bad, don’t feel obligated to spend extra time outside. Your dog will probably want to go back inside as much as you do.

