 Astral projection is the belief that people can dissociate their "souls" or their subtle bodies from their vital bodies while living, then return to the body at will. Supposedly, W.B. Yeats, famed Irish poet and occultist, appeared in shadowy form at a social gathering hundreds of miles away while in the midst of deep meditation at his home.It is a skill that anyone can practice with deep concentration, though few if any may be able to achieve.


While this may not help you become a ghost, the skills involved in negotiating the difference between your subtle body and your living body is at the heart of transitioning into the afterlife. Think of it as practice.
 It's common to practice projection first thing in the morning, during the liminal state between wakefulness and sleepiness, when the mind is at its most receptive.
 Most astral projection starts with slowly entering into a trance by breathing slowly, stilling the mind, and focusing on a single part of your body.


Focus on your breath. Feel the air moving into your lungs and nourishing your body, relaxing you and warming you. Feel yourself go still. Feel yourself begin to melt.
Start with your foot and imagine in vibrating in consort with the cosmos. Vibrate your leg. Let each part of your body slowly numb to the here and now and become one with the outer world. The idea is that you slowly blur the line between "you" and "not you."

, When successful, astral projectionists feel their soul leaving their body, taking their consciousness with it. You should feel as if you're moving away from yourself, leaving your body behind. Try to explore an adjacent room, picking a book up off the shelf and reading it. See if you remember what you read when you came to.
 Some people believe that spending too much time outside of the body can make it more and more difficult, or more and more traumatic, to return to it. When you go out exploring the world outside your body, take it slowly. Don't start by flying away to Paris, start by exploring the room you're in, letting your soul do small things. Strengthen your astral muscles. Then return.


It's a common urban legend, reported in the Jimi Hendrix documentary Hendrix, that Hendrix practiced astral projection and died because he lost his way back to the real world. Acid casualty hokum or real-life ghost story? It's hard to say.

