 You won't be able to fully enjoy the site until you pass the test.;
, Before you get banned or a warning, read the page thoroughly. Chances are, your questions will be answered within the pages.
 The shelter is a place where other player's abandoned eggs and pokémon are kept, and where you can adopt them. The eggs are in the Egg Shelter and the Pokémon are in the Safari Zone. You can usually only adopt up to six times each day, but this number can be increased by multiplier days or by purchasing shelter passes. You can see more eggs or pokémon by refreshing, clicking the 'show more' button, or pressing space. If something is blocking your view, you can right-click on it to make it disappear. In the Safari Zone, the Pokémon will be bouncing around. If you want to turn this off, click the 'stop movement' button.
 Random eggs will show up in the lab, identified by a short description. Four eggs show up at a time. You can take as many eggs from the lab as you want. If you're lucky, you can find legendaries, Unowns, or Dittos., On the Main page, you can see the eggs and Pokémon you currently have in your party. At the top of the page will be your status, where you can type a short message for others to see. It will also show your points, a link to your settings, and various other stats that you can customize.


Pal Pad: The Pal pad lists the users you have become friends with. You can add someone to your Pal Pad from their page.
You can write down a message (up to 2000 characters) in your journal, and it will be viewed by people visiting your page.
You can drag the Pokémon in your party to rearrange them. When dragging a pokémon, boxes will show up in the middle for the places you can move it. Drag the pokémon to the box and it will be moved to that location.
 The Pokétch is a bar on the side with many tabs. Some tabs will not be available until you purchase the corresponding account upgrade. Sometimes a little circle will show up on a tab to notify you of something.

Friend Recorder: This tab will show the recent activities of the people on your pal pad.
Inventory: This shows you all of the items you currently own. You can sell items from here by clicking on the number to the right of the name. You can also activate certain items by clicking on the name.
Achievements: These are little tasks that you can complete for prizes, points, or just bragging rights. You also need a certain number of achievements to go on certain explorations. Achievements you have completed are automatically unlocked when you visit this page.
Statistics. This tab basically shows your ranking, activity score (which increases when you click and basically are active), and your interactions (how many times you've clicked today).
Daycare: Two Pokémon placed here with opposite genders and a shared egg group will have a chance of producing eggs every hour. You can take one of these eggs, and the rest will be donated to the shelter. The eggs can be the same species as either parent, with the ratio depending on the parent's rarity. Novelty Pokémon (custom Pokémon exclusive to GPX+) will usually produce eggs of the Pokémon they are based off of, with a very slim chance of producing a novelty.
PokéWalker: When you place a Pokémon in the PokéWalker, it will gain steps when you click. When you move the Pokémon, its experience will be increased depending on the number of steps. When you withdraw the Pokémon, there is also a chance to find an accessory, which increases with the number of steps. After you unlock the achievement, IT'S OVER NINE THOUSAND!!, you'll receive a Scouter, which estimates the minimum level the Pokémon will come out as.
Underground: The Underground is unlocked by purchasing the Explore Kit for 750 points. You can send one Pokémon there at a time, and it will return after at least three hours has elapsed and after you visit a certain number of pages. When it does, there is a chance it will have a item. A Pokémon can only be sent to the underground once.
Vs. Seeker: The Vs. Seeker is unlocked by purchasing it for 4,000 points. You can send a Pokémon in to randomly battle with another entered Pokémon. There are different divisions Pokémon can be entered in, depending on their level. All divisions except training require a fee to enter, but the winner will gain experience, points, and Prize Points in the Diamond division. Pokémon will be randomly paired up with another Pokémon of their division once every hour, and the winner will be determined automatically by a combination of factors.
Mobile Walker: Up to three eggs or Pokémon can be placed in the mobile walker. When you change the Pokémon in the mobile walker, it will be available to be primed the next hour. This gives no experience but will record your current location. After it is primed, you can activate it once every hour. When you do, your Pokémon will gain experience based on the distance you have traveled from the first location. However, even if you have not changed locations, you will still gain a small amount of experience.
Shine Recorder: The Shine Recorder must be purchased from the shop for 6,000 points. The Shine Recorder allows you to start a shiny hunt or race, and participate in site-wide shiny hunts. You can register a hunt for an egg which you have the Pokédex entry of, and it will record the number of eggs you have hatched and number of days you have spent on the shiny hunt.
Released Pokémon: This tab will show you the Pokémon you have released which have been adopted by other users.
Daycare Offspring: Your daycare offspring which are owned by a user are shown here.
Explorations: This tab displays information about the exploration task you are on. Explorations are a series of tasks you have to complete for a prize, usually a Pokémon or item. Special explorations are rotated every month, and will reward you legendary Pokémon. Three are available in one month, and you can only embark on one out of the three. In order to start an exploration, you must have an empty slot in your party, fulfill a set of requirements for dex entries, achievements, and total interactions, and pay a certain number of points.
Pokéchests: Pokéchests are randomly obtained by performing actions such as interacting, hatching eggs, etc. They can be opened on this page. You will get a random set of trinkets from opening a Pokéchest.
 The Pokémon that aren't in your Party are located here, in the Personal Computer. Here, you can move Pokémon between your boxes and to other locations. You can move them by dragging and dropping them, or by clicking multiple Pokémon in a location and clicking the location you want to move them to. The boxes, and the Pokémon in the boxes, can be reordered by dragging and dropping. You can also filter your Pokémon by certain requirements and release them. You start out with 25 boxes, each able to store 24 Pokémon. This number can be increased by purchasing account upgrades. You can change the name and background of a box.
 Trinkets are user-created collectible items which can be traded or gifted between users. Each trinket is assigned one or more affinities, and only users with the same affinity will be able to obtain that trinket from a Pokéchest. You affinity is displayed at the top-left of the page, to the left of your username., This page allows you to have Pokémon battles against NPCs or other users. Up to 18 Pokémon can be moved into the Battle Tower. You can customize the Pokémon's moves and held item beforehand by selecting the option from the drop-down menu on its page. On GPX+, Pokémon can only learn certain moves based on its type, as well as a few support moves. Moves are classified as strong or weak. A Pokémon can only use three strong moves in a battle. It is usually better to have a mono-type Pokémon as an attacker, since dual-typed Pokémon will learn weak attacks from both its type, while a Pokémon with a single type will learn both a strong and weak move of that type.
 The Users page will display a list of users which can be filtered by certain requirements. You can also choose an amount of Pokémon to interact with, which will all be opened in the berry clicker or in separate tabs. You can then interact with each Pokémon by either clicking on a berry or pressing the numbers 1-5 on your keyboard. The spacebar can be substituted for 5. Pressing any of these buttons will warm an egg. A Pokémon's preference for a certain flavor of berry is determined by their nature. The yellow berry is sour, the red is spicy, the purple is dry, the pink is sweet, and the blue is bitter. It is good practice to first interact with any exploration Pokémon, and to make sure to get their berries right.
 On this page, the information for each Pokémon, egg, and shiny form you have obtained are displayed. You can search through your Pokémon, as well as filter them by egg description, stats, type, etc.
 In the Shop, you can purchase a variety of items. There are five sections to the shop.


The Main Shop contains evolutionary stones and items, Vs. Seeker items, miscellaneous items, and account upgrades. Its stock is rotated every day.
The Backroom is unlocked by purchasing the Secret Key for 25,000 points. It contains items that other users have sold. The Backroom will be closed during a sale.
The Accessories shop will be available after purchasing the Fashion Case for 475 points. It contains 15 randomly stocked accessories, which can be used to dress up your Pokémon.
Pass Powers can be activated by spending Pass Orbs, which are obtained by returning clicks to users who have interacted with you. They will temporarily provide some special effect. Only one Pass Power can be active at a time.
Rare items can be purchased in the Prize shop by spending Prize Points. These are earned by participating in site events.
 This is your best friend. The admins don't like your trivial questions, especially when they are answered in the FAQ or Help section. Read this section thoroughly before even trying to contact them. You might just get a warning or banned, if it's that serious.
 Despite all the rules, it's really a fun site for Pokémon lovers of all ages.

