 Often, feeling jealous will make a person lash out in hostile ways. Your partner may become oversensitive or seem overly possessive. They may seem overly concerned about where you are all the time. Identifying jealousy is the first step in dealing with it., If you've noticed that your partner is acting jealous, you need to have a conversation about it. Make sure to take note of how it's affecting you both and your relationship, so you can discuss the problems with your partner.You could say, "I've noticed that you seem to be feeling angry or hostile towards me lately when I talk to other people when we're out. I've been wondering if maybe you've been feeling a little jealous. It's perfectly fine if you have, but I thought we should have a conversation about it because I can tell it's been building a wall between us."

, Once you've brought up the issue, give your partner time to react to what you've said. They need space to talk about what they're feeling, and they may even need a day or two to think about what you've said. Listen to what your partner has to say and respond in kind.
 If your partner is feeling jealous, it's your job to help as much as you can. Ask what you can do to make the other person feel better. Keep in mind, your partner may ask you to change certain behaviors, such as how you interact with people.Nonetheless, you shouldn't have to completely change your life for an overly jealous partner. If your partner refuses to let you see anyone else at all, including long-time friends, that's extreme.
 Let your partner know that you will work through this problem with them, no matter how long it takes. Of course, you need to be willing to follow up on that promise. However, just letting them know you are willing to fight for the relationship can go a long way towards reassuring them., In some cases, jealousy stems from feeling insecure and having low self-esteem. In those cases, it can help to reassure your partner that you love them. It can also help to let them know what you love about them, as some people need to hear it on a regular basis.