 When you first decide that you want to play college football, sit down and make a list of the schools that best fit your abilities and interest. Take into account the school’s location, the team’s future potential and history, and the academic offerings. Use this list as the starting point for reaching out to programs and coaches.It may be helpful to organize your list according to interest level. Place your top choice program in the #1 position and move down from there. Be prepared to adjust the list over time., As you consider schools you’ll need to decide whether or not to go after a NCAA Division I program or look at a Division II or Division III option. Division I offers the most full-scholarships for football, however, it also the most competitive. Division III, on the other hand, is a good option for student-athletes interested in balancing out academics and sports.You can find out more information about these divisions as well as the number of scholarships awarded by going to the NCAA website.
 Call, email, or send a letter to those coaches who direct football programs that are of high interest to you. Introduce yourself and be as specific as you can regarding what attracts you to their program. Get ahold of them as a freshman or sophomore so that you’ll be on their radar later on.For example, instead of saying, “I think your program is great,” you might say, “I really admire your consistently high-performing offensive line.”
Be formal and refer to the coaches by their last name, unless by them told to do otherwise. So, say, “Coach Farris,” or “Mr. Farris.”

, Your current coaches can offer suggestions regarding strong and suitable college football programs. They can also contact college coaches to discuss your potential. If other football players from your high school have gone on to play college ball, your coach can reach out to them as well for assistance.To approach your coach you might say, “I’m really interested in playing college ball, where do you think I would fit in?”

, College coaches follow specific rules regarding when, and how, they are able to contact potential students. To more fully understand the recruiting process and make the most of these contacts, go the NCAA website and look over the recruiting calendars posted there. College coaches will also expect you to be informed regarding these rules.In the contact period, a college coach will interact with recruits face-to-face and over the phone. In the evaluation period, a college coach may watch the recruit play a game, but will not approach them. In the quiet period, a college coach may not talk to a recruit face-to-face or visit their high school. However, the coach can also call the recruit. In the dead period, a college coach’s contact is severely limited., When you are presented with a contract, or any paperwork, have your coaches and parents look it over as well. Read all of the fine print to see if there is anything concerning. Look for any areas of possible negotiation as well.


For example, if a college coach is pressed they may be able to extend a guaranteed scholarship for additional months, such as extending a six-month period into a full year's ride.
 The process of landing a football scholarship will end with you committing to a college and signing an official Letter of Intent. This is a contract between the school and you. They will give you a scholarship in return for you attending their school for at least a year. Most of these contracts are signed by the start of February at the latest.If you change your mind and wish to attend a different school be aware that you may lose a full year of eligibility.
Be cautious with verbal agreements during the recruiting process. A coach may make verbal promises to you, but they are not binding. You may also verbally agree to attend a college, but that statement is not binding either.