 Ketosis is a relatively complex metabolic state where your body relies on burning fat for energy rather than glucose and therefore it may not be suitable for everyone. There are a wide variety of reasons one would choose a ketogenic diet, from its various health benefits, such as being linked to reducing epilepsy, various neurological disorders, or treating certain types of diabetes, to losing weight or gaining mass in the gym. Consulting your physician will help you understand what and how your body might go through once your diet has changed, and will help keep you in informed on healthy states throughout the entire process of ketosis.Discuss the possibility of potential complications with your doctor if you have preexisting health conditions or metabolic disorders.
Ask your doctor if a ketogenic diet might help treat existing health conditions or preemptively treat conditions you might be prone to, like diabetes.;
, Ketogenic diets, although nutritionally sound, are metabolically similar to starvation. If you are transitioning from a low-fat high-carb diet you may experience some side effects (generally called the “keto flu”) during the first few weeks of ketosis. Trying a low-carb diet before transitioning into a ketogenic diet will reduce the amount of side-effects as well as introduce you to the types of food you will be eating.


If you experience symptoms of the keto flu, like nausea, intestinal discomfort, or sleep issues, revert a standard low carb diet for a few days before returning to a ketogenic one.Ketosis and ketogenic diets are popular among fitness and “paleo” communities. Join a community online or at your gym to have access to long term informational resources before committing to a ketogenic diet.
 Ketoacidosis is a combination of an overproduction of ketones and and underproduction of insulin. Insulin regulates the amount of fat converted into energy when you are in ketosis. The average individual will produce enough insulin while in ketosis to keep their ketones in a healthy range. Although an unlikely state if you do not have type 1 diabetes, ketoacidosis can quickly become severe and cause symptoms like swelling, dehydration, and inflammation.Check with your physician or doctor to see if you are prone to an insulin deficiency.
 Some variants allow for moderation while others can be more restrictive. There are different variants of ketogenic diets, the more you understand about the various diet options the easier it will be to manage expectations or concerns, control your diet, and achieve your desired results.


The standard ketogenic diet, which is the diet given to most ketosis study participants, is made up of 75% fat, 20% protein, and 5% carbs.Cyclical and targeted ketogenic diets allow you to add carbs two days per week or around workouts.The high-protein ketogenic diet is similar to the standard diet, but with slightly more protein and less fat. The proportions are 60% fat, 35% protein, and 5% carbs., Testing for your body’s production of ketones is a surefire way of knowing whether or not your ketogenic diet is effective. You’ll eliminate many of the ketone bodies produced by converting fat in your liver through your urine throughout the process of ketosis. Testing throughout your diet will also help you keep an eye on the balance of ketones your body is producing and will warn you of any signs that you are slipping into ketoacidosis.Buy ketosis test strips, like ketostix, and use them regularly and consistently.When producing ketones your urine and breath might begin to smell fruity or like nail polish remover., Since you are trying to train your body to burn fat instead of glucose, often found in carbohydrates, for energy, fat is the primary ingredient in a ketogenic diet. Making sure you are cooking with fat, eating high fat snacks, and incorporating fat as a major part of every meal will help you maintain ketosis.Try cooking high fat meats, like salmon or beef, in high fat oils, like olive, coconut, or avocado oil.Make high fat snacks for yourself throughout the day, like nuts, avocados, or unprocessed cheese., Proteins will be giving you the much needed energy and substance throughout the process of ketosis. Depending on what your desired effects are for starting the ketogenic diet you may be eating more or less protein throughout your diet.Eat protein with every meal, like eggs with breakfast, fish with lunch, and red meat or chicken with dinner.
If you are using a ketogenic diet to lose weight or build muscle mass, eat approximately 1g of protein per pound of body mass., Net carbohydrates are the amount of carbohydrates you ingest with the amount of fiber subtracted. Calculating net carbs will give you a better idea of how many carbs you are eating a day to keep you within a healthy range.If, for example, you eat a serving of broccoli with 7g of carbs and 2g of fiber, the net carbohydrates would be 5g.
Try to eat carbohydrates that are high in fiber to reduce your carb intake and aid digestion.
 Carbs and sugars contain many forms of glucose that are counterproductive to a ketogenic diet. Avoiding starchy vegetables, refined sugars, and fruits will help you keep your carbohydrate intake down and keep your body producing ketones.Avoid wheat-based products (pasta, flour, bread), sodas, fruits, and candy.Rice, beans, and other complex carbohydrates are also to be avoided.Alcohol is another source of carbohydrates and should not be consumed while on a ketogenic diet.
 Short chain fats signal the liver to make more ketones and can also be a source of fiber. Although many short chain fats also contain other forms of carbohydrates there are many foods that can ease the the process of ketosis and reduce the stress on your body.Try to cook as many meals as you can with Coconut oil.Try and eat vegetables like onions, asparagus, artichokes, and garlic as often as you can., Vitamin D is rarely naturally present in foods, however, it is an essential to calcium consumption, cell growth, and inflammation. The restriction of a ketogenic diet can also demand a higher need for vitamin d. Supplementing your diet with vitamin D will also help prevent bone density loss.Purchase vitamin D capsules or pill at your local health food store.
You can also get vitamin D sun exposure. Try to sit outside or go for a walk each day., Eliminating carbohydrates also means eliminating a large source of fiber. Fiber reduces the stress of digestion and promotes healthy bowel movements. If you are having difficulty consuming your desired amount of fiber try taking a supplement like Metamucil to prevent constipation or other intestinal inflammations.

