 It is important to be consistent with your studying, so make a schedule you can reasonably stick to. If you just plan on studying every day, then you may struggle to actually find the time. Look over your daily obligations and find pockets of time when you can reasonably study.Avoid cramming. You never want to end up cramming for a test at the last minute because you will not be able to cover everything you need to know in a short space of time. You won’t remember as much information from cramming either. In the weeks leading up to the test, make time to study so you do not end up having to cram for the test.
Look for free time during your day. Maybe you have a break between classes from noon to 3 each day. You could spend an hour during this time studying. Look at your weekends as well. If you like going out on weekend nights, maybe you could plan to study for a couple of hours every morning.
Write up a schedule for yourself and stick to it. If you study a little each day, you won't be overwhelmed when the big test arrives.
 Studying for hours on end can make you burn out. Instead of large study sessions, break up sessions into manageable chunks.Break up your study time into 20 to 50 minute sessions. Take short 5 to 10 minute breaks in between sessions.
Set a timer for yourself and follow this routine strictly. If you study for long periods of time, you're much less likely to retain the information you've learned.
 You do not want to study one subject for an entire study session. If you plan to study for a few hours, move between different topics and materials during this time.For example, you might start your study session by re-reading a short story for a test in your English class and then read over your notes on a poem that will also be on the test.


On a test, you will never know what kind of materials you will be presented with. You may have to switch between one subject and another quickly.
If you switch up what you study during study sessions, this closer matches the environment of an exam. It also prevents you from burning out on a certain subject.
 Do not neglect basic care when studying. People do better on exams if they are eating right, exercising, and getting adequate sleep.Add exercise to your daily routine. Aerobic exercise may improve brain processing, so make time in your day to go for a walk, take a bike ride, or do a workout video.
Make sure to get enough sleep each night. Studying when tired, or taking an exam when tired, can diminish your grades. Teens need 8 to 10 hours of sleep a night, while young adults need 7 to 9.Eat right in the weeks leading up to an exam. A diet in healthy fruits, vegetables, fats, and proteins will give your brain and body the fuel necessary for success.

