 Timing the C-section is an important part of the planning process. Several strategies are available to determine when a C-section should take place. One strategy is measuring LH, a hormone that stimulates ovulation (egg released from the ovary).Peak LH levels mark the beginning of pregnancy, which lasts an average of 65 days in a dog.Your vet will measure your dog’s LH levels for several days to determine when they peak. Your vet will schedule the C-section about 65 days after the LH peak.The LH peak will last 24 hours or less.Your vet will take a blood sample to measure LH.;
, Progesterone helps your dog maintain its pregnancy. Its levels start to rise at around the same time as LH levels peak.Progesterone levels also help determine when to schedule a dog's C-section. Your vet will measure progesterone for a few days to determine when levels indicate ovulation.


Your vet will take a blood sample to measure progesterone.
 In addition to measuring blood hormone levels, your vet can also look at vaginal cells to estimate the date of the C-section. When the cells indicate your dog is in diestrus (out of heat), your dog will be ready for the C-section in about 57 days.Diestrus lasts about 57 days., Between days 25 to 35 of your dog's pregnancy, your vet can use ultrasound to look at the fetuses and determine when to perform the C-section, within about three days of variability.Remember that, with any of these strategies, there will be at least a day or two of variability for determining the best day for the C-section.
 When your vet determines when the C-section should be performed, mark the date on your calendar and make the appointment. Knowing the C-section date at the beginning of your dog’s pregnancy will help you plan for a successful surgical procedure.
 In the days leading up to the C-section, you can do a few things to help your dog prepare for the procedure. For example, you can give your dog a bath. This will get your dog nice and clean before the C-section.Because of the pregnant belly, you will need to be careful when bathing your dog. Be gentle when moving your dog around.
Be especially careful with bathing your dog's belly.
If your dog resists being bathed, don’t force the bath. Forcing the bath could cause your dog to be stressed, which could be bad for the puppies. The stress could also make it harder for your brachycephalic dog to breathe, causing even more stress.
 As you prepare for your dog’s C-section, keep a close eye on it. Even though the C-section has already been scheduled, you should still watch your dog for signs that it’s getting close to whelping (giving birth) time. Signs to look for include:Nipples getting larger and possibly leaking milk (1 to 2 weeks prior)
Restlessness, wanting to be alone, making a ‘nest’ (12 to 24 hours prior)
Body temperature below 99 degrees Fahrenheit/37 degrees Celsius (8 to 24 hours prior)

, Your dog can have food the night before the C-section, but not on the day of the procedure.An empty stomach will prevent your dog from regurgitating and possibly breathing stomach contents into its lungs by accident.


Your dog can probably have water on the day of surgery.
Your vet will give you instructions on when your dog should stop eating and drinking water before the C-section.
 Even though your brachycephalic dog will not be giving birth naturally, it will still need an area in your home to nurse and raise its puppies after the C-section. This area should be warm and away from other pets and household members. Before the C-section, place supplies in this area:Rectal thermometer
Heated whelping nest (look for one online or at your local pet store)
Puppy scale
Notebook to record puppies’ weights and body temperatures, and other notes
Feeding tube, for puppies that are not nursing well
Tincture of iodine to care for the puppies’ umbilical cords

, In the days leading up to the C-section, organize supplies to take with you to the vet's office. These supplies will prepare you for taking the mother dog and its puppies back home after the C-section:Large crate for the mother dog
Blankets and towels
Large sheet or piece of tarp to cover the back seat
Laundry basket to hold the puppies
Heating pad

, About one to two days before the end of your dog’s pregnancy, its progesterone levels will drop back down.When the progesterone drops to a certain level, it will be time to perform the C-section. Before the scheduled C-section date, take your dog to your vet so they can measure its progesterone levels.