 Although it can be tempting to pick and scratch away at your cold sore, doing so will interrupt the healing process. If you want to heal, you really have to leave it alone. Picking and scratching will just irritate it, using a tissue or Q tip, rub hydrogen peroxide on it until you see the inside of the cold sore , continue to do this 2 - 3 times a day. moreYou could also cause it to become infected, which would dramatically increase its lifespan, and could result in you having to take a trip to see your doctors.


Be sure to wash your hands regularly.
Be gentle when washing your face.
 Most of the time cold sores will disappear on their own, or with the help of a store-bought or homemade remedy. Normally, you will not need to make an appointment to see your doctor, but there are occasions when you should do this. If your sore becomes infected with bacteria, often indicated by draining pus, then you contact your doctor immediately.You should also see your doctor if:


You are pregnant.
You experience a high temperature (over 100 degrees) you should see your doctor.
You suffer eye irritation.
Your cold sores do not go away after a couple of weeks., There are a number of options for a doctor prescribing medications to treat persistent cold sores, and you should always listen carefully to your doctor and describe all your symptoms fully and directly. Any medications that are prescribed for you should be taken according to the instructions and your doctor’s guidance. Some of the treatments that you may be prescribed include:


Famciclovir oral anti-viral tablets; 500 mg tablets are taken three times daily.
Valacyclovir (Valtrex); 1000 mg tablets are taken twice daily.
An acyclovir cream, like that available over the counter but of a greater concentration. It is applied up to five times a day for four days.Acyclovir 400mg tablets can be taken three time daily by mouth.
Penciclovir cream is typically applied directly to the cold sore every two hours for four days., Cold sores can be transmitted by sharing drinks, kissing, and through sexual contact; the virus is highly transmittable. Take the following precautions to avoid transmitting cold sores:Avoid kissing during outbreaks.
Avoid sharing drinks, toothbrushes, and other items that touch the mouth.
To avoid transmitting the virus to a sexual partner, use a condom during oral sex, or use prophylactic medication. It has been shown that Valcyclovir has proven to lessen the risk of HSV-2 infection in couples.
In order to avoid an outbreak is is recommended that you reduce your amount of time in the sun and wear sunscreen. Sunscreen has been shown to reduce the incidence of recurrences.