 Leather and vinyl are not as absorbent as cloth upholstery, but they also can be stained by soda. Once the stain forms, immediately blot at it with a clean cloth to absorb as much of the soda as you can.If the stain is old, still wet and blot it for a few seconds, then move on to other methods to fully remove it.
 Toothpaste is an unlikely but highly effective cleaning solution for leather and vinyl. To use toothpaste, apply a dab of paste onto the stain and use a toothbrush to rub it into the surface of the stain. You should notice the stain lifting and coloring the white toothpaste., After you brush the toothpaste on the stain for 15-30 seconds, use a damp cloth to wipe away the paste, then blot at the area to lift any excess., If the toothpaste didn’t fully remove the soda stain, you will need to move on isopropyl alcohol, which is a more potent cleaner. Spot test an area of your leather or vinyl seat beforehand, then dip a clean cloth into the isopropyl alcohol, squeeze out the excess, then blot at the stain with the dampened cloth.It’s important to do a spot test beforehand, as isopropyl alcohol can discolor the dye in leather or vinyl seats.
To spot test, dampen a cloth with isopropyl alcohol and dab gently at an inconspicuous area of the seat. If you don’t notice any discoloration after about ten seconds of dabbing, it’s safe to use on the stain.
Don’t pour the isopropyl alcohol directly on the stain. Instead, dampen a cloth with the alcohol and dab. Pouring the alcohol onto the leather or vinyl can discolor it or cause the dye to rub away.
 If your stain is particularly old or stubborn, you’ll need an even more powerful cleaner. Mix equal parts of cream of tartar and lemon juice for a highly effective cleaner., Spot test an inconspicuous area of your seat by applying the solution, letting it sit for ten minutes, and wiping it away with a damp cloth. If you don’t notice any discoloration, apply the cream of tarter and lemon juice solution to the stain and let it sit for ten minutes., After ten minutes, use a damp cloth to gently wipe the cream of tartar and lemon juice solution from the stain. Your stain should be lighter in color or completely removed.If you still see your stain, repeat the process of applying the solution, waiting ten minutes, and wiping it away until the stain is gone. Then wipe the formerly stained area with a damp cloth and let it dry.

