 Nausea is usually the result of a mild bug or flu and does not require medical attention. However, under certain circumstances you should make an appointment with a pediatrician.


Your child should see her doctor if the vomiting lasts more than 24 hours, or 12 hours in a baby under one year old.
Babies and small toddlers are much more prone to dehydration than older children. An infant who has been constantly throwing up may need medical intervention far quicker than a teen. If your child shows signs of dehydration, such as a dry mouth, no tears when crying, weakness or dizziness, or decreased urination or activity, she should see the doctor.
If your child appears to be vomiting blood or has bloody stools, take her to the ER immediately. This could be a sign of a serious medical condition.If your child has a high fever with vomiting or diarrhea, or has severe abdominal pain, she should be seen by a doctor.
If your child cannot keep clear liquids down, she may need an IV to rehydrate or a prescription medicine for nausea and vomiting. If you believe the cause is something that your child ate, you should take her in to rule out food poisoning or a nasty illness., If your child's inability to keep food down does not clear up on its own, take him in for a physical. Your doctor will take a basic medical history and perform an exam. The doctor will also ask about existing medications and health conditions. Depending on your child's condition, extra tests such as blood work may be ordered., Your doctor may suggest putting your child on medication to treat the vomiting. Ask the doctor any questions you have about dosage and side effects.


Some medications are used to stop or slow down the attacks. They include anti-nausea medications, anti-anxiety medications, and sometimes sedatives.Preventative therapies are designed to reduce or eliminate bouts of vomiting and diarrhea. They're more likely to be prescribed if your child gets sick frequently., If your child frequently has problems holding down food, stress might be an issue. Stress management training can help address underlying factors that may cause vomiting.


Stress management training helps a person become aware of early signs of stress reactions. Relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing exercises, are usually taught early on. A therapist may also teach your child behavioral strategies to reduce stress.If you're interested in stress management therapy for your child, talk to your doctor. He or she can give you a referral to a therapist. You might also be able to find a therapist by going through your insurance provider.
 Nutrition therapy addresses what your child has been eating with the goal of finding any food triggers that might cause vomiting. Usually, a registered dietician would work with you and your child to find meal plans that work for his specific needs. Ask your pediatrician about nutrition therapy. She should be able to recommend a dietician for you and your child.