 The first sign of distemper in dogs is eye-discharge that can be watery to pus-like. Your dog may also develop a fever or a cough, have nasal discharge, become lethargic, vomit, have a reduced appetite, and diarrhea.Later symptoms may include neurological problems like seizures, twitching, and partial or complete paralysis. However, these symptoms may show up earlier in puppies.
A dog's normal temperature ranges from 99.5 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. The most common signs of a fever in dogs are red eyes, lack of energy, warm ears, warm, dry nose, shivering, loss of appetite, coughing, and vomiting.;
, If you suspect that your dog is either sick or coming down with distemper, make sure to separate your dog from any other pets you own. Distemper is very contagious, and dogs usually become infected through airborne exposure. Healthy dogs can also become infected through secondhand contact, such as contact with the infected dog's toys, water and food bowls, and bedding.Place your dog’s bed, toys, food and water bowls in a separate room. While treating your dog, confine your dog to this room to decrease contact with other pets. If you need to let your dog out, make sure your other pets are in a separate room.
 If you identify early signs of distemper in your dog, contact your veterinarian immediately. Let the office know that you are worried your dog might be developing a case of distemper. This way, the vet can see your dog immediately. Your veterinarian will administer routine blood tests to rule out any other possibilities, and to confirm that it is distemper.


Call the office and say, "Hi, this is Kristen. I am very worried that my dog might have distemper. My dog is showing signs of eye and nasal discharge, and I cannot get it to eat food or drink water. I would like to see the vet immediately. When can I come in?"

, When your dog is sick, it is important to keep it warm, especially if it has a fever and chills. Provide your dog with extra blankets to keep your dog warm. You can also fill a hot water bottle with hot water to provide extra warmth.Wrap the hot water bottle with a cloth and place it underneath your dog’s blankets near its body.
 Unfortunately, there is no cure for distemper. Therefore, treatment usually consists of supportive care, and efforts to control symptoms associated with distemper, such as dehydration, vomiting and diarrhea, and neurological problems.Your vet will prescribe medications that can control vomiting, diarrhea, and seizures, and administer fluids if your dog becomes severely dehydrated.

