 Wake up early so that you can live an hour more. This means giving yourself plenty of time to awaken, stretch and get ready. Waking up with just enough time to rush out the door is stress-inducing and not a good start to your day. Instead, go to bed early enough to allow you to awake refreshed and with time to do everything at a good, even pace.;
, Do some simple physical exercises to boost your energy. It is a great way to kick-start your metabolism. This will help you to be more productive and effective to your activity for today.


Make sure that you don't over train straight away, you don't want to faint or feel exhausted.
 Cleaning up is one of the most important things to do in a morning, with or without exercising. If you can shower, then take a hot shower; if you can't wash, at least wash your face in a bowl of very cold water to wake you up.
 If you dress in things that make you feel good, chances are you will feel that way. Choose warm colors like yellows and reds (lose the black if possible). Try this for a couple of mornings and soon your whole wardrobe will change.
 It is always a good way to eat healthy food to start your day. This will give you the energy needed to kick start your day.
 Select a playlist that consists of happy songs, the ones that give you an energy boost and cause you to soar.
 Take time to write your goals/priorities for today. It will not take much of your time. It's good way to start day knowing what are your goals to meet and you will also know how to manage your time effectively. In this way, you can avoid problems along the way because you already have set your goals.


If you pray, say a prayer. Ask for a guidance throughout your daily activities and count your blessings rather than ranting about the things you don't have. Praying will also increase your faith will give you fulfillment.
Meditation can be a good option if you enjoy it. Set aside a space of 20 minutes to meditate before your day begins.
If you don't pray or meditate, consider setting aside some quiet time for reflection about the day ahead and the direction you're following in life. It can be a good way to start the day with purpose.
 Before going out your house, don't forget to make yourself good. When you make your appearance good, it will help you to have a positive outlook. It will help you to improve your confidence and make yourself more trustworthy.
 If possible walk to where you need to be, especially if it is early in the morning, nothing is better than walking around around the streets when there is no-one around. Or, walk to work, school or wherever you're headed.
 There is no other way of putting it the only way to start your day right is to be happy. As soon as you wake up tell yourself "today is a good day". Try it one morning and see the effect. Have positive intentions for the day, to better yourself and the lives of those around you.


If you have a tough day ahead, say: "Today is a good day and I can do this."
Aim to be the reason someone smiles today. Or, many someones!

