 Look for the Google Maps app on your mobile device and tap on it.
 Use the search box on the upper left corner of the page and type in the location or address of your destination. A shortlist of possible results will drop down. Tap your selection, and the map will automatically draw you to the location you’ve set.
 Go back to the section on the upper left corner of the page. The destination you’ve set is displayed there. Tap it, and a new field will appear where you can type in your starting location or address. Tap on it and type in your starting location.


A list of possible results will drop down. Tap your selection, and you will be shown the best transportation method and route from your starting location to your destination, with the total distance and time. Most of the time this will be via car or rail, since these are the faster options.
 There’s a toolbar above the section on the upper left corner of the page. This contains the modes of transportation supported by Google Maps. For turn-by-turn directions, click the appropriate button or icon on the toolbar.


Driving—If you’re driving, tap the car icon on the toolbar.
Transit—If you commuting via bus, train, subway, or other public transit, tap the train icon on the toolbar.
Walking—If you’re walking, tap the pedestrian icon on the toolbar.
 You may be given several options on routes you can take, each identified with its own duration and distance via the transportation mode you’ve selected.
 From the routes provided, tap the one you’d like to use. The route will be displayed in color on the map. The street-by-street directions from your starting location to your destination will be listed.
 Use the provided directions to plan your trip. Each step clearly indicates the direction you have to take, on which street you should be on, and the distance you have to travel. If your trip is long, you can incorporate the necessary stops, such as gas stations, hotels or motels, and restaurants, in your route. You can easily identify these on the map with their corresponding icons and names.


Metro—You can identify metro or subway stops by the blue “M” icon on the map.
Hotel/motel—You can identify hotel and motel locations by the brown bed icon on the map.
Coffeehouse—You can identify coffeehouse locations by the orange coffee cup icon on the map.
Restaurant—You can identify restaurant or fast-food locations by the orange spoon and fork icon on the map.
Bank—You can identify bank locations by the blue dollar icon on the map.
Shopping center—You can identify shopping center or store locations by the blue hand bag icon on the map.
Market—You can identify grocery or market locations by the blue shopping cart icon on the map.
Church—You can identify church locations by the brown church icon on the map.
Park—You can identify park locations by the green tree icon on the map.
Hospital—You can identify hospital locations by the red H icon on the map.
School—You can identify school locations by the brown hat icon on the map.
Library—You can identify library locations by the brown book icon on the map.

