 You'll need a computer with Internet access in order to participate in classes, upload your assignments and access the study materials. Text books may be required.
 Successful college students know how to take charge of their time. With online degrees, it can be easy to let other activities take priority. Procrastination can injure your chances at success. Take care to manage your time such that you stay on top of your coursework.


Make a study calendar. Online students need structure. By making a strong schedule and planning your calendar ahead of time, you can help ensure you get your work done.Know when to relax and when to pull an all-nighter. There are definite times to celebrate, take it easy, and relax during a semester. But if you don't know when to fire on all pistons, you may put your grades at risk.
Do a little bit of schoolwork every day. This can make classes seem less overwhelming., It is easy to overlook a detail, but that is not the same as being lazy. Read everything carefully. Deadlines and instructions are not negotiable in most cases. You do not want to jeopardize your academic career by not carefully considering all the guidelines in each assignment, class or program.


Pay close attention to any syllabus you are given.
Double check periodically on particular deadlines.
Keep a schedule of due dates for easy reference.
 If you find yourself unable to pass a class, look for another way to satisfy the requirement. Talk to an academic counselor or adviser with your program to see if any accommodations can be made. Remember that your school wants you to graduate as much as you do.


Students are more likely to succeed with material they find engaging.Take a college transition class if offered. These “college skills” courses are designed to help people ease into college. For people who have struggled in the past, these courses can make a big difference in student outcomes., If necessary, make arrangements to postpone or reschedule other responsibilities that conflict with your online study times. School is a top priority. You are not only supposed to treat it with the respect you might give a paying job, you have to pay for it. Don't waste your money or disrespect your hard work by not giving school the proper time.


Take fewer hours at work.
Reduce time spent on leisure activities., If you're finding it difficult to use the online software or maintain your study schedule, talk to your student adviser and ask for assistance. Your teachers are there to provide you with help. In addition, many schools offer other kinds of supplementary assistance.

