 The more you understand about hygiene the more likely you are to follow the rules on it!

, No, not every other day: every day. Because of puberty, your sweat glands are becoming more active, and are creating different chemicals that cause sweat to turn into a disgusting odor.


So, to make sure you're getting rid of all this smelly odor,you should use a mild soap and warm water! Even if it's hot outside, you need to shower in warm water, because that opens up your pores which means you get to clean more of that smell off of you.
Then rinse off in cold water to shut your pores and eliminate the amount of bacteria that makes you stink.
 Boys, that means changing your socks and underwear every day. Girls, that means washing your bra every day if your active or every other day if you weren't very active.
 Strive to try to brush your teeth after every meal! When brushing your teeth, hold your brush at an angle so it lines up with your gum line.


Brush back and forth making sure to get every single tooth. Be sure to use a soft bristle brush so you don't damage your gums. And either use your brush or a tongue scraper to get rid of all the bacteria on your tongue. If you don't know this, bad breath mostly comes from either poor eating habits or poor brushing habits.
After you brush for three minutes floss and use a good mouthwash. Though you should floss twice a day, if you're only going to floss once make it at night so you don't have pieces of food rotting between your teeth all night.
Mouth wash and brushing your teeth alone won't get rid of bad breath, you need to floss to get rid of the pieces of food in your mouth. If you don't those pieces will gather bacteria which gives off a bad odor.
 Don't harshly scrub! Slowly and gently wash your face, using a circular motion.


You should never pop pimples, this will lead to scarring and possible infection. Try to keep your hands off your face, otherwise the oils on your hands will transfer to your face and cause break outs.
Always remove makeup from your face before you go to sleep and keep your hair clean to eliminate the amount of oil that gets on your face.
Be sure not to wash your face too much as it may dry up the skin completely and cause itchiness or irritation.
 Most people need to do this every day, but if your hair produces very little oil you may be able to only wash your hair every other day.


Ask someone what they think, just because it doesn't look greasy to you doesn't mean it isn't. However, don't wash your hair too much as your hair needs some of those oils. Over washing can cause an itchy or irritated scalp and dandruff, so only wash it when needed.
Use a shampoo and conditioner meant for your type of hair. If you use hair products every two or three weeks wash your hair with a clarifying shampoo to get rid of all the build up.
 If you're a teenage boy, you may start shaving your face, and if you're a teenage girl, you may start shaving your legs and underarms. Here's some tips:


Don't skimp on shaving cream. Use as much as you need to completely cover the area. Alternatively if you have one, use an electric razor to start with as this requires no foam and can be used on wet or dry skin.
Shave with the grain; this will give you a lesser chance of getting in-grown hairs which hurt a lot.
Wait about half an hour before applying anything to the area, such as lotions or deodorant, or your skin may become irritated.

