 When you're purchasing any packaged or canned food, it's essential to review the food label first. This will tell you exactly what's in your food and if it's appropriate for your diet.


Review the calories per serving. Depending on what diet you're following or if you have a set calorie limit, make sure you purchase a canned soup that fits in with your goal. Remember, many canned soups seem like one serving, but are generally two to three servings per can.
Choose lower sodium options if possible. Many canned soups are notoriously high in sodium. Look for low-sodium soups — they may be packaged as: "low sodium," "heart healthy" or "healthy choice." Many of these options have up to 50 percent less sodium.
Also review the ingredient list. Many soup companies are trying to have more natural, less processed ingredients. Review the label to see exactly what types of foods are used in your canned soup.
 Depending what particular diet you're following, or how you want to design your own soup-based diet, swap out one or two of your meals for soup.


Many people choose to have a canned soup for lunch and dinner. These are the easiest and most sensible meals to have soup.
Swapping out two meals for soup may result in quicker weight loss as your total daily calories may be lower; however, this depends on what soups you choose and how many calories they are.
 When you're in the grocery store, you'll see a variety of canned soups. Stick to broth-based soups for your diet.Broth is low in calories and fat. These types of soups typically are also lower in calories and fat.
Try to steer clear of creamy soups, bisques or chowders. These may be higher in fat and calories due to cream or butter that's used in the cooking process., A higher fiber soup is a better choice compared to low-fiber soups. They may keep you full longer and are better for your digestion.Review the label for the total fiber. It's listed under carbohydrates on the nutrition fact panel. Make sure you adjust the number according to how many servings you're having.
Soups that are made with lentils, beans and vegetables will typically contain more fiber.
Fiber is an essential part of a nutritious diet. It may help you feel satisfied longer and helps prevent constipation and colorectal cancers., Many soup companies today are designing soup-diets for their specialty lines of "healthier" soups.


Many times, this special line will have lower calories, lower fat and lower sodium per serving compared to their regular lines of soup.
Each brand will have their own name for their healthier soups. They may be listed as "low-calorie," "heart-healthy," "smart choice" or "healthy choice."

, When you're following a canned soup diet, you're most likely not replacing breakfast with soup. If you're not, plan a nutritious, "diet-friendly" meal to keep you on track with your weight loss.


It's typically recommended to have a high protein, high fiber breakfast. Both protein and fiber keep you feeling satisfied longer and will support your weight loss.Examples of high protein, high fiber breakfasts include: one whole grain waffle with 1 tbsp almond butter and 1/2 banana, 3/4 cup of oatmeal with dried fruit and nuts, two scrambled eggs with sautéed vegetables and low-fat cheese or 1 cup of cottage cheese and fruit.

