 Peer reviewed journals and articles are written by experts in the field. The works then undergo critiquing by other experts before they can be published. This ensures that the articles are factually based on the best knowledge to date. Some examples are:The International Journal of Climate Change: Impacts and Responses
Journal of Earth Science and Climate Change
Global and Planetary Change;
, Online journals offer more flexibility than print journals. Just go to the website of your favorite journal and subscribe online. Some journals will even offer the option to pay for certain articles rather than buying the entire subscription.Pubmed is a great place to find peer reviewed articles online.
 You can access an endless number of journals at little or no cost. University libraries are likely to be better stocked with peer-reviewed materials, but you can look at a local library, too. Many libraries participate in interlibrary loan programs that allow them to borrow materials from other libraries, thus expanding your selection.
 There are many organizations that are dedicated to providing factual information on climate change. You only need to find their websites or speak with a local representative. They are usually more than willing to have a discussion or provide you with written information to keep you knowledgeable about climate change. For example:The Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research
Alliance for Climate Education
National Center for Science Education

, Several governments around the world have pushed for investigations regarding climate change. They often set up their own agencies or hand this task to an existing agency. The information and conclusions found are published for the public to read.The Australian Bureau of Meteorology is a great example.
 Climate change is often studied by other sciences or science organizations. This usually happens because climate has a direct impact on the study of that science, or that science can provide information relevant to climate change. This scientific overlap often leads to unbiased, reliable information.For example, NASA provides data relevant to climate change. They are able to use satellites to monitor things like the size of polar ice caps over time.

