;
, Note the following:



Coloration: Many Gerts (a short form of referring to Santa Gertrudis cattle; also referred to as "Santa Gerts") range from a deep cherry-red to a more reddish color. There are very often no white on any cattle of this breed, as the cattle of this breed are solid red. They have lighter colored noses, lighter pigment around the eyes, and also on the udder and scrotum of cows and bulls, respectively.

Body type and characteristics: Santa Gerts always look to be a cross between a European breed and a Brahman, which in fact they are. Santa Gertrudis are 5/8 Shorthorn and 3/8 Brahman. Bulls have a slighter more prominent hump over their shoulders than cows do, but it's not as big nor defined as in Brahman cattle. Most cows have a very shallow hump over their shoulders, whereas others may not have any hump at all. They have the loose skin and dewlap characteristic of a Brahman, as well as skin hanging loose from the navel in both sexes of this breed, but note that both characteristics are less defined in Gerts than in Brahmans. A Gert will look more blocky and less smooth over the rump than a Brahman.

Head characteristics: Gerts have what's referred to as "less ear" than a typical Brahman, thanks to the Shorthorn influence in this breed. They lack the dished nose of the Brahman, also due to Shorthorn influence, but still maintain the broadness in the forehead typical of a Brahman. Gerts can be horned or polled, with the horns jutting up, out and slightly back from the head.

Other characteristics: Known as a calving-ease breed, and one that is highly tolerant of a tropical climate and insect-resistant, but more tolerant of colder temperatures than the Brahman, Santa Gertrudis are a beef breed that are often known to have better meat quality than the Brahman breed, thanks to the Shorthorn influence in this breed. Santa Gertrudis is, like the Brahman, made in America, with the breed's foundations started on the King Ranch near Kingville, Texas. Santa Gertrudis may have the temperament of the Brahman, but it is known also that they are as docile as the Shorthorn breed from which 5/8's of the breed is created from.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Santa Gertrudis cattle, and compare them with pictures of Santa Gertrudis on the Internet and in your Cattle breeds book.

