 Form an adjustable ring with your yarn, more commonly referred to as a "magic ring." At the end of the ring, make one chain stitch to secure the ring in place.
 Work ten single crochets into the center of the magic ring. Join the final single crochet with the top of the first single crochet with a slip stitch.


If necessary, tug on the ends of the magic ring to close it into a tight circle.
This completes the first round.
 Make one chain stitch to move onto the next round. Make two single crochets into each stitch of the previous round, joining the last and first at the top with another slip stitch.


This creates an increase, thereby enlarging your circle.
You should have a total of 20 crochet stitches in this second round.
After you finish this round, compare it to the size of the button. If you are on the right track, you should need to make another front round still to cover the front of the button.
 Make one chain stitch to move onto the next round. Single crochet once in the first stitch of the previous round, then single crochet twice in the next stitch. Continue all the way around the button, joining the first and last single crochets of this round with another slip stitch.


You should have 30 stitches in this round.
By now, your button cover should be about the same size as your button. If it is slightly larger, that will work too, since the excess can wrap around the back of the button.
 Chain stitch once to move onto the next round. Single crochet once in the first five stitches of the previous round, then make a single crochet decrease over the next two stitches from the previous round. Repeat all the way around, joining the last and first single crochets with a slip stitch.


You should have 26 stitches in this round.
The piece should begin to curl under into the shape of a bowl.
 Chain one to get into the next round. Single crochet once in each of the next two stitches. Single crochet decrease over the next two stitches after that. Continue all the way around, joining the last and first stitches with a slip stitch.


There should be 20 stitches in this round.
 Chain one to get into the sixth round. Single crochet decrease over the next two stitches. Repeat all the way around, joining the last stitch and first stitch with a slip stitch.


This should give you a round with 10 stitches in it.
Slide the button into the crochet cover at this point. You might need to do this before making your final joining slip stitch, just to make sure that the button fits inside.
 Chain one to get into the seventh round. Single crochet decrease over the next two stitches, and repeat this pattern all the way around. Join the first and last stitches with a slip stitch.


You should make a total of five stitches for this round.
At this point, the entire back of your button should essentially be covered.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail 8 inches (20.32 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off, then weave the end back and forth across the last stitches to close the cover and secure the ends in place.

