 Losing weight means burning more calories than you consume. Losing 5 pounds in one week translates to 17,500 calories lost.


A combination of cardio and resistance training (weightlifting) leads to higher weight loss than either activity alone. But if you must choose one, those doing only cardio lose more than those doing only resistance training.Consider High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT). That's when you alternate between going all out and taking it easy. For example, you'd run in a dead sprint for 30 seconds followed by 60 seconds of jogging. This shortens your routine and burns more fat, believe it or not. In addition, when you're chilling on the couch, your metabolism stays high and you'll be burning more calories up to 24 hours later.HIIT is great for those with hectic lives — it only takes about 15 minutes. Just remember you still need to warm up and cool down.

;
, Stress is a huge cause of overeating. 60 minutes of yoga (done in the comfort of your living room during your favorite show) burns 180 – 360 calories — but that's not all. Studies have shown that practicing yoga leads to a number of benefits:Reduced stress
Increased body awareness (specifically hunger and satiety)
Mindful eating

, Switching up your routine will keep you from plateauing and keep your body from getting used to your workout.


Varying your routine will help you stay motivated, a huge factor in success.
Turn social events into opportunities for calorie burning. Skip the movies and go for frisbee golf, tennis, or swimming.
 Any activity can turn into exercise with the right mindset.


Opt for the stairs instead of the elevator.
Use this as a reason to do chores. Do the gardening, wash your car — stay active!

, You may not see results immediately. Be patient.


As your body gets accustomed to the work out, kick it up a notch. Challenge yourself.
Only do as much as you can handle. If you feel dizzy or faint, stop.
 Each person requires a different amount of calories each day. Depending on your activity level, pick a daily allotment and stick with it.


To lose 5 pounds a week, you must burn 2,500 calories a day, which is very difficult. Calculate how many calories you need to eat and how much you'll need to exercise to meet your goal.
 This keeps you accountable, because you must record every nibble (even just a bite of a chocolate bar!). It also allows you to see any patterns or places where you can make changes if you aren't losing weight.


Don't miss a meal! Staying conscious of your eating habits is the first step to changing them.
Work with a friend. Having someone else look over your food journal (and looking over theirs) will help motivate you to stay on track.
Consider using an app on your smartphone, like MyFitnessPal, which makes it easy to track your calories throughout the day, as well as exercise and hydration.
 Healthier foods fill our stomachs up faster. If you feel full and content, you'll be less tempted to graze in front of the fridge.


Stock up on fruits and veggies. Let's say you eat 400 calories-worth of junk food. You're probably going to be going back to the fridge in minutes. That's because the oils in junk foods aren't filling. They literally take up less volume in your stomach than fruits and veggies do. To eat 400 calories-worth of lettuce, you'd have to eat about 65 pounds of it.Avoid processed goods. They've lost 90% of their nutrients already. These foods leave you craving more because they don't satisfy any of your nutritional needs.
Consume the rainbow. Americans tend to eat a very "white" diet. Eat foods of every color to ensure you're getting the proper amount of vitamins and minerals.
In addition to fruits and vegetables, egg whites, soy products, skinless poultry breasts, fish, shellfish, nonfat dairy foods, and 95% lean meat are all recommended for rapid weight loss. , And then drink some more. A glass of ice cold water will boost your metabolism (your body works to warm it) within 10 minutes.


Drink a glass of water before every meal. This will start up your body's CCK, the hormone that signals to your brain that you are full. You'll eat less because your body will tell you to!

, Skipping breakfast actually contributes to gaining weight because you are likely to eat more in the middle of the day. In addition, having breakfast will kickstart your metabolism for the day and get you burning calories.


Stick to a 300-calorie breakfast. This is enough to give you that kickstart and but no so many calories that you'll have to make sacrifices at lunch and dinner.
Stay away from morning carbohydrates like bagels and pancakes. Your body is more likely to turn them to fat. Instead, try a chia seed breakfast bowl, oatmeal with fruit, a breakfast burrito with scrambled eggs and veggies, or a smoothie.
 If there's something taunting you in your kitchen, throw it out.


Remove highly processed foods from your house — chips, cookies, candy, pastries, white breads, and so on.
Dispose of sodas and juice
Throw away all "white" carbs and high-fat dairy products

, This is one of the most common causes of weight gain.


When you're bored and would like to eat something, drink water (and go exercise a bit more).
 "Juicing" has become a trendy diet where your body is flushed of all toxins by only consuming fruit and vegetable juices. Specially-made juices are available in select grocery stores just for this dieting tactic.


Unless your doctor approves in advance, do not juice for longer than a few days.
 Water retention in the body will be eliminated, resulting in a slimmer waistline.


Salt-free means zero salt. There is no eating out at restaurants; in fact, there's no eating of processed foods at all.
Consuming a large amount of water is necessary on this diet. Some green tea is allowed.
As sodium is part of a natural diet, this diet is not recommended over a great length of time.
 Similar to juicing, this is a liquid diet. The drink is a mixture of the following:


2 tablespoons fresh-squeezed lemon juice
2 tablespoons grade-B organic maple syrup
1/10 teaspoon cayenne pepper
10 ounces filtered water

And herbal, laxative tea is allowed at night.


This diet should only be used for 4-14 days. Ease back into eating solid foods slowly. It mainly results in loss of muscle and water retention, not fat.
 In just a quarter of an hour, your body will already be losing water weight.


Stay hydrated. Limit yourself to one 15-20 minute session per day. Drink a glass of water afterward.
If you have health concerns, do not use saunas.
 The process claims to detoxify your body, reduce cellulite, and tone your skin.


There are many different varieties. Go to your local spa for details.
These only involve temporary weight loss and are not long-term alternatives to diet and exercise.

