 Starting a new relationship can sometimes feel awkward. Things can become even more complicated if you are dating an intersex person. This may be a new experience for you, but if you put yourself in the right frame of mind you'll find you can fully engage in your new relationship.Keep an open mind. Don't accept stereotypes as fact.
Be ready to learn new information. You may not have much experience with intersex people. That's ok. Just be willing to learn about it.
Don't be afraid to ask questions. If you don't understand something, just ask.;
, Gaining new knowledge can help you understand more about intersex people. The more you know, the better you will be able to relate. When you begin dating, take some time to learn more about what it means to be intersex.Use the internet. There are many sites online, such as InterACT and OII, that can provide very useful information.
Make sure to look for sites that are providing information based in fact.
Just start reading. Take in a wide range of information from a variety of topics.
 For years, intersex people have been discriminated against in mainstream society. Some people were also subjected to painful medical procedures. Take some time to learn about the history of the struggle for rights and non-discrimination.Intersex advocacy groups began to grow in numbers during the 1990s. These groups promote allowing intersex people to make their own choices.
The goals of advocacy groups is to help people learn what it means to be intersex. They also fight to have a voice in the medical community.
Ask the person you are dating about their personal journey as an intersex person. Every individual story is different.
 It is important to use the correct terminology. In the past, it was common to refer to intersex people as "hermaphrodites". Unfortunately, this inaccurate term is still sometimes used today.Be aware that language changes with society. Intersex is the proper term, so take care not to use outdated terms that could offend someone.
Intersex people often identify with the challenges of the LGBT population. Sometimes it is even called LGBTI, which stands for lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender/transsexual, and intersex.
Make it a point to use the proper terms for all people. If you need help, ask someone how they self-identify.

