 Braces can correct crooked teeth, overbites, underbites, and crossbites, for example., He or she can let you know what the best type of braces are for your particular problem.
 You have the options of visible, invisible, and nearly invisible braces.Visible braces are the type of braces you probably think of when someone says "braces." These braces are brackets attached to the front of teeth and connected by metal wires. The brackets can be metal, plastic, or ceramic, and these braces are often cheaper than other types of braces. Visible braces are best for severe problems.Nearly invisible braces are plastic trays that fit over your teeth. The main brand of this type of brace is Invisalign. Like retainers, you can take out these braces to eat, and they are are also not as painful as other braces. However, they don't work as well on severe problems, and you must wear them for at least 22 hours a day. These braces may be slightly more expensive than traditional braces.Invisible braces attach behind the teeth, much as visible braces attach to the front of teeth. Each bracket is customized to your teeth, so it works faster; however, it can be difficult to adjust to these braces, such as making it harder to speak. Also, these are more expensive, as they are made from gold (this allows them to be customized to your teeth)., Remember, most orthodontists do provide financing, so if you cannot afford to pay for the procedure all at once, you can make payments. Alternatively, you may want to get dental insurance, which can cover part of the procedure, though usually not all of it. , If you have elastics, take them out before brushing. With traditional braces, you need to brush both your teeth and the braces themselves to remove plaque and food. Once clean, put the elastics back on.Make sure you also floss and use an interdental toothbrush (with a bristle shaped like a pine tree), which allow you to clean around the brackets and between your teeth.
 Especially with traditional bracket braces, you need to avoid foods, such as hard foods (nuts, hard candies, etc.) and sticky foods (caramel, gum, etc.). You also need to cut up hard fruits and vegetables into smaller pieces.These foods can harm or break your braces.You should also avoid crunchy foods, such as chips, and acidic foods, such as sodas or vinegars.


Since you can take invisible braces out to eat, these foods aren't as much of a problem, though acids on your teeth can still affect them.
 The orthodontist will adjust the braces as you go and be on the lookout for any problems.
 How long your braces are on depends on the severity of the problem. You'll be fitted for a retainer after having your braces removed.
 After your braces are removed, you must wear a retainer to help keep your teeth in line.The advice in the past was you needed to wear a retainer for a year after having braces, but now the advice is you may need to wear a retainer for much longer, though you may only wear it at night.