 You can do this as the story develops.;
, Is it modern? It can be set at any time at all.
 Will it be first person (I, me) or third person (he, she, it). You won't usually find a book written from second person point of view, which is you, you did, you will. That is really breaking the fourth wall (talking to your reader). The tense is usually either past or present. Past tense (was, happened) is the common tense for writings; it's common and works well, and is comfortable reading. Present tense is with current timing (is, is happening) and can work well, but carries a risk of uncomfortable reading along with it.
 Are you going to focus on a single vampire among humans (or elves, dwarves, aliens, or whatever)? Or, do you want a whole cast of vampires? Each character will need to be developed fully, so start out with a few until you're more experienced with writing.
 Names like Dracula sound cool but are unrealistic (unless you want your story to branch off from the original). Why can't a vampire have a normal name like Liam? You can also do a portmanteau of names, like if you are stuck between Katherine and Madeline, you could name her Catherine.


It also helps to decide how old your vampire is. Vampires may be be immortal or they may not be - interpretations differ on the subject - which means they don't necessarily have to be born in the current time period. So, your vampire character could easily have grown up in Victorian times, or during the Great Depression. Therefore, it stands to reason that your vampire would have a name consistent with the time in which they were born.
 Can he change shape? Can he fly? It is up to you on the abilities of your vampire(s). Dracula and other historical vampires can float, go through locked doors, no reflection and can melt away into the shadows. Feel free to use these basics to help build your character.


Describe how the vampire feels about what he is doing. Is he proud? Is he ashamed or scared? How does your vampire feel about being like this? Does he/she try to hide it, or run free and kill those who find out?
A general rule is that vampires are burnt by sunlight. However, it is possible to have a vampire not burnt by sunlight. Look at authors like Stephanie Meyer (Twilight series) and Christopher Pike (Last Vampire Series). But, it's best to have some sort of reaction to sunlight. Or, you could let your vampires wear a special necklace or something that makes them have no effect by the sun.
 Most of the time, tradition requires that a vampire drink blood. While this is the most globally accepted idea about vampires, this too is up for negotiation when you're writing fiction. Some would argue it should always be the case but some artists have found ways around it––think of Count Duckula, the vegetarian duck vampire––as one alternative. And there are various ways of surviving off the blood of non-humans. Whatever you're take, be sure to sort out this aspect of your vampire character too.
 This can help to develop the character considerably, by allowing exchanges with other family members.


Are there siblings? If so, how many?
Come up with interesting names for the family members. In particular, what is the last name for your vampire family?
Is this family noble, middle class, hard laborers or a bunch of rogues? Try to avoid the "rich and famous" line; perhaps for a change, these vampires have never known wealth and have a penchant for frugality!
Has your vampire created a vampire? You could also make a sire or 'child' for him. Vampire ones, of course. Does he/she hate his sire/child? Do they hate him/her? Does he have a close relationship? Are they friends, rivals, or lovers?

, This can create a lot of the reason behind why the vampire chooses to pursue certain people, out of loneliness or seeking a sense of belonging, etc.
 The plot will give you kind of a guideline, necessary to make a focused book. It's harder to write the book with no sense of direction than it is with a solid idea of the backbone of the plot. That said, some people do prefer the directionless style and it is highly dependent on the way your own creativity comes through. Do a little experimentation.


Even with a plot, sometimes your character will surprise you. That's the art of good writing, letting your character inform you as he or she changes through writing.
Remember that your vampires aren't human, so they will see things differently. That includes humans. This is an excellent chance to describe human nature the way you see it if you see it in an unusual way.
When explaining how the people were changed into vampires, tell it from their point of view, it's okay to change the viewpoints once in a while, especially in a vampire story.
 Develop your own method for writing regularly––this varies from author to author. The main thing, is to get started and then to find ways to motivate yourself to keep writing.


The way you write your story is up to who is going to see it. If you're posting it on a website, it's okay to have a few minor mistakes, but if it's being published, it needs to be near perfect, so be prepared for editors to pull it apart in some places.

