 Eleanor uses the YSL Le Teint Touche Eclat Foundation. Apply this in a light coat all over your face. This product is pretty expensive (40 pounds if you live in the UK and 50 dollars if you live in the USA). If this product is out of your price range, try using the 'Wake Me Up' Foundation by Rimmel. This is only around seven (pounds) or eight (Dollars). 'Wake Me up' and 'YSL Le Teint Touche Eclat' both have a VERY similar finish.;
, Eleanor uses the YSL Touche Eclat Concealer from the same brand as her foundation. She applies this lightly under her eyes and on any redness, acne, or imperfections. Now blend it into the foundation. This concealer is, again, pretty pricey. (around 30 pounds or 40 dollars). The 'Wake Me Up' concealer is very comparable to the YSL and it's only around 7 pounds, eight dollars.
 She uses the Rimmel Stay Matte Powder. Apply this all over your face to set the foundation. This is only around 4 (pounds) or 5 (Dollars) So this is pretty cheap and it works amazing!

, She uses the NARS Laguna Bronzer. Apply this into the hollows of your cheeks and onto your cheek bones. Then, blend upward to your temples and down to your jawline. This is about 26 pounds or 36 dollars. If your willing to pay that then great! It's an amazing bronzer, but if you're on a budget, try the E.L.F Mineral Glow Bronzer. It's only 7 Pounds or 8 Dollars and it gives the same warm glow as the Nars Laguna!

, Eleanor uses the Top Shop Blush in Afternoon Tea. Apply this lightly onto the apples of your cheeks to get a soft flush onto your cheeks like El's! This blush is about 11 Pounds or 12 Dollars, so kind of expensive for blush. Try 'Rimmel London's Tickle Me Pink' Blush. It's only around 6 pound, 7 dollars and it is almost the exact same color as TopShop!

, It seems Eleanor isn't very big on lipstick or lip gloss because she applies Vaseline to her lips to keep them hydrated. Then she applies about two dabs of her concealer (don't do this if you have a dark color of concealer) and then blends it into the Vaseline. This creates a very pretty pink nude color! Vaseline is very cheep and you just re-use the same concealer! However, if you want a lip color, apply a coat of light colored lip gloss.
 Eleanor uses Maybelline The Falsie's for mascara. Use only one to two coats as Eleanor's eyelashes do not stand out very much. The falsies are very inexpensive and very high quality. (Around 5 pounds 6 dollars)

,