 Assuming you’re installing a new door, you’ll need to find the precise location on the door frame for your hinges. Most doors require a minimum of two hinges: one hinge is located 7-inches from the top of the door frame, and the other hinge is located 11-inches from the bottom of the door frame. Measure this distance and mark the location on the frame, and then do the same on the door that you’re hanging.









If you have a third hinge (typically used for heavy doors), it will be placed directly in the middle of the other two hinges (this will put it slightly off-center).;
, Put your hinge in place on the door and the jamb, and use a carpenters pencil to carefully trace around the hinge. The depth of the hinge on the jam should always be as thick as the hinge is. Double check to make sure that your outlines match the same location on the door and jamb, before moving to the next step. Then, use a utility knife to score the outline; this will make it easier to cut the mortise.
 The term ‘cut the mortise’ is the professional term for cutting out the wood in the jamb in the shape of the hinge, so that the hinge will be inset in the jamb and provide more strength and aesthetic appeal. To cut the mortise, you’ll need a very sharp chisel and a hammer. While carefully angling the chisel, tap gently into the jamb from the side to remove thin strips of wood. Make sure not to cut the mortise too deep, as this will cause the hinge to become loose over time. Cut out only the outlined area and the marked depth.








Using a dull chisel will make it more difficult to cut the mortise, and cause you to use more pressure with the hammer (which could cause a slip).
If you cut the mortise too deep, you can use wood filler or place a thin piece of wood in it before installing the hinge.
 Replace the hinge back in the jamb where you cut the mortise. Use your pencil to mark the location of the screws in the jamb. Do the same with the location of the hinge on the door. Remove the hinges when you’re done marking.
 Use a drill or screwdriver to drill very narrow pilot holes in the location of the screws you marked on the jamb. Tap them lightly in first, to make sure the screws don’t accidentally move out of place. Use a screw guide to keep the screws straight as they go into the wood.
 Put the hinges back in their places, and use a drill or screwdriver to secure them individually into the jamb and the door.
 Hold the door in place, using blocks under the bottom to support it if necessary. Line up the two hinge plates so that the ones on the door match the ones in the jamb. Slide the hinge pins into place, and remove the blocks from the door. Test the door to make sure it works, and you’re finished!







