


Many people consume the least amount of protein at breakfast.
Increase your breakfast calories and decrease your calories elsewhere. Even without making any other changes, increasing caloric consumption at breakfast and decreasing calories from the other meals will make the body more efficient in its energy use. Think of your body as a building being built and behind schedule. The work crew works around the clock, so it makes sense to have resources equally available. By increasing your breakfast calories through eating additional protein your body is more efficient. Protein can only be used at a set rate, the excess will be converted to fuel or fat.
Drinking a glass of low-fat or skim milk would increase protein intake nicely, but lactose intolerance increases with age. Try swishing the milk in your mouth before swallowing.
Eat dry cereal instead of wet cereal, because with wet cereal you will not put as much milk as dry cereal. Cereal with milk, unlike drinking milk, is more digestible because digestion begins in the mouth.
Overcome your fear, go to the biggest health food store, and buy granola in bulk. The store might have 10 or more types of granola: plain, with nuts, with fruits, with other grains besides oats (eating foods originating from exotic parts of the globe is like traveling). You might open a chute or use a scooper and choose the amount of granola you want. If the prices online are better, Amazon.com is good because they give excellent service. Whatever the case, compare prices. Usually, supermarkets do not have good prices for this item. note: heath food followers are the leaders in the healthy food movement: what they are following today is what the rest of the population might be following a decade or two in the future.
Instead of butter or margarine, use peanut butter or hummus. Hummus is prepared with olive oil (which is tasty and has health benefits).;
, The protein amount is listed in grams and experts recommend the average male to have 56 grams of protein every day (46 grams for females), but make adjustments for your level of activity, bodyweight and age. Do not assume anything, for example you would think that yogurt covered pretzels has more protein than peanut butter pretzels, however peanut butter pretzels has much more protein than the yogurt covered ones.
 Choose low fat meats instead of high fat (choose ham, more frequently, as a breakfast meat, instead of high fat meats like pork sausage or bacon) and you will decrease the fat and increase the protein. Decreasing saturated fat is also good for your health. Drink low-fat or skim milk instead of whole milk, by consuming the same amount of calories from milk, you will decrease your fat intake and increase your protein intake.
 An apple, for example, with the skin on has more protein, vitamins, minerals and fiber. The protein in an apple is low but every bit counts, just as important is the health benefits of leaving the skin on. Most of the nutrition in fruits and vegetables are close to the surface, so even if you peel the skin off of an apple (not advised), the areas close the skin has more nutrition than closer to the center. Fiber uses up the bile (that green substance in your intestines) and to make bile the body turns to cholesterol. This is a way that fiber decreases cholesterol. Learn about the other ways that fiber decreases fat and is beneficial.
 The following fruits are listed from the ones with the most protein to the ones with less protein: orange, plum, honeydew melon, banana, mango, pineapple, and dates.
 The following are, in decreasing order, the complex carbohydrates by the amount of protein they have per equal amount of calories: whole wheat bread, corn, regular oats, potatoes with the skin on, and brown rice. Whole wheat bread has more protein than the other items.
 For example, white bread has 5 grams of protein for 200 calories and whole wheat bread has 10.6 grams of protein for the same amount of calories. Eating whole grains are good for your health. Eating whole foods and eating a variety of foods are very important for your health and to have a quality protein intake.
 In western meals, beans and potatoes (also rice or bread) are a staple and is very high in protein content. Tofu is another item that can be eaten to increase your protein intake. When picking a vegetable, pick beans in a pod (green, snap, snow peas, long beans) because of their protein, although beans as a vegetable do not have the protein of beans per se (pinto, kidney, lima etc), they have more protein than other vegetables.
 Like a car, we fill up the gas then we go on our drive. You must eat a well balanced diet then start your day.

