 You will be dipping your tumbler into the container. How far you dip depends on how far up the tumbler you want the design to go. The water and container need to be deep enough to accommodate that. Also, try to get the water as warm as you can. If the water is too cold, the nail polish will start to set as soon as you add it in. The hotter the water is, the slower the nail polish will set, giving you more time to work with., Keep the bottle of nail polish as close to the water as you can. If you drop the nail polish into the water from too high up, the nail polish will sink to the bottom instead of float on top.Only use one color for this. You can always add more colors later on.


Avoid using gel or the quick-drying kind of nail polish., You can also swirl the drops together using a toothpick or wooden skewer., How far you dip is entirely up to you, but you should leave about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of space from the rim bare. Also, don't worry if you dip too far or mess up.


This method works best on ceramic tumblers. It may work on ones made out of glass or plastic.
 Dip a cotton ball in nail polish remover it, then use it to wipe away any excess nail polish from the rim and the inside of the tumbler.If you are using a plastic tumbler, avoid using a nail polish remover with acetone in it, as acetone can fog or discolor certain types of plastic, such as acrylic.
 At this point, you can set your tumbler aside to dry, or you can repeat the method with more colors of nail polish., This will give the nail polish time to set, and prevent the bottom from getting stuck to anything.
 If you are using a glass type tumbler, getting the sealer within 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of the rim. If this is the travel-mug kind of tumbler, you can coat the entire tumbler with sealer.You can apply more than one coat of sealer, but be sure to let each coat dry first before you apply a new one.You can also use clear nail polish or an acrylic spray sealer., Even though nail polish sticks better to glass and ceramic better than regular types of paint, it is still fragile. Wash the tumbler by hand using cool water and a soft cloth. Never let the tumbler sit in water, and don't wash it in the washing machine.