 Before you even start a meal, one way to make you feel more satisfied and stay satisfied may be by regulating the speed at which you eat. Some studies show that slower you eat, the more satisfied you'll feel.It's recommended to take about 20 – 30 minutes to eat each meal. This slow pace may help your brain register being satisfied with your meal. In addition, it helps force you to pay attention to what you are eating and get more mental pleasure from it.Time yourself at each meal for a couple days to get an understanding of how long you normally eat, and let that motivate you to slow down in the future. Try taking a sip of water between bites, putting your fork down in between bites, and talking to others to slow yourself down.;
, Protein is an essential nutrient to your diet. It not only helps fuel your metabolism, but can also help you feel more satisfied with your meals.A higher protein diet has been shown in many studies, to be helpful in managing hunger and increasing your overall satiation after your meal. It can take 15 to 20 minutes after food is eaten for the satiety signals to reach the brain. Foods high in protein seem to register satiety faster than carbohydrates and fat.
Aim for at least one serving of protein at most meals. One serving is about 3 – 4 oz or about the size of your palm.Try using a food scale to help keep you on track if needed.
There are many different sources of protein. Try to stick to leaner protein as this is lower in calories. Even if you're not trying to lose weight, eating larger quantities of higher fat protein can cause weight gain due to a higher calorie level.
Proteins to try include: beans and pulses, poultry, eggs, lean beef, fish, low-fat dairy products and tofu.
 Fruits and vegetables are great food groups to add bulk to your meals to help keep you feeling satisfied longer throughout the day. USDA recommends that adult women and men eat 2 cups of fruit each dayand 2.5 – 3 cups of vegetables each day.Both fruits and vegetables are known to increase satiation or satisfaction for a few reasons. They're high in fiber, water, and air content. Fiber and high water content help add physical bulk to your meals (without too many calories) and air can help you feel more physically full.Studies have shown that higher fiber diets help you feel more satisfied for longer.Bulking up meals with fruits and vegetables is an easy way to get your 25-38 g of fiber (the recommendations for women and men respectively) each day.Include at least two to three servings of fruits and vegetables at each meal, or try to make half your plate half fruits or vegetables. Measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greens or about 1/2 cup of fruit per serving., Like fruits and vegetables, whole grains are another great source of extra fiber. This delicious food group is an easy way to add fiber to meals and will help you stay satisfied longer.


Whole grain foods are minimally processed and include all parts of the grain. This makes it higher in fiber, protein and other essential nutrients.Processed or refined grains on the other hand, do not have the fiber containing part of the grain. This makes them less fibrous and less nutrient dense overall.
Include one serving of grains at your meals. Measure out 1/2 cup or 1 oz per serving.Whole grain foods to try include: whole grain oats, quinoa, brown rice, farro, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread or millet.
 Another trick to help fill you up and keep you satisfied a little longer is by drinking water before each meal. It's also important to drink adequate amounts of fluids all day long.


Studies have shown that if you drink a glass of water, about 8 oz (230 ml), right before a meal, this can help trick your brain into feeling more satisfied and stay this way longer.It's also important to drink water throughout the entire day. Many times we feel hungry when in fact we're only thirsty.Aim to drink at least 64 oz (about 2 liters) or about eight glasses of water or other calorie-free, hydrating beverages daily. You may even need up to 13 glasses!Stick to fluids like: water, flavored water, sparkling water or decaf coffee and tea.

