 Before you can begin this quest, your Conjuration magic must be at least level 90. To check your conjuration level, open the menu (O button on PS3, B button on XBOX 360, and Tab key on PC), and press in the upward direction to open up the Skills menu.

The skills menu is sorted into Thief skills, Warrior skills, and Mage skills, the latter of which can be identified by its blue background. Scroll to the left until you are in the Mage Skills area; simply wait until you see Conjuration Magic, and your level will be displayed right below it.;
, If you are in need of more Conjuration spells, simply visit the court wizard of any major hold. You can speak to the following wizards:

Wuunferth the Unliving in Windhelm
Sybille Stentor in Solitude
Madena in The White Hall
Calcelmo in Markarth
Wylandriah in Riften
Farengar Secret-Fire in Whiterun

, When they ask what you need, ask what they have for sale, and you will be able to scroll through their wares., Common Conjuration spells that don’t take up a lot of Magicka are: Bound Sword, Bound Battle Axe, Conjure Flame Atronach, and Soul Trap. All of these spells can be purchased from the court wizards listed above.

To purchase a spell, approach any of the court wizards, and hit the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), and E key (PC) to interact with them. They’ll ask you what you need; scroll down to the dialogue option “What do you have for sale?” to browse their wares.
Use the same button listed above to purchase a spell while your cursor is over it. Conjuration spells typically range between 200 and 1,000 Gold.
 The fastest way to level up Conjuration is to repeatedly use the Soul Trap spell on a dead body. Soul Trap only works on creatures under a certain level, so it is easiest to use on the wildlife you can find in any part of Skyrim.

Once you have killed your target, approach it and equip the Soul Trap spell. To do this, open up the menu once more, hit the left direction button to look at your skills. Go to the Conjuration section, scroll until you reach “Soul Trap,” and hit the button you wish to equip the spell to (L1 for left hand PS3, LT for left hand XBOX 360, and left-click for left hand PC)
Hit the button you’ve equipped the spell to to cast the spell, and repeat this to level up Conjuration. Depending on how quickly your character’s Magicka regenerates, as well as how much Magicka they have, this could take a few hours.
 After you have successfully raised your Conjuration magic to at least 90, you must find Phinis to begin the Conjuration Ritual quest. Travel to the College of Winterhold, in the far northeastern reaches of Skyrim., During the night (from midnight to seven) and early morning hours (from about 7AM until the afternoon), he can be found eating in his room or wandering around it. His room is located on the ground floor of the Hall of Countenance. From the afternoon until 10PM, Phinis will wander around the Hall of Attainment or retire to his room, where he will spend the rest of the night, When the dialogue options appear, ask if you can learn more about Conjuration. He will say that to learn the more advanced spells of Conjuration, he will need a Sigil Stone. To obtain a Sigil Stone, you will need to summon an unbound Dremora, and make it retrieve one for you. Phinis will give you the spell to do so, warning that Unbound Dremora are difficult to control., You will have to engage the Dremora in combat and defeat it to reach the next part of the ritual, so make any preparations you must. Dremora are susceptible to fire magic and any weapons equipped to deal Magicka damage. This fight can be difficult, so bringing along a companion is recommended., The door to the Hall of Attainment is located across the college’s main courtyard and serves as the second sleeping quarter for students. Simply enter it and ascend the two flights of stairs, taking the door that leads to the top of the tower.

In the very center of the tower, there will be a circle of candles surrounding a piece of stone with an eye inscribed on it. This is where you will be summoning Unbound Dremora.
 To summon the Dremora, stand in front of the circle and equip the spell. Do this by opening the menu, toggling left to “Skills,” selecting the “Conjuration” category, and selecting the “Summon: Unbound Dremora” spell.

Unlike most conjuration spells, this one takes a few seconds to execute. You must be standing in front of the circle, aiming at the eye in the center, and then hold down whichever button you equipped the spell to. Do this until there is a flash of light and the summoning animation begins.
 After you have successfully summoned the Dremora, it will be enraged at you for bringing it to the human realm. Regardless of which dialogue option you select, it will attack.

The Dremora is equipped with Daedric armor, meaning direct physical attacks won’t do much. Enchanted weapons are very effective, however. The Dremora fights only with a great sword, so retreating and attacking from a distance is also a good choice in tactics.
 After you defeat the Dremora, it will disappear back into its own realm. Unfortunately, Dremora are very stubborn, so you will have to fight it once more. Exactly the same as before, stand in front of the stone circle and summon the Unbound Dremora. It will be even more angry, claiming it is not your plaything. Regardless of which dialogue option you choose, it will attack again., During the second fight, the Dremora does not employ any new tactics, so you can beat it the same way you did before. After defeating the Dremora, it will disappear the same way it did before, For the third time, approach the circle and cast the “Summon: Unbound Dremora” spell. The Dremora will still be angry. Ask it if it will submit, and it will finally concede that you are its master. The Dremora will ask what your bidding is; reply that you want a Sigil Stone. It will reply that the next time you summon it, the Sigil Stone will be yours., For the fourth and final time, repeat the summoning of the Dremora. It will hand you over the Sigil Stone.

After this, you will be unable to summon the Unbound Dremora again, although the Dremora will remain on the college campus and can be seen wandering around the grounds.
 Enter the Hall of Attainment once more, descend the two flights of stairs, and exit the Hall of Attainment on the ground floor. Walk across the courtyard, and enter the Hall of Countenance., Scroll through the dialogue options, and hit the second to last one, which reads “I have your Sigil Stone.” He will claim that the stone is yours, and is only borrowing it. The stone will be removed from your inventory, and the conversation will end., Scroll down to the dialogue option “What did you see?” Phinis will tell you he has the knowledge he needs and will return the stone to you, as well as Spell Tome: Flame Thrall. This will complete the quest. After this, you will be able to purchase Master Level Conjuration Spell tomes from Phinis.