 Do this by double-clicking its icon on the desktop, if you have it installed there, or by clicking its icon on the Start Menu. Once the pre-game cinematics have played, the game will launch directly into the racing world—the streets of a fictional city called Fairhaven.
 To do this press Num 6 on your keyboard to open the EasyDrive menu. EasyDrive is a system in modern NFS games that allows you to easily find races/events, and personalize your vehicle.


Scroll downwards on the EasyDrive menu using Num 2 till the Races option is highlighted.
Press Num 6 to open Races. This will display a list of races available for you to enter with the vehicle you are currently using.
Scroll up and down using Num 8 and Num 2, respectively, and when the race you want is highlighted, press Num 6.
Press Num 6 again to highlight the route to the race on the game’s minimap (displayed on the bottom left corner on the screen).
Drive (Up Arrow key to accelerate, Down Arrow key to brake/reverse and Left and Right Arrow keys to steer left or right respectively) to the location of the race by following the highlighted route on the minimap.
When you arrive, stop in the race’s marker (usually a banner on the road displaying the name of the race).
Press the Up and Down keys together to start the race.
 When the race starts, consult the minimap at the bottom left of your screen to find any straight section of the road where you can use your Nitrous without hitting objects.
 When you arrive at one such section of the road, press the Right Shift key while still accelerating to start using your Nitrous. The Nitrous bar, which also displays your speed at the right bottom corner of the screen, will start to deplete.


Keep going till the Nitrous bar is completely depleted, keeping your eye on the road so as not to hit any objects or other cars. To avoid hitting other cars or objects, press the Left and Right Arrow keys very subtly each time you need to switch lanes. Turning too sharply at such a high speed will cause you to spin out and crash.
If you manage to completely deplete the bar without hitting anything, you will have recorded a Perfect Nitrous. A notification will flash above the Nitrous bar indicating the same.

