 Look for examples of napkins, doilies, aprons, curtains or table decorations that have actual lace or crochet edging.;
, As the subject for the painting, use a vase, dish and/or flowers. Or, you could add a few pieces of fruit or colorful vegetables., Use 11” X 14” watercolor paper. Block in all the elements or objects, but for the lace, just indicate it as a strip along the border of the fabric. It will most likely have a fancy edge so make the outer edge scalloped or ornate., Crochet and lace have thousands of patterns of edging with varying degrees of showiness. Sketch trying to repeat the pattern as you go. Try to have it rise up and ripple in places., Place the watercolor, tube paints around the edges of the palette, but leave the center empty for mixing., Include pointed, round brushes of various sizes and a ½” flat., Mix a neutral gray and paint the shadows on the drape, including the lace. These are places where the cloth is bunched or slightly raised or under the items. Forming raised areas simply makes it more pleasing to the eye. The soft shadows suggest lines to direct the viewer’s eye through the painting. Let this dry and ignore this preliminary work as you begin to paint., There is no right or wrong way to begin. Either you first do the objects in the still life or tackle the more complex lace border. Some might even paint the background first., As you work, if you need it as a guide, draw greater detail on the lace. On close observation, you will see a pattern behind the lace, repeated shapes, circles, ovals, spaces between linked stitches., Defining the scalloped edge of the lace will give you parameters. The lace border or edging will emerge, almost magically, as you paint the surface it sits on.
 Leave the white paper representing the stitches and color in the negative shapes, or what lies behind the stitches. Use a neutral gray and a brush with a good point. Do the small dots and dashes around the treads that make up the lace. A strong lace pattern will emerge in a few minutes of painting. Establish a pattern and keep repeating it. Let it dry and move to the other part of the painting, the objects that comprise the still life., Whatever you have chosen to put in your painting, vases, flowers, etc., establish the body color of these objects. Allow to dry., Establishing and blocking in colors, you will avoid getting too detailed, too quickly. The lace edging will grab people’s attention and will be intricate. Keep that in mind as you paint the objects that make up the still life. When everything has been painted, let the piece dry and view it from a distance.
 If ornamentation on objects’ surfaces makes sense and follows the contour of the object, whatever its shape. If each item is “grounded” with a light, gray, transparent shadow under it. If you have put shadows on and beneath the lace in places, too. This makes it lie down flat against the table. It also provides contrast by making parts of it appear brighter and in sharper focus.,