 If you coax your baby to sleep by rocking him or her, gradually stop the practice so that your baby learns to fall asleep without human contact.


When weening your baby from this practice, rock him or her until your child starts relaxing but is not quite asleep. Your baby might protest after you stop, but if your baby feels relaxed enough, these protests should not last long before he or she drifts off.
Gradually decrease the amount of time you spend rocking your baby until, eventually, your baby is able to fall asleep simply by being held and not by being rocked.
After your baby adjusts to falling asleep without being rocked, you can transition him or her to falling asleep without being held.
 If your baby sleeps in your bed, graduate him or her to a separate bassinet or small cradle placed directly next to your bed.


Your baby might feel more comfortable with the concept of not being able to cling to you at night if he or she can at least see you. After your baby has adjusted to sleeping separately and has done so for several weeks, you can consider moving your baby out of the room completely.
 Instead of holding your baby during nap time, let your baby fall asleep wherever he or she can get comfortable.


Oftentimes, babies have an easier time napping in baby swings or car seats than a crib.This is mostly due to the fact that these spaces are more enclosed, thereby mimicking the feeling of being held in mom's or dad's arms.
While these spaces should not be used for naps indefinitely, they can be helpful in transitioning your baby from napping in your arms to sleeping alone. Once your baby adjusts to sleeping alone in a confined space, you can start placing him or her in the open space of a crib during nap time.
 Start your baby on napping in the crib before requiring your baby to sleep through the night there.


Many babies have an easier time falling asleep alone during the day, when things are lighter and more active, than they do at night, once everything quiets down and they can no longer see or hear their parents.
 The transition into the crib may not happen quickly. You may need to stay in the room with your baby as he or she falls asleep for the first few weeks.

