 Probiotics are bacteria that help maintain the natural balance of microorganisms in the intestines.There are some indications that consuming additional probiotics in supplement form can aid in digestion by bolstering the amount of beneficial bacteria found in the intestines. Probiotics are also in many different types of foods, so if you’d rather not take a supplement, you can get the benefits of probiotics by incorporating probiotic foods into your diet.


Since the FDA does not regulate probiotic supplements as a drug, there are certain things that you should look for when choosing a probiotic supplement. Make sure that you can find the following information on the label:genus, species, and strain of the probiotic (such as Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG)
number of organisms that will be alive by the use-by date
dose
company name and contact information


The types of different probiotic strains within the supplement are vary important. Some people react to certain bacteria strains better than others. For this reason, a probiotic with several different strains should be chosen.
 Over-the-counter digestive enzymes may aid in digestion by supplementing the body's naturally occurring enzymes. Enzymes break down food into its component parts, allowing the body to absorb it more easily. If these enzymes are effective, they could aid in the efficiency and speed of the digestive process.


Digestive enzymes are created by four glands in the human body, primarily the pancreas.Although some alternative healthcare specialists and producers of nutritional supplements argue for the benefits of enzyme supplements, many doctors say more human studies are necessary to determine their potential effects.Some commonly sold supplements are:

Lipase. Lipase aids in the digestion and absorption of fat.Papain. Papain is said to be useful in the digestion of proteins.Lactase. Lactase aids in the digestion of lactose, the protein found in dairy products. Individuals who have low natural levels of lactase are considered lactose-intolerant., Bitters are tinctures (often alcoholic) derived from a variety of herbs, bark, and roots, that are thought to aid in digestion. Alcohol can act as a solvent for the botanical extract and helps to preserve it. Taking bitters before, with, or after a meal can aid in speeding digestion.However, bitters are not proven to have a positive effect on digestion, and there has been very limited research done on their efficacy.

