 Use a sharp knife to separate a medium head of cauliflower into bite-sized florets.


Peel off the outer leaves, then slice off the heavy stem at the cauliflower base.
Hold the cauliflower in your non-dominant hand and the knife in your dominant hand. Slice into the smaller branches, working your way around the entire cauliflower using a circular motion.
Inspect each floret and trim off any blemishes or large, woody stems. Cut large florets into smaller pieces as needed.;
, Blanch the cauliflower florets in lightly salted, boiling water for 3 minutes.Boil approximately 1 gallon (4 L) of water per 1 lb (450 g) of cauliflower. Add the salt after the water reaches a boil.
Add the cauliflower to the water after it reaches a rolling boil. Cover and cook for only 3 minutes; do not cook the florets any longer than that since they still need to remain crunchy.
 Immediately transfer the blanched florets to a large bowl of prepared ice water. Keep them in the water for 2 to 3 minutes.


Dunking the cauliflower in ice water stops the cooking process and prevents the florets from becoming too soft or overdone.
 Drain the water and spread the cooled florets out over several layers of clean paper towel. Allow the excess water to drain.


You should also use additional paper towel to pat the cauliflower. The florets should be as dry as possible before you use them in this recipe.
 Pour at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of vegetable oil into a deep, heavy skillet or saucepan. Set the pan on your stove over medium heat.Watch the temperature of the oil closely as it heats. It needs to reach a range between 350 and 375 degrees Fahrenheit (175 and 190 degrees Celsius) before you add the cauliflower, and it should remain within that range throughout the entire cooking process.
If you do not have a frying thermometer, you can check the temperature of the oil by tossing in a 1-inch (2.5-cm) cube of white bread. Once the oil is ready, the bread should brown within 60 seconds.
 Place the flour, cornstarch, salt, and pepper into a medium mixing bowl. Stir the four ingredients together until evenly combined.
 Slowly pour the water into the bowl while simultaneously mixing it into the dry ingredients. Continue until a thick liquid batter forms.


You may not need the full amount of water, so you should add the water gradually to avoid adding too much. Batter that is too thin will not stick well to the cauliflower. The ideal batter will be the same consistency as pancake batter or dosa batter.
 Dip the cauliflower florets into the batter one at a time. The batter should completely cover the entire floret.


Pinch the stem of the florets and dip the entire piece into the batter. If you want to keep your fingers clean, you could hold the floret with a fork, instead.
After coating each floret, hold it above the bowl and allow any excess batter to drip off.
 Immediately after coating each floret, carefully drop it into the hot oil. Allow the cauliflower florets to cook for 4 to 5 minutes, or until all sides turn golden to medium brown.Work in small batches (four to six florets each) to avoid overcrowding the pan. If you fry too many at once, you'll drop the temperature of the cooking oil, and the cauliflower will take too long to cook.
Lower the cauliflower into the hot oil very carefully to avoid splashing the hot oil. Space each piece apart, and do not allow the pieces to touch or overlap.
Use tongs or a fryer scoop to turn the florets as they cook. All sides must be exposed to the hot oil so that they cauliflower browns evenly.
 Carefully scoop the fried cauliflower out of the hot oil and transfer it onto a plate lined with several layers of clean paper towels. Allow all the florets to drain for at least 30 to 60 seconds.


Leave the cauliflower on these paper towels until you're ready to add it to the sauce.
Prepare the sauce after you finish frying all of the cauliflower florets.
 Whisk together the water and cornstarch in a small bowl until a thick, smooth slurry forms.


Set this slurry aside once combined. You'll use it to thicken and increase the sauce later on.
 Pour the oil into a wok or skillet, then set the pan on your stove over medium-high heat.


Allow the oil to heat for 30 to 60 seconds. Turn the pan by its handle to coat the entire bottom with the hot oil before continuing.
 Add the green onions, ginger, garlic, and green chillies to the hot oil. Cook, stirring frequently, for 2 to 3 minutes.


Wait for the vegetables to lightly deepen in color and release a stronger aroma.
You'll need to keep stirring the vegetables as they cook to prevent them from burning and sticking to the pan.
 Stir the red chilli sauce, ketchup, soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, and salt into the vegetable mixture. Cook the contents of the pan for another 2 to 3 minutes.


Continue to stir the sauce mixture as it cooks. Watch closely; once the oil starts separating from the mixture, you can proceed to the next step., Pour the cornstarch slurry into the pan and whisk it into the other ingredients. Cook for another 1 to 2 minutes, or until the sauce boils and thickens.


Whisk the cornstarch slurry again before adding it to the pan. It may separate as it sits, but it needs to be a well-combined slurry when you add it to the pan.
If the sauce is too thick, you can add a little more water to thin it out to your liking. Add the extra water in small amounts, however, to avoid thinning out the sauce too much.
 Add the fried cauliflower to the sauce and reduce the heat to low. Cook, stirring occasionally, for another 2 minutes.


Since both the cauliflower and sauce are ready when you combine them, you don't need to cook them at a high heat or for a prolonged period of time. Only cook the mixture long enough to heat everything through.
 Transfer the coated, fried cauliflower to a serving platter and enjoy it immediately.


If desired, garnish the finished dish with additional chopped green onion.
Gobi manchurian is typically served as a side dish or appetizer.

