 Pads or sanitary napkins are thin, cushiony pieces of fabric that suck in and absorb the liquid that comes out of your body during your period. Pads can hold a LOT of liquid! They also have two sides - a sticky side that attaches to the inside of your underwear, and a non-stickly side that absorbs the liquid. Some pads also have “wings” that can fold around the outside of your underwear to help keep the pad from moving when you walk. These “wings” can also help stop leaks.Pads should never be flushed down the toilet. They should be wrapped in toilet paper and put in the garbage. Most bathroom stalls in a girl's washroom have special bins just for pads and tampons.
You should change your pad at least every 3-4 hours. If you’re having a “light" flow, you can probably go a little longer, but if you’re having a “heavy" flow, you’ll want to change your pad more often.;
, Tampons can be used instead of pads. Tampons have two parts - the actual tampon itself (which almost looks like a long, thick cotton ball), and the applicator. Applicators can be made of plastic or paper. Tampons are worn inside your vagina and capture the liquid before it leaves your body. Because it’s worn inside your vagina, it needs to be changed at least every 4-6 hours. Tampons should not be worn overnight.


Some tampons are designed to be flushed down a toilet, but some need to be disposed of in a garbage. Tampon applicators must never be flushed down a toilet.There is something called Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS) that can happen if you leave a tampon inside your body for too long. It can make you feel quite sick. This is why you should not wear a tampon longer than 4-6 hours, and why you should never wear one overnight.
 Pantyliners are smaller, thinner pads. They are also sticky on one side and attach to the inside of your underwear. They are normally worn in-between your periods to help protect your underwear something called "vaginal discharge." Vaginal discharge is perfectly normal, and is normally white or clear in color. Every girl experiences a different amount of discharge when they don’t have their period. You can always try out pantyliners one month to see if you like them.