 Both styles require that you carefully select simple, statement clothing items. When in doubt, go with basic layers. Try not to overdo it with too many jewelry items or distractions from your overall look. The hipster influence here means that you need to look ‘put together.’ The grunge influence requires a rougher look, so the key is balance.This also means that you’ll want to watch the level of fringe or wear on your outfit. Just pick one piece with these attributes. If you go too far here, you’ll head into straight grunge without the hipster influence.
For a simply layered outfit, try dark skinny jeans with a graphic tee. Wear a large plaid shirt over your top.;
, Don’t shy away from a bold touch here and there. Look for pieces that play up red, black, grey, or dark jewel tones. Generally, it is a good idea to stay away from neon colors. Plaid is the best example of a hipster-grunge pattern. They come in a variety of prints, styles, and colors and can be worn in many ways.


Wear a vintage graphic tee that depicts a band that you like or perhaps even an old advertisement. Look for something that is eye-catching and one that is fairly slim-fitted.You can wear a plaid shirt open or tied around your waist. If the shirt is large enough, you can even use it as a shirt dress. Or, cut a plaid shirt to make a headband., Choose one item in your outfit that is heavily textured. A natural or synthetic leather is always a good option. You can wear it as a vest (perhaps even an overextended one) or as a bracelet. Or, you can look for a shirt or bracelet with hammered or coiled metal accents.Be careful not to overdo it with metal studs or leather, as you can head into a 1950s greaser or metal look.
 You can choose an entire outfit that appears tailored and fits you snugly, not tightly. Or, you can use layers and place a loose item over a snug one. Fitted or skinny pants are a staple of hipster-grunge fashion for both men and women. Black or patterned leggings paired with a billowy top is another nice option.


Tights are often associated with a more high-end outfit, so, to do something unexpected, you might pair them with a set of nice sneakers., Some people prefer to go with an all-black or grey palette, and that is often quite flattering to the figure. However, you can also create nice contrast by going with a dark or light denim pant and then pairing it with an opposite tint top.Men and women both look great in dark cuffed jeans. Women going for the hipster-grunge look can also rock washed-out cut-off shorts, just don’t go overboard with the fringe.