 As the playlist title suggests, instead of one experience point, you gain two, allowing inexperienced players to gain points quickly. However, if you have plenty of experience points, but a low rank, then a double experience weekend is hardly worth playing to you since they are largely unranked. Take into consideration what you need to level up before selecting to play a double experience weekend - if you need experience then it may just be for you.;
, Although you may be keen to play a double experience weekend, if you are unskilled in some scenarios, such as free-for-alls or Grifball, then it may be wise to wait until the next weekend to enter a new scenario. If you are excellent at using all types of weapons, then a 'fiesta slayer' playlist may suit you, since it spawns you with random weapons. However, this can also be a curse if you re-spawn with a plasma pistol every time. If you are more tactically-minded, then a 'team flag' weekend may be to your liking. Every weekend the scenario changes, so only choose the weekends which will best suit your strengths.
 It's there for a reason, so make use of it! If you need the experience and it's a scenario you are fairly good at, then try to cram as much playtime in that playlist as you possibly can. If you are successful, it's not uncommon to earn up to 100 experience points in a single weekend.
 If the weekend's scenario is team-based, then you'll want your most skilled friends to play with you. If the scenario is a free-for-all based scenario, then you may want to consider gathering a group of friends which you know you can easily beat. If you get the right people to play with you, it is likely you will be able to maximize the amount of experience you get for the weekend.
 Although with the allure or random weapons and fun scenarios, the double experience weekend is still as competitive as other Halo 3 playlists, so if you entered the playlist to get experience points or better your kill/death spread, then play to meet that goal, using the combat scenarios to your advantage.
 Above all, the double experience weekends were created to introduce players to a fun atmosphere. Although they can be useful in gathering experience points, try to have fun and be a fun person to play with. Winning and being fun aren't mutually exclusive.
 Quite often the playlist is random and uses less than usual scenarios, so don't be surprised if you have to give up the first time around.
 Most Double EXP weekends require that you have downloaded some, or all of the extra Halo 3 map packs. Although some are free, such as the Cold Storage and Heroic map packs, others such as the Legendary and Mythic map packs cost Microsoft points. Whichever maps you need, if you want to take part in double experience weekends, then you may have to purchase them.

