 Losing money can be very upsetting, but getting frazzled will make it more difficult for you to think about where you had the money last. Wait a moment before you begin your search and take a deep breath., You may know the exact amount of money that you are missing, but if not, make an estimate. Are you missing a small amount or a larger amount? What denomination was the money? $1s, $5s, $20s, etc.? Having a solid idea of how much you have lost and what bill denominations will make it easier for you to ask people about your missing money.
 Try to remember where you had the money last. Did you have it at home, take it with you to the grocery store, or somewhere else? Do you remember spending any of it? If so, did you put the change back into your wallet or your pocket? Do the best you can to remember the details of when and where you last had the money.
 Now that you have thought about how much money you have lost, as well as where and when you might have lost it, you can plan out where you should look. Include the places you might have lost your money and anywhere you passed through along the way.
 Check usual and unusual places for your missing money. Look in the pockets of the clothes you wore when you last had the money. Check between couch cushions and on the floor. Check where you stash your keys at the end of the day.
 Go back to the places where you might have lost your money and follow the same route that you took before. As you walk, scan the ground for your money just in case it fell out of your pocket along the way.
 Check the floor and around the seats in your car to see if your money is there. It may have fallen out of your pocket as you got into or out of your car. Check the glove compartment, overhead visors, and other places that you might have stowed your money without remembering.
 If you think you might have lost your money in a store or some other place of business, ask the manager if anyone found your money. Say how much you lost and what denomination the money was in. You can also leave your name and number just in case someone turns the money in.
 If the places you went to with the money have a lost and found, check to see if your money is there. You may have to offer identifying information about your money, such as the amount, bill denomination, and when you lost it, so be prepared., A small amount of money probably would not be turned into the police, but a large amount might be. If you have lost a substantial amount of money, then you may want to report it to the police. Conduct a thorough search first, but if you still can’t find your money, file a report with the police.