 Particularly if you want to pass on critical or negative feedback, this should be done in private. When you schedule a private meeting, let your manager know what you want to talk about.For example, you might say "Can I schedule a time this week to meet with you privately? I just want to discuss some inefficiencies I've noticed in the handling of TPS Reports."
Letting your manager know what you want to talk about gives them a chance to prepare for the discussion and read up on the issue, if necessary. Scheduling a meeting also shows them that you respect their time.
 An outline will keep you on track during the discussion, and help ensure that you've said everything you feel you need to say. It can help you keep focus if you get nervous talking to your boss.Write down the facts of the situation you want to talk about, including a brief description. Depending on the type of feedback you're offering, you also may want to describe your associated tasks.
For example, if you want to convey to your manager that they are not communicating your responsibilities well, you might write "It was my understanding that my job was to deliver the reports to my direct report on Monday. Now I am told that I am supposed to submit them to another office as well, on the previous Friday."

, Your manager will be less receptive to your feedback if they perceive that you're just trying to poke at them or take them down a notch. Even if your criticism is personal, remain focused on how your suggestion would improve the workplace or the business.The balance can be tricky if your complaint concerns a personal habit or style of your manager. Here, focus on alternatives that would be easy to adopt and would make a significant difference.
 Most people respond better to negative feedback when they are also told what they're doing right. Otherwise, they may get defensive. Positive feedback also can help relax your manager and make them more receptive.Positive feedback is especially important if you normally have a tense relationship with your manager. It can have a significant impact if you've never complimented your manager before.
Make sure your positive feedback is honest – try to make it as specific as possible, since specifics carry more weight than generalities. For example, "I was impressed by your handling of the Graystone account – everyone else had written it off," is better than "You sure know how to keep clients."

, Rather than making general statements or accusations, frame your feedback in terms of your own personal observations. This allows room for discussion while also emphasizing the limitations of your viewpoint.Your manager is likely to close off and get defensive if you start talking about, for example, what you would do if you were in their shoes. Keep in mind that your manager may be dealing with other factors that you know nothing about.
Avoid mentioning other coworkers unless specifically asked if anyone else agrees with your feedback. You don't want it to seem like everyone was talking about your manager behind their back.
 Unless the matter you want to discuss with your manager is serious, such as a sexual harassment problem, avoid discussing your meeting or your feedback with any of your coworkers.Don't email your notes for the meeting to yourself, or to anyone else. You don't want them to exist on the company servers where someone might read them.
Once the meeting has concluded, shred any notes you have or give them to your manager and allow them to dispose of them as they see fit. This communicates that you're keeping the matter between the two of you and respecting your manager's privacy.

