 Often we have no idea how many calories we consume in a day, especially if we are prone to snacking or eating larger portions. Research has shown that keeping a food journal — a paper or electronic system in which you record every bit of food and liquid you intake — makes us more aware of and accountable for what we put in our mouths.Keeping a food journal helps you find areas for dietary improvement, such as late-night snacking or skipping breakfast.
A food diary makes you pay attention to portion sizes.
It may also encourage you to bring meals with you rather than eat out.
Research has shown that people who use food journals lose more weight and keep it off longer., Not surprisingly, it’s easy to not have a good grasp on what correct food portions are. Unfortunately, that leads to overeating. Definitely look at the package for the suggested serving size, but also use your best judgement. You can also find more general guidelines from governmental agencies, such as the USDA.Because restaurant portions are usually huge, one trick when you’re eating out is to ask for a to-go box when the server brings your food and box up half of the meal before you begin eating.
One serving of an apple is about the size of a tennis ball.
A serving of chicken or lean hamburger is approximately the same size as 2/3 of a playing card.
 Most nutritionists will tell you that planning your meals is vital to losing weight. Planning your meals has a few benefits: it takes the guesswork out of what you’ll eat during the week, saves you money since you won’t be eating out, encourages you to make consistently better food choices throughout the week, and makes you more aware of what you’re eating at every meal. We are busier than ever and often don’t have time worry about what to eat. Meal planning takes the guesswork out of it since you just refer to your list every day.If you like to write things down, consider putting a magnetic dry erase board on your refrigerator that has space to fill in what you plan for each meal.
There are many free meal-planning templates on the internet. Download and customize one to meet your individual needs.
Make a meal-planning notebook or digital folder in which you store your list and your recipes.
 Saturated fats can raise your cholesterol and increase your chances of heart disease. Sugar can lead to weight gain and diabetes, and lowering your intake of both can have immediate and long-term health effects.Look at labels and choose options lower in sugar and saturated fats. Eat low-glycemic, high-protein foods, which help you to control your blood sugar and decrease cravings that sabotage weight loss. Make healthy substitutions, also, so that you don't sacrifice flavor or texture. Some examples of good substitutions are:


Instead of mayonnaise, try hummus on sandwiches.
Use plain, unflavored yogurt instead of sour cream.
Trade your white bread for whole wheat or sprouted bread.
Instead of white sugar in your coffee or tea, consider using honey.

