 Evidence shows that attractive women often gravitate toward less attractive men with wealth and status.You should make your accomplishments obvious. Studies have shown, for example, that women find men considerably more attractive when they are driving a fancy car., The “halo effect” suggests that attractive people are considered better in all areas of their life.However, it also seems to work the other way. That is, if you exhibit positive personality traits, like kindness, people will be more likely to see you as attractive.Try volunteering for non-profits or pursuing a career that helps people. If you have trouble committing the time to those things, just aim to be nice in your daily life. Hold doors open for people, help people with bags, or show people how to get around when they are lost.
 Women are more likely to find men attractive when they open up to them and appear vulnerable. When you are open about your feelings women will feel closer to you, making you more attractive both emotionally and sexually., Men are often initially regarded as a threatening. To put women at ease you should take a cautious stance: speaking and moving slowly, using small gestures, and leaning away. Once she suggests that she is at ease by leaning in, making eye contact, and smiling, you can change your posture. Act more energetic, speak faster, make broad gestures, and lean forward., Women are attracted to leaders, particularly when men are in charge of a group that they are part of. Not everyone can be the CEO of a corporation. But if you have a leadership role in a club, campus organization, or political group, women will be more likely to see you as a leader., Humor is a sign of intelligence and social skill. Women look to men who are funny as both people of status and someone whose company they will enjoy. Cultivating a sense of humor is important to establish relationships.Pay attention to comedians you enjoy, think about what makes them funny, and consider whether you can imitate their style. Read and watch TV to stay informed so that you have things that you can make jokes about. Work on some funny stories that you can tell people you meet., Playing hard to get works; women find men more desirable if they think that they’re unobtainable. They also, however, enjoy knowing that someone likes them. The way you make the best of these two facts is to make it seem like you are generally difficult to get, but that you are super into whoever you are with., When a woman is excited around you, she will transfer those feelings to you, even if you are not actually responsible. Take her to a scary movie or a roller coaster; try something new with her like zip lining. Just being with her when these things happen will build positive associations and make you seem exciting., Because of evolution, many women still have a primitive desire for men who can live the hunter-gather lifestyle. Learn how to fish, hunt, chop wood, start fires, or swim in the wild. These sort of traits make you seem more brawny, and, in a way, like a capable provider.