 At the beginning of a round of craps, a button with the word OFF written on it is on the table not near any points. This means that no point (explained later) has been determined. A craps game can't begin until the shooter has placed a bet on the (don't) pass line. Anyone else at the table can also place a bet on the (don't) pass line at this time, though they don't have to. These are the most basic craps bets. The shooter's first roll of any turn is called the come out roll.


If the shooter rolls a 7 or 11 on the come-out roll, the pass line wins even money, the don'ts, you've lost your money. If the shooter comes out with a 2, 3, or 12----this is called craps----everyone loses their pass line bets and wins their don't pass bets (2 or 12 is a push for the don'ts, whichever the casino says.)
If the shooter rolls any other number, this number becomes the point.
 If the shooter establishes a point, by rolling a 4, 5, six, 8, nine, or 10, all bets on the (don't) pass line remain there. You don't have to make any additional bets to play the point. The dealer will take the button and place it on the number which is now the point. The button is now flipped to the ON side.


Let's assume the point is 8. The shooter now tries to roll his point (8) before he rolls a 7 (or the other way around). If he rolls any other number, it doesn't matter, but if he rolls 8, everybody passes. If he succeeds in hitting his point, he starts over with a new come-out roll and a new bet on the (don't) pass line, thus repeating the cycle. If he rolls a 7 at any time other than during a come-out roll, though, everybody fails and the dice are turned over to the next player (the first player has sevened out).
A player may hit, establish and hit several points before he finally rolls a 7, or he may roll a 7 on the first roll after he establishes his first point. You just never know what will happen.
 Learn the preceding steps, and you can play craps. The (don't) pass line bet has fairly good odds, and it's simple to play. Some people only play the pass line. There are, however, many other possible bets. One of the simplest is the odds bet, which also, incidentally, can have fair odds.


After the shooter has established a point, you can place an additional bet behind the pass line. This is the odds bet and can only be played if you are also playing the (don't) pass line. The odds bet is an additional bet on the point, so that if the shooter hits his point, you will win both your (don't) pass bet and the odds bet (2:1 point 4/10, 3:2 point 5/Nine, 6:5 point Six/8; 1:2 point 4/10, 2:3 point 5/Nine, 5:6 point Six/8).
The odds bet pays true odds, which differ depending on what the point is. For example, if the point is 4, there are only three combinations of the dice that will hit the point, while there are five ways to hit a point of 8. Thus the true odds for hitting 4 are worse than the true odds for hitting 8, and while the (don't) pass line pays even money no matter what, the odds bet pays you according to the true odds. Thus, if you want to bet more money, it's better to play the odds bet than to increase your pass bet. You should increase your don't bet rather than taking odds. House edge on odds (pass and don't pass) is zero.

Most casinos offer 3-4-5X odds tables, so that you can place an odds bet of up to thrice your pass bet if a 4 or a 10 is the point, 4 times if a 5 or a nine is the point, and 5 times if the point is a six or an 8, though some casinos allow even higher odds bets.


You can increase, decrease or remove your odds bet at any time.
The odds bet follows the same rules as your other bet.
 After a point has been established, you may also place a (don't) come bet in addition to your (don't) pass line bet. Note that you don't have to play both an odds bet and a (don't) come bet, but to play either you must play the (don't) pass line bet. A (don't) come bet is placed by putting your bet on the "(Don't) Come" space. When you place a (don't) come bet, the next roll the shooter throws will be your own come-out roll, with the same rules for a regular come-out roll. The come bet affects only you.


Assuming that the roll after you place you come bet is a 4, 5, six, 8, nine, or 10, the number rolled becomes your own "come point." The dealer will move your come bet to the appropriate number. Your pass line bet still depends on the shooter's point, so you now have two points.
A come bet works like a pass line bet. If the shooter throws your come point before he throws a 7, you win, but if he throws a 7, you lose both your pass line bet and your come bet. If the shooter throws both his point and your come point before rolling a 7, you win both.
You can place odds on a come bet. Tell the dealer "odds on come" when you lay your odds bet down.
Once your come bet is placed on your come point, you can place additional come bets to establish additional come points.
 Once you've got the basics down, you'll want to know about the...riskier bets. These are field bets -- bets that on one roll (the next roll) one of seven numbers will show up. They don't have to wait for the come-out; they may be placed before any roll by placing a chip or chips in the field area. Likewise, you may bet propositions or hard ways before any roll by putting a chip or chips on the layout and telling the dealer what bet you want.


After 7, six and 8 are the numbers that turn up the most. There are six ways to make 7 and 5 ways to make six and 8. If the player "places" six or 8 in multiples of $6, the house will pay winning wagers at odds of 7-6.The means the house percentage is at 1.52%, which is better than most other bets in the entire casino and still offers quick play -- but it's not as reliable as Line bets that have free odds.
4,6 ,8, and 10 are the hard-way numbers. That is, these numbers pop up if you roll the dice and the same number pops up on each. If you make a hard-ways bet, the number must come up (two 2s, two 3s, two 4s, two 5s) before a 7 and before it shows up in any other combination. The house edge is 11.1 percent on the 4 and 10 and 9.09 percent on the 6 and 8.

