 Contact the American Civil Liberties Union to discuss a potential violation of your rights and any legal action that may be appropriate.More commonly, the ACLU can work with your school to ensure the rights of students are not violated without resorting to legal action.


Write down everything that happened during any situation where you believe your rights may have been violated.
Include when incidents occurred, who was involved, and who was around.
Include specifics, such as everything that was said and by whom, as well as anything that you were asked or made to do.
 If your school does not allow cell phones, then a school employee can take your phone, maybe even until the end of the day. However, if you were simply texting or talking on your phone in a context that was not allowed by the school, they cannot look at any of the contents on your phone.If a teacher or administrator asks for your permission, you do not have to allow them to search your phone.
A cell phone search is only legal if there is reasonable suspicion of your personal involvement in breaking a specific rule at the school. Even then, a school employee can only look at what is necessary to confirm or the dispel the suspicion.
It is illegal for a school employee to use your phone to call or text other students while posing as you.
 If you are not allowed to bring laptops to school and do so, they are likely allowed to take it until the end of the day. Whether or not they are allowed to search a personal laptop that you are not allowed to have at school is more of a legal grey area that is undetermined in most places.If your school allows laptops, a teacher may only search it for reasonable suspicion of your wrongdoing.
Files unrelated to something they may have the right to look for cannot be copied, or even viewed.
For instance, if you have been accused of sending threatening emails, the school has the right to ensure that this is not occurring. However, they may not look at photos on your personal laptop while investigating the charge, as photos are not relevant to the accusation.
 A school employee can take a school-owned laptop from you for any reason whatsoever. They can also legally search the laptop’s contents.Similarly, you may be required to give a teacher your password to a school-sponsored email account.
If a teacher demands you give them the password to a personal email account or device unaffiliated with the school, you do not have to give it to them.
To ensure your privacy, store and send personal messages from personal devices while you’re not at school.
 If a police officer - sometimes referred to as a School Resource Officer – asks to search you or your possessions, know that laws regarding your rights are slightly different. Essentially, law enforcement officers need a warrant or your consent to conduct a search.Still, you should always be polite when speaking with an officer, if only to limit the time you have to interact with them.


Calmly ask an officer who wants to search you or your personal belongings – including a phone or computer – whether they have a warrant.
Ask if you are free to leave. You will likely be able to do so, unless the officer has evidence or reasonable suspicion that you have committed or intend to commit a crime.
Tell the officer you would like your parent or a lawyer to be present if they begin to ask you questions you do not want to answer.
If a search is conducted without your consent, clearly state that you do not consent by saying, “I do not consent to a search of my property.”
If you do not know what to do or say, know that you always have the right to remain silent.

