 Focus your attention on solving the problem you have eating in front of others. Approaching personal struggles with the attitude that they are problems to be solved will give you the step-by-step structure you need to change.Generating creative solutions is a key component to solving problems.


Make a list of the things you would like to change about your reactions when you are in a social eating situation. For example, you would like to be confident when ordering food, or you would like to have a good conversation and not worry about the food you might get on your face.
Identify a possible solutions for every problem on your list. Search online for a restaurant’s menu and review it before going. Once you are there, pick a food that will be easy to eat. If food gets on your face, you always have your napkin to keep things clean.
Once you have written the list and the solutions, sign your name to it symbolizing your commitment to the process. Get a witness to sign it as well, which will help you be accountable for your actions.
After each occasion determine if there is anything you can do differently the next time, and recognize the things that worked.
 When you are calm, everything seems manageable. Your task is to create your own sense of calm so you can enjoy your meal instead of worrying. Experiment with the various methods designed to help you relax.Prior to your meal close your eyes and visualize yourself enjoying your food and having a great conversation. Imagine the server laying down fabulous food for you to taste. Notice the other people around you focusing on their food, not on you.
Remember to take cleansing breaths during the meal between bites. This will help you to relax and regroup if you feel your nerves flare up.Tell yourself that with each breath you become more relaxed.
After a meal, take a few minutes to sit and appreciate what you ate, the company you had, and that you enjoyed the experience. The goal is to create positive experiences for you to build upon.
 Negative self-judgment is often linked with feelings of unworthiness, and can be made worse by constant comparisons to others.You might be feeling so bad about yourself that you don’t want to subject yourself to more judgement about your eating. Focus on building yourself up rather than tearing yourself down because you are worried about feeling stupid, clumsy or embarrassed.


Don’t let it stop you from trying, caring and engaging with friends and family on special food-related occasions.
Look in the mirror and say, “You are not stupid, clumsy and you will not embarrass yourself when eating in front of anyone.” Question your self-perception. You may be harshly judging yourself, with no supporting evidence that you would fail in a social situation involving food.
Look away from others if you find you are judging the way they eat. When you judge others it reinforces your beliefs that everyone is judging you, because you are judging them. Not everyone judges other people. You can be one of those people., A thought can ultimately change a feeling, which can change a belief. In order to feel better about eating in front of others, pick a better thought. You may notice the high frequency of your negative thoughts, which will show you there is room for improvement. Focus on generating positive thoughts to replace the negative ones.


A thought like, “I’m nervous about eating in public” may stem from your assumptive feeling, “People will judge me when I eat.” This may reflect your negative belief, “I’m clumsy and there’s nothing I can do about it.”
If you catch yourself thinking negative thoughts about yourself pause and challenge your negative self-evaluation. Write down these thoughts in a Thought Diary so you can keep track of them. To start the process ask yourself questions like, what am I saying about myself when I feel nervous, clumsy or awkward eating in front of someone? In what ways am I putting myself down? How am I harshly evaluating myself?
Once you write these things down, rate the strength of your beliefs on a scale of 0 to 100%. Next, challenge your beliefs by questioning the evidence you are using to support your beliefs. Your goal for using a Thought Diary is to have a balanced self-evaluation.Focus on learning to accept yourself.Identify your positive qualities and write them down. For example, ask yourself what are you good at? What struggles have you overcome? What positive qualities do others see in you? Are you responsible, artistic, considerate, or creative? When you see that you have many positive qualities let them sink in and never forget them. Don’t minimize them or cast them aside as being irrelevant. They will always matter.
Stop self-loathing behaviors and thoughts of inadequacy by taking action.Be the first person to congratulate yourself on any job well done. Try to see your positive traits in the way others see you.
 Tell yourself, “You enjoy your food and you are confident that it is going to taste good and nourish your body. You’ve got a napkin on your lap in case you need it. You’ve got nothing to hide.”

, Food is energy and every human needs energy to survive. If you remove the social implications of eating and see it as a necessary function for life, it will lessen the pressure you place on yourself. Every time you sit down to eat shift your thinking and see it as your time to refuel and nourish your body. You can’t do the things you want if you don’t have the energy to do them.


Focus on to fact that you are taking positive action for your health rather than worrying about what you look like when you eat.
Explore your food options to focus on healthy eating habits.When the menu comes, you will be ready to pick an item that you are proud to eat because it is healthy.

