 The best way to prevent canine infectious hepatitis is to get your dog vaccinated against the disease. This vaccination can be done at the same time as a distemper vaccination, starting when a dog is 9 to 12 weeks old.Older dogs with an unknown vaccination status should be given the vaccine followed by a second one in 3-4 weeks. After the initial vaccines are done, it is common practice for a puppy or dog to get a yearly follow up vaccine to provide continuous protection.Because of the prevalence of vaccination, this disease is very, very rare.;
, Very young puppies (less than six weeks of age) should be kept close to home and away from other dogs, as the disease is spread with contact to infected feces, urine, or saliva.The only exception to this is if you know for a fact that the other dogs are fully vaccinated against the common dog diseases, including canine infectious hepatitis.


Do not let unknown dogs sniff at areas where dog’s urinate or at other dog’s feces, since the virus is spread via these routes. Also don't let unknown dogs lick your puppy, as the infection can travel in saliva as well.Also do not let your puppy drink or eat from bowls, dishes or other spots other dogs use. This is because saliva can spread the virus as well.
 Since infectious canine hepatitis is particularly hard on puppies, make sure the mother is properly vaccinated prior to breeding. This will help assure that newborn puppies are not born with the infection.


Mother dogs transfer some of their immunity to the disease to their puppies.However, there is no guarantee that the puppy will be fully protected from the disease in this manner, so keep the puppy isolated until it can receive its own vaccinations.
In addition, the protection passed on from the mother immune system can interfere with the puppy's own vaccinations. This is one of the reasons that vaccination is usually not done until the puppy is 9 to 12 weeks old.
 Canine infectious hepatitis is spread by contact with feces, urine, saliva, or other bodily fluids. In order to eliminate the chance of it spreading, it's important to keep public areas where dogs go to the bathroom clean, whether it be your front yard or the local dog park.


This means that before you let your dog roam a new area, you should make sure it is free of feces. This will not completely eliminate the chance of it being spread via urine or saliva, but it will decrease the chances.
If your dog is vaccinated for the disease, then it is protected from getting canine infectious hepatitis, even if it comes into contact with infected bodily fluids.
If your dog is infected, you should make sure that it does not go to the bathroom in any public areas. The dog can release the infection through its feces or urine even after it has been treated., Canine infectious hepatitis can be transmitted from foxes, wolves, bears, and other wild carnivores. In order to keep the risk of transmission low, try to dissuade these animals from coming into your yard, as they may go to the bathroom and expose your dog to the disease.The disease is uncommon, due to high rates of vaccination, but contact with wild animals is one reason that dogs still need to be vaccinated.
 Canine infectious hepatitis is a viral disease caused by a virus called canine adenovirus 1 or CAV-1 1.This virus is spread from an infected dog to healthy dogs by saliva, urine, and feces. Once it gains entry into the nose and mouth of the healthy dog, the virus will cause a local infection in the tonsils, and then spread via the bloodstream to the eyes, kidneys, liver, the blood vessels and other internal organs.If the dog’s immune system does not destroy the virus, it will go to the liver where it will reproduce. In the process it will also start to destroy the liver tissue.
It also travels to the kidneys and will be passed out in the urine for six to nine months if the body does not destroy the virus. This will create the potential for the infected dog to pass the illness on further.
 These are important to spot especially if you have an unvaccinated dog. However, some dogs will have what is called an unapparent infection, or the disease with no obvious signs. Signs of infection include:Fever often greater than 104 °F
Lack of appetite
Lethargy
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Bruising or “blood spots” on the skin
Swollen lymph nodes
Sudden death
Blue eye or bluish discoloration of the eye

, The consulting veterinarian will examine the sick dog and also run blood work to check for signs of infection and damage to the liver and other organs. These are typically a complete blood count (CBC) and blood chemistry.


An ultrasound and/or X-ray may also be done to check for liver enlargement or other internal abnormalities.
It's important to get a puppy that you suspect has the infection to a veterinarian as quickly as possible. A puppy's immune system may not be strong enough to fight off the infections, and the puppy could die if not treated quickly.
 Treatment of canine infectious hepatitis is usually supportive as there is no specific medication that can destroy the virus.Treatment will help support the patient’s body until the body can destroy the virus.


These treatments include IV fluids and good nutrition.Medications to treat fever, shock and/or to support the liver and kidneys may also be used on a case-by-case basis.

