 Social support is important during difficult times. Friends, family, and coworkers can all offer emotional support and help with stressful life events. Social support also offers you a place to feel accepted and secure.Look for these components in your relationships:


Trust. Trust is essential to building a strong, healthy relationship. It allows for vulnerability through intimate disclosure of our truest selves.Respect. Respect in relationships means that you accept the other person’s opinions, needs, and boundaries. Respect also includes avoiding hurtful comments, name calling, and belittling.Listening. Listening is one way to clearly communicate respect and caring to the other person. Practice active listening by allowing plenty of time for the other person to speak. Take note of what they are saying as well as how they are saying it. Look for others to do the same.Freedom. Freedom in a relationship means that you allow the other person time for his or herself. You also allow them to foster other relationships in life. It means that you allow each other to express your needs without consequences., Unfortunately, some relationships can be unhealthy or even abusive. Abuse in relationships is often about controlling the other person either physically or emotionally.Here are some behaviors that might suggest the other person is abusive:Purposefully embarrassing you
Being overly critical
Ignoring or excluding you
Being moody and unpredictable often
Controlling where you go and limiting who you can see
Using phrases like “If you don’t _____, I will_____.”
Using money to control you
Checking your cell phone or email without your permission
Being possessive
Exhibiting temper or extreme jealousy
Pressuring, using guilt, or forcing you to have sex

, Once you understand what makes for a healthy or unhealthy relationship, take some time to consider your social circle and the people in it. Think about which relationships are most supportive, and which might be abusive.


If there are abusive relationships in your life, consider confronting the abusive individuals about their behavior. You may also need to consider removing those people from for support network, especially if they are not receptive to your concerns.These people are damaging to your mental health.
By the same token, you may want to spend more time with those individuals who are most supportive.
 Maintaining positive relationships is not just about the behaviors of others. It is about your own behaviors as well. Here are some tips for maintaining healthy relationships:Learn what each of you want as individuals as well as what each wants from the relationship.
Express your needs and be receptive to the needs of others.
Recognize that you will not find complete happiness through one relationship.
Be open compromise and learn to negotiate outcomes you can both accept.
Accept and love the differences between yourself and others.
Practice empathy by trying to understand others' perceptions and points of view. When serious issues come up, try to negotiate with honesty and compassion.

