 It should go without saying that would-be musicians need to learn an instrument before their dreams of punk pop fame are tickled. Punk pop is limited to electric guitar, bass guitar, drums and vocals. If you play bass or guitar, you should consider trying to get your voice in basic shape. That way, you can front a band or sing harmonies while you play. Get a teacher if you feel you need some help getting started.


If you're playing guitar, you should keep in mind that punk pop is an almost exclusively rhythm-based genre. There is still a lot of room within that context to express yourself beautifully, however.Punk is infamous for having most of its songs consist of three or four chord song progressions. With this in mind, the technical aspects are quite easy to pick up.
 A band can be easy or difficult to form depending on the company you keep. If you are friends with enough people who are passionate about punk pop, it shouldn't be hard to find people who would be interested in playing some shows with you. Failing personal friends, post an ad on Craigslist and see if you get any bites. In the meantime while you're making contacts, you can get a head start on writing your songs.


Punk pop names are usually tongue-in-cheek or silly, like Blink-182.
 Punk pop lyrics tend to revolve around either politics or real life. In the end, you can write lyrics about anything you like, but lyrics about your experience as a teenager will probably go over the best with your future audience. Think about life experiences you've had that really moved you one way or another.


For example, a childhood friend moving to another city could inspire a song about how much you miss that friend.
Song titles should give the listener an idea what the song is about before moving into them. It can also be taken from words in the chorus.
 If you have a guitar, throw some chords together to make the backbone of your song. If you don't have much experience with songwriting, try building your new song around the structure of a classic punk pop song, keeping the same rhythm and structure but changing the chords around to suit you.
 Punk pop is simple, and the lyrics should be too. Once you have ideas for your songs, try streamlining them into pithy lines a few words long. Fill up part of a page with potential lines and pick the line that stands out the most to you. That standout should be your chorus.


Base your typical rhyme scheme on the common ABAB CDCD formula. Most pop songs fall into this format.
 Once you have the chords and a rough set of lyrics, it's time to write some catchy melodies to fit the mood of your song. If this is your first time writing a song, don't worry about perfection at all. Just hum out a melody and fit the words to it as best you can.


Vocal harmonies are a great way to improve the quality of your music. Don't sweat it if you can't pull off harmonies, however. A badly done harmony isn't worth the trouble.
 If you want people to have fun listening to your music, you need to practice what you preach. If you decide later on that you want to play a show, you should come there with a great attitude, wanting to show everyone there a great time. Punk pop is ultimately about spreading good feelings around.

