 If she were a happy person, she would not spend so much time putting down other people around her. Also, she most likely does this to other people and not just you. If you let her put-downs get to you, then she wins. Don’t allow what she is saying to lower your self-esteem or make you feel bad about yourself.Remind yourself of all your great qualities by making a list of your positive characteristics.
Write down what she said about you. For each put-down, write three things that prove the put-down isn’t true.
Make a list of all the nice things other people say about you.
 It can be stressful to have someone put you down, especially if it is on a regular basis. Learn and use some stress reduction techniques to help you deal with the person that is putting you down and the stress it is causing you.


Practice deep breathing and meditation to help you remain calm when the person is around you.
Practice mindfulness because it can help you with stress and may even help you tune the person out when he is bothering you.
Try doing something physical like jogging or going for a swim to release tension.
 You should tell someone and ask for help if the person is putting you down on all the time or is really mean. Tell someone if the person doing it is an authority figure like a teacher, parent, or supervisor. Using your support systems helps in many ways. They can stand up for you when it’s happening or even report what is going on.Tell someone you trust about what is happening. Give her as many details as possible so that she can understand the situation. Ask her for help dealing with the person that is putting you down.
This might be as simple as asking a friend to be there with you when you tell the person to stop.
It may mean reporting the person to the proper authorities.
 Spending time with people with a good attitude is a great way to handle the stress of someone putting you down. It also helps you take care of yourself in general. Hanging with positive people can reduce your stress. It can take your mind off of the person who put you down and how it made you feel.Try to socialize and talk with people that uplift you on a regular basis.
Don’t just talk about the person putting you down — do something fun!

