 When you first notice any musculoskeletal pain, you should take it easy and rest your sore muscles. This means abstaining from exercise, strenuous activity, or any other activity that will overwork your muscles.


Make sure you take a few days off from this kind of activity, only starting it again once the pain in your muscles have stopped.
This doesn't mean you can't walk or do light work, since moving the sore muscles a little bit may actually help your muscles.;
, When your muscle pain first starts, you can add ice to it to help reduce the pain. Ice packs help reduce inflammation and any possible swelling to the muscles. This method is generally recommended for acute injuries.


Make an icepack by putting ice in a bag or towel and holding it against the aching muscle. Make sure you don't put the ice directly against your skin because it can cause damage to your skin. Also ensure you only keep it on for about 15 to 20 minutes.
You can also use a bag of frozen vegetables or fruit if you don't have any ice.Ice may make muscle spasms or cramps worse, so if you experience them, make sure you stop using ice then.
 If your muscles have been hurting for a few days, you might want to try heat to alleviate the pain. This method is helpful for chronic pain and should only be used on musculoskeletal pain about 24 to 48 hours after the pain starts.


You can apply heat by soaking a rag in almost boiling water, using a heating pad, or buying self-heating patches.
Make sure you don't keep the heat on your muscles for too long. It can cause burning or irritation to your skin.
If your muscles or joints are swollen, the heat may make the inflammation worse. Keep in mind that heat can make inflammation feel worse and cold can make muscle spasms or cramps worse.
You can also alternate between cold and heat packs. However, if the heat makes it worse, stick to ice packs., Acupuncture is a non-invasive traditional Chinese medical treatment, where very fine needles are inserted in the specific areas that are painful. In medical studies, acupuncture has shown to relieve pain in about half of those it is administered to.


Your acupuncturist will administer these needles to the muscle areas where you are experiencing pain.
Make sure you find a licensed acupuncturist to administer this method of treatment. It cannot be done at home or on your own., If you are experiencing muscles pain, you can also try acupressure. It is an Asian Bodywork Therapy that uses finger placements and pressure along certain areas of the body to relieve pain.Depending on where your musculoskeletal pain resides, the pressure points will vary. Look into a guide to acupressure points to ensure that you apply the acupressure to the correct points.

