 Turn the oven up to 400 degrees and wait for it to preheat completely. Use the time that you’re waiting to make the muffin batter., Pour the flour, cocoa powder, chocolate chips, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt into a large bowl. Stir all the ingredients together with a large spoon until they are all mixed together., Break the egg into a small bowl, the use a fork to mix the egg. Make sure that the yolk and the egg white are completely blended., Pour the beaten egg into a large bowl, then pour in the milk and oil. Whisk the ingredients together until they are all mixed., Pour the dry ingredients that you just mixed little by little into the wet ingredients, stirring continuously. Stir until all the ingredients are just combined. Make sure not to over-stir, as this can change the consistency of the muffins., Use a stick of butter or vegetable oil spray to spray the inside of each compartment of a 12-muffin pan. If you prefer to use paper or aluminum muffin wrappers, place one wrapper into each insert of the pan.Greasing the pan ensures that the muffins won’t stick to the pan after they’ve baked.
Using muffin wrappers lets you skip the process of greasing the pan and ensures that the muffins will come out of the pan easily after they’ve baked.
 Carefully pour or spoon the muffin batter into each insert of the muffin tin until about two-thirds full. Try to distribute the batter equally so that each muffin is about the same size.Smooth the tops of the batter with a spoon if they’re uneven on top.
You can also hold the muffin tin in each hand and shake it gently side to side to make sure that the batter lays flat in each insert.
 If you wish, sprinkle some chocolate chips and sparkling sugar on top of each compartment of batter. This will give the top of each muffin more texture and sweetness. You can skip this step if you want a more consistent texture for your muffins., Put the muffin tin in the oven and bake for 18-22 minutes. After 18 minutes, poke one muffin with a toothpick. If it comes out clean, take out the muffins. If not, keep checking every minute until the toothpick comes out completely clean., Even if you want to enjoy the muffins warm, wait for a few minutes before taking them out of the muffin pan. Waiting for a bit helps the muffins to solidify and come out of the pan more easily., Use a knife to go around each muffin and the pan, then place the muffins on a cooling rack. If you used muffin wrappers, just lift each muffin out of the pan by the wrapper and place them on the cooling rack.
 If you want to eat your muffins while they’re warm, take the muffins off the cooling rack and enjoy. If you prefer room temperature muffins that are slightly firmer, wait until they have completely cooled and enjoy., To prevent the muffins from getting stale, store them in Tupperware or another airtight container.