 If your parents complain that the dog doesn’t get enough attention, tell them you will devote more time to care for your dog. If they believe you will do it, this will assuage their concerns.Your parents want to see that you’re serious, so instead of saying, “I’ll spend more time with my dog,” lay out specifics. Tell them, “I promise to walk my dog every morning and spend at least twenty minutes playing with him when I get home from school.”
If you know you’re going to be away for a day or two, tell your parents you’ll arrange for someone to either care for your dog while you’re away or at least come by the house and walk the dog every day.
 If your dog is aggressive with other animals, doesn’t respond to commands, or barks whenever someone knocks on the door, your dog probably needs to learn obedience. The best way to teach a dog obedience is for the dog to attend obedience school. Obedience school will teach your dog that it will only get attention when it displays good behaviors.Call obedience schools in your area and find out how much they charge and what their schedules are.
Tell your parents you’ll pay for the schooling out of your allowance and you’ll use your own time to take your dog to school.
If you can’t afford to pay for obedience school, try bargaining with your parents by promising to find the school and keep up with your dog’s training at home.
 If your dog causes a lot of mess around the house, either by pooping inside or tearing things apart, you need to take responsibility for your dog’s behavior. If you promise that you’ll clean up after your dog, your parents won’t have to worry about being stuck taking care of your dog’s messes.Promise to clean up after your dog every time your dog makes a mess.
Also promise to repair or replace anything your dog damages.
It’s important that your parents know you’ll do these things without them having to pester you. So make it clear that you take the responsibility seriously.
For example, tell your parents, “I know I haven’t been very good about cleaning up after my dog. But it’s my responsibility and I promise to do a better job from now on. You won’t even have to remind me!”

