 Ground beef is one of the most versatile cuts of beef. It can be used in a wide variety of styles and dishes. Knowing which dish you will be frying beef for will help determine the exact seasoning you will need. Place the beef and seasoning into the bowl and mix with your hands until the seasoning is fully incorporated. Place a skillet with oil over medium-high heat. Once the oil has heated place your ground beef in the skillet and stir it with a utensil, like a wooden spoon, spatula, or fork until brown. Break up any clumps of meat to ensure that all of the ground beef is cooked to the same temperature, will most likely be well-done.


Use seasonings like thyme, fresh garlic, rosemary, salt, and pepper for more European style dishes, like lasagna, shepherd's pie, bolognese.
Try adding spices like paprika, cayenne, chili powder, or fresh cilantro for latin style dishes, like tacos, Picadilo, or chillis.
 Preheat your oven to 350F and let it cycle for about 45 minutes. Season your steaks with your desired spices and begin to heat oil in a pan over medium-high heat. Once the oil is hot place one side of the steak down in the pan and sear for 2-3 minutes. Searing locks in the flavor of the steak as well as creates a “caramelized” or heavily flavored crust. If your steak is large or thick you may need to finish it in the oven. Some thinner steaks, like flank steak or skirt steak, can be cooked quickly just by searing.


Steak that come thicker or with edges that need to seared are T-bones, Porterhouses, New York strips, and Ribeyes.Let the steak rest on a cooling rack, cutting board, or plate for about 10 to fifteen minutes to let the steak finish cooking and reabsorb its juices.
 Burgers can be made on a stovetop as easily as they can be grilled. Choose a ground beef with your desired fat content, season well with spices and herbs, and form your patties. Heat a skillet with oil over medium-high heat and place the patties in once the oil is hot. Your cooking time will vary depending on what your desired temperature is and how thick the patties are.


A general rule is that patties that are 1 inch thick will take around 4-6 minutes a side to cook.
Make a stir fry. Stir frys can be an excellent source of protein and vegetables, and they are relatively simple and easy to cook. Many butchers already have beef cut to stir fry size, which can be anywhere from small cubes to thin slices. You’ll need to heat a walled skillet or wok with oil over a medium-high heat, then add your beef to brown quickly, followed by your vegetables and an accompanying sauce.
Add sauces like soy sauce and oyster sauce to give your stir fry even more flavor.
Beef in stir fries cook very quickly. Don’t worry about over cooking the beef as they will likely be well done regardless.

