 Bullying goes beyond simply being excluded from the group or normal teasing, and it is a serious problem. Bullying includes teasing that is hurtful, unkind, and constant.Bullying is intentional tormenting and can involve physical, verbal, or psychological torment. It can range from hitting, shoving, name-calling, threats, and mocking to taking the victim's money or possessions, like taking a child's lunch money or sneakers.Some kids bully by ostracizing others and spreading rumors about them.Bullying can include using social media or electronic messaging to taunt others or hurt their feelings.Cyber-bullying is increasingly common.
 Bullying occurs for many reasons. Sometimes bullies pick on other people because they need a victim to feel more important, popular, or in control.Sometimes kids bully others because that is how they've been treated by other kids or by their families. They may think their behavior is normal because they come from families where everyone calls each other names or uses violence.Sometimes bullies learn the behavior from popular culture, which makes them think that bullying is normal or "cool." Certain reality TV and internet sites show promote mean behavior., Bullying is not something you should tough out on your own. If you are being bullied, tell someone. Most schools and communities have anti-bullying policies. Notifying an adult will spur the adult to follow the procedures in place to stop the bullying. A parent, teacher, coach, principal, lunchroom attendant, or other adult can help you handle the bullying.You are not alone.
 Although it can be difficult, it can help to find a supportive person in your life who will be a good listener, like your parents, a favorite teacher, or other loved ones. When young people are hurting because of their relationships with their peers, they should confide in supportive adults.Talk about how you feel when you are bullied.Feeling like you are heard and understood can help make you feel better.Talking to an adult will also let you know that you are not alone and will help you manage your emotional distress., Identify at least five adults you can go to for help when you are being bullied. Find a place where you go to be safe from bullies, such as church, a community center, your home, etc., Staying away from the bully and avoiding being alone can help in the short-term. Don't go where you know the bully will be, and try not be alone when the bully is present. Buddy up with a friend on the bus, in the hallways, at recess, or wherever the bully is. There is safety in numbers., Bullies are encouraged to continue bullying when they provoke a reaction from the person they are bullying. Remain calm when you are bullied. Do not to respond to bullying by fighting or bullying back. It can quickly escalate into violence, trouble, and someone getting injured.If you cry or become angry, it will make the bully feel more powerful.Practice not reacting. It will take a lot of practice, but it useful to learn how to stay calm in an upsetting situation. Not reacting may eventually get the bully to leave you alone.Cool down by counting to 10 or taking deep breaths. Sometimes the best thing to do is to wear a "poker face" until you are clear of danger.Smiling or laughing at the bully may only provoke the bully more, so try to maintain a neutral, calm expression., Tell the bully that his/her behavior is inappropriate. Say something like, “I don’t like what you are doing and you need to stop,” or, “That is bullying and it is not right.”, Firmly and clearly tell the bully to stop, then walk away. Practice ways to ignore hurtful comments, like acting like you are texting someone on your cell phone. By ignoring the bully, you're signalling that you don't care what he/she says. Eventually, the bully will probably get bored and will leave you alone., If a bully physically attacks or hurts you, notify an adult and the authorities. Physical bullying is called assault and is illegal. Telling someone will ensure that the bully is punished and cannot hurt anyone else.
 Being bullied can hurt your self-esteem. Know that there is nothing wrong with you; the problem is with the bully.


Spend time with friends who make you feel good about yourself.Participate in clubs, sports, or other activities that you enjoy to build self-confidence, distract you from your negative feelings, and help you to build positive friendships.Focus on the positive things in your life, and talk to someone about them.