 When you warm up before your workout, your muscles will be more prepared for the real workout. This means that the blood will be flowing to your muscles and you reduce the chances that you will overexert your muscles and make them sore.


Try to warm up for at least 5 minutes before your real workout begins. Follow this with 5 minutes of light stretching (see Method 3). Good warm ups include light cardio like jogging on a treadmill or riding a stationary bike. Try to get your heart pumping.
 If you feel a sudden cramp or pain during a workout, stop immediately. Do not try to run through the cramp because the pain may mean that you have torn or strained a muscle. Instead, rest for several minutes and drink some water. If you continue to feel pain, stop the workout entirely.
 If you are just starting up a new workout regimen, it is important to start off with easier exercises to reduce the risk of hurting your muscles. As your workouts progress, try to increase their difficulty by 10% every week.For example:


If you are training for a running race, begin your training by running 10 miles (16 km) a week. Increasing your workout by 10% each week means that you should add one mile each week. That means that you should run 10 miles (16 km) your first week, 11 miles (18 km) the second, 12 miles (19 km) the third week, etc.
 Try to be careful when making sudden movements like jumping or lifting heavy weights, as these quick movements could lead to straining or tearing your muscles. Instead, try to keep your movements controlled and slow to avoid injury.
 Keeping your body healthy is an important part of making sure that you do not overstress your muscles. Try to eat a balanced diet to keep your body strong and healthy. A balanced diet means meeting all of your basic dietary needs each day. Try to eat portions of:


Fruits and vegetables.
Lean protein.
Complex carbs like whole wheat bread.
Unsaturated fats.
Low-fat dairy products.
 Both turmeric and ginger have anti-inflammatory properties that can help can help keep your muscles from getting swollen. You can add these ingredients to your meals, take supplements, or drink ginger and turmeric teas.

