 To make a simple bubble solution, all you need is liquid dish soap, water, and glycerin. Dawn and Joy brands work best, but feel free to experiment with other detergents.You can buy glycerin at craft stores or from a pharmacy.You can use light corn syrup instead of glycerin. ;
, Mix 2/3 cup dish soap, 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water, and 2-3 tablespoons of glycerin for a basic bubble solution. Stir the ingredients together gently, taking care not to create too much foam.It is best to keep your solution in a clean jar with a lid.If you are replacing the glycerin with corn syrup, you will need to adjust your ratios. Use 1/4 cup of light corn syrup for each tablespoon of glycerin.For best results, let the solution sit overnight., There are several different recipes for making bubble soap. The ratio of the ingredients will determine the strength of your bubbles.Soap helps the water to form a bubble by stabilizing the water molecules. Increasing the amount of soap in your solution may yield a stronger bubble. However, too much soap could cause the bubbles to collapse. Glycerin and corn syrup help create a "skin" for the bubbles, helping them last longer., Pinch the middle of the pipe cleaner and start bending one end of it into a circle. Wrap the end of the bent part of the pipe cleaner around the straight part to secure the circle.You can also bend your pipe cleaners into various shapes. While your bubbles will always turn into a sphere, the shapes are a good way to personalize your wand.You can use the same method to make a wand from a plastic coated wire hanger. You may have to use wire cutters to cut the hanger to a manageable size., You can make a bubble wand from anything with enough space in it to hold your bubble solution. Try reusing old containers for various sized bubbles.Use the empty rings from a 6-pack of soda to make six bubbles at once. Just dip the rings in your bubble container and pull them through the air.Look for old containers with plastic lids. Cut the centers out of the lids and tack them onto a handle for a makeshift wand.Cookie cutters can also double as bubble wands., You can make bubble wands in the shape of cubes, pyramids, or whatever 3D shape you can imagine. Use clay and toothpicks to make your shapes.Use toothpicks to form the straight edges of your shape, and clay to form the angles. Dip your 3D shape into the bubble solution and pull it through the air to see some interesting bubble shapes., For larger bubbles you will need a different formula and a few other ingredients. Large bubble solutions generally call for corn starch and baking powder in addition to the soap and water.Some solutions call for personal lubricants, such as KY Jelly, to give the bubbles more elasticity. You can use glycerin in place of the lubricant, but your bubbles may not be as large., Mix together 12 cups of water, 1 cup of liquid dish soap, such as Joy or Dawn, 1 cup of cornstarch, and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of baking powder. Stir the mixture gently. Don't shake it, as this will cause foaming and ruin the mix.Let the mixture sit for one hour, uncovered. You may need to stir it every now and then to make sure the cornstarch is completely dissolved.Mix 2.5 to 3 oz of personal lubricant in 1 cup of warm water. Dissolve the lubricant completely and add it to your bubble mix.You may find a layer of cornstarch at the bottom of your mixture, even after you have made some bubbles. This settling is natural, and shouldn't affect your bubbles., You can make your own wand for creating large bubbles, or you can use a hula hoop. To make your own, get two drinking straws, and about 3 feet of yarn.Thread the yarn through both drinking straws and tie the two ends together. Pull the straws apart until you have a "hoop" with the straws acting as handles.You can also use a wire hanger to make a giant bubble wand. Simply unfold the wire hanger and bend it into a loop., Pour your bubble solution into a container that is easy to reach into, such as a small bucket or plastic bin. Dip your wand into the bubble solution and hold it there for a few seconds. Lift the wand out and start walking backwards slowly to make large bubbles.Keep your arms high, and make sure you can see a film of bubble solution in your wand. Let the air move through your wand to create the bubbles.