 There are a number of learning materials and interactive classes available online at low or no cost to those interested in learning more about Hinduism. Many of these courses can be completed at your own pace, so there’s no pressure to complete assignments on a specific timeline. It’s a great way for you to easily fit study into a busy schedule.


Access free online courses from the American Institute of Vedic Studies at https://vedanet.com/.
Hindu Online also offers free courses in a variety of modern and ancient Hinduism topics and can be found at http://hinduonline.co/learnOnline.html.;
, Most temples, mandirs, have a variety of programs that are open to the public. Since many Vedic Hinduism rituals have modern day equivalents, simply attending services during rituals and holidays can help you understand how the history of Hinduism has formed the current traditions. If there’s a specific ritual, rite, or celebration you’ve found particularly interesting in your studies thus far, attending the modern celebration at a temple can be very enlightening.


Start with an online search for Hindu Temples or Mandirs.
Once you find a nearby Temple, explore their website looking for ways you can get involved.
Call the Temple or their education office, if they have one. Explain that you are a student of ancient Hinduism and would like to find out more about the philosophies. In most cases, they will be happy to offer assistance., Mentors or gurus have been an integral part of Hinduism since the very beginning. Gurus are considered to be incarnations of god in human form. They are teachers who live their lives as an example for their students. You may not be able to find a guru, but learning from someone who has knowledge and understanding of both the lower and higher knowledge of Hinduism can be extremely beneficial, especially if you’re interested in conversion to Hinduism.


This can be a professor, member of the Hindu temple, or anyone else who has more knowledge about ancient Hinduism than you do., Contact your local community colleges or universities to find out if they offer courses on Hindu studies or Hinduism. To learn more about ancient Hinduism, you may need to take a class in the history, archaeology, philosophy and religious studies department.
 Three paired concepts make up the essence of ancient Hinduism: Atman and Brahman, reincarnation and karma, and moksha and samsara. Once you have an understanding of these underlying concepts, you can begin to dive deeper into ancient Hinduism.


Atman is the individual soul and Brahman is the universal soul that all souls seek to return to.
Reincarnation and karma are concepts that describe how an individual soul is able to reunite with Brahman. By doing good deeds, the soul builds good karma, and it is reincarnated into progressively higher beings until it achieves union with Brahman.
Moksha and samsara are the main goals of ancient Hinduism. Samsara is the best way to live and progress through the reincarnation cycle, and moksha is the ultimate freedom from this cycle.To find out more about these and other main premises of ancient Hinduism, read more online or visit your library.
 These are the oldest Hindu religious texts, and they include a variety of information about the ancient practice of Hinduism. The Vedas provide samples of hymns of devotion, rituals, and sacrificial practices, as well as essential information about daily life for the ancient Hindu people.There are four Vedas, and they are available in multiple translations on the internet. One good translation is available here https://www.scribd.com/doc/17001079/Four-Vedas-English-Translation.
You can also find commentaries on the Vedas online. A good place to start is with the Srimad-Bhagavatam. This is an analysis of the Vedas that is available free online at http://e-vedas.com/books/sb_set.htm.
 The ancient practice of Hinduism has been passed down through the generations, changed, and molded into new forms. Hinduism is one of the only religions with no known individual source, and its rich history has shaped its current forms. The best way to understand the faith lives of the ancient Hindus is to explore the history.


The earliest evidence of Hinduism dates back to 5500 BCE.
The Vedas were passed down orally and then in writing, and they offer the earliest insight into the faith. There is no known beginning date for Hinduism, as there were other versions of Hinduism practiced at this time that have been lost.
The basis for ancient Hinduism was the idea that gurus, people whose souls had achieved a higher level, were able to see the best way to live and show it to their students. Thus, many people followed these gurus in an attempt to remove themselves form the endless cycle of reincarnation., Hinduism is traditionally considered to be a pantheistic religion, with its main deity being the Brahman or global soul. However, the three main deities of the Brahman, which make up a Trimurti, are Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. Their consorts are Sarasvati, Lakshmi, and Parvati., This is a document that all converts to Hinduism are required to complete as part of their conversion, but it’s also a helpful way to understand Hinduism as it compares to other religions or life philosophies you may be more familiar with. It is essentially a way to systematically compare the main points of Hinduism and teachings of the Vedas to a familiar philosophy.


One example would be thinking of how reincarnation and karma compares to the idea of Judeo-Christian heaven and hell.
This can and should take months or years. It’s one of the methods of internalizing the teachings of Hinduism., This has been part of studying and practicing Hinduism for thousands of years. Whether or not you find it personally helpful, this is a great way to better understand how its practitioners learned ancient Hinduism. There are a variety of ways to meditate, but the purpose is to better understand yourself. Because Hinduism teaches that all people are representations of the Brahman, the only way to fully know and understand Hinduism is to fully know yourself.


Start by finding a quiet place.
Sit comfortably. You don’t necessarily need to assume any specific pose.
Breathe deeply and slowly in and out.
Quiet your mind by repeating one of the mantras from the Vedas or any other repeated phrase you find meaningful. This can be done out loud or internally.
Continue this process for any length of time you feel comfortable. You may not achieve any great revelations, but you’ll at least understand how the ancient Hindu people understood their religion., Hinduism teaches that gaining control of your body is essential to harnessing the full potential of the mind, so you’re able to fully engage with complex ideas and elevate your soul in your next incarnation. The Vedas explained that, rather than external sacrifices, it was necessary to sacrifice the ego to achieve higher knowledge, and yoga was one way the Vedas named to accomplish this.


Today yoga is very popular, and you can easily find poses online or join a class at your gym.
Practicing yoga is another way to internalize how the ancient Hindus practiced their faith., Now that you’ve gotten the big concepts and started practicing meditation and yoga, it’s time to learn from others. While few people are still practicing ancient Hinduism, becoming part of a Hindu community exposes you to the knowledge and history of the faith and introduces you to numerous resources for further learning.


You can do this online. There are a number of online groups where you can talk about Hinduism with others who have more experience and better understanding.
Visit your local temple. Talk to the people there, and learn more about those in your area who are currently practicing Hinduism.
If you decide you’d like to continue studying and being involved with the Hindu community, talk to the leaders at the mandir about the conversion process. It includes reviewing your past religion to determine why you believe in Hinduism, and addressing your past faith leaders to sever ties with churches you’re a member of peacefully and respectfully.