 The best paper to use for this is scrapbooking paper or cardstock. Construction paper or origami paper will work too, but your garland won't be as durable.


Try getting two to three different colors or shades. For example, you could have a light blue, a medium blue, and a dark blue.Try getting some patterned paper. For example, half of your shapes can be bright blue, and the other half of your shapes can be white with bright green polka-dots or stripes.
 Scrapbooking punches work just like regular hole punches, except that they come in many different shapes and sizes. They come in circles, hearts, squares, stars, and even snowflakes. You can buy scrapbooking punches in the scrapbook section of an arts and crafts store. You can also find them online.


You can get just one scrapbooking punch and make all of your shapes the same size.
You can also get two differently sized punches. For example, you can get a 1.5 inch (3.81 centimeters) circle punch and a 3.5 inch (8.89 centimeters) circle punch. This will give your garland some variety.If you can't find a scrapbooking punch, you can cut circles out using a circle cutter., If your paper is thin enough, you might be able to punch two to three sheets at a time. Cardstock, however, should be punched one sheet at a time. If you try to punch too much paper at one time, you may dull your puncher and get fuzzy edges on your shapes.
 If you used different sizes and prints, try alternating them. You can alternate them randomly or in a specific pattern.
 Make sure that it goes from one side of the shape to the other.
 Make sure that you leave a 12 inch (30.48 centimeters) long tail on the end of your string; this way, you will be able to hang your garland.


Consider pressing a matching shape on top of the first one, sandwiching the twine in between. This way, you won't see the glue/twine from the other side., They can be as far apart or as close together as you want. Make sure that you have about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) of blank space at the end of your garland, or you won't be able to hang it up later.
 Depending on how much glue you used, this can take anywhere from a couple of hours to a day.

