 Your life experience (memories, opinions, emotions) is your richest resource and your perspective is what will ultimately make your song unique. Keeping a list of things that happen to you or emotions that go through you will give you a wealth of material to draw on.For example, keep note of stories that you either hear or personally experience.Stories are always a great source of material for songs not only because they are unique but because they tend to have a range of different emotions, which will likely make your song more interesting.;
, Think about an emotionally charged event in your life, such as a death, wedding, birth, falling in love, etc. Do your best to describe what you felt at that time and try to be as detailed as possible.


For example, if writing about a breakup, write out a list of words that come to mind that describe the scene (not only how you felt, but the surroundings, what colors stood out to you, any adjectives that come to mind, etc). Don’t worry at this stage about rhyming or setting the lyrics to a specific melody. For now, just having this raw material down is a great start.
 Many of us go through our days and only write down notes, lists, emails and the like but keeping a journal will allow you to reflect on what you are going through and provide you with material from which you can mine different images and phrases for your songs.
 Many of us have strange, abstract dreams that we quickly forget about after waking up. Instead of letting go of those interesting images and unusual situations, keep a dream journal! Not only will writing down your dreams help you remember them for longer, but you’ll have a new repository of strange and unique stories and images to use for your songs.


Keep a pen and journal right by your bed and write down your dreams as soon as you wake up. We tend to forget our dreams as we wake up, so writing them down as soon as possible will allow you to get the most out of this practice.
 Go for walks in public places and look at other people or your surroundings for inspiration. Lots of songwriters write about nature, other people, or interesting experiences. Get out there and let the world inspire you.


Try eavesdropping. Sometimes, listening in on someone else’s conversation can open you up to a totally new perspective and you may even find something intriguing or surprisingly lyrical in someone else’s words. Just be sure to write them down so you don’t forget them later while writing your song!
If there’s a place you feel particularly emotionally connected to, such as a specific park, try going there with a pen and paper and just sit down and write whatever comes to mind.
 Many musicians lead very interesting lives that also serve as inspiration for their lyrics.Get out of your comfort zone and try something new. Whatever the outcome, it’ll certainly give you something to write about.


Trying new things also tends to give people an adrenaline rush and this can be an exhilarating, inspiring experience. Though extreme activities, such as skydiving or scuba diving, can be great options, you don’t have to do anything too crazy to get the same rush. Traveling somewhere you’ve never been, going to an unusual event, or even trying out a new recipe or DIY project can all be potential sources of inspiration., Look at old photo albums, reread old letters, visit family and childhood friends and talk about the past. Nostalgia is a very powerful mix of emotions and from these activities can emerge many stories and emotions to draw on.