 If you find that the mere sight of ice cream leaves you with an insatiable craving, employ the "out of sight, out of mind” technique.This includes avoiding the ice cream aisle at the grocery store, the Dairy Queen drive thru, the “ice cream” part of cake and ice cream, etc.


Don’t keep any ice cream in your freezer - for anyone. If someone else in your household wants ice cream, they can go get it - and eat it - when they’re out of the house.
If your daily commute normally passes by an ice cream shop and you frequently struggle with the temptation to stop there, consider changing your commute. Plan to take a route that is ice cream free.
 Is there something specific that happens, or a thought or memory that you have, that instantly makes you crave ice cream? Think about the things you’ve done, said, heard and smelled right before an ice cream craving and contemplate if any of these things triggered the craving.If you find you have one or more triggers for ice cream, work on an action plan to first notice that the trigger is occurring, and then prevent yourself from reacting to the trigger by eating ice cream.


Triggers can include things like marketing (i.e. ice cream on sale this week, 2 tubs for $5), advertising (i.e. the gigantic billboard advertising the new Blizzard flavor of the month), and sounds (i.e. the ice cream truck jingle).
 Often times we eat more food when we’re not paying attention to the actual process of eating - the “unconscious eating” problem. We may not be paying attention because we’re distracted by something else, which causes us to not notice the tastes and flavors we're eating and then to miss the body's cues when we've had enough. Many of us eat while watching TV, reading a book, at a movie theater, watching sports, at a bar, or while chatting with friends, but all of these things can cause us to eat more than we would otherwise eat.


Make an agreement with yourself to not eat ice cream unless the only thing you’re focused on is your food.Chances are you’re not going to find the time to concentrate ONLY on eating ice cream as you’ll have something way better to do! If you do cheat and eat some ice cream, focusing on the experience of eating it and enjoying every bite will help you to eat less with more satisfaction.
Many times unconscious eating may occur because we need to keep our hands busy. Instead of using your hands to eat (without realizing it), train yourself to pick up something non-edible to play with. You can still do this unconsciously, but it won’t impact your diet!

, When we eat things that contain fat and sugar our bodies produce something called “opioids” which make us feel relaxed and calm.In order to achieve the same results without ice cream, we have to engage in activities that make us feel relaxed and calm. Once we’re used to these other activities, our brains won’t require the ice cream to make us feel better.


Do you eat ice cream because you feel sad?
Do you eat ice cream to reward yourself for accomplishing goals? Think of other, non-food ways to reward yourself. Maybe a new scarf, a new episode of your favorite TV show, or a night at the opera with friends.
Do you eat ice cream because you feel you "deserve it" at the end of a hard day's work? Consider other ways to reward yourself-- if you prefer a food treat, try a bowl of low-sugar cereal, a cup of hot tea, or even a small glass of wine-- all of which can help you unwind and prepare for bed. Even better, try non-food ways of relaxing like a hot bath with candles, a massage, or several chapters of a new book.

