 Read this article and ask your vet any questions you have about foaling out your mare. Gather the things you'll need and have them ready. Keep an eye on your mare for a better chance of being there when she foals.;
,
Foal should start nursing within two hours.
Foal should pass the meconium (first feces) within three hours., This is always the first thing to do with a newborn foal.
 You can do this using a clean film canister or small, paper cup. This should be done as soon as possible to help prevent bacteria from entering the foal's abdomen.


Do not cut the umbilical cord. It should break by itself soon after birth, or with the mare's help. If it doesn't fall off within 10 minutes, call your vet for further instructions.
 Begin by rubbing it all over and carefully using a finger to desensitize each 'opening' (ears, mouth, nostrils, rectum, etc.). This is the beginning of the foal trusting and bonding with you, which will help in the long run.
 The most important aspect concerning a newborn foal is to be sure that it begins nursing soon after it is up and walking.


The foal should be standing within one hour, and nursing within two. If it isn't, consult your vet.The first of the mare's milk contains colostrum, which is rich in the antibodies that the foal needs to develop a strong immune system against common diseases, as long as the mare had been current on her vaccines prior to foaling.
The drinking of the colostrum must be done within the first 24 hours of life, as that is the only time period in which the foal's stomach will be able to absorb and process the antibodies. Without colostrum, the foal will be extremely susceptible to many conditions, especially upper respiratory viruses (Flu, Rhino, etc.).
Most foals have little problem with figuring out how to nurse, as long as the mare is tolerant of this new creature! If there is any question as to whether or not the foal is nursing correctly, give your vet a call.
If the foal is low, or has had no colostrum, it is imperative that she/he receive an IV transfusion of antibody-rich plasma, to obtain these much-needed antibodies. Once the vet has determined that the antibodies are present, you know that the foal will have a relatively disease-free start in life.
 Your new foal should be seen within one to two days of foaling, and the dam examined at that time too. Your vet will be able to determine if the foal has the proper antibodies with a simple blood test, which can normally be done on-site.
 Open pasture with shelter is the ideal situation. This gives the foal room to run and move, which is essential for early muscle and body development.


The pasture should be well fenced (non-climb fencing is recommended) to prevent the foal (and/or dam) from escaping or getting caught up in the fence, which can cause serious injuries.
This also gives the foal the chance to start browsing grass, etc., which will further help in developing their digestive system as it gets closer to weaning time (normally at 5-6 months).
 If the mare is current with her vaccines, there is no need to vaccinate the foal until 3-4 months of age. The most common foal vaccines are 4-Way (Eastern/Western Encephalitis, Tetanus and Flu), and depending on the foal's environment, Rhino, West Nile and Strangles vaccines can be given at this time as well. It is extremely important that the vaccines are repeated (booster shots) 3-4 weeks following the initial vaccines.
 As far as deworming your foal, it's normally best to start at 3-4 weeks of age, depending on environmental conditions (clean stalls, pastures, proper husbandry). Your vet can also perform a fecal analysis on your foal to see what type and how many, if any, internal parasites are present.
 The more time you can spend handling your foal (getting her/him used to their feet being picked up, halter being put on and off, and generally being touched all over), the better your experience will be in the long run. Of course there are myriad books written on how to properly train foals, but that subject is for another topic.


Let yourselves enjoy, trust, and get to know each other, and that will start the foundation for a long-term fulfilling relationship.