 Doctors know that throat cancer is caused by a genetic mutation in the cells of the throat, though they are not sure what spurs this mutation.Being aware of your potential risk for throat cancer may help you recognize the symptoms and get a timely diagnosis and treatment.Men are more likely to contract throat cancer than women.Your risk for developing throat cancer increases with age.People who smoke and use chewing tobacco are at a higher risk of developing throat cancer.Excessive alcohol consumption increases your risk.In fact, alcohol and tobacco consumption are the primary risk factors for developing throat cancer.Having HPV (human papilloma virus) can make you more prone to throat cancer.Not eating sufficient fruits and vegetables can raise your risk for contracting throat cancer.Having gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD, may also increase your risk.;
, Most symptoms of throat cancer aren’t specific to cancer, so you’ll need to be extra vigilant about watching your oral cavity.Identifying possible symptoms of throat cancer may help you get a relatively expeditious diagnosis and treatment.Symptoms of throat cancer include:


Coughing.
Changes in the voice, which may include hoarseness or inability to speak clearly.
Problems swallowing.
Ear pain.
Sores or lumps that don’t heal on their own or with over the counter treatments.
A sore throat.
Weight loss.Frequent headaches., Irregular growths and lumps can be a sign of throat cancer. Examining your throat may help you recognize unusual growths.Stick out your tongue and see if you can identify any lesions or growths on it.It may be slightly more difficult to examine the inside of your mouth or your throat, but open your mouth as wide as you can and look inside. Shining a light inside your mouth may also help you recognize any irregularities.
Check your mouth and throat regularly so that you know how the area looks usually.Look for changes in the appearance of your throat including differences in color or skin texture. Growths that appear wart or ulcer-like may indicate throat cancer.Schedule an appointment with your doctor if you notice any of these symptoms.Having regular dental checkups can also help with monitoring for any mouth or throat changes or concerns.
 Pay attention to your mouth and throat for any extended pain or bleeding in your mouth or throat. These symptoms might indicate a more serious condition such as throat cancer, in particular if they don’t heal.Observe lingering pain in throat, especially when you swallow.
Look for any bleeding from lesions, growths, or lumps.
 Ask your partner or spouse to look in your throat or ask if they’ve noticed symptoms of throat cancer. He or she may recognize symptoms or differences in your oral cavity more quickly than you do., If you find any of the signs or symptoms of throat cancer and/or are someone who is at risk for the disease, schedule an appointment to see you doctor as soon as possible. If diagnosed early enough, throat cancer is very treatable, with a rate between 50 to 90% depending on the stage at which your doctor diagnoses the disease.You can see your regular doctor or an otolaryngologist, or ear-nose-throat doctor. If necessary, your doctor can send you to other doctors or specialists.
Your doctor will most likely conduct an exam of your oral cavity and throat. She may also health history, which can include factors like your health habits and any past illnesses.Your exam may include having your doctor examine your throat with a lighted scope called an endoscope., If your doctor suspects that you have developed throat cancer, she will probably order additional testing. Tests such as a biopsy or scoping can confirm a diagnosis of throat cancer.The most common test for throat cancer is scoping. Your doctor will insert a small lighted scope, called an endoscope, into your throat or voice box and examine them through a video that the scope transmits.Your doctor may also perform a biopsy, where she removes cells or tissue from your throat and then sends them to a laboratory for furthering testing.In some cases, doctors will also prescribe imaging tests such as CAT scans or MRIs. Imaging tests can help your doctor determine how much throat cancer has spread.In the event that tests confirm throat cancer, you may require additional tests which can determine if the cancer has spread to other areas of your body.Additional testing may include a lymph node biopsy or more in-depth imagining tests., If your doctor discovers throat cancer, she will prescribe a course of treatment based on the extent to which the disease has spread. There are several treatment options and they can be successful if your throat cancer is diagnosed early.Your doctor will prescribe a treatment based the stage at which your cancer is diagnosed. You should also talk to your doctor about your options and what makes you comfortable.
The four main treatments used to combat throat cancer are: radiation therapy, surgery, chemotherapy, and targeted drug therapy.Radiation therapy is often the only treatment necessary in the early stages of throat cancer.It uses high-energy beams from sources like X-rays to kill cancer cells.Surgery can be as simple as scraping cancerous cells off of your throat and voice box to much more extensive surgeries that remove part of the throat and lymph nodes.Chemotherapy employs drugs that kill cancer cells. In some cases, chemotherapy is used in conjunction with radiation therapy.Targeted drug therapy, which uses medications such as cetuximab, that attack certain defects in cancer cells. These drugs help slow or stop the growth of cancer cells.Consider taking part in a clinical trial of medication, which may give you the chance to try a new treatment method.
 Both alcohol and tobacco consumption are closely linked with throat cancer. Avoiding them as much as possible may make treatments more effective, but can also prevent recurrences of throat cancer once you’re healed.Smoking has several effects for throat cancer patients. It can: make treatment less effective, decrease your ability to heal, and increase your risk of getting throat cancer again.
Stopping your consumption of alcohol is also important. Not only can it increase the efficacy of your treatments, but may also minimize your risk for recurrences.If you are having a hard time quitting either tobacco or alcohol, which is especially difficult in stressful times, speak with your doctor about getting help to avoid these substances.