 Bleaching your hair on your own can be risky. However, if you use the right products and do not leave the bleach on for too long, then you may be able to get platinum blonde hair at home with little damage. Before you get started, you will need:


High quality powder bleach.
Lower volume developer, such as level 30.
Toner, such as Wella T18.Deep conditioning treatment.
Latex or vinyl gloves.
An old t-shirt or a smock to protect your clothes.
A towel.
A mixing bowl.
A color application brush.
A sink or shower to rinse your hair.
 Avoid shampooing your hair for two days before bleaching it. This will help to ensure that your hair and scalp have enough moisture to take the bleach. Otherwise, the chance of damage may be greater. You can also do a deep conditioning treatment a couple of days before bleaching your hair for added protection.
 Before you start mixing up the bleach, put on something that you don’t mind getting bleach on. An old t-shirt is a good option, but you can also wear a smock over your clothes if you have one. Also, put on a pair of gloves to protect your hands from the bleach.
 Read the instructions that come with the bleach you have purchased. The packaging should indicate the bleach to developer ratio for your formula. Using a small whisk, whip the bleach and the developer together until they are creamy. Only fill your color bowl about three quarters full because the bleach will expand while you are applying it.


Some bleaches, such as Wella Multi Blonde, are flexible with the amount of developer you can use to achieve your desired results. In this case, mix equal parts bleach and developer until your formula has the cream-like consistency you desire.
If the bleach you have purchased is more specific about the ratio of bleach to developer, such as Igora Vario Blond, which uses 1:2 parts bleach to developer, use a measuring cup from your kitchen to weigh your formula.
 Before applying any bleach to your hair, pull your hair into four sections. This will make it easier for you to manage the application. Part your hair down the center down to the nape of your neck. On each side, divide the top and bottom halves of your hair, and clip them in a way that keeps them secure and out of your way until you are ready to apply the bleach.If you have especially thick hair, you may need to divide your hair into more than four sections.
 Starting with the back of your head, apply the bleach using your color brush in thin layers. Gradually continue applying until this entire section of hair is covered, and then move on to the next section. Work in smalls sections going from the back of your head to the front.


Do not apply the bleach to your scalp. Just apply it to the roots of your hair near your scalp.
Remember to wear gloves and try not to get any bleach on your skin.
If you have previously bleached your hair and your roots are a darker color, do not apply bleach to your roots and ends at the same time. This will result in “hot roots,” which will not match the rest of your hair. In this case, apply bleach only to the roots of the hair.
 You may need to let the bleach sit on your hair for up to 45 minutes. Check the package to determine how long to leave it on. While the bleach is processing, make sure to check it every 5 to 10 minutes.There is no specific amount of processing time that will work for everyone. If the bleach has lifted enough color out after 10 minutes, rinse it immediately to prevent the bleach from processing further.
Do not allow your hair to process for more than one hour, even if you have not achieved your desired shade of blonde. At this point, the bleach will not lift any more color, and leaving it on is only causing damage to your hair., Rinse your hair with lukewarm water until you have gotten all of the bleach out of your hair. Do this before you use shampoo, as any bleach that is left on the hair after you shampoo will continue to process and may cause damage and have a drying effect on your hair., Once you have completely removed all of the bleach from your hair with a cool rinse, shampoo your hair. Whether you are using toning shampoo or hydrating shampoo, massage your scalp and hair as you wash to remove any remaining bleach residue. Repeat this process at least one time.


Do not use conditioner if you plan to use a toner after you shampoo. If you are using a toning shampoo to finish your color, you can use conditioner after you shampoo.
 While your hair is still wet, you can use a toner to finish your color. Use a purple toner to negate any yellow or brassy tones in your hair, and a blue toner to negate any orange tones.


If you are using a cream based toner, apply the toner in the same way that you applied your bleach, using a color brush.
If you are using a liquid toner, use a bottle to evenly pour the solution over your hair and massaged in thoroughly.
Leave your toner on for about 10 minutes and then rinse.However, for some toners, you may only need to leave them on for about 5 minutes. Check the recommendations on the bottle.
Keep in mind that toner is optional. If you are happy with the tone of your blonde, then you do not need to use a toner.

