 Partner yoga uses poses that you can do together with a friend or lover. With these poses, you use each other's bodies to stretch yourself that much farther. Plus, working together in these poses can bring you closer together., Sit in the floor facing each other. Your toes should be close together, and your knees should be bent. Grab hands, and push the bottom of your feet together. Extend your legs upward, straightening out your legs and making a triangle. Hold the position for about 5 seconds.
 Lotus pose is where you sit cross-legged on the floor with your back straight. Doing it with a partner can make it easier because you can sit back to back, supporting each other and helping to keep your spines aligned.








Sit on the floor back to back with your partner. Pull your legs up to you in a cross-legged position. Pull one foot up on to your thigh. Pull the other foot on top of the first leg with the foot resting on the other thigh. If you haven't done lotus before, try to work on some hip-opening positions first.Align you spine with your partner, making sure to keep it straight. Rest your hands on your legs

, This pose gives both partners a chance to stretch out their backs. It starts by having one person lay face down on the floor. The other partner should place one foot on either side of the other person's hips, facing the person's head.








The person on the ground lifts their arms up slightly (behind their back), and the person standing up grabs hold of them. The person standing up gently lifts up on the arms, pulling up the shoulder's of the person on the ground, creating a backbend.
At the same time, the person standing up leans back far enough to create a backbend of their own, using the weight of the person on the ground to help hold themselves up.
Don't forget to switch out positions.
 This pose is done standing up. Face the same direction as your partner. Move your hips together. With your hips touching, each of you bring the opposite leg up, resting the bottom of your foot on your inner thigh. Your arms can either wrap around each other's waist (with the outside arm coming together with your partner's, palms flat) or be extended straight upward (inner arms) and at an angle upwards (outer arm).
 From standing, you can move into warrior II pose by leaving your left foot in place and stepping the right foot out to the right side of your body. Your right foot should be perpendicular to your left foot, but your legs should still be in a line. Your right knee is bent, and your left leg is straight. Stretch your arms out straight from your body over each leg, and turn your head toward your right leg.








To move into this pose with a partner, stand left shoulder to left shoulder, looking opposite ways. Brace your left feet against each other's and step out with your right. Grasp your left arms together at the forearm while straightening your other arm. Use each other's weight to gently stretch your back/left arm.
 You can also try group poses. One that works well in a group is flower pose. Sit in a circle, facing inward. Start with cobbler pose. Bring the bottoms of your feet together in front of you with your knees bent. Make sure to keep your spine straight.Next, move into flower pose. Move each arm under a leg, with palms facing up. Puff your chest out, moving your shoulder blades together, and gently lift your legs into the air. You can even touch feet with the people next to you.

