 An oatmeal face mask that includes lavender oil can be used to revitalize skin after a day in the sun. Mix 1/3 cup powdered buttermilk with 1/4 cup cornmeal, 1 cup oatmeal, and 1/3 cup of dried lavender. Then, add two tablespoons of this mix with 1/4 teaspoons of honey and two drops of lavender essential oil. Add water as needed to form a thick paste.Mix the mask until you've formed a thick paste.
Apply the mixture to your face. Make sure to work it into your pores.
Leave the mixture on for a minute. Wash it off with lukewarm water.;
, If your skin is dry and itchy, try taking a bath with dried lavender and oatmeal. You just need some oatmeal, dried lavender, and a muslin bag.Place two tablespoons of lavender and two tablespoons of oatmeal in the muslin bag.
Fill a bathtub with warm water and toss the bag in.
Soak in the bath for as long as you want.
 A face mask made with lavender and raw honey can leave your skin feeling clean and refreshed. Mix a tablespoon of raw honey with three drops of lavender essential oil. This works best if you need to moisturize your face due to dry skin.Stir your mixture until it's completely combined.
Clean your face and leave it slightly damp.
Apply your lavender and honey mixture to your face.
Let the mixture sit for 15 minutes before washing it off.
 Combining lavender with shea butter, coconut oil, beeswax, and vitamin E oil can make a refreshing moisturizer. This can be great if you want to treat dry skin with lavender.Place two tablespoons of shea butter, one tablespoon of coconut oil, and one teaspoon of beeswax in a glass jar. Place the jar in a pan of simmering water and keep it there until the ingredients melt.
Stir in half a teaspoon of vitamin E oil and 5 to 10 drops of lavender essential oil.
Let the mixture cool over night. You can then use it on dry, cracked skin.
 You should never apply lavender oil directly on your skin. This can cause itching, burning, or a rash. You need to dilute essential oil in a carrier oil prior to applying it to your skin. Carrier oils are things like olive oil and canola oil.A 2% dilution should be safe for most skin. This means adding 12 drops of essential oil per fluid ounce of your carrier oil.
You can use another oil, like olive oil or canola oil. However, you can also use lotions and moisturizers as your carrier oil.
You should under no circumstances use lavender oil without diluting it first. This will cause a bad skin reaction.
 Lavender oil may have some benefits for treating acne. It does have antiseptic and antibacterial properties. You can combine it with witch hazel, which should also be diluted, to treat breakouts.Dab a cotton ball in your diluted lavender oil. Apply the mixture to your skin. Target spots prone to acne in particular.
It's a good idea to wash your skin with your regular cleanser or moisturizer before using lavender oil.
 Due to its antibacterial properties, lavender oil can work great on wounds. Things like bug bites and other skin irritants may respond well to diluted lavender oil.Smooth a bit of lavender oil over irritated skin or blemishes.
This may help wounds and bites heal faster. It may also prevent scarring.
 If a dry, itchy scalp is an issue for you, lavender oil can help alleviate this. You can use your regular shampoo or conditioner here to dilute the lavender oil. Then, apply it to your scalp., Apply diluted lavender oil to a small portion of your skin before using it to treat skin problems. If you notice itchiness, redness, or other issues, you may have an allergy or sensitivity to lavender oil. You should not use it to treat skin problems.Wait at least 24 hours for a reaction before using lavender oil for skin care.
 In general, it's best to avoid essential oils on young children. They can cause bad reactions. You should also avoid essential oils when you are pregnant as, as they can cause a bad reaction.Never use peppermint oil on children under the age of six.
 The longterm effects of essential oils are not currently known. However, there is a possibility essential oils could react poorly with certain medications. Before using essential oils on a regular basis, talk to your doctor about whether it's safe for you.