 Understanding your child’s fear is essential for helping them work through it. Ask your child what in particular scares them about the water. Are they afraid of sinking? Does it make them uneasy to watch bathwater go down the drain?Many children develop a fear of the water after having a bad experience, such as accidentally getting water up their nose.
Once you know where your child’s fear is coming from, you can find ways to help them cope with the particular situation that scares them. You might say, "Sweetie, I noticed that you get really jumpy during bath-time. What bothers you about taking a bath?"
Your child's first response may be: "I don't know." A young child especially might not yet be able to make the connection as to why they are suddenly afraid. Allow them some time to think about it or, if you think you know the reason, it's okay ask them if you're right. You might say, "Is it because you saw your friend fall in the pool this weekend?";
, Kids need empathy and support when they’re scared of something. Listen to your child and make them feel understood. Avoid brushing off their fears or telling them that they shouldn’t be afraid.For instance, if your daughter is afraid of getting her face wet, reassure her by saying something like, “It seems like this is scary for you. Putting your face in the water feels funny, doesn’t it?”
When you validate your child’s feelings, it reassures them that they can trust you.
 Build your child’s confidence by setting a small goal that they can achieve easily. As they get more used to the water, set new goals that stretch their comfort zone a little bit further.Make sure you are cheering them on each step of the way.


If your child is afraid to take a bath, you may be able to begin with showers and then progress to taking a bath.
Or if your child is scared to get into the pool, have them practice sitting on the edge with their legs in the water. After they’re comfortable doing that, have them climb down steps or a ladder to practice submerging themselves more.
Let your child decide how quickly (or slowly) to make progress. Avoid making your child do anything they aren’t ready to do — this could make their fear worse.
Remind your child that you are right there if they need you, and that you have confidence in their abilities.
 Water wings and other swimming aids can be a good way to help a fearful child get used to the water. Use them to give your child a confidence boost until they’re ready to get into the pool on their own.Avoid relying on flotation devices for too long. For safety reasons, it’s important for young children to learn to swim without them. Get in the water with your child and practice without the flotation device, then give it back. Alternating in this way can help build their confidence.
 Your kids pick up on your attitudes and behaviors. If you show them that you enjoy being in the water, they’ll want to imitate you. Go swimming with your child or let them see you get into the bathtub, and emphasize how much you like the water.If you dislike the water yourself, find another role model, such as a family member or swimming teacher, to help your kids feel positive about the water.
Consider inviting one or two of their friends to join, which can help them view swimming as a fun activity.

