


Branding is all about TRUST. Consumers, businesses, people will look at your branding, read your content and search for you on the search engines. Ultimately if they recognize you, read testimonials or have heard of you by Word of Mouth, they will trust you, your products and services.
Brand awareness is fundamental when it comes to enhancing your online branding. There are many strategic ways of enhancing your exposure online. There are cost effective ways of getting your branding out there in the space and doing a multiple of techniques that can help increase your Brand Awareness/Brand Recognition.;
, Whether your a small, medium or large company, online presence is crucial and you can reach millions of people world wide with the branding of your products/services.
An online presence is one of the strongest attributes of your brand and its well advised that one gets started with their online branding sooner than later as just like with its offline counterpart, mind share in branding waits for no one. The cycle of online branding takes time, but has be achieved much quicker online in a few cases. Due to the potential viral nature of the web, online branding can allow for faster growth than traditional branding might.
 Remember your website is the face of your business. It represents who you are and what you are about. It needs to look presentable, clean, informative and sticky. Sticky being it needs to grab attention, keep visitors on your website, browsing at what you have to offer.



What is my purpose for my website?
Do I plan to sell products/services online?
Do I need a brochure or a catalog for people to download and print?
Do I need a CMS? (Content Management System) website whereby I can update my own photos, content, add pages, change colours and so forth.



Think about how you want to brand yourself online to your customers/clients.

Your website needs to be built with Search Engine Optimization practices in mind. If it isn't, you are wasting your time and money therefore only building a website that will be uploaded into the never never land of the world wide world. We all know that consumers use the internet on a frequent basis and will look for products/services via search engine channels (Main ones Google, Yahoo and MSN). If you are not listed, consumers may not trust or find you a credible source, therefore losing potential leads and sales.
 Blogs are great to write extra content about ideas, thoughts, strategies, powerful tools that may have that people would be interested in and any other related business factors that you can contribute to. Blogs provide a great platform for you to engage with your customers online (New and Potential) and connect/inspire your readers with great information. With great technology such as the RSS Feeds, this allows your material to be upload onto a RSS Feed, reaching more potential customers that are interested in what you have to say.
 Have an area on your website that can showcase a competition, incentive and post it on your blog in more detail. Word of Mouth is still and will be a very important factor when it comes to enhancing your online brand presence, so create a viral buzz online that others will talk about e.g. Free Seminar, Free Consultation, Webinars and so forth.
If you haven't done so already, join Twitter. It's a great way to tweet your competition, prize etc and create a viral buzz to people that may be interested in what you are offering.



Get to know your target market. Understand who they are, what they like/dislike, what are they searching for, needing, wanting.
Set up your website with the target market in mind.
Keep your communication consistent in content, message and tone to minimize confusing your customers.
Utilize an effective SEO (Search Engine Optimization) plan that will increase your search ranking and generate traffic of leads and sales to your website. Build your reputation, be a credible authority and enhance your online branding through great strategies that will get you present online.

