 If your input device doesn't have an HDMI port, you will need to use an adapter. The right adapter depends on which output ports your device does have.


DVI connections have the best conversion capabilities, so if your input device has a DVI port, select a DVI-to-HDMI adapter.
If your input device does not have a DVI port, either, look for USB ports or standard VGA ports. Adapters are available for either option.Note that Mac computers may also have a mini-display/Thunderbolt port. Adapters that can connect an HDMI cable to this port are the best option for Mac computers with an HDMI port.
 The HDMI cable you use must be able to connect to the HDMI ports in both your TV and your chosen adapter.


Most televisions have full-size HDMI ports, so at least one end of the cable must be equipped with a full-size plug. Many adapters also have full-size HDMI ports, but some may have mini or micro ports. Make sure that the second end of your HDMI cable matches the adapter port size.
The HDMI cable must also be long enough to reach from your input device to your television. It's best to choose a cord that is slightly longer than necessary to minimize the strain on the cord and both devices.
 Insert the full-size plug into the HDMI port on the back or side of your TV. Connect the other end of the HDMI cable into the HDMI port on your adapter.


Both the TV and input device should already be turned on before you begin plugging everything together.
Do not force the plug into the port. It should only fit one way, and if it doesn't fit at all, you may have the wrong type of cable.
Check which HDMI port you're using on your TV. They will usually be labeled as "HDMI-1," "HDMI-2," and so on.
 Connect the adapter plug into the appropriate port on your input device.


When using a DVI, USB, or Thunderbolt adapter, you only need to plug the adapter into one port.
If using an adapter for VGA ports, you will likely need to match the color of each adapter plug to the corresponding audio and video ports on your computer.
 In some cases, the adapter may only direct video from your input device to your TV. In these cases, you will need to use a separate cable to stream audio to your TV.This is fairly uncommon, but you might run into this issue if you are using a DVI-to-HDMI adapter or an older USB-to-HDMI adapter.
If both your input device and TV have the appropriate ports, you might be able to directly connect the two devices using a separate stereo cable.
Alternatively, you can use an audio cable to redirect audio from your input device to a separate nearby set of speakers previously hooked up to your TV.
 Using the buttons on your TV or TV remote control, switch your television input source to the appropriate HDMI port.


Typically, you'll need to use a button labeled "Input" or "Source."
Work your way through the different input options until you find the HDMI port currently in use. The HDMI source should be labeled in the same way as the HDMI port (HDMI-1, HDMI-2, and so on).
 Typically, the input device will automatically configure its video and audio settings upon detecting the connection to your TV. If your TV is blank, though, you may need to configure your input device manually.


If using a PC:

Go into your Control Panel and choose Adjust screen resolution. Click on the icon for the second monitor and select the Extend the desktop onto this monitor setting. Apply the change to send video to the TV.
Go back into your Control Panel and choose Sound. Right-click on the white space in the Playback tab and select Show Disabled Devices from the menu. Choose your audio connection to send audio to the TV.


If using a Mac:

Open System Preferences and choose Displays. From the Arrangements tab, check the Mirror Displays box. Applying the setting should send video to your computer.
Return to System Preferences and choose Sound. On the Output tab, locate and select the output port in use under the Type heading. Confirming your selection should send audio to your TV.
 If everything has been set up properly, you should now be able to stream audio and video from your input device to your television.


Control the streaming content through your input device.

