 Come up the project first, and plan out how much yarn you'll need. An impulsive visit to the yarn store is the fastest way to end up with a stash the size of Berlin.;
, Many stashes, scrap piles, and unfinished projects end up at thrift stores and garage sales. Sometimes these are so numerous that you have to restrain yourself even at secondhand prices.


Keep an eye out for tag sales, clearance sales, and other opportunities to save big. Check for announcements from local outlet stores and antique barns.
 Unravel your old wool clothes, or go thrift shopping for sweaters that have seen better days. Even somewhat worn yarn can become a dishrag.




Transform plastic bags into yarn.
Make newspaper yarn.
Consider turning some types of dog hair into yarn substitute.
 Other knitters in your area probably have hoards of yarn scraps they're happy to get rid of. Ask around, and see if you can get enough interest to meet for trades or give aways.


Some online knitting communities such as Ravelry encourage their members to send each other unwanted yarn.
 Depending on craft stores in your area, ordering supplies online may be the cheapest option. Search for "discount yarn" and compare it to local offers.


Don't forget to take into account the cost of shipping for online orders, and the cost of transport to local stores.
Yarn prices tend to increase just before knitting season begins. If you can afford to, stock up at the end of the season to save money next year.
 You can find free knitting patterns online, or in books checked out from the library. If you're looking for a specific book, buy it from a used bookstore, or try to get it for free.
 Since acrylic yarn is cheaper, it might be tempting to use it for more projects, but its pilling and low breathability make it a poor choice for most garments. This cost-saving measure is best used for practice projects.


Slippers are an exception where acrylic yarn can work well. The acrylic keeps them warm, and they are expected to scuff anyway.
 A 50-gram skein of fingering yarn has a whole lot more yards in it than a 50-gram skein of worsted weight yarn, and working through that yardage gives you all the more time of knitting pleasure for your money. However, keep in mind that if you're going to change the weight of yarn, you may need considerably more to make the project the right size and buying more yarn may eliminate any savings from buying a thinner yarn. If you're going to make this sort of change, buy the yarn based on yardage rather than how many grams you're getting in a skein.

