 If you have a friend who has moved away or is gone for the summer, make sure to stay in touch. If you know you’ll have a weekly phone call or Skype date, then you will feel more connected and less lonely. Setting up a routine for communication with the person can allow you to look forward to talking with him.


If the person is on the other side of the world, you can communicate via email, and international texting programs. You may think that talking will make you miss the person more, but it will actually help you realize that the person is not completely gone.
 Don’t get into the habit of talking every day or texting all the time. You won’t enjoy your life in the present and you will be less likely to step out of your comfort zone to try new things or meet new people.


If the person who is away is the one who wants to talk more, explain that, while it’s important that you keep in touch, you don’t want to become too codependent.Call the person if you’re making a big decision or something major happens, but work on finding a person who is closer to home who can be there for you as well.
 Having a plan to see the person will give you something to look forward to and will help decrease the feeling that you will never see the person again. If you know you’ll be hanging out with him in a few weeks, then you’ll be less inclined to want to talk to him every second of the day and will actually miss him less.


You both are living your lives and if you are visiting too often, you will likely be precluding yourself from social activities with others. Strike a balance. You don’t want people to exclude you from social events because they think you’re always going to be with the person you miss.
 If you do this once every few weeks or so, it will give you a chance to access your feelings and thoughts and will make you feel less compelled to call or text the person all the time. This can be a fun way of communicating and it will make you feel less likely to miss the person.


Writing the letter will feel like an intimate conversation and allow you to feel closer even though they are miles away.
 You may just want to sit around missing the person. Instead, find new things to do to keep yourself occupied such as, bowling with new friends or learning to play guitar. If your schedule has huge gaps to fill that were previously occupied by time spent with the person, you will likely keep missing him. Fill those gaps with doing new things and meeting new, interesting people.


Pick up a new sport, such as running or basketball.
Try a new hobby, such as photography, painting, or cooking.
Sign up for interesting classes in your community or school, such as writing workshops or wine pairing courses.
Discover a new love of literature. Read all the books you’ve been meaning to read, but haven’t.
Find a new form of exercise. Biking, hiking, and yoga can all fill your time while making you feel great.
 Extend invitations to get together with your acquaintances. Though you may be shy, work on getting to know people little by little. Smile, be friendly and outgoing toward the people you meet.


Start by asking a few casual questions. Tell a fun fact or two about yourself, or make some funny observations. If you make more of an effort, you’ll be on your way to having more friends and missing the person less.
You won’t ever be able to replace the person who is gone. He was very important to you and always will be. Instead, just focus on finding new and interesting people to make your life more dynamic.
Give people a chance. You may have more in common than you think with people you were skeptical about in the past. Once you spend time with them, you’ll see that you might enjoy their company after all.

