 Gratitude boosts positive emotion and leads to better health, happiness, and relationships.To build a grateful spirit, regularly take time to write down at least three good things each day.Practice this exercise each night as you look back over your day. Note, on a piece of paper, three things that went well or that you are grateful for about the day.
Consider why you are grateful for these things. Write that down, too.
At the end of each week, look back on what you wrote down. Notice how you feel when reading over these things.
Keep this practice up week after week to foster gratitude.;
, Think about what skills or talents you have to offer and how that can translate into helping others.


For example, if you enjoy reading, you can offer to read stories to children or elderly people. If you are creative, you can extend your services to helping with a community arts council.
 Know that you're not perfect - you're human, and everyone else around you is, too. Oftentimes, being self-compassionate is compared to being weak or overly self-indulgent. In truth, practicing self-compassion relates to showing yourself kindness rather than judgment, recognizing your common humanity rather than aloneness, and focusing on mindfulness rather than over-identifying with personal troubles.One particularly useful way to practice self-compassion is to recite a comforting phrase during times of suffering or pain. For example, if you are down on yourself because you went through a terrible break-up, recite the following compassionate phrase "This is a moment of suffering. Suffering is part of life. May I be kind to myself in this moment? May I give myself the compassion I need?Research shows that being self-compassionate can result in greater energy, resilience, courage, and creativity., There's much truth to the saying "laughter is the best medicine". A good dose of humor improves cardiovascular functioning, relaxes the body, increases immunity, and releases feel-good endorphins.Get your laugh on by watching a funny movie, hanging out with your hilarious roommate for the day, or sharing a joke or funny story with others.
 As it turns out, compliments have the ability to boost the self-esteem of the person of the messenger and the receiver. Telling someone else what you like or admire about him simply makes you feel good. But, paying a compliment also knocks down walls in social situations and brings people closer together.Ideas on how to pay compliments include:

Keeping it simple - compliments don't have to be over-the-top
Be specific - tell the person exactly what it is about them that is so great
Be genuine - give compliments that you truly believe



