 If you are wanting your parents to love you unconditionally, then try to show them the same love and support. While some families are more affectionate than others, it is important to express your love and caring in ways that work for you and your parents.Give hugs. Give Kisses. Do what feels comfortable for you.
Say, "I love you." Use other words of appreciation such as, "Thank you so much," or, "You're awesome."
Help them with things that need to be done, such as chores or running errands. Try to do what you can to make them feel appreciated through your actions.
Understand that some days your parents will reciprocate and other days they may not. Avoid feeling let down if they don't reciprocate sometimes. Avoid seeing yourself to blame.;
, Treat others as you would like to be treated. While your parents may not always follow this, avoid becoming upset, mean, or resentful of them. Focus on being kind to yourself, and in turn being kind to them and others.The more kindness and love you show, the more likely they are to be appreciated and loved you.
Accept that they cannot always show the love that you expect. Be open to different ways of receiving love and respect. For example, your dad may not seem to be loving, yet he attends your school events and makes dinner almost every night for you and your family.
Think about how "kindness" and "love" are shown in different ways for different people. Ways to show caring include acts of service (fixing the car, doing the dishes); through touch (hugging, kissing, putting your arm around them); words of affirmation (giving compliments, telling them you appreciate them); spending quality time together; giving thoughtful gifts.
 While you may spend a lot of time in the same place, how much of this is quality, one-on-one time together with your parents? Think about how your parents are more likely to show they love and care about you if you find ways to connect rather than argue. Consider these activities as a way to spend more time:Board games, charades, or other social activities
Interactive games on the computer or video games that you both can enjoy
Playing outside in the backyard, at a park, or in nature

