 Many animals who sleep with their eyes open experience a state in between wake and sleep. This method does not work for humans. However, there are other ways to achieve a sense of awareness and consciousness while sleeping: this is known as lucid dreaming. A lucid dream is when a dreamer becomes suddenly aware that he or she is dreaming. The dreamer can then gain control of the dream world and be fully conscious during sleep., Scientists don't know why, but simply reading about the phenomenon of lucid dreaming can cause people to experience a lucid dream. Enhancing your awareness of the phenomenon, for some people, is sufficient to experience the phenomenon. Visit your local library to research the topic, or read about it online. Expose yourself to as many articles and stories as you can in order to "plant the seed" of lucid dreaming in your mind. Perhaps you will get lucky and experience a lucid dream on your own., The most important step to gaining control over your dreams is to get enough sleep each night. This will maximize the amount of time that you experience REM sleep, which is when most dreaming takes place., Maintain a dream journal and update it religiously. This will train your brain to recognize common themes and emotions of your own dreams. This will help your brain realize when you are dreaming in the middle of a dream state.Be sure to keep a journal close to your bed so that you can write your dreams down immediately upon waking. If you get distracted after a dream, you are more likely to forget what happened during your dream., Immediately before bed, tell yourself that you want to experience a lucid dream. Prepare your brain to be aware during the dream state. Focus on this desire intently each night., There are phone applications that are designed to help cue your brain to realize when you are dreaming. Download one of these apps and use it while you sleep. It will help monitor when you are dreaming and will play an audio cue to try to make you recognize your own dream state without fully waking up.