 Do independent research on different aspects of marine biology so that you can pinpoint what you like to do in the field. There are many different things that marine biologists can do. Some concentrate on spending their time with aquatic life while others focus on research. Read scientific papers so that you get an idea for the type of work that you will have to do.Marine biologists study and observe marine organisms of all sizes. Research microbes, plants and animals in the ocean to get a deeper understanding of marine biology.The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and The Marine Life Information Network are two excellent resources for more information on marine biology.;
, While a bachelor's degree in marine biology is not a requirement, taking relevant courses during your undergraduate degree will give you the background you need and will give you clarity on whether this career is for you. Some universities offer marine biology specific majors. If your university does not, you can major in general biology or zoology.


Other courses that you should take include chemistry, physics, mathematics, ichthyology, conservation, and oceanography.Statistical analysis is also necessary so that a biologist can extrapolate information gained by tests to accurately study and predict growth and decline numbers in marine populations., A master's degree in marine biology or marine science can help open up job opportunities.Having your master's degree and is a requirement for many jobs in the field. Apply to master's degree programs at several universities that specialize in marine biology or science.


Some classes you would take to complete your master's degree in marine biology could include cellular and molecular biology, ecology, and oceanography.Some of the best universities for marine biology include Duke University, The University of California-Los Angeles, Brown University, and the University of Southern California., Getting your Ph.D. in marine biology will give you the credentials to add to the accepted scholarly research of marine biology. When you get your Ph.D., you will have to an original thesis and dissertation to achieve your doctorate.If you are going into marine biology and are concentrated on writing reports or doing studies, it is a good idea to get your Ph.D.


A Ph.D. is not mandatory to become a marine biologist.
There will be more job opportunities for those with a Ph.D.
 GIS stands for geographic information system. GIS is a powerful tool for marine biologists because it allows them to map out marine habitats visually, which aids them in monitoring and predicting trends in marine habitats and populations.GIS is a critical tool in conservation, preservation, and restoration of aquatic habitats.Many colleges and universities offer GIS classes.