 Read at least three of these, to get a good idea of how they are constructed and what they look like.;
, Before choosing the topic, keep in mind the following:


Age group for which you are writing
Clarity of the concept
Popularity of the topic
Practical implications.


Ask your toddler to suggest a suitable topic. Since your toddler who will be co-writing some of this book, she or he might have some fun ideas that will be ideal for the storyline and content.
 While you will need to write the basic outline and ensure that the story moves along properly and has a good structure, allow your toddler to fill in as much as possible from her or his own storytelling imagination. Invite your toddler to participate with stories and ideas. If your toddler starts to tell whole storylines, record these, as they can be edited back into the book's content later but you'll likely only hear that story once.
 When writing for children, pictures must be included in the story, to make it more interesting and understandable for kids, especially if the book is aimed at the same age group as your toddler. Ask your toddler to choose pictures of her or his own. You can decide later which ones are the most suitable, keeping in mind that your toddler's eye for a good image may be just what the other toddlers want to see too.


The pictures must be copyright free or you must own the copyright to them. Use Creative Commons, public domain and self-created images.
 Ask questions about what should happen next, what the characters think or do, and what the ending might be. Feed all of your toddler's ideas into the text as you write it. Remember to keep it all very simple, just a few sentences a page, or even just one sentence.
, If your toddler seems bored, doesn't like certain parts or tells you something isn't funny or good, pay attention and remove or rework those parts. When both of you are happy with the final story, it's good to go.
 Though there are other platforms you can choose for publishing your ebooks, if you prefer––this is just one simple example that works well.
 You can upload the ebook but as you do so, explain the procedure to your child so that she or he begins to learn about the idea of publishing online and can see how easy it is to do. This will encourage your toddler to want to write more.
 After having published the ebook, invite your toddler and even your toddler's friends to read it together online. Sit down together somewhere comfortable, open up the digital device on which you read your ebooks and open her or his ebook from the account. When your child finds the ebook with her or his pictures online, she or he will be thrilled at the idea that it is available for other people to read too, everywhere in the world.
 This will provide your toddler with a new concept of e-learning and will motivate them to write their own ebooks.

