 Blush is a great way to wake up your face. But if it’s applied incorrectly, it could turn into a makeup disaster. It’s important to pick a blush that works with your skin tone and skin type.For dry skin, try a cream based blush.
For normal or oily skin, try a powder or gel blush.
Try to pick a blush color that is closest to your natural flush. Think about how your cheeks look when you’re naturally blushing and try to find a color that matches your natural blush.;
, A highlighter is a makeup product that will bring some light to your face. It comes in several formulas: powder, liquid, and cream. A highlighter should also look dewy and not too shiny or sparkly.


Before you buy a highlighter, try some on the back of your hand and blend it well. If the product gives your skin a light sheen, you’ve got the right look.Match the texture of your highlighter to your foundation. So if you wear liquid or cream foundation, go for a creamy highlighter.Look for a product that offers a number of different pearl shades, like Guerlian’s Meteorites ($57). This product combines six different colors for a perfect, balanced glow.If you are new to using a highlighter, try a highlighter stick, like NARS’ The Multiple ($39). A highlighter stick is easy to apply, and many of the shades are also pigmented with color. This will keep you from applying the product all over your face and only on the spots needed for contouring.Don’t use highlighter as a cover up, especially in areas with pigmentation or redness. The shimmering tones will only draw attention to the area, rather than conceal it.
 While a highlighter is made to light up your skin, bronzer is made to deepen and shade your skin.


Avoid products that look too muddy or too orange in the package. A good bronzer should make your face look like it has a natural glow.
Go for products like MAC Bronzer, Bobbi Brown Bronzer, or Benefit Hoola Bronzer.They all come in a variety of tones, so you can choose the one that best suits your skin tone.
 This is one of the most important tools for contouring your face correctly. Look for a brush that has angled bristles and a long handle. There are several brushes made especially for contouring, including:


The MAC Large Angled Contour Brush #168.An industry favorite and one of the best brushes available.
Sephora Pro Angled Contour Brush #75.The in-house brand of Sephora. Go to your local Sephora to see if they have this one in stock.
e.l.f. Angled Contour Brush.An affordable brush that works well for contouring. Especially good for beginners who don’t want to splurge on a higher end brush.
 A mirror that is tilted slightly forward will allow you to see exactly what you are doing.
 Swirl the brush in the bronzer powder a few times. Then, tap the brush on the back of your hand to let any excess powder fall off.
 Suck your cheeks in. Notice the two shadowed lines that appear on your cheeks? That is where you want to apply the bronzer.


Point your brush on the shadow on your cheek. Gently sweep the bronzer in a moon shape or crescent shape towards your ear.
Don’t apply bronzer any lower than your cheekbones. And don’t apply any bronzer on the sides of your mouth, this will make the bronzer look more like warpaint than a nice contour!

, Suck your cheeks in again and make sure the natural shadow area is now filled with bronzer. If it appears too light, go over it a few more times with more bronzer.


If you have put on too much bronzer (it happens), take some tissue, scrunch it up into a ball and use circular motions to wipe off the excess bronzer.
 Don’t forget to make a fish face and fill in the shadowy area.


Some makeup artists recommend applying bronzer on your temples as well as your cheeks to create a more glowing look. Load the contour brush and move carefully from the edge of your eyebrows upward. Blend well. Check in the mirror to make sure there is an even amount of bronzer on your temples., The highlighter should go right along the top edge of your cheekbones, just under your eyes.If you are using a liquid highlighter, squeeze a few drops on the back of your hand. Press your index and middle finger into the highlighter. Wipe off any excess. Then, dab outward and up along your cheekbone, starting just past the center of your eye and ending at the outer corner of your eye.
If you are using a powder highlighter, grab a clean blush brush. Pat some of the highlighter underneath your eyes, along your cheekbones.
 If you are using liquid highlighter, its important to blend it well so it looks natural and not stripey or sloppy. Use your index finger to dab away at the outer edges of the highlighter until it is completely blended.If you are using powder highlighter, it will likely blend as you apply it. But make sure it is blended well, using a blush brush.
 Make sure there are no lines or stripes on your face. If there are any lines, blend them so your cheekbones look natural and full.
 You are already contouring your cheeks quite a bit with the bronzer and the highlighter, so blush may not be necessary. But if you are looking for a rosy glow to complement your cheekbones, apply your chosen blush color to your face now.Your face shape will dictate where blush will look best on your face. If you have an oval face or a round face, apply blush directly to the apples of your cheeks. Then, blend the blush outwards towards your temples with a blush brush.
If you have a strong jawline or square shaped face, apply blush towards the upper part of your cheeks. Start a few inches away from your nose and swipe your blush brush in a linear motion towards your temples.
Blush on its own is also a good way to highlight your cheekbones for a more casual look, like a day in the office or a casual night out. But if you’re looking for something more dramatic, highlighting and contouring are the way to go.
 Don’t worry if your face ends up looking a little so stripey or full of product on your first few tries. Practice this contouring technique until you feel comfortable with the shading and highlighting on your cheekbones. Over time, this will be become your go to technique for amazing looking cheekbones.

