 Cellphones can run a variety of white noise applications. These different applications offer a variety of sounds and options.

Search your app store on your cellphone. Depending on whether you have an Apple, Android, or other device, you may have access to different white noise applications.
Choose one or several apps and install them. Some popular apps include Sleep Fan, WhiteNoise, Chroma Doze, Coffitivity, and Noisli.
Some apps may be free, while other apps require you to pay a fee.
Some cellphone white noise applications produce just as or even better white noise as devices devoted to generating noise.;
, Devices that play white noise are increasingly popular and should be easy to find at a store or online. Consider that:

Dedicated devices may have many different choices of white noise.
Many alarm clocks will have settings that will turn the white noise off when your morning alarm sounds., When choosing between different noise machines, consider how many sounds the machine will play. While you may be interested in a particular noise, you may find it helpful for your machine to offer you a variety of choices.

Avoid buying a dedicated machine that has very few noises. Most dedicated white noise machines include at least a dozen different noises. In addition, they'll have settings that allow you to alter the tone of the noise.The price of white noise machines may range from as little as $20 to several hundred dollars.
The brand of a machine might not necessarily dictate its price, and the price may not dictate quality. Some popular brands from various price points include: Lectrofan, Marpac Dohm, and HoMedics., The quality of the white noise should be a factor in your decision. This is important, as the quality of the sound may impact your quality of sleep. Think about:

Listening to the machine before you buy it. Some stores will have a unit set up so you can hear the noise.
The clarity and crispness of the sound.
Whether the loop of the sound is apparent. The sound should seamlessly loop so that you can't tell when it restarts.
Whether the machine has decent bass or not. Some sounds seem more full and relaxing with bass., There are a variety of ways to create natural white noise in your bedroom when you sleep. The simplicity of these methods depends on the type of white noise you want to create. You might:

Purchase a small waterfall or fountain device to place in your bedroom. It will create a running water sound that you may find very relaxing.
Think about running your ceiling fan or air-conditioning while you sleep. However, remember that the air-conditioning cutting off may wake you up. You might, then, want to just turn the AC fan on.
Purchase a traditional clock that is somewhat noisy. You may consider a clock where you can hear ticking has the hand moves around.
Open your window to let in the sounds of the outside world filter into your bedroom., Depending on your taste, you may want to rely on sounds of a city setting. These sounds will necessarily be more variant and less constant than other choices.

Many white noise applications have white noise options like the “sounds of the city” that include the sounds of busy streets, honking, people chatting in the background, and more.
A more continuous urban sound might be the sound of a highway.
 There are a wide variety of sounds generated by industry and technology that you can rely on as white noise. These sounds are usually continuous and repetitive. Some popular noises include:

The sound of a cabin inside a passenger airliner.
The noise of a locomotive moving down a track.
The sound of an air-conditioning or fan. The Marpac Dohm white noise machine has been acclaimed for the natural (non-recorded) sound it produces with its internal fan.
Generic white or brown noise. There are a variety of artificially generated colored sounds that come with different pitches and characteristics., Weather and climate sounds have widespread appeal because they tend to help people forget about their daily lives. In addition, they are very repetitive. Some sounds include:

Rain
Waves crashing on a beach
Wind
Running water
The crackling of a fire, Like the sounds of weather, nature sounds have the effect of relaxing people and helping them forget about the pressures and stresses of day-to-day life. Some popular nature sounds include:

Forest sounds
The sounds of crickets or cicadas
Animal sounds, like the purring of a cat, You may be able to set your device to turn white noise on or off at different times. This is useful, as you won’t need to mess with your device before bed or struggle to turn it off in the morning.

Many cellphone applications require you to pay a fee before being able to use advanced settings like these.
Your alarm clock device may have an option that will turn your white noise off when your morning alarm sounds.
Experiment with the settings on your device so they best reflect your needs and lifestyle., If you use your cellphone to play your white noise while you sleep, one of the biggest choices you’ll need to make is whether you want phone calls to interrupt your white noise.

Think about setting your phone to “airplane” mode or a similar function that does not accept calls while you are sleeping.
Look at the settings of your app to see if there is a continuous play option that will make sure the white noise continues through phone calls, text messages, and more., One of the biggest problems of relying on white noise is that you become dependent on it. If your white noise stops for some reason, you may awake. Thus, you should take some steps to make sure that your white noise will continue throughout your sleep cycle.

If you use your phone, make sure it charges overnight.
Put backup batteries into your alarm clock or similar device.
Consider leaving your window open to ensure some white noise in the event of a power loss.