 There are different types of live edge wood that you can select when creating your hanging table. Popular types of live edge wood include burl round and tree round. Burl round is cut from the trunk of the tree and often boasts unique patterns but is also usually the most expensive. Tree round is a horizontal cut from a tree and is generally rounder and lighter than burl round., Many places that sell lumber will also have a kiln. If you purchase freshly cut live edge wood, it will need to be dried before you can convert it to a shelf. If there is moisture in the wood, it can crack and warp after you seal and coat it., Use a handheld electric sander to sand the entirety of your live edge wood. Maintain good pressure on the tool and sand towards, not against, the grain.For a larger surface area like the top and bottom of your wood, use 80 grit sandpaper. For cracks and crevices, 60 grit sandpaper works best. Once you’ve leveled out your wood, you can sand it again with a higher grit 220 sandpaper until the entire piece of wood is smooth.Sand your wood in an open and well-ventilated area.
If your live edge wood has bark, refrain from sanding it off.
 Wipe down your live edge wood with a tack cloth to remove any remaining sawdust or dirt debris. Tack cloth is specially designed to pick up dirt and dust. You can purchase them at home improvement stores or online.You can also use a slightly damp rag to wipe down your wood. Don’t use a light cotton that will come off on the wood or it may get trapped under your seal.
 Use a basic wooden paint mixer to stir the sealer, and make sure it’s long enough to reach the material that has settled on the bottom of the can. Never shake your can of polyurethane because it will create bubbles that can ruin the finish on your table.A polyurethane seal will protect your table from dirt, debris, and moisture. Lightly dip your brush into the sealer and use long, broad strokes towards the grain. Continue to paint until there's a coat of sealer on your wood.


A thin coat will ensure that the sealer won’t run or drip.
Thick coats of sealer will make your finish uneven and will attract dust., It will take water based sealers 4 to 6 hours to dry, while oil based polyurethane will take 24 hours to dry. You must wait until your sealer is completely dry before trying to apply another coat. Use a 220 grit sandpaper and go over the entirety of the wood one time to sand out any dust or dirt that may have been trapped in your finish as the sealer dried.You can test to see if your polyurethane is dry by sanding a small area of the table. If the sealer bunches up in one area, it’s not dry yet.
 Apply the last coat of polyurethane and allow it to dry overnight. Your live edge wood should now have a shiny protective finish over it. This will make it safer to place drinks and plates on it.
 Use a tape measure to measure 1 inch (2.54 cm) in from each corner of your wood and mark it with a pencil. Try to make these markings equidistant to one another and to each edge of the table so that the table is stable when you hang it. You should put one mark in each corner of the wood for a total of four markings., You’ll need to use a long in diameter brad drill bit and a strong drill to get through a thicker wood. Get a drill bit that’s at least ½ inch (1.27 cm) in diameter to accommodate the thickness of your rope. Drill all four holes that your marked all the way through your table., Use a tape measure to gauge the distance from the ceiling to where you want your table to hang. Take that number and multiply it by two and add a foot (30.48 cm). This should be the size of each piece of your rope. Measure out two pieces of rope with a tape measure and cut them to size.Make sure your rope is durable enough to hold up the table but thin enough to fit through your drill bit holes.
⅜ inch (0.95 cm) and above thick rope is adequate for this project.
 Thread one end of the rope through one of the holes. Continue pulling the rope over the bottom of your table and thread the other side of it through another hole that you drilled. Pull the rope through so that there is an even amount of slack on each side of the rope. Repeat the step with the other two holes., Measure the length of your wood and write it down. Take that length use it to distance two eye screws into your ceiling. Eye screws are metal hooks with a screw in the end that you can manually twist into wood. Once your eye screws are in, tug on them to make sure that they are secure.
 Take your S hooks and hang two of them on each eye screw. You don’t have to screw or attach them in any special way, simply hang them off of the eye screws. These will be used to attach to your rope and will hold your table in place., Get a friend to help lift the table in the air and tie each side of the rope to its own S hook and secure the end with a knot. Once you’re confident your knots are tight, have your friend slowly lower the table to see if the single eye screw can handle the weight. If it can, then have your friend lift the table and secure the last rope to the last two S hooks.Use a hitch knot if you're not confident that the ropes will stay on the hooks.
 If one of the sides of your table is coming up higher than the other sides, it won't be flat and things will slide off it. To fix this, undo the knot for the corner that's hanging too high and release some slack before re-tying the knot in place. Use a level on the top of your table to ensure that it isn't on an angle. Double check that the knots are secure by softly pushing down on the table. If everything holds together, your table is ready for use.