 Many autistic children have sensory challenges, particularly tactile defensiveness. Toys can be an excellent way to introduce tactile sensations in a low-key, non-threatening way, in which they have total control. Suitable toys might include:


Books with cloth, foil, yarn, etc. attached to them—you can even make your own
Blocks with raised lettering or numbers (this appeals to the ordering need as well)
Toys with bumps, fur, raised elements, ridges, etc.
Musical toys and toys that make sounds
Hard board books for children prone to tearing - allow them to tear the wrapping paper as much as they wish!;
, Teaching all children cooperation through toys is an important rite of growing up. For autistic children, socially interactive toys are even more important for helping them to develop coping mechanisms when interacting with the wider world. Board games are excellent for this, especially when the whole family pitches in to play together. Focus especially on the issue of taking turns and that losing is not a big deal. All children need to learn these skills but the frustration element can be very intense for autistic children.
 All children need to develop motor skills, but autistic children are especially likely to struggle in this regard. Painting and drawing are good choices, and trying fingerpainting can help sensory issues (if the child is able to try it). Developing balance might be tricky if the child refuses to ride a tricycle or bicycle. A lot of encouragement and patience will be required, as well as understanding that it might never happen. Trampolines are excellent but make sure it is safe and always be present.
 Functional play does not only help the child with their weaknesses; it also encourages them to build upon their strengths. Autistic children are often skilled at creating and understanding systems. You can encourage this by buying toys that allow them to design cars, construct elaborate towns for their dolls, and employ their visual skills. It may inspire them to go into STEM at an older age. Look for...


Building blocks
Toys that can be taken apart and reassembled in different ways
Puzzles and brain games
Dollhouses or toy towns to organize
Buttons and beads (consider choking hazards)

, Less complicated toys are better for younger children or ones with greater sensory or intellectual impairments; simple push-button, open and use toys are best. For children with stronger skills, building, creating, discovering, connecting, etc. toys are generally fine.
 Sometimes, it is fine to let your child simply enjoy a line of toys that is pure fun.
 The point of playtime is to have fun and relax—not to behave exactly like other people want you to. Allow your child to be themselves. It's okay if their playtime looks a little different from that of other children.
 Too many toys is always too many toys. For autistic children, it can feel overwhelming and crowding. It is better to choose one good quality toy over many cheaper toys that will clutter your house. If you hit the right choice, that one toy will provide many hours of enjoyment.
 There are numerous stores catering to toys for autistic children, offering advice and good ideas. There are also many, many guides on what toys to get for autistic children. Have a good read to inform yourself and apply the most appropriate ideas to suit your child – every child is different, and every form of autism is different, and you know your own child's needs and interests better than anyone else.


Find out what autistic writers loved when they were children.
Consider stim toys as well as traditional toys.
Some autistic children will do typical imaginary/interactive play with others, while tending to focus on stimming or systematizing play when by themselves.
Be careful of websites that emphasize "appropriate play." The goal of these websites may be to make autistic children look normal, rather than to help them have fun and improve their skills.
 Encouraging the child's passions will help them feel supported and understood. (It may also eventually lead to a fulfilling career for the child—a girl who loves fire trucks may someday design them.)

, Exercise is important for all children, and autistic children are no exception. (It may also provide an outlet for extra energy.) Encourage the child to play both by themselves and with others. If they are anxious by nature, encourage collaborative rather than competitive play.
 If you have an older child, they may enjoy going through the creation process with you. For example, show the child how to make yarn dolls, or sew a doll.
 Examples include balls, sidewalk chalk, art supplies, and sports gear. This gives an opportunity for the siblings to hang out together.
 This will help you or the parent bond with the child, and get to know how their mind works. It also provides an opportunity for the parent to model social skills in a relaxed, enjoyable environment. Autistic children are unique individuals who are worth getting to know.

