 They need to be at room temperature. If they're not, they'll be very difficult to work with and won't warrant the results you're looking for.;
, Set an ungreased baking sheet aside. A double-thick aluminum half-sheet pan with rolled edges is a good sheet to use. To avoid extra clean up time, line it with parchment paper.
 This isn't part of the dough; it'll be used to form a coating and on top when the cookies are done.
 Beat them together until your mixture is nice and smooth. You may find that the butter isn't absorbing into the cream cheese easily--just keep mixing.


If you use a low-fat version of either, the two may never fully combine. Though it's better for your waistline and health, higher-fat products will yield better looking results.
 When the egg is well mixed in, add 1 tsp (5 g) vanilla. Don't beat any more than you have to or the mixture might grow thin.
 Beat it slowly so that you don't make a mess. You'll know when you're done where there are no more lumps.


If the lumps seem to stay and you don't want to over beat your batter, take the back of the spoon and crush the lumps against the wall of the bowl.
 This will firm up the dough so you can roll it into balls more easily. You may consider putting it in the freezer if your tummy is rumbling, but good (better) things come to those who wait.
 Since the dough is cold, it shouldn't stick to your hands. If you want bite-size cookies or monster cookies, use more or less dough. A tablespoon is good for an average-sized cookie.


If you don't want to go mano-a-mano with the dough, a melon baller is a good tool to utilize in this situation.
If you do make bigger or smaller cookies, adjust the oven times as necessary. Keep an eye on your treats, regardless.
 Once it's coated, shake it a bit so the excess falls off (into the bowl). If you're worried about too much sugar, sprinkle it over all the sides. But really, though, too much sugar? Is there such a thing?

, Leave 2" (5 cm) between them when you place them on the baking sheet so that they can cook evenly.
 Be careful not to overcook them -- you want them to stay gooey! If you've made smaller or bigger cookies, bake them less or more, respectively.


If your oven bakes unequally, flip the sheet halfway through. This guarantees that half your cookies aren't baked more than the rest.
 Allow the cookies to cool slightly on the baking sheet before transferring them to wire racks to cool completely. Sniff until cooled, then dig in!


If desired, sprinkle the cooled cookies with more confectioners' sugar before serving.
