,, Sift 1 1/4 cups of sifted cake flour (not self-rising), 3/4 tsp. of baking powder, and 1/2 tsp. of coarse salt.
 Scrape out the seeds and save them.
 Heat it just until bubbles appear around the edge. Then, remove it from heat.
 of unsalted butter until it's melted. Then, let the mixture stand for 15 minutes to thicken.
 Discard the vanilla-bean pod.
 Use an electric mixer set on medium to whisk together 3 whole eggs, 3 egg yolks, and 1 cup of granulated sugar.
 Whisk the ingredients by hand until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is warm. This should take about 5-6 minutes. Then, remove the bowl from heat.
 Continue to whisk it until the mixture is pale yellow, fluffy, and thick enough to hold a ribbon on the surface for a few seconds when the whisk is lifted.
 First, stir 1/2 cup of the batter into the milk mixture to thicken it, then fold the milk mixture into the rest of the batter until you've just combined all of the ingredients.
 This will give the cupcakes enough room to expand. Distribute the batter evenly among the cups.
 Rotate the tins halfway through. Continue to cook the cupcakes until the centers are solid -- you can test them by sticking a toothpick in the center of the cupcakes -- and the edges of the cupcakes are light golden brown. Then, transfer the tins to wire racks to cool the cupcakes completely.
 To make the syrup, stir together 1/3 cup of very strong coffee, 1 oz. of marsala wine, and 1/4 cup of granulated sugar until the sugar is dissolved. Let this syrup cool.
 Continue to do this until you've used all of the syrup. Let the cupcakes stand to absorb the liquid for 30 minutes.
 Set an electric mixer on medium speak and whisk together 1 cup of heavy cream. Whisk together 8 oz. of mascarpone cheese and 1/2 cup of sifted confectioners' sugar until the mixture is smooth. Then, fold the whipped heavy cream into the cheese mixture until it's blended.
 Refrigerate the cupcakes overnight in airtight containers to settle them.
 Dust these tasty treats with cocoa powder and enjoy them at any time.

