 If your girlfriend can't keep her hands off of you and is always touching you, has her arms around you, or wants you to hold her hand, put your arm around her, or even drape her across your lap, then she may be ready for more. If her actions have been getting more sexual -- like if she's touching your manhood through your pants, or placing your hands on her breasts -- then she may be ready for something more.


If she's more physical around you, then this means she's probably more comfortable around you. And she'll only have sex with you if she feels comfortable with you.
See how she dances with you. Does she get closer to your body than ever? She may be trying to tell you something.;
, It's unlikely that your girlfriend wants to have sex with you if you've never even French kissed. But if you've been making out for a while and have moved further than that, then it's more likely that she's ready to have sex. If you've touched her breasts, and if you've touched each others private parts or even received oral sex from her, then it's more likely -- though not guaranteed -- that she may be ready to move further with you.


Just because a girl gives you oral sex does not mean that she's ready to have sex with you. Some girls give oral sex way before they're ready to have sex, while others aren't comfortable giving oral sex until after sex -- or they don't give it at all. Every girl is different.
If you kiss for hours and your girl doesn't do anything more, she may either be waiting for you to make the next move, or she may really just not be ready to have sex. If she pushes you away every time you try to touch her breasts, take off her shirt, or touch her below the belt, then she is definitely not ready.
 If suddenly, your girlfriend's friends are nowhere to be found, and she wants to spend a lot of time alone with you, in one of your homes or bedrooms, then it's likely that she wants to get intimate -- to some degree. If she wasn't ready for sex, then she'd be more likely to avoid any uncomfortable situations where you're completely alone and wanting more than she can give you.
 If you've never been alone in her place before, and she invites you in, then she may be telling you she wants something more from you. If she conveniently picks a date night location near her place and then casually steers you in the direction of her home, then she may be telling you that she wants to get intimate. This takes some planning and foresight, so it's likely she's put a lot of thought into getting you alone in her place.
 If she's never slept over, but she comes over with a bigger bag that is likely to be an overnight bag, then she may be telling you that she wants something more. If she wants to spend some time in bed with you, then it's likely that she doesn't just want to sleep. Falling asleep next to a person can feel almost as intimate as sex, so if she's trying to stay at your place, she may be telling you she's ready for the next step.


This doesn't mean that she's ready for sex, but it does make it more likely that she wants to be intimate.

