 Flour tortillas are typically larger than their corn-based counterparts, and are consequently used for burritos, as they’re able to hold more meat, cheese, and beans, without bursting open. Conversely, corn tortillas are often used for soft tacos, which are folded, but not wrapped shut, and almost always used to make enchiladas, in which the tortillas are layered atop one another.


The consistency of the tortillas also plays a role. Flour tortillas are smoother and more flexible, while corn tortillas have a slightly grainy texture and can be brittle.
When corn tortillas become stale, they can be fried and used as tortilla chips, or used to make taquitos., Corn tortillas are made from corn, which is a whole grain. Whole grains provide many nutritional benefits, including high amounts of fiber and various vitamins and minerals. Flour tortillas—made from flour, which is a refined and processed grain—do not provide these benefits.Additionally, since corn tortillas are typically smaller than flour tortillas, you’ll consume fewer calories by eating a single corn tortilla than you would eating a single flour tortilla.
 Ultimately, the decision between flour or corn tortillas may come down to a simple taste preference. Flour tortillas have a soft texture and a sweet taste, which tends to be mild. Corn tortillas have a more chewy texture, and also have a more pronounced flavor of roasted corn.If you’re unfamiliar with the differences in their flavor, buy a package of corn tortillas and a package of flour tortillas at your local grocery store.
 Although flour and corn tortillas are by far the most common and the most popular types, there are various other types of tortillas which offer new tastes and, in some cases, health benefits. Check your local grocery store—or a health food store—for spinach tortillas. Many commercial brands also offer whole grain tortillas or wheat flour tortillas.Whole grain tortillas are healthier options than generic white flour tortillas, as they’ll contain more healthy nutrients.
While spinach tortillas have an appealing taste, they do not offer substantially more health benefits than regular flour tortillas. Spinach tortillas are typically made from white flour, and spinach powder and green food dye are added to them.