 Avoid self-doubt or self-hate. Be hopeful that there are opportunities for better and healthier relationships. By building up your self-confidence, you are more likely to find dates and keep them. Train yourself to stop negative thoughts in their tracks.When you see yourself heading towards negative thinking, stop yourself for a moment. Take a deep breath. Think about the good things that you have to offer.
Avoid making a date into a big, stressful ordeal. While dating again may be awkward, be positive that going on a few dates with someone is not a lifetime commitment or a horrible mistake.
 You are not defined by your relationship status. There can be benefits to being alone after a difficult breakup, as it may allow you time to heal. Be comfortable with being independent.Avoid seeking a mate if the only reason is to feel less lonely. Consider widening your social circle with other single friends in order to feel less isolated.
Consider a new way to define yourself as an individual rather than as part of a couple. If you were married for many years and had a very limited support system outside of your spouse, it may be time to redefine how to get your emotional needs met outside of one person.
Give yourself time to learn more about yourself — what you love, what matters to you most, who you enjoy being around, and what hope you have.
 Imagine yourself as without children, without worries, and without marriage. What does this look like? Dress and act in a way that represents your own personality, and your unique self. Avoid being held back by your ex, your children or your family, while still being mindful of your responsibilities.


Seek advice from friends and family, but don't let them hold you back from new experiences to be more independent.

Find closure with the past in order to feel right about the future. Consider changing your environment, outlook on life, or appearance. With closure, you will be more ready to see the real you.Try a new look which indicates you're ready to see yourself in a new way. Get some new clothes, or a different hair style. Try a new approach to interacting with others.

