 Tell your child in advance about your cleaning schedule. Announce the day and which tasks you’ll be tackling. Give specific examples of what you’ll be doing and what the positive outcomes will be.For example, say to a child under 10: “Next Sunday we’ll be making more space for your summer toys in the garage. We’ll be taking out old stuff and reorganizing so you can find your toys and bikes more easily. Then we can take a bike ride!”
For a tween or teenager, emphasize responsibility: “We will clean the dining room this weekend. You’ll be in charge of polishing the furniture and the silver.”;
, For a small child, set aside one morning each week for a small spring cleaning project. Talk to your child about what you will do together to complete each project. Little kids have short attention spans, so break down the project into smaller tasks.For example, say: “We’ll be cleaning the playroom next week. First we will put your toys away, then we will vacuum the rug.”

, Engage older children in larger projects. For example, assign your teen landscaping projects, like weeding and seeding the garden, building rock walls and garden trellises, and spreading mulch. Let them help you schedule the order in which tasks should be completed and when they plan to do them.
 Write down specific tasks for your child to accomplish. Add a column for them to check off when they’ve completed each task. To make it more fun and engaging, ask your younger child to decorate their list or chart.


Upload a task list to your tween or teen’s cell phone.
Buy stickers to put in the check boxes when each task is complete. Allow your child to choose the sticker as a reward.
Draw pictures to represent the tasks for a toddler. You could also cut and paste pictures instead of drawing.
 Be very specific about your expectations instead of saying something general like “dust the living room.” Tell your child exactly what they are to do. Break the directions down into steps if possible.For example, say: “Take your duster and brush it over all of the shelves in the bookcase. Next, dust with your duster on top of and around the TV.”
For more complicated chores, write down step-by-step instructions, including the tools and cleaning products needed for the job.
For example, give your teen written instructions on how to clean the grout in the bathrooms, and list the scrub brushes and cleaners needed to get the job done.

