


Example: Provide a pencil to each one so that he can complete the form.

Improvement: Provide each boy with a pencil so that he can complete the form.
;
, Restructure sentences to avoid pronoun usage.


Example: When the director authorizes funds, he will consult with the treasurer.

Improvement: The director will consult with the treasurer to authorize funds.
 The imperative mood is especially useful in instructional texts and how-tos such as the one you are reading.


Example: The volunteer will give his notes to the coordinator.

Improvement: Give your notes to the volunteer coordinator.
 Be careful that singular nouns are not matched to plural pronouns.


Example: Each employee will secure his personal items in a locker.

Debated usage: Each employee will secure their personal items in a locker.

Improvement: All employees will secure their personal items in a locker.
 This may, however, sound exceedingly awkward.
NOTE: It was once technically correct to use the masculine when the gender was unknown or when referring to a mixed-gender group. (1 policeman + 1 policewoman = 2 policemen.) However, this usage is currently regarded as sexist. Furthermore, it may mistakenly imply that the group spoken of is entirely male. Therefore, in all but the most formal uses, the generic use of plural pronouns ("they" or "their") have become acceptable substitutes for the generic use of the masculine singular. (In fact, despite the opposition of nineteenth- and twentieth-century grammarians, this generic use of the plural pronoun has been used by many fine authors for centuries, and is both as logical and as old as the generic masculine singular.)


Example: Each aide must complete his schedule for the week.

Possible Improvement (though awkward): Each aide must complete their schedule for the week.



Example: After completing his schedule, the aide will place it in the director's file.

Improvement: After the schedule is completed, the aide will place the completed schedule in the director's file.
 Do not overuse this method.


Example: When an employee leaves a facility, he should report the time."

Improvement: The time should be reported by an employee who leaves a facility."


, Some notable systems include Spivak pronouns (e, em, eir) or the Xe pronouns (xe, xim, xer). However, as none of these neologisms are widely adopted, they should be used with caution. They might not be understood unless explained, and explaining them might allow the topic of gender and linguistics to distract from whatever you wanted to talk about.