 Do this in sneakers, because they feel similar to skates. If you are a right handed skater, stand with your legs side by side and put your left arm in front of you, with your right arm to your side, as if skating backwards.
 This will cause your body to rotate. If you are a left handed skater, stand in the same position, but with your right hand in front of you and your left to your side. Pull your left hand to your right.

Once you have gotten to the point where you can do one full revolution (360 degrees), practice doing the actual jump off ice.
For right handed skaters, put your left foot in front of your right, in the loop jump takeoff position. Jump up in the air, rotate, and come down on your right leg. Make sure to land on your landing foot, so that you get used to the feeling.
If you are a left handed skater, then do the opposite, but be sure to maintain the loop position.
 This jump can be a bit tricky as you do not land on your normal "landing-leg".

Start in your loop takeoff position, then jump up in the air and do a full revolution. Come down on an inside edge on your non-landing leg.
 You will want to be able to land it consistently before you start tweaking it. Start in your loop takeoff position and jump in the air, pulling your arms together. Do one revolution in the air and come down on your landing leg. When you land, put your arms straight out and stretch your leg in a nice landing position., Are you rushing? Are you on your toepick? Are your legs too far apart? Make sure you hit the correct position while in the air, and find the perfect speed for you., This is a tough position, since the force of jumping can cause your legs to be a bit far apart or too close together.

Make sure your legs are in an "h" position, with one leg bent slightly at the knee. Make sure that the blade of your free leg is at around the mid-calf of your landing leg. Try to make your body look like a lower-case h, with one leg bent forming the curve, and the other straight forming the stem.

