 The holidays can be time of large social gatherings and big meals. For someone with disordered eating, this can be particularly stressful and anxiety-provoking. Make sure to find a private and safe space to talk with someone about their eating and behaviors, rather than in large, public holiday gatherings.Choose a safe place that is away from distractions. Consider asking them to talk in another room or outside. For example, consider saying, "I was hoping to talk with you privately for a minute. Is that okay?"
Consider setting a time to talk with them by phone when they aren't busy. Consider saying, "I know the holidays can be overwhelming, but I was hoping to chat with you sometime soon. Is there a good time to call you?"
Talk with them in an open and respectful way that focusing on providing support rather than judgment. For example, consider saying, "I know that the holidays can be stressful, and can make food seem like an enemy. I just want you to know that I'm here for you, and want to support you in any way I can.";
, While it is hard to tell if someone has disordered eating habits after interacting with them only a few times, be willing to express your concerns in a thoughtful way. Rather than focusing specifically on their eating habits, try to understand how they are doing physically and emotionally. Disordered eating is more than just about food.Share specific thoughts about when and how you felt concerned about their eating habits or exercise behaviors. Talk with them about any previous experiences or people you know who have had disordered eating.
Consider saying, for example, "I was wondering how you've been doing. Has anything been more stressful for you lately? I noticed that you seemed down and not interested in eating."
Be caring and non-judgmental in your approach. They are likely to feel judged or defensive at first.
 Be clear, concise, and thoughtful when talking with them about how you'd like to help. Avoid making it feel like helping them is burdensome or difficult. They may be more reluctant to accept help if it feels forced.


Keep in mind that professional help is usually required for eating disorders. Do not attempt to help the person alone. Try saying something like, “I am concerned about you and I would like to help you find a professional to begin working things out.”
Offer to spend more time doing things one-on-one with them. Make them feel special, and get time to understand them more.
For example, consider saying, "I was wondering if we could hang out this weekend. Just you and me. I want to be available and here for you."
If you feel like they are harming themselves physically and emotionally, approach the subject carefully about seeking counseling for eating disorders.
 Each person has a different way of handling themselves and their feelings. Some people may be more open about their feelings, while others may avoid of any conversation about their behaviors. When you ask them what they need, focus on really listening to what they say.Try reaching out before a major holiday or big family gathering. By being proactive, you may be able to helpful prevent or reduce triggers for them.
Listen attentively to their thoughts about food and themselves. Someone with disordered eating may have obsessive or constantly negative thoughts about their appearance and food.
 At holiday parties with large amounts of sweet treats and comfort foods, there may be talk of dieting. Temptations can be high so many people want to talk about how they are controlling their cravings. Help to reduce the chatter about dieting at holiday gatherings.Someone with disordered eating may feel triggered by talk of dieting to restrict themselves further or becoming more obsessive about their looks.
Avoid talking about your dieting success stories, as this may make others feel worse inadvertently.
 Many people will give themselves excuses for their eating behaviors based on moral judgments. They feel like it's okay to reward themselves with a piece of cake if they went to the gym for two hours earlier. Or, they may say they're "being good" by eating a salad rather than having pizza.When talking with someone who has an eating disorder, these moral judgments are particularly acute. Restrictive eating becomes "good" while giving in to eating something high in calories is "bad."
By talking about food in a non-judgmental way, you can help to normalize food. Eating should not be a painful and sinful experience.
 Avoid picking apart what others are eating. This can feel like judgment. Help to make different foods, both nutritious and those less-so, seem normal. While overindulging or restricting may seem worrisome, talking about it in a large group while at a holiday gathering is likely to do little good.Help to make the person with disordered eating feel empowered rather than judged.
While it's important to make sure they are safe, avoid being overly critical every time you see what food choices they are making.
 Avoid stereotyping disordered eating based on someone's looks alone. People who struggle with disordered eating come in all shapes and sizes. But paying more attention to their ongoing behaviors and actions, rather than their appearance, you can understand better someone's struggle.


Be mindful of your own preconceptions about who may have an eating disorder. While some thoughts may stem from truth, others may be simply based on snap judgments.
Critically think about someone's actions more than their appearance. Listen to what they say. And focus on their actions over time.
 While it may seem counterintuitive, focusing on someone's looks even if you think they look healthy and attractive, could spur them to think otherwise. Someone with an eating disorder as a distorted sense of their appearance and looks, and may see a compliment as a judgment.Instead of saying things like, "You look so good" or "You're looking very fit," try focusing on making compliments about their work, their personality, or their life in general.
By focusing comments away from the body, someone may be less triggered to think or act negatively about themselves.
 The simple act of making someone feel special and appreciated can do a world of good for their self-esteem and confidence. Around the holidays, there may be heightened stress and temptations. Remind those you're concerned about that you care and appreciate them being there.Use simple words of gratitude such as, "I am so thankful to have you join us here today."
Make them feel welcome rather than isolated. Provide hugs, smiles, and warm greetings.
Tell them that you appreciate them, and are glad they are present with you.

