 Butter a 9-inch round pan or a 9x13 baking pan, and line the baking pan with parchment paper.
 Mash the bananas until pureed well. You can mash them with a fork or a potato masher, or you can place the bananas into a food processor. Pour lemon juice over the banana mash to prevent them from turning brown.Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of sugar over the bananas. Set aside for now.
 First, using a hand or stand mixer, beat the butter on low until it is creamy. During this step, beat the lemon rind into the butter. Then, add the sugar to the lemon rind butter, mixing on high until the butter and sugar is light and fluffy. Don't forget to scrape the sides of the bowl while mixing.The butter should be softened before beating with the lemon rind, because softened butter makes it easier to mix with other ingredients. Remove the butter from the refrigerator 30-60 minutes before you begin so it will be soft enough., Use a hand mixer when beating each egg into the batter. Add them into the mixture one at a time.


Make sure the eggs are at room temperature. Take them out of the refrigerator 10-15 minutes before you begin mixing ingredients.
Add the mashed bananas to the batter. Then add the milk. Mix through well with a mixer or spoon.
 Add the baking soda and flour into a sifter. Then, sift the dry ingredients to the batter. Mix through with a hand or standing mixer until all ingredients are blended.
 Place the cake in the preheated oven for 50 minutes, or until a skewer or toothpick inserted into the middle of the cake comes out clean.
 Allow to cool for a few minutes in the baking pan. Then turn the pan upside down onto a wire cooling rack, remove from the pan, and allow to cool completely.
 Make sure the cake is completely cooled before icing. Arrange the walnuts on the cake in any way you prefer.


The walnuts are optional. You can add different nuts or a different topping. Try mixing toppings for different flavors.
 Cut the cake and place onto plates to serve. The cake is best served fresh. If you need to store it, keep it in an airtight container in a cool place.

