 Blogs are competing with a lot of other content on the web. It's important to stay relevant and up to date to keep readers coming back; otherwise, your blog will get quickly forgotten. Keep yourself in readers' inboxes by updating at least once a week, and ideally more frequently.


When writer's block takes over and you're finding it difficult to come up with consistently great posts, remember that not every post has to be high quality and well thought out. You can update a few times a week with shorter posts or thoughts, just to keep yourself on people's radar.
Updating frequently is especially important when you're first starting out and trying to gain an audience. As you rise in popularity, you'll be less likely to be forgotten after a week or two of no posts.
Publishing a consolidated list of "favorites" is a good way to put up a post without actually having to write it. Consider ending the week with a list of links that inspired you, for example.
 The beauty of online writing is that your readers can participate in the conversation in real time. You'll know exactly what people think of your blog, because they'll tell you so in the comments. This type of participation should be encouraged, because it makes people feel welcome to the "community" of your blog, creates a sense of friendship and intimacy, and leads to fans spreading the word about your blog to other people.


One way to encourage comments is to ask people questions in your posts. For example, you could end a post about your vacation with the question, "what's your favorite place to travel?" When people are encouraged to participate, they usually will.
Be prepared to get some negative or mean comments every once in a while. Try not to take them personally; everyone who has a blog that is read by people other than friends or family is subjected to a troll every once in a while. You can delete the comment or ignore it, it's your choice.
 When you're first starting out, taking the time to correspond with people will help you build a loyal readership by increasing the sense of intimacy people feel with you. Eventually it won't be possible to respond to every single comment or email, but allotting a certain amount of time to the task will pay off in the end.
 If a certain topic or style of blog post seems to be hurting your traffic or inspiring fewer responses, try something new next time. This is not to say you should cater wholly to your readership, but if you aren't offering something that readers like, you'll have trouble getting them to stay with you.

