 If your guild needs you to specialize in healing, then start procuring plate spellcaster gear. It is completely up to you on how you want to spend your talent points, but it would be a good idea to look up profiles of experienced Paladins in wowhead.com's profiler tool. Here are the talent builds and what they can do:

Holy (Healing) The paladin is best known for being manna efficient when healing and they make great single-target healers. There is a talent that when your healing spells critically strike, you get 60% of the mana you just used back. So paladins should focus on + crit gear if planning to heal, besides the + intellect and + spell power that all casters need. On the down side, they have no healing over time spells. Even without, they are very good healers. Paladins can wear any armor type, so if you are planning on healing and won't be getting hit much, it is OK to use cloth/leather/mail armor as long as its' stats are suitable. Paladins cannot equip staffs so you are going to have to use a 1 handed sword/mace and a shield. Another reason Paladins are good healers is because they can't be one hit by bosses since they are wearing plate armour have a shield equipped.



 


Protection (Tank) You are wearing plate remember? Paladins are also great tanks and specialize in holding aggro with several enemies at once with their Consecration. Although their Holy Shield spell is not guaranteed to block all attacks like the Warrior's Shield Block, it has a shorter cool down to be used more often. The Paladin's threat is based on Holy damage done, so it helps to get some + spell damage gear along with your + defense. Also one of the great talents a Paladin gets as protection is when they are below 35% health, they will take 30% less damage. To open up on a pull, use Avengers Shield and as soon as the enemies get close enough,Consecrate. Aggro should be on you from now on and all you have to do is not die. And make sure your Righteous Fury is activated






Retribution (DPS) Paladin's damage is physical and spell based, but don't be confused. The stats you want to stack are Attack Power (AP) and Crit Chance. AP is seen as spell power when spells are used. Almost all of your damage abilities are instant cast and based on weapon damage. You will want to pick a two-handed weapon (2H) that has a slow attack speed because the slower the attack speed, the harder it hits for each hit. Don't waste time on +Haste gear because haste doesn't affect instant casts in any way. Paladins also specialize in damaging Undead and Demons and they have a few spells that damage only those types of enemies. Always judge the target you are trying to kill. If specified into Retribution, your judgments will increase the crit chance on that target for everyone.





;
, Paladins have a variety of auras that effect all group members such as Devotion aura, which increases armor by about 1200 or so at level 80. They also have some great buffs called "Blessings" such as Blessing of Kings which increases all stats by 10%. That's really beneficial to tanks because it will increase there hit points by about 2000 depending on their gear level.
 Seals are something every Paladin has the ability to use. In fact almost everything a Paladin does is based on the Seals used. Read each one and decide what you want to use, keep in mind there is another side to seals: Judgments. Whatever seal you are using at the time has a judgment effect that applies when you use the Judgment ability. Judgments are a major source of your DPS and always help the group in some way. For example Judgment of Light has a chance to heal anyone who attacks that enemy for a small amount. There are three different Judgement spells: Judgement of Light, Judgement of Wisdom, which can restore 2% of the attackers mana, and Judgement of Justice which limits an enemies movement speed.

