 Recently, many of traditional herbal treatments have been rigorously studied and found to be effective in relieving some of the symptoms of PMS. This is not surprising to some, as these herbs have been used by women for hundreds of years.Let your physician know that you are using remedies to treat your PMS.
If you don’t see any results after 3-4 cycles, make an appointment to see your physician to discuss other alternatives.
For all these herbs, follow manufacturer’s instructions. Dosages can vary depending on how the herbs are prepared.
 Chasteberry is also known as Vitex agnus castus. It has been shown to reduce breast tenderness, swelling (edema), mood swings, depression and headache., Maca is a root plant grown in the Andean mountains and used for centuries to balance hormones during PMS and for menopausal symptoms. Recent studies have indicated that it can help relieve symptoms of PMS possibly by increasing progesterone levels., Evening primrose oil contains a fatty acid, gamma linoleic acid or GLA, that is used by the body to make anti-inflammatory substances. It has been shown to be helpful in treating breast pain is some small studies.
 Wild yam has traditionally been used for intestinal, labor, and menstrual pain. While it is up to some debate it it helps with PMS, it has been shown to help with high estrogen levels., Black cohosh has been shown to be most helpful to treat PMS symptoms. These include irritability, depression, anxiety, and insomnia in PMS., Ginkgo biloba is one of the most commonly used herbs to treat mental difficulties, such as difficulty in concentrating and memory issues. However, ginkgo has also been shown to be a mild diuretic and relieves symptoms of swelling, breast tenderness, and bloating., St John’s wort is used to treat the physical and behavioral symptoms of PMS.It does make oral contraceptives less effective as a method of birth control, so if you use St John’s wort, you may want to consider another method of birth control.
 Dandelion leaf has been used for centuries to relieve the swelling and bloating associated with PMS. Dandelion leaf is best taken as a tea.
 There are a number of formulations, combinations of herbs, used to treat PMS. These can be beneficial for many symptoms of PMS.

