 You need as much information as you can pull together about the perpetrator and the crime before you begin the FBI's online complaint process. The more information you provide, the more likely the FBI will be to resolve the situation and bring the person to justice.If you have documents or screen-captures of the threats, you typically can attach them to your complaint as digital files.
Providing as many facts and details as possible allows investigators to best process your complaint and get the correct agencies involved to protect you and apprehend the person who is threatening you.;
, The IC3 is a database run by the FBI that collects and analyzes information about internet crime, then disseminates that information to state and local law enforcement agencies.The IC3 program is specifically designed to combat crimes that were committed over the internet, making it the perfect vehicle for you if you are the victim of cyber threats.
IC3 staff evaluate information in complaints filed to determine whether the incident falls under federal or state jurisdiction. Then your complaint is forwarded to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
 After you read and accept the FBI's privacy policy and terms and conditions, you'll be directed to an online complaint form where you can provide information about yourself and the threats you want to report.As you're entering your information, keep in mind that you're doing so under penalty of perjury. False or incorrect information could lead to fines or imprisonment, so if you don't know something, simply leave it blank – don't try to guess.
Make sure you include as much information as possible about the person threatening you. It may be that you aren't the only one they've threatened, or that they've committed crimes in the past. Identifying information can help law enforcement track them down and even link them to other crimes.
Include your own name, address, phone number, and email address so law enforcement officers or prosecutors can contact you if they need additional information or want to update you on the status of any investigation.
Provide as many specific details as possible, including the dates and times the threats were made, the context of the threats, and the exact words the person used. Explain why you believe the threats to be credible.
 Once you've reviewed the information you supplied in the complaint and are satisfied it is complete and accurate, you can click the button to submit it to the IC3 for evaluation.After you've submitted your complaint, you will have the opportunity to print a copy of it for your records. The information in your complaint also can be used if you plan to file other reports, such as a report with your local law enforcement agency, or if you intend to request a restraining order from the courts.
IC3 will send you a confirmation email to let you know your complaint has been received. This email includes a username and password you can use to check the status of your complaint or add information.
 After you've submitted your complaint, you'll receive a confirmation email that includes a username and password you can use to check the status of your complaint at any time.Keep in mind that after you've submitted your complaint, you can access it and add to it, but you can't delete or cancel it.
The information in your complaint may be shared with federal, state, and even international law enforcement agencies. However, these agencies have broad discretion on whether to follow up on the complaint or initiate an investigation.

