 Distinguish your characters by giving them accents that indicate to the reader where they come from or where they grew up. A character who is from South Boston, for example, will have a different manner of speaking than a character who is from Paris. Think about how your character might speak on a day to day basis and how you can represent their dialogue on the page.This may mean your character clips certain words, such as “sayin’” instead of “saying” or pronounces words differently than others, for example, “dawg” instead of “dog”.
As well, age can be a factor, as older characters may use different terms or phrases than younger characters. An older character may not be as aware with Internet speak as a younger character who is on her phone texting and surfing the web all the time.
 A vocal tic is different from an accent in that it is a quality of speaking that the character has created for herself or that has developed due to a physical or mental trauma.Your character may have an issue with certain terms or phrases due to a mental trauma and avoid saying them or replace them with different words. Or your character may be unable to use certain words due to a speech impediment or another physical impediment. For example, maybe your character is blind and has difficulty describing colors. So she will describe colors differently or use other terms for colors in her dialogue and description.
Your character may also choose to replace certain words or terms. Many teenage characters do this, where they replace more adult terms with their own terms. This is often specific to the world of the story and the mindset of the character. For example, in the Harry Potter books, humans are known as “muggles” and are referred to as “muggles” by different characters.
 Another way to build character is to consider if your character might speak differently around certain characters or in certain situations. This switch is known as code switching, where a person adopts different manners of speaking to best express themselves based on their audience. Your character may do this as well and you can use their code switching as a character trait.For example, if your character is a young Black man who is trying to get into Harvard, he may code switch and use formal English when he speaks to the Harvard application committee. He may then speak in slang or street language when he is hanging out with friends at school or at home with his family.

