 If the person is telling you what to wear, what to eat, where you can go, and who you can see, this is a controlling behavior and a sign of emotional abuse.The abuser makes you feel dependent on him and that you are unable to make your own decisions.
 Abusive individuals can be controlling and overbearing. This can manifest as a need to make decisions for others and tell others what to do. The person who is abusing others may expect people to follow his orders without questioning him.Intimidation tactics may include:Making threatening looks or gestures.
Smashing things in front of the person.
Destroying property, harming pets, or putting weapons on display.
 Threatening is when the abuser tries to scare the other person into staying with them or possibly drop charges against them. An abuser may threaten the other person, the other person's loved ones, or even to harm himself.Threats can be vague such as, “If I can't have you, no one can,” or, “You’re going to get it. You’ll be sorry.”
The abuser may threaten to withhold food or other care the person needs.
Know that criminal threats are crimes. Report the person to the police if you feel you or someone you know is in danger. You can also ask for a restraining order.
 Social isolation can be a form of control. The abusive person wants the victim to not have close friendships or relationships because this can limit the abusers control. The abusive person knows that the individual may seek help from social supports, and he may want to limit these supports.This may show up as isolating the individual or not allowing the person to be in social situations (such as go out with friends).The abuser may also try to prevent the person from attending school or work., Financial abuse can occur in intimate relationships, as well as against the elderly (called elder abuse). Economic abuse include any of the following:Rigidly controlling finances.
Withholding money or credit cards.
Forcing the person account for every penny spent.
Withholding basic necessities (food, clothes, medications, shelter).
Restricting the person to an allowance.
Preventing from working or choosing a career.
Sabotaging someone’s job (making one miss work, calling constantly).
Stealing from the person or taking money.

