 The normal resting heart rate for an adult is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (and for a child 70 – 100 beats per minute). However, a recent study indicated that a heart rate above 80 is one risk factor for obesity and diabetes.If your resting heart rate is between 60 and 80 beats per minute, it is likely to be categorized as healthy or normal.
 If it is, you might have a higher risk of cardiac disease and you should consult your doctor immediately.


A high resting heart rate means your heart needs to work harder to maintain a steady beat at rest. A high resting heart rate is considered a risk factor for ischemic cardiac disease, obesity and diabetes.A 10-year clinical study found that adults whose resting heart rate increased from 70 to 85 beats per minute were 90% more likely to have died during the study than those whose rate remained below 70.If your resting heart rate is high, take actions to lower it (see next section). A heart rate over 100 beats per minute is known as tachycardia.
Some medications (such as thyroid medication and stimulants like Adderall and Ritalin) can raise your heart rate. Discuss with your doctor if you are concerned that the medications you are currently taking have increased your heart rate.Environmental temperature and humidity can also temporarily increase your heart rate because your heart needs to work a little harder in these conditions. This does not mean your heart rate is high in normal conditions.
Other causes of tachycardia include fever, hypotension, anemia, smoking, drinking too much alcohol or caffeine, electrolyte imbalance, hypothyroidism, and more., Having your rate be below 60 beats per minute doesn’t usually mean you have a medical problem. People who are very athletic or in good physical shape can have a resting heart rate as low as 40 beats per minute.Some people have low heart rate by nature and there is nothing abnormal or unhealthy about this. Low heart rate is medically known as bradycardia.
Some medications (such as beta blockers, sedatives, opioids, and many more) can slow down your heart rate.Ask your doctor if any of your medications cause low heart rate.
Consult your doctor and ask if you need to take action due to low resting heart rate.

