 Glue based dent pullers use traditional glue guns to heat the glue before applying it to the vehicle. You will need to plug the gun in a few minutes before you start in order to heat the gun up enough to melt the glue.


Be sure to use an extension cord that can reach the vehicle for the glue gun.
You will need to re-wax the vehicle after using this method.
 Using a glue based dent remover kit purchased from an auto parts store, choose the tab that best fits the dent you are trying to pull. Usually, you want to use a tab that fits entirely within the dent so it pulls directly from the center point.


Follow the directions in your dent pulling kit so help you determine which tab is right for your application.
 Apply a dab of hot glue to the tab of your choice, then quickly place the tab, glue side down, in the center of the dent. Hold the tab in place for a moment to allow the glue to set.


It’s okay if some of the glue squeezes out the sides of the tab when you apply it.
Hold the tab in place until the glue dries enough to hold itself up.
 Slide the pulling mechanism bracket over the tab with the two posts on either side of the dent. If the kit came with multiple brackets, ensure you use one that is longer than the diameter of the dent so the posts are at least a half inch from the start of the dent on either side.


The posts need to be outside the dent in order to pull the dent out.
If the bracket is not wider than the dent, this method will not work for you.
 Place the knob on the end of the tab that’s glued to the center of the dent. Turn the knob clockwise to tighten it, drawing the glued tab toward the bracket and pulling the metal with it. Continue to turn the knob until the dent pops out.


The glue may give way as you turn the knob. If this occurs, remove the old glue and begin the process again.
You may need to repeat this method on more than one spot to remove the entire dent.
 Peel any loose glue off with your fingers, then use rubbing alcohol to help remove any glue or residue remaining. This will likely remove the wax, and possibly even the clear coat from your paint, so be sure to apply a fresh coat of wax as soon as possible.


The glue and the alcohol are both harsh on paint, so be sure to wash and wax the vehicle after using them.

