 Mammalian cells have more sophisticated functions and more developed than its counterparts in other species. This is manifested especially in humans which are smarter than other creatures in the animal kingdom. Also the nervous system of mammalians and in humans in particular is more developed and is more intricate in function than other animals such as the reptiles. These primitive animals have basic structure of their nervous system that is built mostly of autonomic reflexes that allow it to sustain their life needs.;
, This is in addition to the presence of neurons that have other functions such as receptors of pain and other sensations that are located in the skin. These sensations are perceived in special areas of the brain cortex and give the appropriate sensation to the affected individual.
 The endocrine system in humans is multifunctional system that its function is mediated through multiple endocrine glands that are located in various areas of the body. These glands secrete chemical compounds that have signaling function for the various cells of the body. In addition this system is much more developed than in certain animals such as the reptiles. The endocrine system in humans is a controlled system that has master glands that govern and dictate the function of the other endocrine glands in the body. This master gland in humans is located in the brain as is part of the central nervous system in humans. The mechanism of defense in humans in the case of emergency is governed by the autonomic nervous system and in particular the sympathetic nervous system.
 This is the basic mechanism which occurs in humans and animals of the more developed species. This mechanism of adaptation to stressful situations is characterized by specific symptoms that distinguish this situation such as increased heart rate and increased sweating. Also humans use their more developed brains in order to assess and evaluate the situation that faces them.
 Humans also have autonomic autonomic reflexes but these are minor part of their nervous system which include developed centers in the brain which specialize in higher mental thinking and other intelligent functions that lack in other animals. Also in the brain of humans there are centers for the sensation of hunger and thirst in which can be expressed vocally through the specialized function of the larynx which lacks in all animals.
 This however does not rule out their existence. Intelligence of animals in general and humans in particular is a controversial subject in as much as its basic causes. It is however agreed that both biological as well as environmental causes contribute to the development of intelligence in humans.
 The answer of many unsolved questions about the mechanisms of many phenomena in the body of humans is likely to be found in the structure of genes in the various humans. An example cancer is sometimes of genetic causes. Also the many other diseases of the body are of genetic origin. The subject of genetics is based on the chemical structure of the DNA molecules and its translational process of protein synthesis at the ribosome. Dysfunctional DNA molecule by virtue of its wrong sequence of bases can lead to the synthesis of dysfunctional proteins and enzymes. Also these enzymes can sometimes be deficient completely and not synthesized by the cell. This can have severe clinical symptoms of the affected individuals.
 Also the disease processes that occur in humans have led to the investigation of the molecular biology of the human cell and the cellular biochemistry of microorganisms. The biochemical processes in humans are much more understood than in other animals. This is however still not a complete understanding of the nature of biochemical processes which occur in the body.
 This is possible due to the intensive research that is being done on this area of science and other areas as well. Exploration of the nature of the human body and the essence of our existence is a main impetus for humans to proceed in the process of scientific research in all areas of science.

