 Place the three ingredients in a large resealable plastic bag. Zip the bag closed and shake well to combine the ingredients.


Alternatively, you could add the three ingredients to a shallow mixing bowl and combine them with a mixing spoon or whisk until evenly distributed.
 Place the slices of beef liver in the plastic bag with the flour. Zip closed again and shake well to coat all sides of each slice.


Add the liver a few pieces at a time to avoid overcrowding the bag. If you overcrowd the bag, you will have a harder time coating all sides of all pieces.
If you have the flour mixture inside a shallow dish instead of a bag, you will need to toss the liver in the dish of flour and turn with your fingers, a fork, or tongs.
No matter what method you use, you should gently shake the liver over the bag or dish to remove any excess flour.
 Place the water, ketchup, brown sugar, apple cider vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, and garlic powder in a small mixing bowl. Blend the ingredients together using a whisk or mixing spoon until well combined.
 Add the oil to a large skillet and heat it over medium heat for a minute or two, just until the oil becomes glossy and notably easier to spread.


Do not let the oil start to smoke. If it begins to smoke, the oil has begun breaking down, and it will be too hot for this particular recipe.
 Place the pieces of coated liver in the oil and cook for 4 to 6 minutes on both sides, or until browned on both sides.


Carefully turn the liver with tongs. Ideally, you will only need to turn the liver once as it browns, but if you need to turn it multiple times to prevent it from sticking or over-browning on one side, that will not harm the liver or ruin the dish.
 Pour the sauce over the liver in the pan and bring it to a boil. After it reaches a boil, reduce the heat to low and cover.


By boiling the sauce first, you can ensure that everything has been brought up to temperature. Do not keep it at a rolling boil, however, since this sort of heat can cause the liver to cook too fast and become too tough as a result.
 When done, the liver should be tender.Keep the lid on for as much of the cooking process as possible.
If desired, you can turn the liver inside the pan as once or twice as it cooks. Doing so can help prevent it from sticking to the skillet.
 Transfer the hot beef liver to individual serving plates and ladle sauce from the skillet on top of the slices before enjoying.

