 Sadly, many single men are just small-minded, hormone-driven, testosterone-poisoned pigs and they're on the internet looking for a babe. Don't take these rejections from piggies too personally. These aren't the guys you want. You want a man of substance, not someone who's looking for a trophy babe.;
, Most of these are written by, and for, the beautiful people. Contrary to what these books advise, Do NOT market yourself. For instance, do not act passive and demure if you're not a passive and demure person. Do not pretend to be anything that you're not. Personality comes from a Latin word, used to describe the mask that actors wore during a performance. Take off the masks. Stop playing a part and start being authentic and real.
 If you get a bad vibe from a guy, listen to that nudging from within and end the date or end the relationship. And read, "The Gift of Fear" by Gavin deBecker. It's a book that teaches how to pay attention to the intuitive suggestions that come from our "wired-to-survive" self hood.
 Men at the internet dating sites don't get that many well-written, intelligently worded emails from single women. Don't wait for your inbox to fill up. Get out there and do a little shopping. Find a profile that sounds intriguing and write Mr. Wonderful a nice note.
 Write something thoughtful. Write something intelligent. Write something that is an accurate reflection of who you really are. Invite them to respond by asking questions. Be intriguing with a dash of mystery. And follow the rules of writing good advertising copy: Leave plenty of white space. In other words, don't blather on. Sell the sizzle, not the steak. That first email is just a tickle under his nose. It's the tempting offer that he can't refuse.
 Keep notes. Anything that's done in a thoughtful, systematic and persistent way has a far better chance of success, than a scattered, halfhearted attempt. Invest your best energies in this. If you're successful, you'll have a happy-ever-after of your very own. That's an important goal and worthy of your best efforts.
 Yes, this runs contrary to most advice but this advice is born of practical real-life experience. When you write an introductory email to your potential suitor, use words to paint a picture that is irresistible. As Robert Frost said, "Love is the irresistible desire to be irresistibly loved." Use words to make yourself irresistible.
 More than 95% of profiles begin with, "I am a," or its low-rent cousin, "I want a..." If your profile begins with something other than this, you're already ahead of the game. Start with a favorite quote, or a funny story or a real-life adventure.
 You're not there for a free chat session with a captive listener. You're there to learn and the only way to learn is to be quiet and listen. Ask a few poignant questions and pay attention to the answers.
 Silence is a newspaper reporter's best tool. Most people fear the silences and rush in with words to fill silences. And they're *always* interesting words. When there's a silence, count to ten or do whatever you need to do and just remain quiet. Intelligent, well-educated people know about The Silence and know how to just sit quietly and smile. Be one of *those* people.
 Make it detailed and thorough. Think about the spiritual and emotional qualities you want in a man and then list those qualities. This is very important. St. Augustine said, “The desire of your heart is itself your prayer. And if the desire is constant, so is your prayer.” Put that desire into words: write a mission statement

, Perhaps true love doesn't come as easily to us "less than beautiful" women as it does to the beauties in the world, but it will arrive if you give it time. Don't give up, or as Winston Churchill said, "Never, never, never give up."

