 Mobile phones, including Optimus units, are assigned with special codes called IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) that are generally used for identification purposes. To get your phone’s IMEI, enter *#06# on your phone using its on-screen keypad. The IMEI code will be displayed on the screen; make a note of it.


You can also check the back of your phone. Remove the back cover, and you will usually see the phone’s serial number and IMEI code on the battery bay.;
, Once you have your phone’s IMEI, open a web browser and look for sites that generates unlock codes for phones., Sites like Free Unlocks will require important details such as your phone’s IMEI code, the service provider it’s locked in to, the model of your phone, and an e-mail address where the unlock code can be sent later. Provide these information to get your unlock key.


Note that some sites offer this service for free while some well-established sites like Free Unlocks may require not more than a $5 fee for the unlock code.
 Head to your e-mail client and check your inbox. Unlock keys are typically 6–8 numerical combinations sent to the e-mail address you provided within 24–72 hours from the time you availed of the service, depending on the website service you used.
 Some units like the Optimus G Pro have its slot located just along the sides of the phone while some smaller, lower-end units, like Optimus M, have its slot located at the back.

If the SIM tray is at the back, you will need to pry off the back cover first as well as remove the battery before you can access it.
 Once you find the SIM card slot on your phone, turn off your phone, remove the SIM from your carrier, and replace it with another SIM from another network, either local or international.
 Press the device’s Power button and wait for it to boot up. Instead of the normal home screen you get when you start your phone, you’ll now get a message screen telling you that the SIM card used is unknown and your phone needs to be unlocked first before it can use the said SIM card.
 Press “OK” once you’re done, and a confirmation message will appear on the screen notifying you that the code has been accepted and your LG Optimus phone is now unlocked and can be used on other network carrier/service providers.

