 The most important first step is ensuring that your dog feels secure and comfortable with you and in his new home.


Before you bring the dog home, purchase a large crate for your dog to retreat to if he feels overwhelmed. Dogs view the crate as their own personal den, and find it reassuring to have their own personal space where no one will bother them. The crate should be big enough for the dog to stand and move easily around in it.Keep it quiet and calm for the first few days at home, especially if you have a large family or a lot of people tend to come and go in your house. Everyone is probably excited to see the new pet, but the dog is also adjusting to a huge change and needs some peace and quiet to explore.;
, For the first few days after bringing a new dog home, you will learn a lot by observing your dog's behavior and giving him some space to adjust to his new environment.


Some dogs are timid and afraid, often because of prior mistreatment but sometimes just because of their personalities or breed tendencies. These types of dogs may need extra patience and coaxing before they will be a true playmate.
Other dogs are full of energy and love playing right from the start. You may have to make adjustments to your home to prevent these high-energy canines from tearing things up in their eagerness, and you will likely have to plan for extra play time every day.
 Dogs are pack animals and need to know who the "alpha" or leader of the pack is. It's your job as the pet's owner to establish that you are in charge, which leaves the dog feeling secure and confident.As you train your dog, be consistent. Use positive reinforcement and never hit or punish your dog. It takes patience to train a dog. You might find that a dog obedience class is well worth the investment, especially for a particularly stubborn dog., When you adopt a new pet, it becomes a part of your family. Most dogs enjoy being at the center of the action. Plan on involving the dog in exercise, games, and outings whenever possible.Be sure you have a collar with tags and a leash so that you can bring your dog along when you go for a walk, to the park, or anywhere that is dog-friendly in your city.
 This is a great way to spend one-on-one time with your dog while incorporating some important training that will be useful for other activities. Remember that dogs learn through play and play to learn, so even though this might feel more like school than playtime, it is still an important form of play.The most important basic commands are sit, stay, and come; after your dog has mastered these, you may also want to add down and heel.Teach each command separately; work on one repeatedly until it is mastered before moving on to another command. It may take weeks for your dog to master one simple command. Be sure that you don't overdo it; only practice the command when your dog is in a cooperative mood and stop practicing when you lose his attention.Use positive reinforcement, such a small treat, extra playtime, or a good ear scratching for each behavior your dog performs correctly. When possible, try to connect the reward to the behavior itself. For example, ask your dog to sit and stay by the door, and then when she complies, let her go outside through the door as her reward. Or have her sit and stay while you prepare her food bowl; then her reward is the food., Toys provide endless entertainment for your dog, and they also serve a practical function: most dogs will chew on your shoes or furniture if you don't supply fun, stimulating toys. Try out several types of toys to see what your dog enjoys.


When you offer your dog a toy, assume that he will destroy it and tear it into pieces. Avoid toys that have strings, ribbons, eyes, or other parts that could come off and prove to be a choking hazard for your dog.
Be sure that the toy is appropriate for your dog's size. Small balls work fine for smaller dogs, but avoid toys that are small enough to swallow or that could become lodged in your dog's jaws.Similarly, very large toys may be difficult for a small dog to pick up.
Try a rope toy with knotted ends, a tennis ball, or a hard rubber toy. Some dogs love to have a small stuffed animal to play with, but be sure it's not small enough to choke on.Keep children's toys, shoes, and athletic equipment away from your dog's reach; he is unlikely to know the difference between what is ok to chew up and what is not.
 Many breeds of dogs love this classic game, and it is great exercise that also teaches patience and agility.


First, you have to teach the dog to chase the ball. Put the ball on the ground and encourage the dog to get it. If he picks it up, encourage him by giving him a small treat and a good petting, along with verbal encouragement (say "Good boy!"). Then, toss the toy a little farther each time until eventually the dog has to go quite a distance to get it.To encourage the dog to bring the toy back to you, call him back to you and then ask him to drop the toy for you. You can try offering him a second toy or treat to encourage him to put the first toy down., Agility training involves teaching your dog to run through, around, and over obstacles and hurdles. You can train your dog for agility competitions or just do it for fun and exercise. Use his favorite treats as incentive.


Agility training is best for younger, healthy dogs who don't have any joint issues(such as arthritis) as well as an energetic and obedient personality. Herding breeds are ideal for this type of activity, but many other types can be trained for it.Be sure your dog is familiar with basic commands like sit, stay, come, and lie down before beginning agility training.
Get started by constructing a simple agility course in your backyard. You probably already have materials to make some obstacles yourself, and the rest can be purchased at your local hardware store. Make weave poles from ski poles or PVC piping, a dog walk from a picnic bench or small table (such as a children's picnic table), standard jumps made from cinder blocks, a tunnel from a collapsible children's tunnel toy, a tire jump made from an old bicycle or car tire hung from a sturdy tree branch, and teeter boards made from plywood and PVC piping.Demonstrate the course for your dog, and then lead him through it on a leash. Be sure you walk through it the first several times and reward him when he completes it. Then, jog through the course, increasing your speed each time you lead him through it., While playing with your dog is an important time for bonding and exercise, sometimes dogs need a break from interaction with you or other dogs and prefer to just be alone. Invest in a couple of chew toys for your dog to enjoy on his own.


Most dogs get enough alone time while their owners are away at work or school, but if you have a large family or work from home it is possible for your dog to be overstimulated.Your dog will likely want privacy while he eats, uses the bathroom, and for up to an hour every day, as well as during rest time.
 Most dogs love a change of pace and take great pleasure in any kind of exploration. Plan for an adventure that will be stimulating to both of you and also provide great bonding time.


Try taking your dog hiking or backpacking. This is a fun way to explore nature with a companion. Be sure to plan ahead if you take your dog on a trip that requires a lot of exertion. Your dog will need to train for a few weeks to a few months beforehand in order to be in good shape for the trip, especially if she is older or overweight.Find out if your city has a dog park. While dog parks are not ideal for aggressive or territorial dogs, they are fun for dogs who love other dogs and can be trusted to follow basic commands like sit, stay, and come. Keep a close eye on your dog at the dog park, especially if he is small, as your dog could be injured while playing with others.Go on a day trip. If your dog likes car rides, look for dog parks or outdoor activities within driving distance of your home and head out. You can plan to stop at a pet store that allows pets if your dog is sociable and friendly. , It may seem weird, but dogs enjoy music and just like you, they enjoy some peaceful time to relax and unwind.


While many dogs are content to just lay on your lap as you watch your favorite shows, some dogs especially like watching nature programs or shows with other dogs or animals. Try a variety of shows to see what your dog is into.
If you're feeling up to a challenge, try out the new sport of freestyle musical dance-- it’s a type of choreographed dance involving dogs and their owners. If your dog easily learned his basic commands and enjoys agility work, he may also love dancing!