 Also, build up your leg muscle before you try bareback, especially your thighs, this will help keep you safe and make the ride easier. Do this by practicing 2-point position and posting.;
, Some horses throw you up higher than others. A smooth-gaited horse with a broad back and low withers is ideal (although a horse with good-sized withers is ideal for going downhill). Be careful of horses that startle easily; if it's your first time riding bareback you may not be able to stay safe if your horse decides to rear.
 Do not look down at your horse or you may become unbalanced.
 Before you use the reins to ask for a turn, turn your head to look where you want to go. Horses are very sensitive, and when you turn your head part of your torso will turn as well, and the horse will feel it. Once you have looked, use your legs to reinforce the balance-shift signal you've already given the horse. After following this step, use the rein if needed. (An experienced horse feeling you look and/or use your leg will likely start the motions before you've even moved the reins!)

,, Have your instructor walk or lunge with you at first so that you can focus on balancing. Start at a walk and stay there for several days before trying anything faster. Practice for short periods of 15 minutes or less.
 A regular saddle has a rigid frame that keeps it from sliding under the horses belly when you put pressure in a stirrup. Using a bareback pad will still help get you used to riding without a saddle, because it gives you a better grip than the horses bare back would. Choose a bareback pad that you're comfortable with, as long as it doesn't have stirrups. But, what's the point of bareback if its not "Bare" back.
 Your calves should touch the horse's sides but not apply pressure.
 Alternatively, you can rely on the horse's mane, which will not hurt it. Whatever you do, do not use the reins to regain your balance, as that will upset and/or confuse the horse.
 This can sometimes confuse a horse, so simply loop it through the other side of the head collar to create a 'bridle' feel. This also allows the horse to have a free mouth, and not to be so rigid.
 Right by the withers. When you canter bareback, relax your legs, sit back a little and let your body rock with the movement of the horse.
 Sit up straight and make a grip with your thighs.

