 Without enough face-to-face communication, we can lose our ability to read nonverbal body language and subtle vocal cues that help us relate to other people. This inability to interpret nonverbal communication lowers self-esteem and increases anxiety, especially in real-world social situations.Talk to a friend about grabbing a coffee together every few days or once a week. When you’re in a car with someone, put your phones down and use the time to have a conversation.
If you’re naturally shy, try to challenge yourself to overcome your shyness. Try to talk to have a quick conversation with someone while you’re waiting in a line. Ask your classmate or work colleague how their day is going, what their hobbies are, or about the weather that week.
Make a rule that no one can have their phone out during meal times and during other designated media free times.
 Since social media reduces our ability to interpret nonverbal cues, it’s important to avoid having important conversations online. If you have to discuss an issue with someone, do it face-to-face. This will help you both avoid misinterpreting a statement as mean, overly critical, or insulting.For example, say you want to ask someone out, break up with them, or confront a friend about an issue. It might seem less intimidating to send a text or message on social media, but doing so will only increase the chances of blowing things out of proportion.
Engaging in face-to-face communication helps us learn how to better handle risky social situations, and having a healthy level of self-esteem involves navigating these emotionally risky situations.
 Face-to-face communication is an important part of healthy self-esteem, and engaging people you live with is the easiest place to start. If you live with your parents, try to forge a strong connection by allowing them to participate in your life. Ask them to give you advice, allow them to set rules for you, and do activities together.If you’re a parent, set a good example for your child by limiting your own social media consumption. Set house rules about limiting technology, and give your child your full attention when you interact. Ask them about their day, try to discuss subjects they find interesting, and tell them that you are always available to discuss problems or anything that stresses them., It might be quicker, easier, and less intimidating to text or send a social media message, but try to set aside time to keep up with your friends on the phone. Communicating with others exclusively online or via text actually makes us lonelier, and thus decreases feelings of self-worth.Similar to talking to someone in person, phone conversations strengthen interpersonal skills, which helps reinforce self-esteem.