 Before you begin washing, sort your bedding into two or more separate piles: lights, darks and colors. Washing dark or brightly colored sheets with white ones could cause bleeding or fading, leaving your sheets with a dingy, discolored look.In addition to sorting lights and darks, it may also be a good idea to wash dissimilar colors like red and blue separately.
As long as you don’t mix-and-match your flannel bedding, you should have no problem keeping it separated when it comes time to do laundry.;
, The first time you put your flannel bedding through the wash, add one half cup (120ml) of distilled white vinegar. The acidity in the vinegar will prevent pills from forming. It also has the added bonus of locking in colors, making them less likely to run during future washings.Pills are little clumps of tangled napping, or the loose fibers on the surface of flannel. Pilling occurs when fabrics like flannel aren’t properly maintained.
Adding a splash of vinegar to the wash cycle now and then may also help keep your sheets fluffy and free of oily residue.
 It’s best to wash your flannel sheets with warm water, although some manufacturers even recommend that the water be cold. Lower temperatures will be easier on the delicate structure of the fabric as well as the color.High temperatures can shrink the tiny fibers in flannel, resulting in pilling and a less comfortable sleeping experience.
 Choose a detergent that’s been specially formulated for use on delicates. Be careful not to use more than necessary—some detergents contain chemicals that put fabrics (especially soft ones like flannel) in danger of fading.


A color-protecting detergent will come in handy for preserving the look of brightly colored bedding.
Add colored detergents to a laundry ball or the dispenser on the washing machine so you don’t have to pour them directly onto the sheets themselves.
 A slow setting that uses minimal agitation is perfect for cleaning flannel sheets without harming the delicate weave of the threads. When you’re loading the washer, be sure to distribute the bedding evenly throughout the drum to prevent it from becoming bunched or tangled. If your washing machine doesn’t have an option for different wash cycles, set it to a timed wash for the shortest duration.