 In fact, bring two changes of clothes. It’s best to wear something else to the studio and bring the clothing you hope to wear to make sure they stay cleaned and pressed. Further, be sure to bring at least one extra shirt and multiple different accessory options., Professional portraits should positively represent who you are in your everyday life. For instance, if you usually wear glasses, wear them in your portrait. Don’t worry about glare or reflection, your photographer will ensure that you get glare-free photos.Avoid wearing transitions lenses in either glasses or contacts.
 Make sure your hair is washed and styled for the shoot. This will ensure a clean, professional portrait. Bring a brush or comb with you for last second hair maintenance. Bring a toothbrush and toothpaste too! It’s worth brushing your teeth just before your shoot., You’ll likely want to touch up your makeup right before your shoot. In fact, it’s likely worth putting on a tiny bit more makeup than usual, as photography lighting often diminishes the effect of makeup. Either way, bring your makeup kit, just in case. Powder to help reduce shine on your face may prove especially helpful.If you have the time and money to get your makeup done professionally earlier in the day, consider this option. This is by no means necessary, of course.
Rest assured that your photographer will edit out any blemishes or acne, so don’t worry too much if you breakout just before your shoot.
The best makeup for a shoot is slightly different than your everyday makeup. There are tutorials available on YouTube to help guide your makeup application.
 Give yourself some extra time to prepare for your shoot at the studio before you’re scheduled to get your photos taken. Feel free to contact the studio with any questions about dressing or otherwise preparing for your shoot at the studio. They may also have specific recommendations about when to show up and how they may be able to help you prepare for the shoot.Be prepared to do some last minute touches. Don't assume that the makeup that you put on this morning is going to last the day. You may need to redo your hair, makeup, and clothes!
Some studios may not have space for you to prepare before you’re scheduled to arrive. Instead, they may expect you to spend some time preparing with them.
 It may be challenging to stay calm while having your photo taken. If this is the case, allow yourself a few minutes to ease into the experience. The photos will turn out better if you’re able to relax and flash some genuine smiles. Your photographer will likely help you relax by trying to chat with you. Listen to what they’re saying and allow yourself to laugh – not matter how bad the jokes.If something in particular is making your nervous, let the photographer no about it. They will either address the issue to assure you that the photos will turn out great anyway!
Remind your photographer has chosen a profession helping to make other people look good. Follow their advice, and trust in the process they’ve developed!

