 Matching colored jeans with patterned blouses can be tricky since both are fairly bold fashion choices. The idea is to have wild style that is still well-put-together. To minimize the risk of creating an outfit that is too busy and unbalanced, opt for a light pastel jean over something bolder and brighter.


In this instance, a mild melon would be better than tangerine orange. Likewise, buttercup yellow would be better than lemon yellow.
 If you would rather go for a colored pattern, though, gravitate toward a small pattern that contains the color of your jeans in it.


A leopard print tank top could work with melon jeans, and a zebra print blouse could match well with buttercup yellow jeans.
Similarly, a feminine, flowing blouse with a small floral pattern containing melon in it can actually look quite elegant when paired with melon jeans. A chocolate brown blouse with small buttercup yellow polka dots can also look nice with buttercup yellow jeans.
 Your shoes should be a solid color rather than a pattern.


Neutral colored shoes work well no matter which sort of pattern you chose for your top. If your top contained multiple colors, you could also select a color from the top that varies from your jean color for your shoe color.
 If you want to tone down the wild effect of your patterned blouse, cover part of it up with a blazer or trench coat in a neutral color.


If you want to keep this style looking funky and wild, however, it is best to skip the jacket altogether.
 Adorn yourself with one or two simple accessories, at most.


For a zebra-print top and yellow jeans, you could opt for gold hoop earrings. With a floral top and melon jeans, consider something like silver or bronze bangle bracelets.
 As with other bold looks, fairly natural make-up is the way to go to avoid looking too unbalanced.


Keep your lip color, foundation, blush, and nails fairly natural. If you want to add a splash of color, consider doing so by swiping eyeshadow over your eyelids in a color that matches your jeans.

