 This is important! If you don't, the clan will starve (this is normally with smaller clans,very big clans like Madjasterx don't hunt a lot, only apprentices for training will). Sometimes there are feasting tables- this is a normal table with some plushies on it, and it's where you put your hunted prey down so the clan can eat.


Don't expect kits to hunt for themselves, they are the youngest in the clan and can't leave the nursery until their mother gives them permission to pad around the camp, but never outside the camp!
Hunt like a normal animal would. Example: "*Sniffs bushes*, *Pounces*." (the "*" represents what the cat is doing), remember to add more, don't use the same line over and over again, make up some new ones and you're set for hunting!
Hunt for a medicine cat apprentice. If you are a medicine cat, you wouldn't hunt for food, you hunt for herbs (for sicknesses) and cobwebs (for wounds or if someone is hurt). Use your medicine cat skills correctly; when someone is hurt badly from battle, don't tell them to swallow a herb, use cobwebs as bandages.
Train apprentice (warriors). Kits have to grow up if they have parents. They should have a ceremony with the leader (or deputy if leader is offline) for becoming an apprentice and beginning training. So, kits need a warrior that wishes to mentor a young apprentice. Pick whether you want to be a warrior cat or a medicine cat and tell your mentor.
If you want to be a mentor you have to train your apprentice in the ways of the clan. This includes hunting and fighting. Train them to attack enemies (not random people, this is cruel; for example, people just walking in your territory who don't know anything about clans. If they look suspicious, ask them if they're in a clan).
Get necessary training. At some point of your experience, you will have to fight. Don't just do weak scratches, you actually have to fight (normally with other clans), and don't hold back if you are getting attacked, you won't win.
 Every good clan has a territory, find out what your clan is and go there (a territory would be some place around Jamaa). If you see someone hunting or another clan member in your territory, ask them what clan they're from. If they aren't from yours, tell them to leave, and you'd probably only be out if you're older than 6 moons, so call for backup (mentor, clan-mates, anyone that you know in your clan besides the leader and deputy, who have more important things to do).

