 Many camps will have virtual tours that allow you to take a look at the facilities before visiting it in person.Evaluate the camp and its programs and decide whether it fits your criteria.


If the camp in question doesn't have a virtual tour, there's a good chance it has photographs from previous years that you can look through.
The camp may also have videos of activities from previous summers.
 Before your register your child to a camp, it's a good idea to visit it first to ensure the quality of programs and instruction. In fact, if you're able to, do this in a year in advance so that you can get an idea of how the camp operates when it's in full swing. You'll be able to get a view of how camp counselors treat the kids and the nuances that take place in the camp day-to-day.


Call the camp and ask a staff member if you could come in and view the programs.
You can say something like, "I planned on sending my son to this camp next summer. I was wondering if I could come look at the programs and facilities to help me make my decision."

, See if you can speak personally with the camp director and take note of staff members attitudes towards campers. If they seem uninvested or careless, you may want to choose another camp for your child. Have an honest discussion with the director about your child's individual needs and see if their camp can provide a safe and engaging atmosphere for them.


Speak with the staff to see if they are CPR certified and have training in first aid.Camp counselors should also have undergone a background check.
Ask the counselors about their training and what they had to do to get the job.
 The American Camp Association visits camps and examines and reviews programs, facilities, staff, and safety policies. If the American Camp Association accredits the camp, then you know it's high-quality.Ask the camp director if the camp has the certification.


If the camp is not accredited, it can still have high-quality programs, but it will require you to do more research and speak more in-depth with the camp staff.

