 Choose fresh, ripe lemons that have been grown without pesticides and aren't waxed. Meyer lemons are among the most popular, because they're flavorful and sweet.Hold the lemons under running water and scrub them clean with a vegetable brush or clean toothbrush.
Pat the lemons dry with a clean towel.
 The major difference between traditional limoncello and the Sicilian-inspired version is that the lemons don’t get soaked in the alcohol with the Sicilian-style. Instead, the lemons are suspended in the same jar as the alcohol, and the vapor from the vodka breaks down the zest and absorbs the flavors. To make this style of limoncello, you'll need:


Quart (946 ml) jar with a lid
Cheesecloth
Twine
Small saucepan
Vegetable peeler or zester
Fine-mesh strainer
Funnel
Two sterilized bottles (enough to hold about 40 ounces (1.2 L) of liquid)

, Transfer the vodka to the large quart jar. Wrap two lemons in the cheesecloth. Tie the cheesecloth up with a 20-inch (51-cm) piece of twine, leaving long tails on both ends of the twine. Place the lemons inside the jar, suspended above the alcohol.Take the extra twine that’s tied around the cheesecloth and wrap it around the outside of the jar. Tie a knot in the end of the twine to secure the lemons in place above the vodka.
Place the lid on the jar and seal it tightly.
 Place the jar somewhere cool and dark, and let it rest for one month. Do not disturb the mixture while the alcohol vapors are breaking down the lemon zest.


The nice thing about this recipe is that you don’t have to worry about zesting so many lemons, because the alcohol vapour will actually macerate the lemon peel for you.
 When the month is over, retrieve the jar. Combine the sugar and water in a saucepan. This quantity of sugar and water will yield 1½ cups of simple syrup. Dissolve the sugar and bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer for three minutes.Remove the mixture from the heat and allow it to cool for about an hour.
 Remove the lid from the jar and untie the twine. Remove the lemons from the cheesecloth and discard them. Pour in the cooled simple syrup and stir to combine. Use the vegetable peeler or zester to remove the yellow zest from two fresh lemons.Add the fresh lemon zest to the limoncello and stir to combine.
Let the mixture rest about 15 minutes.
 Place the funnel into one of the storage bottles, and hold a strainer over the funnel. Pour the limoncello mixture through the strainer and fill the bottles.


Close the bottles with the lids and chill the limoncello in the fridge or freezer for four hours before serving.
Limoncello will last for about a month in the fridge, and a year in the freezer.