 As a bike courier, you will be riding your bike all day from one end of the city to the other. As a bike messenger, you will be paid for working out all day long. Typically, you will make around three or five dollars per delivery or between two and four hundred dollars a week.You should have a good bike. The most common bicycle for messengers is the fixed gear bicycle, but you can ride any type of bicycle you want for this job as long as you get the packages delivered.You can look for jobs with bicycle messenger companies in your city. Search for messenger jobs on “Indeed.” You can also look for bicycle messenger jobs for food delivery companies, including Uber.
 As a walking tour guide, you will be getting low intensity cardiovascular exercise all day long as you introduce your city to tourists. Walking is a wonderful form of exercise that can lower stress and improve your heart health.As a walking tour guide, you will walk for periods but also have periods of rest in the day, since you will be stopping at various locations to show your group important landmarks.


You can become qualified as a tourist guide at the Institute for Tourist Guiding. You can contact your local tourism office to ask whether they will be hosting any courses from the Institute for Tourist Guiding.Look into the regulations for tourist guides in your city. Cities have different laws and regulations for walking or other tour guides.
If you want to be a tour guide in New York City, you will have to take an exam and get a license., As a canoe guide, you will spend your days guiding groups across windy lakes and down white water rapids in remote locations. You will get to travel to beautiful parts of the world and spend your days getting exercise in the great outdoors.


You will likely need to get your wilderness first aid certification. Take a course in wilderness first aid, which focuses on medical care in remote wilderness locations.Get a degree in outdoor recreation. A variety of colleges offer degrees in outdoor recreation, which will prepare you well for being a canoe guide as well as other outdoor recreation jobs. Some degree programs cover both tourism management and outdoor recreation.Look for jobs at wilderness adventure companies and youth camps.
 As a babysitter, you will spend your time running after children or teenagers.You can also organize your babysitting time so that both you and the kids get some exercise.


For example, you could lead a skipping routine or do jumping jacks with the kids.
Remember to stretch before a skipping routine. You can turn on some up tempo music while you are leading the skipping rope routine., You will spend time walking long distances, picking up rocks from the field, shovelling manure, moving farm equipment, and lifting heavy boxes of vegetables for the farmers market.


Go to your local farmers market to inquire about job opportunities.
Take a course in organic farming. Some farms run farm education programs, which may involve a combination of book and hands-on learning. Look for beginner farmer training programs in your area. You can also review a directory of student farms in Canada and America.Join willing workers on organic farms (WWOOF). This organization connects people who want to live and work on organic farms with farmers who need help., As a referee for sports like basketball, soccer, football, baseball or hockey, you will be forced to stay in shape in order to keep up with the games. As a referee, you can expect to work both indoors and outdoors depending on the sport. You can also expect to work odd hours in the evenings and weekends.Sports referees have an important role in professional and recreational team sports, where they make decisions about penalties and infractions.