 Certain babies are more predisposed to developing eczema than others, as it has a strong genetic component. However, if you pay careful attention, you will likely notice that certain things in the environment temporarily worsen, or trigger, a flare-up of your baby's eczema. Common triggers to watch for (and to avoid if possible) include:Soaps and detergents. If you notice that this is a trigger for your baby, use mild, unscented soaps and detergents specifically designed for babies with sensitive skin to minimize irritation.
Certain clothing, such as wool or polyester
Dry skin
Heat and sweat
Stress
Dietary triggers;
, Common problem foods include dairy products, wheat, soy products, eggs, nuts and seeds.


Try removing common problem foods one by one from your baby's diet and see if you notice an improvement in his or her eczema.
If you want to identify the specific trigger, it is important to eliminate only one food group at a time in order to determine which of them specifically is problematic (keeping in mind that it is possible for your baby to have more than one food allergy or sensitivity).
See your doctor to confirm whether or not your baby has a food allergy. Your doctor can order blood tests or refer you to an allergist to help determine if your baby has an allergy to certain foods.
 Also, shorter baths (ideally less than 10 minutes) are better than longer ones, as prolonged exposure to warm water also reduces the skin's natural moisture. You should give your baby a bath every two to three days.


Gently pat your baby dry with a towel after bathing. Do not rub, as this can exacerbate skin irritation and worsen eczema.
You can also try adding oatmeal soaking products to your baby's bath, as this may help to ease itching.
Avoid using scented bubble baths. Stick with gentle products that are made for babies with sensitive skin, such as Aveeno, Cetaphil, or Eucerin.
 Be sure to apply moisturizing cream once a day to maintain the skin's natural moisture, and apply it after bathing as well. Some examples of moisturizing agents that work well include Eucerin, Cetaphil, Nutraderm, and Aveeno., Also, avoid dressing your baby in too many layers of clothing or overheating your baby, as sweating from excess clothing can worsen itching and eczema.
 You can try putting the humidifier on at night in the same room that your baby sleeps.


Using a humidifier is most important in dry climates or during cold, dry weather.
 Therefore, keep your baby's nails short to reduce the impact of any scratching.


You can also have your baby wear mittens or gloves during the day so that he or she cannot scratch, if the eczema is particularly severe.
Another protective measure is applying wet dressings to the areas of the eczema rash. Applying a wet dressing helps to keep the skin moist, and also protects it from your baby trying to scratch. Be sure to change dressings every eight hours. Make sure that you ask your doctor about how to use wet dressings for your baby.
 Also, your doctor can suggest medical treatments if lifestyle measures alone are insufficient in controlling your baby's eczema.

