 As tofu is tricky to store, do not open it until necessary. When you bring tofu home from the store, keep it in its original package and place it in the fridge right away.Watch the expiration date. Make sure to use tofu before it goes bad.;
, Tofu is particularly susceptible to bacteria. Therefore, an airtight container is important to store tofu. Do not simply store tofu in a bowl or on a plate and cover it in plastic wrap.For best results, use a Tupperware container with a sealable lid.
You can use a Ziplock bag as well, if you don't have a Tupperware container.
 Tofu will not keep properly without moisture. If you don't want tofu to dry out or go bad, pour water over the container.Pour in enough water that the tofu is just covered.
For best results, use filtered water. Tap water may have contaminants that can harm tofu.
Make sure to change the water daily.
 If you've already prepared the tofu for a dish, there is no need to add water. Tofu that has been flavored and cooked can be stored in an airtight container and then placed in the fridge., If you bought too many packages of tofu, you can store an entire unopened package in the freezer. You do not need to do anything special to store the tofu. Simply place the unopened package in the freezer. When you're ready to use the tofu, you can defrost it and cook as you normally would.Keep in mind, defrosted tofu has a slightly different taste. Its texture changes. It will become chewier and spongier, but some people actually prefer this texture.
 If you've already opened the tofu, you can still store it in the freezer. Drain any excess moisture out of the tofu. Then, place the tofu in a freezer bag or a plastic bag. Set it in your freezer and defrost it when you're ready to use., Tofu takes awhile to defrost, so plan ahead. If you need tofu for a recipe, it will take two days to defrost. Simply remove the tofu from the freezer and place it in your fridge., Tofu will have retained some extra moisture from being defrosted. Gently squeeze the tofu, using paper towels or something similar, to remove any excess water.If you need to drain a lot of tofu, place the tofu between two plates. Then, place a heavy can on top of the plates.
 Tofu can be safely refrigerated for about 3 to 5 days in the fridge. Keep track of when you got your tofu. Do not eat it if it's been sitting in the fridge for more than 5 days.If you're unsure when you bought your tofu, check the expiration date. This should give you an idea as to whether the tofu is still safe to eat.
 Tofu can be stored for 3 to 5 months in the freezer safely. As it may be hard to remember exactly when you froze tofu, write down the date on the plastic or freezer wrap. This way, you'll be able to tell if the tofu has been in the freezer for more than 5 months., Make sure you recognize when tofu has gone bad. Bad tofu will become darker. It will go from white to beige. It will also develop a sour smell and a sour taste.Keep in mind, tofu takes on a more beige color when frozen. If your frozen tofu turns brownish, it should still be good to eat if it hasn't been in the freezer for more than four months.

