 An oral appliance functions to keep your airway open and effective for breathing, hopefully reducing or altogether eliminating your snoring problem.


It is important to go for follow-up appointments with your dentist every 6 months, or as directed, to ensure that the fit or your oral appliance is optimally functional.
At these appointments, your doctor can make any adjustments to your oral appliance as needed to maximize its effectiveness for you.;
, This is because there may be an underlying medical condition, such as sleep apnea or another respiratory condition, that is responsible for your snoring. If this is the case, it is key to have it diagnosed and treated by a doctor.


If an underlying medical condition is responsible for your snoring, you will likely be able to stop the snoring with the use of medical devices.
If your doctor suspects you have sleep apnea, this will be diagnosed during a sleep study

, How the device works is that you wear a mask over your nose as you sleep; it uses positive pressure to force air into your lungs as you sleep, ensuring that your airway does not collapse during the night.


To be diagnosed with sleep apnea (or to be tested for the cause of your snoring), your doctor may request that you stay overnight at a hospital or other healthcare facility to receive an overnight sleep study.
The information gathered over the course of the overnight sleep study can be extremely informative to your doctors about the best course of treatment for your snoring problem moving forwards.
They can also size you for a CPAP machine, or other medical device, to ensure that it fits well and that you are optimally set up to have the best possible management of your snoring problem once you are sent home.
If the CPAP machine isn't effective, you may need to try a BiPAP (bi-level positive airway pressure) machine. A BiPAP delivers pressure into your lungs, like the CPAP machine, but unlike the CPAP, it also uses pressure to help you exhale., The specific surgery is called a "uvulopalatopharyngoplasty."


You will be put under general anesthesia, and the surgeon will cut or trim any excess tissues in your oral area that may be blocking your airway as you sleep, leading to your snoring problem.
Another option is to have a "laser uvulopalatopharyngoplasty," which is when a laser is used to shorten and shrink tissues in your mouth area as opposed to traditional surgery. This may require several sessions with the laser to be effective.
 This is when small plastic implants are inserted on your soft palate in such a way that it will prevent collapse of the soft palate (and surrounding structures) as you sleep. The goal is to help keep your airway open as you sleep, thus preventing snoring.
"Somnoplasty is when radio frequency waves are used to shrink tissues in your mouth area that may be blocking your airway. You will be given local anesthetic to block any pain while the procedure is performed.


As you can see, there are a variety of medical procedures available to help "cure" (or treat) snoring that is related to anatomical blockages of the airway.
Your surgeon can advise you as to which procedure is most suited to you, depending upon your specific snoring symptoms and your anatomy.
 In addition to being disruptive to your partner (if you are sharing a bed with someone), it can also cause you to have several inadvertent awakenings during the night.


If snoring is caused by an underlying medical issue, such as sleep apnea or another underlying respiratory problem, your airway may collapse during the night to the point where you temporarily stop breathing.
In addition to snoring, this can lead to very disruptive sleep patterns for you — and you may not even be aware it is happening.
It if for this reason that unresolved snoring warrants professional medical evaluation and treatment.
 This may include signs and symptoms such as:


Feeling unusually fatigued
Heightened irritability
Decreased focus and concentration
Falling asleep or losing focus at inappropriate times, such as during conversation, at work, or, most dangerous of all, at the wheel of your car while driving.
 Undiagnosed and untreated sleep apnea (and other medical conditions that may cause snoring) can also lead to a number of other health problems down the road. This is why receiving an official diagnosis and treatment plan sooner rather than later is key.

