 Approach the girl you want to start a conversation with, smile and say hello. Tell her your name and ask for hers. Keep it simple. A genuine, polite greeting beats a cheesy pick-up line any day.

In any situation, try a straightforward introduction. For example: "Hi, my name is Bob. What's your name?"
In a bar, you can offer to buy the girl a drink. For example: "Hi, my name is Joe. Can I buy you a drink?";
, Politely asking a girl how her day was or how she's feeling is a nice way to get her talking. It also makes a good impression as it shows that you are genuinely interested in her and are willing to listen.

A simple "How are you doing today?" never fails. Make sure to listen to her answer, it's not supposed to be a rhetorical question!
Ask her "How was your day today? Did you do anything fun?" This prompts her to give more than a one word answer and gives you a chance to show off those amazing listening skills.
 You can't go wrong with a harmless observation about the weather, or some other matter-of-fact subject. Make a comment about how sunny/windy/rainy it is. This gives you a safe topic to break the ice with. Once she has responded you can move on to more engaging topics.

Turn it into a question, rather than a statement. Say something like "Beautiful day out today, isn't it?" or "I hope this rain eases off soon, don't you?" This gives her the opportunity to respond.
If you're not a fan of the weather approach, try another safe topic. For instance, you can try commenting on your surroundings. In a bar, you could say something like "Wow, it's crowded in here tonight, isn't it?"

, Finding some common ground can really help to break the ice in a conversation. Ask her thoughtful questions about work or class to get the conversation flowing.

If you take a class together, ask her what she thinks of it, whether she likes the professor, or if she's interested in whatever you're studying right now. Say something like "Have you seen the essay topics for next semester? Do you know which topic you're going to write on?"
If you work together, ask her if she's working on any interesting projects right now.
 Referencing pop culture is a clever, non-personal way to bring up personal interests. By finding out what kind of movies or music a girl likes, you can gain an insight into the type of person she is and what her interests are. Such valuable information could help you plan an awesome future date!

For televisions shows, ask her something like "Do you watch Mad Men? Who is your favorite character?"
For music, ask her "Have you heard Daft Punk's new album? What did you think?
For movies, "Have you seen the latest Tarantino film? I heard it's fantastic!"

, Mentioning an upcoming event, such as a music festival or exam, can give you something to get excited or nervous about with the girl. This creates a rapport between the two of you and allows the girl to see how much you have in common!

If you're both taking the same exam, you could say something like "I'm dreading the math final next week. I suck at algebra! How are you feeling about it?"
If you're having a conversation about music, you could mention an upcoming festival. Say something like "Are you going to Coachella this year? I went with a bunch of friends last year, we had a blast! What bands are you hoping to see?"
If it's coming up to a holiday, you could say something like "I can't wait for Halloween next week. My friend is having a house party and I've got a great werewolf costume planned. Are you doing anything fun?"

