 Federal law prohibits government employers from discriminating against applicants because they filed for bankruptcy. However, this law doesn't apply to private employers.If you're working for the government, filing for bankruptcy can even work in your favor – particularly if you're applying for a job that requires you to get a security clearance.
People with high debt are viewed as a security risk because they are susceptible to bribery. Since you've filed for bankruptcy, you don't have that issue.
When working in the private sector, however, it's important to remember that you don't have this protection.
For this reason, you should tread lightly when it comes to bankruptcy, and only mention it if for some reason the employer would find out from a third party.
 Typically a potential employer isn't going to know that you filed for bankruptcy – particularly if you filed Chapter 7 and your case is closed – unless they run a credit check.For some jobs, your financial background is only tangentially related (at best) to the job you'll be performing. For these, if the employer is running a credit check, you may be better off looking elsewhere.
For example, if you're applying to be a cashier at a grocery store, there's really no reason they should insist on doing a credit check before they hire you. You might be better off applying at another store rather than having to deal with it.
Some jobs – such as many in the financial sector – are going to be difficult for you to get, if not completely closed off.
This is because when you're charged with handling other people's money, the fact that you've filed for bankruptcy is seen as a sign that you don't know how to be financially responsible.
 If the employer is going to run a credit check, it's best to tell them about your bankruptcy before they find out about it themselves. This gives you the opportunity to put a positive spin on the choice you made.The best time to tell the interviewer typically is not when they ask you to sign the form authorizing a credit check, but that may be the most opportune time.
Ideally, you want to bring it up at the first possible opportunity during your interview, to show that you're not ashamed of it and not shying away from it.
For example, if the interviewer asks you to describe a situation in which you overcame a challenge, you could mention your bankruptcy. Focus on the present and future, and talk about how you're grateful for the second chance and you're learning to be more responsible with your money.
 Particularly in some jobs, such as those in which you're handling money or managing money for others, having a bankruptcy can be a serious black mark on your record. Counteract that negative influence with strong personal references that can speak to your responsibility and strengths as an employee.You want people who can speak to your work ethic and sense of responsibility in the workplace, but you also want people who can testify to your strength of character.
Ideally, list people as references who are aware of your bankruptcy. They may be able to use it to describe how you are proactive in addressing and solving issues before they become more serious problems.

