 Heavy saucepans work best for this recipe. Use a whisk to blend the ingredients together until you've made a rich, creamy mixture. You should insert a candy thermometer into the mixture so you can monitor the temperature carefully., As you cook it, make sure to stir it often. When the mixture is close to reaching the desired temperature, you should be stirring it constantly.
 You can prepare the pan while the mixture is cooking, though you have to take care to continue stirring it in the process. Better yet, you can prepare the pan in advance so you don't have to worry about it while your precious chocolate is cooking. Here is all you have to do:


Line a 9 x 13 inch (23 x 33 centimeter) pan with foil.
Spray it with non-stick cooking pray.
 The bowl should be made of metal. If you use a glass, make sure it's large enough to fit the ingredients with some room for stirring left over.
 Once the marshmallow mixture is as hot as it needs to be, pour it over the chocolate chip mixture.
 Now, you should use either a hand held electric mixer, a heavy-duty mixer, or a whisk to beat the ingredients together. Make sure you're beating the ingredients over low speed and that you continue to mix them until the chocolate is thoroughly melted. The ingredients should be fully combined, instead of chunky or uneven.


If you'd like to add additional ingredients, such as walnuts, pecans, peppermint marshmallows, white chocolate chunks, or anything else that suits your fancy, the time to do it is now.
 Carefully tip the bowl toward the pan and release the mixture into the pan in an even fashion. You may have to move the bowl back and forth slightly as you pour out the ingredients and to tilt the pan back and forth until you've distributed them in an even layer.
 Give it at least an hour to fully harden. You can also let it sit there overnight, if you like, but you may be tempted to eat your tasty treat much sooner than that.
 Just cut your creamy chocolate fudge into 1" (2.5 cm) squares and serve it as it is. You can put it on a plate for presentation or just eat it from the pan, if you need to satisfy your craving immediately. This recipe makes a whopping 117 squares of fudge! That's more than enough for you and your friends, coworkers, neighbors, and teachers.

