 Guys can be weird sometimes and hard to read. Sometimes, if you think a guy is picking on you, or being mean to you, it can actually be a sign that he likes you. Young boys usually don't know how to express that they like someone and will act out instead. If there's a guy in your class who seems to pick on you more than others, and makes fun of you more regularly, it's probably a sign that he likes you.If he ever lightly punches or pokes you, imitates your voice or posture, or just tries to tease you somehow, it's almost always a sign that he likes you and wants you to notice him.
This generally applies more to younger guys than older guys, but then again, some guys are forever-13, so it might apply to any age.
Sometimes being mean is just a sign that someone's mean. It's not always a guarantee. Try being nice back and see if he changes his tone at all. If you always curl up your nose and tell him he's gross, he'll probably just keep being mean.;
, If a guy regularly looks in your direction and makes eye contact, that's often a sign that he likes looking at you. That probably means he likes you. If you're sitting in class and notice a boy staring in your direction, it could definitely be a sign of some major "liking" going on.


Does he look embarrassed when you make eye contact? Like he just got "caught"? If so, that's definitely a sign that he likes you. Or it could also be a sign that you have some food on your face.
 If a guy has sudden urge to start talking to you regularly, it's obviously a sign that he wants to hear what you have to say. That means that he likes you. If a guy goes out of his way to talk to you more than once, it's because there's something about you that he finds interesting. Talk back and find out if you feel the same way.


If a guy you've never talked to starts trying to chat with you on social media, it could be a sign that he likes you and is shy. Talking on social media is one of the easiest ways to approach somebody, and will seem less intimidating than walking up to you in person.
If a guy starts asking you a lot of questions, it could be a sign that he's read a lot of online how-to articles about chatting with girls and wants you to be comfortable. Pretty good sign he likes you.
 If this guy seems normal around other people, but then starts getting quiet and shy around you, it's a good sign that he likes you. If a guy starts to get anxious when you're around, and stops talking, it means that he's nervous and wants to make a good impression on you, but might not know how.Try talking to this guy one-on-one, and ask him questions so he won't get so nervous and will be able to talk more easily. Or try chatting with him on social media, or texting. This can be a lot easier for shy types.
 Sometimes, guys just want to make you laugh. If you have a different sense of humor, though, his jokes just might seem weird to you. This can make you even more confused. If a guy's just acting weird, it could be a sign that he just wants to get your attention and make you laugh, because he likes you.Pay attention to see if this guy acts very different around you than around other people. If he starts doing weird things, but only when you're around, it's possibly a sign that he likes you.
 Do you notice that a guy seems to look better when you're around? If he's putting a little extra effort into his appearance, it's a sign that he's trying to impress someone. That someone might definitely be you, if it only seems to happen when you're together.
 If you're friends with a guy and you've started spending a lot of time together alone, it could be a sign that he likes you. Have you been hanging out one-on-one a lot lately? Does he seem hesitant when you suggest hanging out in a group? Could some of your hang-outs be called dates? If so, it could be a sign that he wants you to be more than a friend.


Alternatively, if he seems to pull away from you and spend less time around you, that may also be a sign that a guy likes you. It can be hard and confusing for guys when they realize they like somebody.
 If a guy lightly touches you on the shoulder, or on the leg, or goes in for a hug sometimes, it's probably a sign that he likes being close to you and wouldn't mind getting even closer. If a guy is comfortable with physical contact, it could definitely be a sign that he likes you.


If a guy is uncomfortable with a touch, that doesn't necessarily mean that he doesn't like you. It could just be a sign that he's super-nervous around you and doesn't know what to do.
If a guy touches you inappropriately, or touches you in any way that you don't like, that's a problem. Tell him to stop and tell your teacher, parent, or some other authority figure.
 If a guy gives you something, it's usually a sign that he likes you. Even if it's a weird gift that you're unsure how to take, it's a sign that he's thinking about you and wants to make some kind of impression.


If a guy gives you something that you don't like, try to be nice anyway. He's probably just guessing, or giving you something that he might like. Even something weird, like a jar of Play-Doh, could be a sign that he wants you to like him.
 Sometimes, it's hard to point to one thing in particular that a guy is doing differently, but you just have this feeling that he's acting differently around you. If that's the case, it might be true. You might be noticing that he's feeling attracted to you, and has started changing as a result of it. He might like you.
 So, you think this guy might like you. What are you going to do about it next? It's important to figure out how you feel about him, to know how to handle it.


If you like the guy, great! Keep reading this section for more advice about how to get to know him a little better and move forward.
If you don't like this guy, you can either ignore him entirely, or you can politely ask that he stop what he's doing and tell him that you don't feel the same way. It's best to do this in private, so you don't embarrass him or hurt his feelings.
 If you're unsure about whether or not a guy likes you, try talking to your friends to find out more. Maybe someone knows for a fact that he actually likes somebody else, or is seeing somebody else. Or, maybe one of them has heard specifically that he likes you. It's always best to check around and see if anybody heard any good gossip.


If you can, try talking to some of his friends to find out. They might know for sure. Or you can just observe them to see how they act when you're around. You can pick up a lot from the lunch room.
Don't send one of your friends to talk to one of his friends. The message can get easily lost in translation. Then he might find out that you actually like him, which might make for an awkward situation.
 If you hardly know this guy, friend him on Facebook and other social media and try to find out as much as you can about him and his interests. This is the best way to learn what you have in common, and it can give you some clues as to whether or not he likes you, too.


If he starts liking a lot of your pictures, or interacting with you a lot of Facebook, it could definitely be a sign that he likes you.
It's hard to tell much from Facebook, though. Some people just "like" a lot of stuff. It might just be a sign that he likes the way your dog looks.
 Of course it's always a little awkward to have that talk. If you're getting the signals, just try hanging out for a while one-on-one and see if you get along well together. Think of some way you two could hang out together and ask him.


See if he wants to go to the next school game with you, or sit with you at lunch, on the bus, or at some school function. It doesn't have to be like a "date" if you want to spend a little time talking together.
If he turns you down, it could be a sign that he doesn't like you, but it could also be a sign that he's just nervous, or doesn't know how to react. It could also be a sign that he's not allowed to date and would be embarrassed to tell his parents about this.
 If you've noticed a bunch of different signs, just try flirting back with this guy and seeing how he reacts. The single best way to learn whether or not a guy likes you is talking to him. It's a lot easier than sneaking through his photo history on Facebook and trying to figure out things based on the evidence. Quit beating around the bush and have a conversation with this guy if you want to learn more about his likes and dislikes.


try to talk to him one-on-one, not in a group. You don't need to do anything special, just say, "Hey, I've just noticed you've been acting kind of different around me. Do you like me?"
If you like the guy, you could also just come right out and say it and see what he says. Just say, "Hey, I've just been noticing you a lot lately. You seem funny and cute. I really like you."

