 If possible, do physical activity before you study. Go for a jog before you sit down to study for a test or go over your class notes. Hit the gym on the way home to swim some laps so you are ready to study that evening.Doing aerobic activity gets blood, oxygen, and nutrients to your brain, which helps your brain function better.;
, A few studies have shown that performing light exercise while studying can help recall of information. If you are going to exercise while studying, just make sure to keep it gentle.These studies found that vigorous exercise while studying may hurt recall because your brain is focused on the workout instead of the information.
To try this, take your textbook or notes to the gym. Use the stationary bike while you study for at least half an hour, making sure to keep the intensity light and gentle. You can also use an elliptical, treadmill, or stairclimber., Studies have shown that exercising before and while you study are not the only times that benefit your recall and mental processing. Working out after a study session can also help boost your mental function and improve your studying.Go for a walk or even lift weights after you study to help your brain stay active so your studying can pay off.
 If you are studying in the library, break up your study sessions with physical activity. Get up and take a fifteen-minute stroll around the building or around campus nearby.You can also do this if you are studying in your dorm or a coffee shop.
Taking a break helps refresh yourself and gets blood flowing to the brain, which can help you think and remember better.
 You can get your blood pumping at your desk while you study. If you don’t want to leave everything and go for a quick 15 minute stroll, try getting some physical activity in where you are.Do some chair squats at your desk. Stand up from your chair, then squat down without sitting down. Hover just above the chair for about 10 seconds. Repeat this 20 times.Try wall sitting. Lean against the wall and slowly lower yourself into a squat position, using the wall to support your back. Hold for as long as you can, or do 20 sets while holding for 10 seconds each. You may also wish to lift one leg as you hold the squat for an extra challenge.
Use resistance bands while you sit there and study. Put one in each hand and pull on them for an upper body workout. You can also try holding hand weights and doing bicep curls while studying.

