 After refreshing, restart necessary programs and wait when cursor messages to you for wait. you must wait for the while it's one action that cause problem when user clicks instantly while it is giving a message for wait because it is in working mood and busy at that time.;
, it will speeds up your system.
 Scan softwares after installation. Don't install software from local sites that cause bring virus in your system. while installing a software, if it gives you message that it is from unknown site or can cause virus in your system. you should never continue it and cancel it instantly.
 Avoid installation of softwares from restricted sites that can cause virus in your system. Don't try to taste all new kinds of games and other sites, only install softwares from sites that provide you all free of virus and problems.
, It is one of the common problems that  when you exchange data from your system to other devices, must check whether it is free of virus or not. You should scan firstly while connecting any device to your system. because sometimes it happens that a device you connect with your system having virus, converts all its virus to your system and it causes a major problem for you. It will slows down the working of your system and will annoy you.
 because mostly users have to face the problem that their system takes too much time on welcome screen or to startup. To disable all unnecessary program loading on startup Click on start button and "misconfig.exe" in bar at the end. A window will open click on "startup" tab, click in the "Disable all" button, click on "Apply" and "Ok" button.
 When you leave your system on sleeping mood, various invaders try to harm your system and sometimes people try to hack your system or may be other people are using your system and you are unaware of it., if you have some issue in your connection, check whether your source of internet is connected or not and is it's wires are correctly attached., you must get in up-to-date with troubleshooters.

