 Once you’ve decided on an appropriate camp, notify them ahead of time about your child’s specific allergies and needs. You’ll need to inform staff about what foods your child must avoid, but also about past reactions, symptoms, and how the reactions were treated or prevented.Fully describe the allergy. Let staff know what foods your child is allergic to and how they react when exposed to these allergens, as best you can.
 When you arrive at camp, try to make contact with staff members like the director, the lead medical professional, and counselors to touch base with them. Ensure that they are aware of your child’s needs and have informed other staff members, like cooks.Be sure that the director has informed all affected staff members about your child’s allergies and needs. Apart from counselors and cooks, this can include life-guards, bus drivers, camp nurses, allergists, and dieticians.
Ask whether the camp hosts volunteers, as well, who may have contact with your child. They’ll also have to know.
 The camp will also need to have any prescription medication that your child takes and a documentary record of her allergy needs. You will also probably have to give them written authorization to administer meds or to take your child to the hospital, if need be.Provide the camp with a current photo of your child and written instructions, medical forms, and any medicines that have been prescribed for allergic reactions.
Most camps have general medical waivers that authorize them to administer medicine or to take children to hospitals. Make sure to sign one of these waivers.
Also, consider filling out an emergency Anaphylaxis Action plan with camp staff and administration. This will give your contact information, outline what the camp can expect in case of emergency, and state how they should react with epinephrine or other treatments. Such forms are generally counter-signed by a doctor.
Double check the expiration dates on your child’s medications to make sure that your child’s medications will not expire while your child is away at camp.

