 Many manufacturers keep to standard sizes like small, medium, or large; occasionally branching out to X-small or X-large. So it's important to first establish which category your dog falls under. You want to take into account not only the size of your dog, but it's weight.


For example, you may have a little dog, but it might be quite round. This could make them a medium rather than a small.;
, Besides their basic size, you want to consider their head size, paw size, chest size, the thickness of fur, even the shape of their ears. Though a Dachshund and toy fox terrier might be similar in size (i.e. small) the shape of their bodies is very different. The length of on a Dachshund is going to require a different size than one on a terrier.


The same can be said for a Chow compared to a Boxer. The amount of fur on the Chow is going to require a different size than the Boxer's slim frame.
 Some sites will list the exact measurements of their costumes along with basic sizes, so knowing your dog's measurements can help ensure you get the perfect fit. For the most accurate sizing, take a tape measurer and have your dog move next to a wall while standing upright on all four paws. The trick to this is to measure their height against the wall, rather than directly against the dog, which can lead to errors.To measure their chest, take a measuring tape and wrap it tightly around their middle. You want to start right behind their front legs for the most accurate number.
 Not every animal enjoys being dressed up, let alone being paraded out in front of tons of strangers. Before you purchase a costume, it’s best to think about your canine friend’s personality. If they’re more of a reserved, skittish dog, it might be best to spare them the discomfort. However, if they’re a social dog, they’re less likely to mind dressing up and going out for Halloween.
 Typing "small dog costume," or "large dog costume" into Google or any other search engine will lead to a plethora of results. However, you can get even more specific by using keywords like "cutest costumes for small dogs," or "funniest dog costumes." If you already have an idea in mind, you can even try searching for that specifically with "dog costume" attached. Then you can browse the results to narrow down what you want.


You can also take your own costume into account and try to find a replica or similar version for your dog!

, Places like Spencer’s Gifts, Fun City, Amazon, and Petsmart are likely to have a myriad of different dog costumes. Accessing these places online can also help guarantee you will find the costume you want in your dog's size. Though they can run out of stock, it is less likely with their online shops.


Many of these sites will also have a standard return policy if the costume doesn't work.
Browsing these online stores is also a great way to get some costume inspiration.
 If you are having difficulty finding a costume that you like, going for a smaller retailer like Etsy might garner more success. Since it's a site for small business owners, you are likely to find more creative and diverse costumes. You may also be able to find a seller who will make a costume to your exact specifications/needs.


This direct contact with the sellers/providers will also allow you to be more precise in sizing.
 After you’ve picked out a costume, you want to make sure that it will work well on your dog. For example, double-check that it’s not too restrictive. You don’t want the costume to cause breathing or movement problems. To do this, look at the size of the leg holes and the tightness of the top.


You can also have your dog try on the costume and return it if you notice any problems.
 Similar to most new things, you want to help your dog get used to the costume before your throw them into it for an extended period of time. Try to order/purchase the costume two weeks beforehand and acquaint your dog with it piece by piece.First, allow the dog to sniff and investigate the costume while giving them treats. Then, after a couple of days, drape the costume over them and give them treats again. Finally, after a couple more days put them in the costume and provide even more treats.
The idea is to have the dog associate wearing the costume with good things.
 Even after you are out and about, it’s important to continuously check that your dog is okay. Though they may seem happy and content at first, wearing a costume for an extended period may become uncomfortable. They may also be disturbed by people oh-ing and aw-ing over them if you take them out.


If you notice they have their ears pinned back, their tail tucked, and are cowering, try to remove them from the situation.