 This skin condition often flares up because of a specific irritant. Knowing what triggers your spongiotic dermatitis can help you prevent and relieve it.


The trigger could be an allergen, food allergy, cosmetic, environmental factor, insect bite, or harsh soap or detergent.
If you suspect a specific trigger, try to limit your exposure to it and see if it relieves your symptoms.
Certain external factors can worsen spongiotic dermatitis including dry skin from taking baths or showers that are too hot, stress, sweat, wearing wool, exposure to tobacco smoke and pollution.Certain foods can also worsen spongiotic dermatitis including eggs, milk, peanuts, soybeans, fish, and wheat.Use mild or “hypoallergenic” soaps and laundry detergents. These contain fewer harmful chemicals that can irritate your skin. Rinse clothes twice after washing to ensure that the detergent is well removed.
Any product marked “hypoallergenic” has been tested for sensitive skin and will likely not irritate your skin.
 No matter what treatment you seek for spongiotic dermatitis, do not scratch the patches on your skin. Scratching the rash can open any sores you may have and cause further problems, including infection.If you cannot avoid scratching the irritated areas, occasionally apply bandages to any areas seriously affected by spongiotic dermatitis. This will limit exposure to irritants and keep you from scratching.Do not cover the areas frequently, as this may actually cause more irritation.
 Maintaining your skin’s natural hydration will prevent dryness and help prevent further irritation. You can help keep your skin hydrated by different means including moisturizing, avoiding temperature extremes, and using a humidifier.Use a gentle cleanser made for sensitive skin when you bathe or shower. Recommended choices include Dove, Aveeno, and Cetaphil. Don't use overly hot water, as this can dry out and irritate skin.
Apply moisturizer to your skin at least twice a day. The best time to apply is after a shower or bath while your skin is still damp. Later in the day, consider using an oil to moisturize your skin.Make sure to use unscented and uncolored moisturizers that will not irritate your skin.If you aren't sure what moisturizer is best for your skin, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Use creams or ointments, as they are usually thicker and more effective than lotions, and they're usually less irritating to the skin.
Taking a 10-15 minute bath in warm water sprinkled with baking soda, uncooked oatmeal or colloidal oatmeal will help your skin stay moisturized. Make sure to moisturize your skin with a cream or oil after the bath.Keeping a humidifier in your home will ensure that the air is moist and won’t dry out your skin.Avoid temperature extremes, which can dry out skin.
 Making sure that you drink enough water will help your skin stay hydrated as well. Drink at least eight glasses of water every day to help your skin retain previous moisture and prevent dehydration., The itching and inflammation from spongiotic dermatitis comes from histamine in your blood. Cold packs or compresses can help relieve itching and inflammation associated with spongiotic dermatitis by constricting blood flow and cooling the skin.Histamine is produced when an allergen enters in the body. It is involved in all of the symptoms of allergic reactions, including itching and inflammation.
You can place a cold compress on your rashes intermittently for 10 to 15 minutes, once every 2 hours or as needed., You can prevent and relieve spongiotic dermatitis by protecting your skin. Clothing, bandages, and even bug spray will protect your skin.


Wear cool, loose, smooth textured clothing such as cotton or silk to keep yourself from scratching and prevent excess sweating.Do not wear wool, as it can irritate your skin.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants to keep yourself from scratching your skin and protect it from external irritants.You can also apply bug repellant to areas that do not have rashes when you go outside where you are at risk of being bitten. This will prevent insects from getting too close to your skin and causing further allergic reactions.
 Applying a calamine lotion or non-prescription anti-itch cream can relieve the symptoms of spongiotic dermatitis. You can purchase these creams at grocery and drug stores both in-store and online.


A nonprescription anti-itch, or hydrocortisone, cream, can help relieve itching. Make sure to purchase a cream with at least 1% hydrocortisone.
Apply these creams to the affected area before you moisturize your skin.Follow the specific product instructions for how often you can use the cream on your skin.
 These drugs will block the histamine that causes allergic reactions and help relieve itching and skin inflammation. There are many different over-the-counter antihistamines that are available at drug and grocery stores both in store and online. Before taking any new medications, consult with your doctor, as some may interact with other medical conditions or current medications.


Chlorpheniramine is available in 2 mg and 4 mg tablets. Adults can take 4mg every 4 to 6 hours. Don’t exceed 24 mg per day.
Diphenhydramine (Benadryl) is available in 25 mg and 50 mg tablets. Adults can take 25 mg every 6 hours. Don’t exceed 300 mg per day.
Ceterizine (Zyrtec) is available in 5 mg and 10 mg tablets. Adults can take up to 10 mg every 24 hours.
These drugs (chlorpheniramine and diphenhydramine in particular) often have sedative effects so do not drive, drink alcohol, or operate any machinery (including driving) when taking them. Cetirizine is less likely to cause sedation, but you should try it a few times to ensure it doesn't cause drowsiness before you attempt to drive or operate machinery.
If you are treating a child, consult your doctor or pharmacist for appropriate medications and dosages.
 Corticosteroid creams can reduce inflammation, thereby reducing itching and scratching. They should be applied once or twice a day on the affected area.


You are advised to apply the cream in the morning after showering so that it stays on throughout the whole day.
An example of a corticosteroid cream is 1% hydrocortisone cream.

