 Then, double that number. (Example: if you would like to store 25-50 cigars you want a humidor that will hold 50-100)This is where you want to start. You can always keep less in a larger space, but you can not put more into a smaller space.;
, Seek out all the humidors you can that will accommodate, that number of cigars. For now, don't worry about prices, style, color or shape. Look at them all, get a feel for just how many different types there are.
 Don't stop now!!1 I'm sure you can think of one or two other places to look, be proactive.
 You have basked in the glory, of many different types of Humidors. Now, it's time to start to narrow them down. Your first question should be, where will I keep my Humidor? Will it be in your office, your living room or maybe you have a recreational room you would like to display it in. Where you decide to keep it, is almost as limitless as the kinds of Humidors available.
 Table or desk top, freestanding and full room. As a beginner, you may not want to consider a full room or walk-in type Humidor. If you are not a beginner, and are considering a walk-in. Go For It!!1 However, that is a WikiHow of a different color.
 Notice the existing furniture, the colors and style you have chosen for this space. This is where you will drastically, start to narrow your choices. You don't want it to clash, rather you want it to blend in. You want to accentuate the current décor, with a new addition.
 Lets take a look, at some of the more important properties. Start with the seal, The seal is one of the most important properties of a humidor. Without a good seal, it will be nearly impossible to regulate the climate inside the Humidor. The easiest way to check a Humidors seal, is to lift the lid about three to four (3-4) inches, then release the lid and let it fall closed. It should make a "whoosh" sound. You'll know the sound when you hear it, trust me. If you do not hear a "whoosh" sound as it closes, you may want to try a different Humidor.
 The liner in a quality Humidor, will be made of Spanish Cedar that has been kiln dried. It is kiln dried to remove any sap and moisture.
 This is also important, especially to newer aficionados. If you made something and you knew it was of good quality, would you hesitate to give a warranty? Not likely! So make sure the Humidor has a minimum, of 30 day warranty.
 Take it home, enjoy it. You're not done there though. Make sure you follow these steps https://www.wikihow.com/Season-a-Humidor before storing your Cigars!

