 Change all of your clothes (including undergarments and socks) before going to bed. You are constantly excreting small amounts of sweat into your clothes, and this trapped liquid conducts cold air more efficiently, making you colder when the temperature drops at night.Keep dry sleeping clothes in a waterproof bag during the day, and air them out to thoroughly dry in the morning.;
, No matter how chilly it gets at night, you’ll still excrete some liquid from your skin into your dry sleeping clothes. Fabrics that hold in liquids rather than let them pass through will make you colder. Think of it this way — imagine hanging your washed laundry out to dry, and pick the clothes (and fabrics) that dry the fastest.

Wear wool and avoid cotton. Generally speaking, these are the best and worst materials for keeping you warm despite being wet., Wool is great for moisture-wicking, but that bulky, itchy sweater Grandma got you for Christmas may not make the best camping pajamas. Prioritize breathable comfort, and use layers that are easy to peel off if necessary — for instance, if you get too warm during the night, or need to get up to use the bathroom.You might layer up, for instance, a vest and underwear, baggy T-shirt and tracksuit bottoms, normal socks, night socks, and a large jumper. Or try the one piece "onesie" pajamas that are warm, versatile, and easy to pack. Just try to keep cotton layers from making direct contact with your skin.
 Some campers argue that sleeping “in the buff” with lots of layers surrounding you keeps you warmest. However, combining thin layers of breathable clothing with layers of blankets and covers is likely your best bet for staying toasty. It also makes it less chilly (and more discreet) if you need to get up during the night!


That said, it’s better to sleep naked with lots of blankets if all of your clothes are wet.
 Nearly all sleeping bags now have ratings listed on the tag, indicating either a seasonal rating (three season, excluding winter, for instance) or a nighttime temperature range in which they can keep you warm. Don’t take chances in cold weather; do your homework, talk to experts, and pick a bag that can handle the nighttime temperatures you’ll be facing.Before departing on your camping trip, make sure your sleeping bag is in good condition — check for tears or holes, broken zippers or cinches, etc.
 The colder it is, the more layers you’ll want to add. Place blankets, towels, rugs, mats, or even extra clothing on top of your bag. You can also buy zip-up fleece liners to place inside your bag, or even double-up with a thinner bag inside a thicker one.