


Instead of a mesh bag to wash your delicate articles, use old pantyhose. Cut the old pantyhose at about the thigh, or just use the entire thigh high stocking. Place your delicate washables in the stocking, tie off the open end, and launder as usual.







Hang wet sweaters without those pesky hanger marks. Take a pair of pantyhose and put one leg through each sleeve or, if you are using thigh high stockings or half a pair of pantyhose, slip one leg through both arms of the sweater. Next, tie the two ends of the stocking to your clothesline and let the sweater dry.;
,

Use them to scrub your bathroom, shower or sink. Spritz some cleaner on your sink, shower, or tub surface. Then, get a piece of your pantyhose and dampen it with either water or more cleaning solution. Next, scrub away the dirt and grime using the pantyhose cut-off much like you would use a regular washcloth. Want to make it even easier? Cut off the pantyhose at the calf and slip the piece over your hand for a cleaning mitt that works magic!






Use your old stockings to make a bath infusion sachet. Using herbs in the bath is a calming experience that fills the air with beautiful scents, transforming your bath from a cleaning routine to a transforming experience. To make one of these bath "tea bags," simply cut off your stockings at the calf, fill it with your favorite herbs, tie off the open end, and float the sachet in your bathwater.






Add soap shavings to the old pantyhose. If you like a more bubbly bath, consider adding all of your old soap slivers into a stocking. Cut off the pantyhose leg at about the calf, and start collecting those soap pieces. When you have a decent amount of soap in the stocking, tie off the open end and swish it around the water to whip up some suds. You can use the soap filled stocking as a gentle scrubber for your skin.
 Put a full piece of soap in the toe of the pantyhose tie off above the soap. You now have a perfect way to carry soap with you to camping grounds. Just tie the pantyhose near the sink at the camping grounds and it will allow people to wash their hands without the possibility of the soap slipping and getting dirty or lost.



Store onions and garlic. Air circulation is a great way to keep onions and garlic around longer. Take a pair of clean pantyhose and cut them off at the thigh, or simply use an entire thigh high stocking. Then, place the onions or garlic into the stockings like a sleeve, tie off the end, and store them hanging up in your pantry. Flower bulbs can also be stored this way over winter.






Place old pantyhose over a rolling pin. This will prevent dough from sticking to the rolling pin.






Use as a dish scrubber. Simply screw up a piece or two of old pantyhose, add a drop of detergent and scrub away.






Use the elastic waistband to secure your trash bags to the trash can to keep the bags from slipping down in the can. The pantyhose can also be used to tie around the top of the trash bags. This method is ideal for all household trash.


Use them to make sachets for adding potpourri or cedar balls to your drawers.






Tie bundled blankets together using old pantyhose. Much gentler and easy to use than large elastics or rubber bands. They will last for years too.






Place over the part of clothes affected by the clip on skirt or trouser hangers. This will stop marks from the hanger clip indenting on the clothing.



Make garden ties out of them! The legs of pantyhose actually make very good plant ties, as they are soft and pliable. They might not look great at the front of the border, but hide them at the back and they'll do the job perfectly! Cut the pantyhose into lots of rings, to make much smaller, unobtrusive ties for all sorts of climbers, roses, etc.







Strain your paint. Take an old pair of pantyhose and cut them so that you have a usable piece of nylon that will stretch over a container. Then, pour your lumpy paint slowly over the mesh surface, letting the debris-free paint flow into the new container.






Protect growing melons in the garden. Use the seat part of the pantyhose to encase your cantaloupes and watermelons to keep rabbits, deer and other animals from taking a bite while you are waiting for them to fully ripen.






Use the old pantyhose as paint brush covers. After cleaning paint brushes, wrap them in pantyhose to keep them clean and soft.



If you're a crafter, then save all your old pantyhose and chop them into short lengths. Stuff toys or animals with the pantyhose; simply cut up old pantyhose and use as stuffing. As well, use them to stuff any craft item, from teddies to pillows to tiny Christmas tree ornaments.






If you ever need to sieve anything very finely, such as pigments, ceramic glazes, liquids, or even when cooking, then a length of pantyhose is great. Cut the leg lengthwise so that you have a square piece of fabric, and tie or tape it over the top of your bowl. Sieve through it.






See How to make a pantyhose choker necklace for another craft idea.


If you want to be energy efficient in every way possible, use this method. In the winter, remove the dryer vent house from the outside exhaust. Stuff the exhaust pipe with an old T-Shirt or something to stop the cold air from coming into your house. Take a pair of old pantyhose and secure it over the dryer vent hose with duct tape. This will allow the warm exhaust air to enter your home and act as heat (and humidity). And the pantyhose will trap the additional lint that finds its way through or around the dryer screen. It will also fill the air with the freshness of the fabric sheet.






You need to make certain you clean this out regularly as it could pose the risk of fire if your dryer hose clogs up.






Have your dryer cleaned and serviced regularly even if you don't do this.







