 Mini walnut stuffed potatoes makes a great appetizer or snack. To begin, set your oven to 400° F (204° C), and chop 15 mini potatoes in half. Mix the potatoes with 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a mixing bowl. Place the potatoes face-down on a baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes.In a separate bowl, combine 1 cup of sour cream, ½ a cup of blue cheese, 1 cup of chopped, toasted walnuts, 1/8 cups of chives, ½ a teaspoon of salt, ½ a teaspoon of pepper, and 2 strips of crumbled, cooked bacon.
When the potatoes are done, slice a thin piece off the rounded end and turn the potatoes over on a plate so that the larger flat face faces up, while the previously rounded end acts as a kind of platform for the potato.
Spoon a small amount of potato out of the larger flat face of the potato. Discard or eat the potato material you scoop out. Then, spoon an equal amount of the sour cream mixture into the potato. Continue until all mini potatoes are topped with the mixture.
Bake another 15 minutes, then remove and allow to cool. Sprinkle chives across the top of each potato. Eat and enjoy with your friends.
 Carrot cake is a sweet treat. It pairs well with a cup of warm tea. To get started, preheat your oven to 350° F (176° C). Use a cooking spray on a cake tin and set it aside.Mix 1.5 cups of spelt flour, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, ½ cup of dried coconut, 3 tablespoons of baking powder, 1 teaspoon of baking soda, ¼ cup of chopped pitted dates, and ½ a cup of chopped walnuts.
In another mixing bowl, prepare the wet cake ingredients. Mix 2/3 cup of milk, ¼ cup of coconut oil, 1/3 cup of maple syrup, ½ a teaspoon of vanilla paste, and 2 tablespoons of orange juice. Then, carefully pour the wet ingredients into the bowl with the dry ingredients.
Once everything is mixed, mix in 2 cups of grated carrots.
Pour the mix into the cake pan and bake for 30-40 minutes. You can test whether your cake is finished by putting a toothpick into the cake. When the cake is finished, the toothpick appear clean when you pull it out.
While the cake is baking, prepare the frosting. Mix 1 cup of cashews (soaked for at least three hours, then drained), ¼ cup of milk, ½ cup of lemon juice, zest (the grated skin) of one lemon, ¼ cup of maple syrup, a pinch of salt, and ¼ cup of coconut oil in a large mixing bowl.
When the cake is done, use a spatula to apply the frosting in a thin, even layer across the top and sides of the cake. Serve and enjoy.
 Buy (or make) a nine-inch pie crust. A graham cracker crust pairs well with the pie. Preheat your oven to 400° F (204° C), then whisk three eggs in a large mixing bowl.Stir in ¼ teaspoon salt, ¾ cup sugar, 2 teaspoons vanilla extract, and ¾ cup corn syrup.
Melt ¼ cup butter and pour it into the mixture.
Finally, stir 1 cup of chopped walnuts into the bowl, then pour the whole mix into the pie shell.
Bake the pie for 10 minutes, then reduce heat to 300° F (149° C) and bake for another 40 minutes.
 Walnuts work great in a savory alternative to mayo or sour cream dips. You can use this tasty dip recipe with crackers, celery sticks, or carrot chips.To produce about 1.5 cups of dip, blend 1 pound of coarsely chopped roasted beets, ½ a cup of walnuts, 2 tablespoons of chopped dill, 1 teaspoon of Sherry vinegar, 2 tablespoons of crème fraiche, and ½ a teaspoon of toasted caraway seeds in your food processor until smooth.
Spoon the dip out of the food processor and into a low, wide dish. Use the bottom of a large spoon to press down on the center of the dip and create a small indentation. Fill it with another spoonful of crème fraiche and sprinkle some extra caraways seeds on top.

