 It is very important to be sure that your child receives any prescription or over the counter pain medications according to the doctor’s orders. Even if your child does not indicate that she are in pain, the parent needs to be sure that they get their medication on time. The reason for this is the fact that the pain medication is supposed to keep the child comfortable so it needs to be taken before they are feeling pain.


Since the medication takes some time to get into the child’s system, if the parent waits to administer the medication until after the child is feeling some pain, it could become unbearable by the time the medication becomes active.
To be sure that the medication is available when the child needs it, the parent should pick up any prescriptions on the way home or have someone else do it right away. Over the counter medications should also be on hand when the child is brought home so that they do not have to wait to receive a dose.;
, While the medication your doctor prescribes should help to manage most of your child’s pain, laying a cold compress on the area where your child feels the most pain may help to make your child that much more comfortable. The cold temperature slows the blood flow to the area, which can decrease the pain and swelling.To apply a cold compress:


Wrap an ice pack, cold compress, or bag of frozen vegetables in a washcloth or hand towel. You should not lay the cold item directly against your child’s skin, as it could actually burn the skin.
Keep the compress on the area for 20 minutes. Let the skin warm back up for 10 minutes, and then re-apply the compress for another 20 minutes if your child is still feeling pain in the area.
After 48 hours, switch to a warm compress, as described in the next step.
 After 48 hours, you can begin to use a heated compress to make your child more comfortable. At this stage, the painful areas needs oxygen and nutrients in order to heal. Heat can open up the blood vessels in the area, making it easier for oxygen and nutrients to get to the healing area.You can administer heat in a couple of ways.


Let your child soak in a warm bath for 20 to 30 minutes.
Use a warm compress or gel pack that you warm up in the microwave. However, make sure that you wrap the compress in a washcloth so that the heat is not applied directly to your child’s skin.
 If your child complains about unbearable pain for an extended period of time, you should call your doctor. It may be possible to have the dosage adjusted, or to get a stronger medication.
 To ward off infections, your child will most likely be prescribed antibiotics. Make sure that your child takes her medication every day; one missed day of antibiotics could mean that she could become prone to infection.

