 Most ceiling mold comes from water moving through a leaking roof. If the water is coming through the roof then you must repair the roof before cleaning the mold. If you do not repair the roof, the mold will simply return.;
, Oftentimes bathroom and kitchen ceilings will develop mold because there is inadequate ventilation. You can add fans or extractors to the room to allow moist air to escape.


Some extractors can be installed yourself and some will need to be professionally fitted. Speak to a representative at your local hardware supply store to see what kind of extractor will suit your room.
 Mold prefers to grow in dark conditions so keeping windows open to allow sunshine will help prevent the growth of mold colonies on your ceilings. If you cannot add natural light try adding additional lighting, which will also add heat and reduce the growth of mold.
 If your house has poor insulation, this can encourage mold growth, including on the ceiling. The effect of cold air on the outside of walls and warm air on the inside can cause condensation. When warmer, more humid air meets the cold wall, condensation forms, contributing to mold problems.


Insulation provides a barrier between the cold air outside and warm air inside, reducing the conditions causing mold growth.
Insulation should be improved in walls and around heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems.
 A small patch of mold growth on the underside of the ceiling can indicate a large colony on the other side of the ceiling. If you remove the small patch on the underside of the ceiling but there is still a large colony on the other side it will simply grow back.
 Mold prefers damp and warm conditions. Dehumidifiers remove the humidity from the air, reducing the ability of mold to grow and thrive.
 After showering leave the shower doors open and the fan on for at least 15 minutes to allow the water vapor to escape. This removes the humidity that mold prefers for growth.
 Wet towels can add humidity to a room. Make sure you hang your towels to allow them to dry thoroughly, preferably in another room. Do this to keep humidity at a minimum, reducing the conditions for mold growth.


Avoid drying clothes indoor on racks or over chairs if you have a mold growth problem. Excess moisture from drying clothes can encourage more mold growth.
 Usually you will be able to see mold on your ceiling. This mold can be black, green, brown, or orange. Other indicators of mold problems include cracked or peeling paint, discoloration, recurrent black streaks, bulging and/or a musty, damp smell.
 Removing mold quickly and resolving the cause of the mold will prevent any adverse health affects or permanent damage caused to the house. It will also make the removal process easier and the mold less likely to grow back.
 Use a stepladder, footstool or other sturdy item that is meant for standing on. It is best if it has rubber or non-slip feet to prevent slips. If it does not have non-slip feet, purchase a not slip mat to place underneath, especially if the floor is naturally slippery (such as tiles).
 If any kind of porous material (popcorn, wood, drywall, etc.) has been used on your ceiling then you will not be able to clean it properly. The mold will simply come back quickly later. You will have to remove the affected portion of ceiling and replace it.


Porous ceilings include popcorn ceiling, which have to be removed and replaced to fix mold growth., Place the footstool or stepladder underneath the moldy area on the ceiling. Stand on it and reach up to the ceiling. Check that you can comfortably reach the mold and are in a safe location.


Cleaning with a raised arm requires good physical strength and flexibility.
If you have arm, neck, back or wrist problems, cleaning upward for any length of time can be painful. If this is the case, you can either clean in short bursts and take rests, or perhaps find someone stronger to do the cleaning instead.
 If the ceiling is painted and the paint is flaking then you should first use a paint scraper to remove the remaining flakes. This will help to clean up the mold by making sure there is no excess mold under the flaking paint.
 Wear gloves to protect your hands from both the cleaning agent and the mold. Wear old clothes that can easily be cleaned in very hot water to remove any spores that have fallen on you or spread through the air.
 There are multiple options for mold removal solutions. The most common is a combination of 2 tablespoons borax, ¼ cup vinegar and 2 cups hot water which will kill the mold, deodorize the air and reduce the chances of the mold returning.


Borax is a natural cleaning product that does not emit dangerous fumes, is a deodorizer and fungicide and is a natural mold inhibitor. It is also a mineral product with low toxicity and usually quite cost effective.
Vinegar is a mild acid that kills 82% of mold species and is natural and safe. It’s non-toxic, has no dangerous fumes, is a deodorizer and can be bought cheaply from the supermarket. Vinegar can be sprayed directly onto the surface and left to sit.
Bleach is an effective mold killer and will remove any stains caused by the mold but it produces harsh fumes, can damage the materials it is used on and does not penetrate porous materials. The chlorine in the bleach stays on the surface of porous materials while the water is pulled inside, providing more dampness for the mold to feed on. Use bleach in a mixture of 1 part bleach to 10 parts water.
Hydrogen peroxide is a good alternative to bleach because it is safe to use and does not damage the environment. It is an anti-fungal, antiviral, antibacterial, and can remove the stains caused by mold. Spray 3% hydrogen peroxide directly on the mold.
Ammonia can be used on hard surfaces but does not work on porous surfaces. Additionally ammonia is a harsh, toxic chemical that should never be mixed with bleach; it will produce a toxic gas. You can mix ammonia in a one to one ratio with water to use for cleaning.
Baking soda kills mold, is safe, and deodorizes the air. It can even absorb moisture to keep the mold away. Since it kills different species of mold from vinegar, the two are often used together in mold removal solutions. Use 1 tsp baking soda with 1 cup water.
Tea tree oil is a natural and effective mold killing solution. It is expensive but is harmless to people and pets, anti-fungal and antibacterial. Make sure your tea tree oil comes from the Melaleuca alternifolia plant and mix 1 tsp. of the oil with 1 cup of water to create the mold killing solution., These will protect your eyes should any cleaning agent drip down from the ceiling as you clean. Since some of the mold-removing agents can be a bit caustic, protecting your eyes is vital. Additionally, dead spores easily spread through the air so it is essential that you use a mask or respirator while cleaning to prevent inhalation of these unhealthy spores.


Ensure there is adequate ventilation while cleaning the ceiling to prevent inhalation of spores from the air.
You can even block off other areas of the house using plastic sheeting to prevent the spread of spores. Cover doorways and ventilation ducts with plastic sheeting and aim a fan towards an open window to push spores outside.
 Put your cleaning solution into a spray bottle and spray directly on the ceiling mold. Be careful not to spray so much that it drips on you.
 Rub back and forth to shift the mold off. Take breaks as needed, especially if the mold patch is large. You may also need to get down and shift the footstool to reach all parts of the mold growth.
 As you use the cleaning cloth, either switch to new cloths or continually rinse out the one you're using. If you don't do this, there is a risk you'll transfer mold around the ceiling rather than remove it.
 After removing the visible mold spray the ceiling once more to coat it in a layer of mold-killing solution. This will reduce the chances of the mold returning after a few days.
 If there are fans, turn them on. Alternatively, if it's a warm day, open the window and let the breeze in. This will help dry the ceiling and bring spores outside.
 If your ceiling is discolored or you plan on repainting the ceiling then you should sand down the ceiling. Sand the areas where the mold was covering to remove any lingering traces and provide a good base for the new paint.


If you need to repaint the whole ceiling, for example because the paint colors will not match or it will show the area that was re-sanded, you must sand the entire ceiling.
 Paint the ceiling with a waterproof paint. A waterproof paint will prevent mold from growing back, especially if condensation was the cause of the mold. Ask at the hardware store for a brand suitable for your needs and follow its instructions.

