 Weight gain or loss is a numbers game – to put on weight, you need to consume more calories than you burn on a daily basis.This doesn’t mean go crazy with sugars and bad fats – your diet should be balanced and healthy. The best way to keep track of your calories is by recording what you eat and how much you burn. To gain weight, add about 500-1,000 calories to your current diet spread over the course of the day.Use a notebook, app or website like MyFitnessPal to total up your day’s calories. This requires reading food labels, being meticulous about recording ingredients, and being aware of portion size. Also record what exercise you did that day and how many calories you burned (as close as possible). A surplus of 500 calories per day will help you gain 1 pound per week.
A great way to add calories is by eating “good fats,” like olive oil, nuts, and flaxseed.;
, Of course if you work or go to school, you may not find time for full sit-down meals. Keep protein-rich snacks with you between meals like almonds, pumpkin seeds, and peanuts.You can also try to sub in a protein shake during the day between whole meals. You’ll do better spacing meals out multiple times throughout the day than trying to eat 1-2 extremely calorie-heavy meals in a sitting.


Definitely do not skip breakfast. Try to include fresh fruits or vegetables, carbohydrates, and proteins in your breakfast.
 To put on muscle mass, try to eat at least 18 calories of protein per pound of your body weight. Also remember to shoot for 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight daily (about 0.36 grams per pound).For example, if you weigh 180 pounds (81.6 kg), you want to get 3,240 calories from protein every day. At this weight you should try to have about 65 grams of protein that day.
Eat high-protein foods like lean meats (beef, chicken, turkey), beans, peas, lentils, eggs, oats, cottage cheese and milk, quinoa, tuna, peanut butter, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts.Your best choices for high-quality protein are beef, yoghurt, milk, eggs, cheese, poultry, and fish.Try protein shakes with whey powder base. Whey is a commonly-used protein supplement.
 Carbs are your body’s main source of energy, and eating them with protein can help your body turn the protein into muscle. Try to have a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio of carbs to proteins in your meals. Plan meals in advance by reading labels and using your notebook or app to track protein and carbs, as well as calories.Have fruit and veggies at every meal with a 3:1 ratio with carbs.Add carbs to your protein shake to get a great boost of both. This is great for after a workout.

