 Before ramping up a sales initiative toward a hospital or similar facility, it's often possible to do an evaluation of just what the client may need. This can be done with any kind of observational information, even just based on a walkthrough of the facility or talking to staff on an informal basis.


In your walkthrough, you may also notice out-of-date or older equipment. If you are selling equipment, then it may be useful to focus on updating the hospital’s technology to be the most cutting-edge possible.
Depending on the region, you may have to set up a formal appointment to talk to hospital staff. It’s important to not violate any regulations, especially before you try to sell to a hospital.
 Hospitals have a variety of different specialties that they may be known for. While some hospitals are focused towards treating certain clientele, such as children, others are focused on particular diseases, such as cancer or heart disease.


Children’s hospitals usually focus exclusively on treating children. Since many of these hospitals may be funded by donations, their needs will be different from hospitals that are not based on donations for funding.Hospitals may focus on particular diseases; at the very least, they may be known for the treatment of those diseases. When selling to these hospitals, it may be important to know that these specific diseases are important to the hospital’s goal and reputation., Depending on where the hospital is located, they may treat different populations that have different ailments. You should know whether the hospital is rural, suburban, or urban, as well as the demographics of those treated at your hospital.


Rural and urban hospitals may suffer from outdated equipment and scant resources. If you can offer these hospitals ways to save money, this may be a good place for you to sell your goods and services.University hospitals are often research-oriented. While the amount of money in the hospital often depends upon the university that the hospital is affiliated with, the populations the hospitals serve may differ depending on the university and its location.The ethnic, financial, and cultural makeup of those treated at the hospital may also dictate their needs. In lower income areas, hospitals may treat very different conditions than in more well-off areas.
 The hospital administration may dictate the direction of the hospital. It’s important to look at their credentials and academic background so you know what types of things are important to them.Hospital administrators are usually medical doctors, though they may have experience in the private sector. If they are a medical doctor, it’s good to know their specialty, since this may be a focus for their administration.
If the hospital administrator is from the private sector, then it’s important to know what other companies they have worked at. It may tell you their financial values, as well as what they find important about hospital administration.

