 You can join the American Counseling Association if you are currently a counselor, a student training to become a counselor, or a retired counselor. You can also join if you have an interest in the ACA's activities.;
, Levels of membership include Professional, Regular, New Professional, Student and Retired.


Join as a Professional member if you hold a master's degree or higher. The degree must be in counseling or a closely related field. You will need to provide proof of your academic credentials. The cost is $161 per year.
Become a Regular member if you do not qualify for Professional membership. Regular members participate in ACA activities, and the cost is $161 per year.
Apply as a New Professional if you have recently graduated. If you received your master's degree or doctorate in the last year, you can join at the New Professional rate, which is $92. This membership will last 1 year only.
Join as a student if you are studying to become a counselor. Anyone enrolled at least part time in a college or university program can enjoy a Student membership. It costs $92 per year.
Apply for a Retired membership if you are retired from the counseling field. You need to have been an active ACA member for the last 5 years. The cost is $92 per year.
 Go to the ACA website at Counseling.org, and click on the box at the top of the screen that says "Join Now."


Complete the contact information screen. You will be asked for your name, title, address, organization, phone number and email address.






Identify your licenses, specialties and work setting. Check the box of the membership level you want.
 Contact the ACA membership department by calling 1-800-347-6647, extension 222 if you do not want to apply online. They can be reached Monday to Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. EST.


Provide the information requested by the representative. You may receive additional paperwork through the mail that you will need to fill out and return.



Fill out your contact information, professional information and your membership level. Indicate your payment method as well.
Mail your completed form and payment to The American Counseling Association, 5999 Stevenson Avenue, Alexandria, Virginia, 22304.
 Online, you can pay by credit card. When you talk to a representative in the membership department, they will ask you to pay by credit card, or mail in a check or money order. When you mail in the application, you can pay by credit card, check or money order.


Choose to pay in 3 installments if the total due is too expensive. You can only pay this way by providing a credit or debit card. There will be a $2 service fee charged to the second and third payments.

