 If you're concerned about how the grade(s) will impact your college future, consult with your guidance counselor to create a plan. Perhaps you took courses that were too difficult, or maybe you should explore other majors. With the assistance of your counselor (and perhaps your parents, guardians, or other mentors), create a plan that will get you back on track.
 Formulate a specific, step-by-step plan that will help you do better next time. Feeling as if you have power over the situation will help you find peace and give you goals to work toward for next time.This plan should include how many hours a week you will study, what grades you want in each of your classes, how you will manage any medical conditions, and how many hours a week you will socialize, work, etc.
 If you packed last semester’s schedule with high-level, difficult courses you may have the answer to why your grades tanked. Even the most highly intelligent individual should give him or herself a break. Try mixing difficult courses with some of your easier or lighter courses for a balanced schedule.
 The key to staying zen is to now keep up with your studies at a pace that matches what you need to be learning. Staying organized, committed, and persistent will help you to stay zen in your college studies. However, if the studies are not improving after you've made changes, then it's probable that you need to seriously consider changes to the career path you've mapped out for yourself. Spending energy on something that isn't working out for you will only worsen your situation.
 You do not want to spend sixteen hours a day studying if you are not learning anything. You will only burn yourself out. Find study methods that work for you in the future. There are a few tactics you can do to help improve memory and comprehension:


Rewrite your notes every night after class. This will help you recall details. It will also help keep your notes legible.
Do ten flash cards a day. Memorize these ten before adding another ten the next day. Memorizing in small batches will help you remember.
Take notes as you read. After you’re done reading a passage, write down a summary of what you just read. This will help you understand what you read better.
When taking notes by hand, use block letters rather than cursive writing. The results are more likely to be legible and it becomes a habit fast. Half of the benefit of note taking is that writing it down tells your brain to put it in long term memory.
Test yourself after each passage. Do math exercises that test the principles you just learned. Quiz yourself on historical dates. These recall exercises will prepare you for the real test.