 Compared to dry beans, canned beans are a mixed bag. Some cans contain beans that are "plain" except for the preservative fluid they are sitting in. Other cans contain beans that are sitting in a sauce. Some cans even contain beans that are meant to be heated and eaten on their own. A quick check of the label should tell you which type of beans you have.


When in doubt about how to use canned beans, check the back of the label. Many will include sample recipes and serving suggestions.
 Plain canned beans usually come in a clear, slimy brine. This works well for keeping them fresh and it's perfectly safe to eat, but it can taste unpleasantly "artificial." All it takes to get rid of this gross substance is to pour the contents of the can into a strainer and rinse them with cold water for a few seconds.
 Canned beans come pre-cooked, so all you need to do is heat them up. If you're using plain beans that you've just rinsed, add a small amount of water to the container you're heating the beans in. If you're using beans in a sauce, you can usually just heat the beans in their liquid without any extra work. If you're using a microwave, be sure to heat the beans in a microwave-safe container like a ceramic or glass bowl (rather than a metal or plastic one).


If you're camping, you can cook a can of beans-in-sauce directly in its can. Simply open the top of the can and carefully place it over your campfire. This is easiest if your fire pit has a metal grate, but if it doesn't, you can just balance the can on a rock near the edge of the fire. Be careful — it will get very hot.
 Since canned beans are already cooked, it's easy to use them in other other recipes. If these recipes require cooking, add the beans at the end of the cooking process so they don't over-cook. For cold recipes, you can usually use canned beans as-is.



In the section below, you'll find a few recipe suggestions that you can use red kidney beans in. Except where noted, you can use cooked dry beans or plain canned beans interchangeably.

