 In order to catch Pokémon, you'll need any type of Poké Ball; however, you may want to stock up on other supplies as well, such as types of potions for your current Pokémon party. Additionally, if you're going to be searching for Pokémon in a building or a cave, you may want to purchase a few Escape Ropes in case you get lost or want to get out without being surprised by another Pokémon.

If your party Pokémon are at low health or have a status condition, take them to a Pokémon Center if possible. You don't have to use any potions or status restorers, and it's free.
Keep in mind the type of Poké Ball you're using matters. A typical Poké Ball would work fine on a Pidgey that's Level 6, but not so well on a Level 40 Gyarados. Consider using Great Balls or Ultra Balls for higher-leveled Pokémon, or a Master Ball - but only use the Master Ball on legendary, hard-to-catch Pokémon, as this has a 100 percent catch rate and you don't want to waste it on something easy to catch.

Time matters in Pokémon catching, too. The Timer Ball introduced in Generation III becomes more effective the longer a battle has gone on. Additionally, in Generation IV, the introduced Dusk Ball has a higher chance of catching a Pokémon if it's used at night, or in caves. There is lots of different balls that work better in different situations.

;
, If you have a Pokémon with a status-changing move such as Thunder Wave or Sing, use it. A Pokémon in your party with the moves Mean Look and/or False Swipe is a good choice as well; Mean Look prevents the Pokémon from fleeing, and False Swipe brings down the Pokémon's HP to one, making it easy to catch.
 In order to encounter a wild Pokémon, you'll want to enter a place where Pokémon can see you, such as tall grass, a cave, or certain "haunted" buildings that vary between the games. Running is recommended to attract the wild Pokémon.


If you've used any type of Repel recently, make sure it has worn off before you enter the tall grass. Otherwise, you won't get any Pokémon unless they're of a very high level.
 Sometimes, it may take a while for a wild Pokémon to appear. Don't get discouraged; simply walk around until something finds you. You'll know by either the battle music, or if you have the volume off, the screen suddenly changing to a battle screen!

In the Safari Zone in all Pokémon games, you have a limited number of steps. If you don't want to waste the steps you have, simply lightly tap a new direction on the D-pad; your character won't move, but you'll have increased odds of a Pokémon appearing.
 Get the wild Pokémon's HP to the orange zone. Try to avoid getting it into the red if you plan on using moves that inflict the Pokémon with a harmful status ailment (e.g. poisoning or burns); these ailments have more effect the longer they've been there, and may knock the Pokémon out.
 Once the wild Pokémon's HP has been significantly lowered, select the Bag/Item button. Select the Poké Balls tab.
 Use a suitable ball per the Pokémon's level and rarity. As mentioned above, you don't want to use a Master Ball on a Horsea.
 After the ball is selected, an animation will play of the Poké Ball being tossed. The ball will then shift side-to-side a few times; if it does so three times and then stars come out from the ball, you've captured your Pokémon successfully! If that doesn't happen, repeat the steps until the Pokémon gets knocked out or you capture it.

