 This field is often mistaken for graphology, especially in Europe where graphology has more of a following in courts. Document analysis can occasionally reveal small hints about age and sex, but it does not try to identify personality.Its main purposes are to identify forgeries, and to compare a suspect's handwriting with a ransom note or other piece of evidence., All samples should be written voluntarily, with similar ink and paper. To practice your first analysis, ask a group of friends to write the same long paragraph of text. Have each person write it twice, on different pieces of paper. When they're done, shuffle them all together and use the techniques below to match each pair.


Criminal investigators like to use at least 3 copies of a full letter, or 20+ copies of a signature.
 A common mistake is to find a couple similarities between the samples, conclude they're the same writer, and stop looking. Challenge yourself to find differences first, then move on to similarities.With that in mind, continue on to find out what to look for.
 Look at the line on the paper, or put a ruler down underneath the writing if the paper is unlined. Different writers tend to write above or below the line. Some will stay level and even the whole way, while others are sloppier and move up and down.
 This is a little finicky, but also more objective than most comparisons. Take a ruler with millimeters and measure the space between letters or words. A significant difference in spacing could mean different writers. This is especially likely if one writing sample connects words with pen strokes, and the other separates them with gaps., Does the writer write the cursive l or k high above the other letters, or compressed down to the same height? This is a more consistent characteristic than the width of the loop or the slant of the letter., There are dozens of curves, loops, connectors, and letter endings that distinguish a writer. Without taking a formal course, the best way to learn these is to inspect a single, long writing sample, then compare it to someone else's. Here are a couple examples to get you started:


No writer writes like a machine. Look for different versions of a letter within the same sample to find out what kind of difference is unreliable. For example, if someone writes two fs with a fat loop and a thin loop, you can't rely on that shape for identification.
Now look for a letter with similar characteristics every time it shows up. For example, in cursive writing a person generally sticks to either a cursive capital I, or a simple vertical line stroke, or a line with crossbars. It's rare to see one writer use more than one of these.
 If you want another exercise, have your friends try to copy each other's signatures and present them in a pile along with the real thing. Here are a few telltale signs:Forgers have to write slowly to copy the writing. This can lead to slight tremors (wiggly lines) and a constant line thickness and shading. (Real signatures usually have lighter and darker shading as the speed changes.)
If the forger hesitates or pauses, you might see ink blots or pen lifts (small gaps in the signature). These are especially common at the start and end of the signature, or between letters.
Try writing your own signature five times, and you'll probably see significant variation. If two signature are extremely similar, down to every curve and line, one of them could be a forgery.

