 There are 3 different electrician licenses in Kentucky: electrical contractor, master electrician and electrician.


Choose an electrical contractor license if you contract with the public to perform electrical work. If your work requires you to request electrical permits, you must get an electrical contractor license. An electrical contractor must hire at least 1 master electrician. Therefore, if you operate a 1-person electrical business, you must get an electrical contractor license and a master electrician license.
Select a master electrician license if you supervise an electrician or supervise the electrical work for your organization.
Consider an electrician license to work unsupervised as an electrician.
 To get an electrical contractor license in Kentucky, you must pass an exam, provide a passport-sized photo, show proof of worker's compensation or a notarized waiver, provide a certificate of liability insurance of at least $500,000, have 2 years of experience as an electrical contractor in Kentucky, and pay the $200 licensure fee. Applications forms are available online at the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction website.


Pass the electrical contractor exam from the International Code Council with a score of at least 70 percent to get an electrical contractor license in Kentucky. The test covers electrical theory, applications, business and law, as well as the National Electrical Code, local codes and state codes.
 To obtain a master electrician license in Kentucky, you must pass an exam, provide a passport-sized photo, and pay the $100 licensure fee. Additionally, you must show notarized proof of either 8 years of work experience as an electrician in Kentucky, or 6 years of work experience and at least 576 hours of classroom training. Applications forms are available online at the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction website.


Pass the master electrician exam from the International Code Council with a score of at least 75 percent to get licensed in Kentucky. The 100-question test takes approximately 5 hours to complete.
 To get an electrician license in Kentucky, you must pass an exam, provide a passport-sized photo, and pay the $50 licensure fee. Additionally, you must show notarized proof of either 6 years of work experience as an electrician in Kentucky, or 4 years of work experience and at least 576 hours of classroom training. Applications forms are available online at the Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction website.


Pass the electrician exam from the International Code Council with a score of at least 70 percent to get licensed in Kentucky. The 80-question test takes approximately 4 hours to complete.

