 If you anticipate a probate dispute between your second spouse and children from a previous marriage, a valid prenuptial or post-nuptial agreement can help establish the assets you've already accumulated to which your second spouse is entitled.Keep in mind that second marriages often are a major source of probate disputes. Many people think of a prenuptial agreement as something made in anticipation of an eventual divorce, but when dealing with estate planning this is not the case.
A prenuptial agreement allows you to clearly state the entitlements of your new spouse relative to other beneficiaries so that all is understood before the marriage is complete, thus avoiding later confusion.
If you've already married, a post-nuptial agreement can settle issues regarding property that both spouses brought into the marriage.
However, keep in mind that depending on the laws of your state regarding marital property, a post-nuptial agreement may not be valid in terms of dividing property acquired during the marriage.
 Real property and titled personal property owned jointly with children of a previous marriage can spawn probate disputes between those children and a surviving spouse who had full use of that property.Joint ownership often is considered an easy way to pass on property to someone else, but in reality it exposes the other person to your liability regarding the asset and can negate their ability to make a different decision later regarding the inheritance of that property.
Joint ownership also can cause confusion if it turns out the owners of the property on the deed or title conflict with the listed beneficiary of that property in your will.
For example, if you and your second spouse live in a home which you own jointly with your son from a previous marriage, your spouse may rightfully assume that she will own the home, or at least be permitted to continue to live there, after your death.
However, if your son inherits the property as the sole owner listed on the deed and decides to sell the property, this could lead to significant disagreements and bitter animosity between your surviving spouse and your son.
 Wills or trusts should be reviewed and altered as necessary to account for major life changes, such as a divorce or a second marriage, and any old documents should be destroyed.Estate-planning experts often recommend looking over your estate planning documents at least once a year.
Additionally, you should always update your estate plans after a major life event of either you or a significant beneficiary, including marriages, divorces, or the birth of a child.
While you can amend a will using a codicil, typically it's easier – and potentially less confusing for your beneficiaries – to simply create a new document and destroy the old one.
Keep in mind that you must go through the same formalities to execute a new will or a codicil that you did when you created the original one, otherwise the new document will not be legally valid.
 Addressing personal property separately from your will or trust instrument can prevent disputes because the separate document can be updated quickly and easily without having to go through all the formalities required for executing a will or trust.These documents are accepted by probate courts in most, but not all, states. If you have questions, talk to an estate-planning attorney and find out if a personal property memorandum would work for your estate.
The personal property memorandum allows you to quickly and easily record any promises you made to friends or family members without having to go through the extensive process of executing a new will.
For example, if you're having a conversation with your daughter from a previous marriage and promise her your collection of antique dolls, all you have to do is add an entry to your personal property memorandum indicating that this promise was made.
 Gather all beneficiaries together and go over your estate plans to make sure everyone understands your wishes and how you've planned to have your real and personal property distributed after your death.One of the easiest ways to prevent disputes between a surviving spouse and your children from another marriage is to make sure everyone is on the same page regarding how you intend to distribute your assets.
Even though one party or another may not be happy with your decisions, they typically will go along with it if they understand that it was what you wanted.
Probate disputes often involve people who were very close to you in life, and have different understandings as to how your will or estate-planning documents should be interpreted.

