 When the bodies of dead animals get into the water supply, this can provide a source of contamination for clostridium botulinum.


In response to declining oxygen in the dead body, clostridium is activated, causing it to release botulinum toxin. The toxin then disperse throughout the water. When a horse drinks this contaminated water, he ingests the toxin and becomes ill.
Another common reason for the presence of clostridium is when an infected mouse or rodent gets into the grain store and then dies. The dead body releases the botulinum toxin, which then contaminates the feed.
Sometimes grain is contaminated with the resting, or spore, form of clostridia. If this happens, the horse may eat the grain and the clostridia starts to produce the toxin in the low oxygen environment of the stomach.
 The key to preventing your water supple from becoming contaminated is the regular inspection of open water tanks, standing water, and free-flowing rivers to ensure prompt removal of carcasses.


Where possible, cover water tanks so that vermin cannot fall in, drown, and provide a reservoir of potential infection.
If a carcass is discovered in a horse trough, the body should be removed, the tank drained and disinfected, and refilled with fresh water.
If a standing body of water was contaminated and it is not possible to drain it, then fence the area off. If this is not practical, then consider vaccinating the horses drinking from the pond.
 Clostridium thrives in damp, warm conditions, thus avoid feeding your horses any grain that smells musty or appears damp. Only buy good quality grain from reputable sources, where it is kept in vermin-proof, damp free containers.


Botulism tends to occur in clusters as a result of groups of horses being fed the same contaminated grain. Therefore, if several horses in your local area die of botulism (which is very rare), it is worth asking around and investigating the common factor, so you can avoid it.
Also remember to keep grain stores in rodent proof containers so that they are less likely to be contaminated by carcasses.
 Clostridium can get into the soil in its dormant, or spore, form. This form is very hardy and resistant to destruction. Therefore you should rake the surface of your soil regularly to keep your it from becoming contaminated.


Clostridium likes damp conditions, such as under leaf mulch, so where possible minimize the amount of mulch and compost by regularly raking of the surface.
When hay is cut, avoid raking up the soil and including it in the bale. The soil may inadvertently introduce clostridium into the hay. In the right conditions, such as the center of a large hay roll where it is warm and there is very little moisture, there is a greater risk of botulinum toxin release.
 Once the hay is cut, bale it with a moisture level of around 35-50%. If this is not possible, add an acid preservative during the baling process. Either of these things (humidity or acidity) helps the pH to drop to below 4.5, which inhibits the growth of clostridium.
 Haylage is a form of fermented hay. Unfortunately, fermented, low-oxygen, high-moisture fodder provides the ideal conditions in which clostridium thrive.


Because of the higher risk of acquiring botulism from haylage, it is should only be fed to horses who have been vaccinated against the condition.
 Avoid the use of poultry manure on pasture land intended for horses to graze, or on land where the hay grown is fed to horses.


This is because poultry manure carries a risk of clostridia contamination, which can spread to the horses through the soil or hay.

