 Who needs the gym when you have access to exercise apps? Some exercise apps even offer workouts for you to choose from. You can find exercise apps for ab workouts, arm workouts, leg workouts, or overall body toning. There are apps that will build cardio routines for you, or a cardio and strength training workout.Apps such as Nike+ Training Club, 8fit, 30 Day Fit Challenges, and Total Fitness are only a few apps that give you workouts delivered straight to your phone.


Many of these apps are free for Android and Apple phones.
If you want to download exercises specific to a certain body area, just search for that keyword, like abs, arms, or glutes.
 Exercise apps are easy ways to track the amount of exercise you get and the calories you burn. Some apps track your movements via GPS, heart rate monitors, or other device. Apps such as MapMyRun or MapMyCycle track your exercise routine via GPS. Apps like FitBit, Moves, Argus, S Health, Google Fit, and other pedometer apps track your daily steps, helping you hit the goal of 10,000 steps per day. By tracking your daily activity, you can set goals for yourself, increase your daily activity, and track your patterns.Some apps combine tracking activity with tracking calories. MyFitnessPal and S Health, for example, allow you to input calories and exercise activity.
 Music is a great motivator for a workout. When you go to the gym, for a walk, or for a run, take your smartphone and a pair of headphones along. You can use iTunes, Spotify, or 8tracks to make your own exercise playlist, or browse for other people’s workout lists. You can also listen to Pandora or IHeartRadio for streaming music., If you have a heart condition, you can use your smartphone to track your heart rate. A heart rate app can let you keep an eye on your heart rate when you’re exercising, and then check it while you’re at rest. Many of these apps check heart rate by having you place the tip of your index finger on the camera lense for a few seconds.Some heart rate monitors are connected to external devices you purchase separately and link with your smartphone.
Many heart rate monitor apps are available for free and without the need for additional devices for both Apple and Android phones.
 Fitness trackers are popular devices to track your daily activity. These tracker can be connected to smartphones. Fitbits come in many different varieties, while Garmin and other brands also offer products that range from clip ons to watches.By hooking your fitness tracker to your smartphone, you can track your activity and fitness level, set fitness goals for yourself, and hold yourself accountable for physical activity.
 If you have diabetes, an app might be able to help you manage your condition. Popular apps include Track 3 Diabetes Planner, Glucose Buddy, and OnTrack Diabetes. Many of these apps allow you to track glucose, weight, activity, and carbohydrates. They also allow you to track your medications. Some may even offer an insulin calculator.Using an app to help with your diabetes can make living with your condition even easier.


These apps range from free to $5.99 for both Android and Apple devices.
 You can store all your emergency medical alert information on apps. These apps, such as Health, MyID, or iMedAlert, store various medical information. Information you can add includes medical conditions, allergies, medications, emergency contacts, and even special care requests like DNRs. Some of the apps have QRT codes EMTs can scan to access your medical information, while others have an “emergency” option on the locked home screen.