 Large companies often unintentionally promote creativity or error if every clerk, bookkeeper, or office manager is left to run their system as they see fit. In the case of a governmental audit, this can be difficult or devastating for a company to find themselves unable to make a good case that the accounting books are solid.


One way to avoid this is to adopt a new and more efficient accounting program. Hire a head accountant to train everyone and to check that everyone follows the new practices to the letter.;
, Although this may sound unintuitive to audit yourself, it is preferable to check up on your own business transactions before the federal or state governments decide to audit you. It can also help your company to reduce waste, change to a more efficient system and reorganize.


Many professional auditors work in this capacity. Also, many Certified Public Accountants (CPA) work in this capacity in the months after taxes are traditionally submitted.
 While CPAs are required to take these credits, you should consider enrolling anyone who is involved with your finances from a clerk to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).


In the case of the largest scandals, such as Enron, the downfall was considered due to creative accounting. CFOs and other managers hid the debt of the company to inflate the stock price. These cases are now taught in ethics courses, so they can be analyzed, and, ideally, never repeated.
 According to Charles Mulford in "The Financial Numbers Game," the following company traits put you at risk for creative accounting:


Weak internal control creates a situation where you have many people processing numbers in different ways. If your accountants have few checks and balances, and they cannot explain the profits, margins and debts in simple English, you are at risk.
Familial relationships amongst the leaders of the company and the board of directors puts a company at risk for creative accounting. People are more likely to put family first and try to find loopholes to protect their family unit. Try to diversify the board of directors with experienced financial leaders, or create an easy reporting system where internal auditors can catch these mistakes before it is too late.
Boards of directors with little experience in finance are more likely to promote creative accounting. People in charge of finances should know the law, ethics and accounting procedures if they have any stake in how the accounting books are being made.
If the assets and revenues are less than $100 million, there is a rise in creative accounting. Perhaps this is because the stakes are higher. Be aware if you are part of an accounting department in a company like this.
 These are the checks and balances that will make a company's books honest and scrupulous in the eyes of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or any other outside agency.


An internal checklist should start with monthly reports that follow the accounting system. It should include regular internal audits. It should also create a way in which whistle blowers on creative accounting will not lose their job.
 Marketing announcements should never inflate the value of stocks, or give an idea that a company is highly profitable, if it is not. Although this is not directly creative accounting, this is often where it crosses the legal line.

