 When it comes to showing love through physical touch, we don’t just mean sexual touch. Any kind of physical affection is welcome, whether it is holding hands, hugs, cuddling on the couch, back rubs, or just an arm around the shoulder. If your lady speaks this language, make sure that she feels your affection.Incorporate touch into your daily routine. Hug your loved one before she goes out for the day. Give her a kiss as you pass her in the hallway. Put your arm on her shoulder while pouring her morning coffee.
Put your arm around her when sitting together at home, on the bus, or on a bench. Hold her hand while walking.
Be attuned to her feelings about public displays of affection. Some women might like being kissed in public, while others might feel uncomfortable.
 Hugs are a basic and very human way of showing affection. They reduce stress, release feel-good hormones, and promote bonding while making us feel more secure. If your lady speaks the language of touch, don’t stint on hugs.Studies show that hugging releases the hormone oxytocin, which reduces stress, makes us feel content, and even promotes monogamous behavior. Hugs are a big form of non-verbal communication. A hug says a lot, from “I love you” and “I’ve missed you” to “I’m so proud of you” and “Everything will be OK.”

, One benefit of non-sexual physical affection is that it can lead to better sexual intimacy. People who touch, hug, hold hands, and are more openly affectionate often report having better sex lives and. Make sure to devote time to sexual intimacy with your loved one.How often it occurs is up to you as a couple. For some couples, once or twice a week is enough; some like it more frequently or even multiple times per day.
If you have different libidos, sex can be an “act of service.” If she’s ready and you aren’t, being available anyway is a way to express your love and devotion.
Remember to be a generous lover. Sex isn’t just about fun and pleasure but about creating emotional intimacy. Cuddle after sex, talk, and use it as an opportunity to be close in all ways.

