 If your teen is abusing steroids, there will most likely be signs. Side-effects are common, so it's important to pick up on these symptoms so that you can properly intervene. If you notice several of the following symptoms, please approach your teenage son or daughter but do not assume that the symptoms you notice are definitely caused by steroid abuse.
 Steroids cause water retention which can create swollen faces. This round face is sometimes known as 'moon' face and may be a sign that steroid abuse is occurring.
 Teenagers commonly have acne, so please do not assume that your child is abusing steroids if they have acne. With that being said, steroids cause acne that is highly severe. It is most commonly seen on kids’ faces, upper back, arms, and shoulders.


If your teen already suffered from acne, you may notice that their acne has gotten even worse.
 When teens first start using steroids, weight gain is a clear sign. Within the first 6 to 12 weeks, it's not uncommon for an individual to gain between 11 and 22 pounds.Of course, keep in mind that weight gain is a common occurrence when kids are growing up and maturing. However rapid and unexplained weight gain may be a sign of steroid abuse.
 Steroids can cause extreme changes in mood. The bursts of anger that one may experience has been named, “roid rage.” Your teen may be extremely angry and then all of a sudden be extremely happy. While this may be caused by something else, there is also a chance that it is caused by steroid abuse.
 Liver disease is possible when steroids are excessively abused for extended periods of time. The skin and eyes of those individuals that abuse steroids can become yellow. This is a sign of jaundice, which may indicate severe liver damage. Seek help for your child if you notice signs of jaundice. Other symptoms of jaundice include:


Yellow skin and eyeballs.
Yellow mucous membrane in the nose and mouth.
Darkly colored urine and pale stool.
 You may have noticed that your teenager's hair has begun thinning out. Some steroids may cause balding.
 As mentioned, do not assume that steroids are a factor if you notice one symptom (e.g. acne). Pay close attention to your child and the ways in which they change, both physically and psychologically. Certain symptoms are extremely serious, such as jaundice. At this point in time, there's already damage done to the liver and other organs.

