 Some newborn puppies have abnormalities to their skulls, hearts, mouths, and anuses. These can include such things as cleft palates, deformations of the spine, or missing limbs.Certain abnormalities can make it difficult for them to nurse properly or generally be healthy. Birth defects may also cause the mother to reject or even kill the pups.Be sure to talk with your veterinarian about the best course of action for pups with birth abnormalities.
If your puppy suffers from a heart abnormality, it may struggle to gain weight, have trouble breathing, and be generally lethargic. Certain abnormalities can be treated if caught early., Newborn puppies often suffer from genetic disorders. These can range from cognitive issues to metabolic complications that severely limit a puppy’s quality of life. A puppy suffering from a genetic disorder will likely have difficulties nursing and properly gaining weight. However, they may also prevent behavioral issues, like aggression or sleeping away from the group. Be sure to talk with your veterinarian about the best course of action for any pups with genetic disorders.For example, newborn puppies can sometimes develop juvenile hypoglycemia, a genetic disorder that is particularly prevalent in toy breeds. This makes it difficult your puppy to properly gain and maintain a healthy weight.
 Newborn pups are extremely vulnerable to environmental factors like toxins or fluctuations in temperature. Because they are unable to regulate their body temperatures, they are susceptible to hypothermia and hyperthermia. Chemicals and toxins in their bedding or in the nearby environment can also harm puppies, poisoning them and affecting their health. If your puppies struggle to nurse, gain weight, and cry a lot, they may be experiencing a complication due to an environmental factor. The skin of newborn pups is thin and readily absorbs chemicals in the environment around it. This can result in flaky or dry skin and hair loss. Be sure to wash all bedding in gentle cleaners that leave no odor.
Make sure that you keep your dog’s whelping box in a climate controlled location to avoid any extreme temperature fluctuations.

