 This popular dessert is even more delicious when used as a filling for a light, sweet crepe. To make it, all you need is a banana, brown sugar, butter, and brandy. Melt a pat of butter in a saucepan, and then add a sliced banana. Sprinkle it with a few spoonfuls of brown sugar and let it caramelize. When the bananas are brown and crispy, spoon them onto a crepe, pour warmed brandy over it, and use a match to light it on fire to complete the caramelization.


This dish is delicious served with chilled whipped cream to offset the heat of the filling.
Add cinnamon and nutmeg to give the dish a warm, spicy flavor.
 Chocolaty hazelnut spread is one of the most popular crepe fillings in France and other countries. The spread complements the light flavor of the crepes.


Sprinkle the hazelnut spread with chopped toasted nuts if you would like to add some crunch.
For a more decadent version of this filling, spread the crepe with melted butter before adding the hazelnut spread.
Substitute hazelnut spread for peanut butter if you prefer.
 Filling crepes with a savory salad is another popular way to enjoy this confection. Serve salad crepes at a luncheon or as a light dinner. Try these different variations:



Chicken salad crepes. Mix cooked diced chicken, mayonnaise, chopped grapes, and salt and pepper. Place a piece of butter lettuce on the crepe, then spoon the chicken salad mixture over the lettuce. Roll up the crepe and serve.
Ham salad crepes. Combine diced ham, cheddar cheese, onion, and vinaigrette. Spoon the mixture onto crepes and roll them up to serve.

Lentil salad crepes. Mix cooked lentils, chopped celery, olive oil, and balsamic vinegar. Spoon the mixture onto crepes, garnish them with parsley, roll them up and serve.
 Crepes are a great dish for vegetables of all types. Cook vegetables that are in season with your favorite herbs and spices and serve them with a complementary cheese.


For spring, stuff the crepes with cooked artichokes or asparagus and sprinkle with goat cheese.
In summer, try tomato and zucchini crepes with fresh mozzarella and basil.
For the fall, fill crepes with cooked pumpkin or acorn squash and serve with melted gruyere cheese.
In the winter, fill crepes with sautéed kale or Brussels sprouts, dried cranberries, and grated cheddar cheese.

