 Start at the bottom left corner of the paper and roll it towards the upper right corner. Stop when you reach past the widest point of the paper.
 To avoid making the paper too soggy, apply the glue in a thin layer with a brush. At this point, you can also add a core to your wand. Here are some options:


Phoenix feather: red, orange, or yellow feather.
Dragon heartstring: piece of red yarn.
Unicorn hair: silver or iridescent thread or tinsel.
 This can take 20 to 30 minutes. If you do not wish to hold your wand for that long, you can secure it with some string or twist ties. The glue must be dry before you move on.
 The tightly-rolled paper is probably very pointy at both ends. Use a pair of scissors or a craft knife to trim off both of the pointy ends. You will want to trim off one end more than the other. This will make the end wider, suitable for the base of your wand.
 This will seal the tube further, and prevent it from unraveling. For an extra touch, hot glue a small fancy bead or button to the bottom of your wand. Make sure that the bead or button is the same width as your wand; it shouldn't go past the edges.
 You can use the hot glue to build up a handle for your wand; they are typically the length of your finger. You can also use the glue gun to draw swirly designs on the rest of the wand.


If you'd like, you can hot glue fancy beads or buttons to the handle to make fancy designs.
 You want using paint primer, gesso, or even decoupage glue (such as Mod Podge). Allow the primer to dry before continuing. This will prevent the paper from becoming too soggy while you paint it. If it becomes soggy, it can fall apart.
 Most wands will be some shade of brown, but there are wands in the movies that are also black or white. You can paint your wand a solid color, or different shades of the same color. For example, you could paint your wand brown, and add some lighter and darker brown streaks to it to make it look more like wood.
 This will make the designs you drew stand out more. Take a color that's slightly darker than the one you used, and apply it with a paintbrush or q-tip to all of the nooks and crannies in your design. Next, take a lighter color, and apply some highlights to all of the raised edges.


If your wand is black, you only need the highlights. If your wand is white, you only need the shadows.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will help your wand last a little longer. Go to a well-ventilated area, and set the wand down on a sheet of newspaper. Spray the wand with a clear, acrylic sealer and let it dry. Turn the wand over and spray the other side as well. Repeat this step if necessary.


You can use a matte, satin, or glossy finish.

