 While planks primarily target your abdominal muscles, they also increase the strength of the muscles in your arms and chest, which prepares you to do other strength-training exercises that target your arms specifically.To start a plank with a stability ball, kneel behind the ball. Make sure your knees are about hip-width apart. Place your palms together on the top of the ball with your arms fully extended.
Roll the ball away from you until your forearms and elbows are resting on the top of the ball. Keep your legs straight so that your body forms a straight line from your shoulders down to your knees.
Breathe deeply and hold the plank position for several seconds or breaths. Then pull with your abs to roll backwards from the ball and return to starting position. Do 10 to 15 repetitions of this exercise to complete one set. You can build two to three sets into your workout as necessary.
You can increase the difficulty of this exercise by rising all the way to your toes rather than stopping at your knees. Reverse planks, in which you balance your feet on the ball rather than your elbows, are a slightly easier version.
 Make sure you have mastered regular push-ups before you try doing them on a stability ball. Push-ups are a good overall bodyweight exercise that will strengthen your arms as well as the muscles in your back and chest. The further down your shins you hold the stability ball, the more difficult the exercise will be.From a face-down position, place the ball under your shins and extend your body in front of it with your hands on the floor. You may want to have a partner help you get into the starting position.
Your hands should be a little more than shoulder-width apart. Slowly lift your body until your arms are straight. Then lower your chest, bending at the elbows.
Control the movement both when you are pushing down and when you are raising up. Avoid simply letting gravity control your movement as you lower your body.
If your shoulders are weak or you're recovering from a shoulder injury, then you should avoid doing push-ups.
 The pike is a more difficult exercise that primarily targets your abdominal muscles, but also engages your arms and chest to a significant degree. Use this exercise if planks are no longer challenging, or if you want some variety.To start this exercise, lay face-down on the ball, with the ball under your stomach and your hands on the floor. Your arms should be extended straight below your shoulders with your legs together.
Slowly walk forward with your hands until the ball is just under your thighs. Breathe deeply and tighten your abdominal muscles. Lift your hips up, keeping your knees straight, and roll the ball towards your hands in a slow, controlled motion.
In the finishing position, you will be in a modified handstand with your arms straight and your head, shoulders, and back aimed toward the floor as though you are diving into a pool. Your body comes to a point at your hips, with your arms straight behind you and the stability ball under your ankles and the tops of your feet.
To make the exercise safer and more accessible, reduce the range of motion on the hip lift so the final position looks like an upside down letter V.
Slowly roll the ball out until your body is flat to return to the starting position. If you're new to this exercise, you may want to start with only 5 repetitions in a set, working up to 10 or more reps.
Due to the danger of a head or neck injury, it's a good idea to have a spotter for this exercise, particularly if you've just started doing it.

