 Add ½ cup (95 g) of shortening, ½ cup (100 g) of sugar, 1 egg yolk, and ½ cup (156 g) of molasses to a large bowl. Mix until all of the ingredients are combined.You can substitute butter for the shortening. However, your gingerbread may be a little darker, and the cookies may spread more when you bake them.;
, In a separate bowl, combine 2 cups (250 g) of flour, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking soda, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking powder, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground cloves, 1 ½ teaspoon (3 g) of ground nutmeg, 1 teaspoon (2 ½ g) of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon (2 ½ g) of ground ginger. Stir well until all of the ingredients are combined.You can also add a teaspoon (2 g) of allspice to the dough if you want extra spice.
 Once the flour mixture is blended, slowly start to add it to the wet ingredients. Stir in small amounts, and mix until until the dry ingredients are incorporated before adding more. Continue the process until all of the dry ingredients are mixed in and a soft dough forms.If you’re using a hand mixer or stand mixer to mix the dough, keep the speed on low as you’re adding the dry ingredients. That will prevent flour from going all over your kitchen.
 When the dough has come together, separate it into two equal pieces. Cover each piece in plastic wrap, and place in the refrigerator to chill for at least 30 minutes.You can chill the dough for up to 2 hours.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the gingerbread, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to hit fully. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s reached the preheated temperature. It will likely beep or flash a light to alert you.
You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 When the dough has chilled for at least 30 minutes, remove half of it from the refrigerator. Use a rolling pin to roll out the dough into a sheet that’s approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick on a floured work surface.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, a water bottle, or a thermos to roll out the dough.
 Once the dough is rolled out, place a 8-inch (20-cm) plate on top. Use a knife to gently trace around the plate and create a circle of the dough. Pull away the excess dough.You can also use the bottom insert from a springform pan to serve as a template for the wreath base.
Save the dough scraps from the wreath base. You can mix them in the other dough when you’re cutting the cookies.
 To create the center hole in the wreath, press a 3- to 4-inch (8- to 10-cm) round cookie cutter in the center of the dough circle. Remove the excess dough from the center.Just as before, save the dough from the middle to use for the cookies later.
 Use a spatula to carefully lift the dough wreath from your work surface. Place it on the lined baking sheet, and bake it in the preheated oven for 7 to 10 minutes or until it is set and a light golden brown.It helps to bring the baking sheet to the edge of your work surface so you can just slide the wreath onto it.
Don’t turn off the oven after you remove the wreath base. You want to stay hot enough to bake the cookies.
 Once the wreath base is finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Allow the wreath to cool on the sheet for 5 minutes, and then carefully transfer it to a wire cooling rack to cool completely., Take the other half of dough out of the refrigerator, and unwrap it. Place it on a floured work surface, and use the rolling pin to roll it out into sheet that’s approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.Make sure to mix in the scraps from the wreath base in with the reserved dough before you roll it out.
 Once the dough is rolled out, take cookie cutters in holiday shapes, such as snowflakes, snowmen, stars, and Christmas trees, to cut out cookies. As you cut out the cookies, reroll the dough scraps until you’ve cut out all of the dough.For the best results, use cookie cutters that are 1 ½- to 3-inches (4- to 8-cm) in size.
 After you’ve cut out the cookies, move them to the lined baking sheet. Place them in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake for 7 to 10 minutes or until they’re set and lightly golden brown., Once the cookies are finished baking, remove the cookie sheet from the oven. Let them sit for 5 minutes on the sheet, and then transfer the cookies to a wire cooling rack to cool for at least 15 minutes.It’s important to ensure that the cookies are completely cool before you put the icing on them or it will melt.
 Add 4 cups (480 g) of powdered sugar and 5 to 7 tablespoons (75 to 105 g) of milk to a large bowl. Mix until the icing has a spreadable or pipeable consistency.Start with 5 tablespoons (75 ml) of milk, and only add more if the icing is too thick.
You can substitute water for the milk if you prefer.
If you want to color the icing, divide it between a few bowls. Mix a few drops of food coloring into each until you have all of the colors that you’d like.
 Use a butter knife to spread the icing over the cookies in whatever design you’d like. You can also transfer the icing to a piping bag, and pipe it onto the cookies., You want to make sure that the icing on the cookies has dried so it won’t smudge. Let the cookies sit for 1 to 2 hours so the icing has time to fully set., Once the icing on the front of the cookies is set, use a knife or piping bag to add a small amount of icing to the back of the cookies. Gently press the cookies onto the wreath base, adding cookies until the entire wreath is covered.If you want to layer cookies on top of one another, let the icing “glue” set for at least 30 minutes before placing the second layer.
 After you’ve covered the entire wreath with cookies, leave it in a cool, dry area to set. You’ll want to give the icing at least 1 to 2 hours to dry before displaying the wreath.It’s a good idea to cover the wreath with plastic wrap while you’re waiting for the icing to set.
 When the icing has set, put the wreath on a decorative platter. Set it on your holiday table as a centerpiece, or allow guests to break off cookies.If you have any extra cookies that didn’t fit on the wreath, you can serve those alongside it.

