 Clothing that enhances your feminine hourglass figure often does so by accentuating your hips and butts, while slimming and flattening your midsection.Wear dresses and skirts with an A-line shape that go in at the hips and waist, but fall loosely over the thighs and calves. While you do not want something that is skin-tight, look for clothes with slim cuts that cling to the body.


Look for structured or tailored pieces. Avoid items that are loose-flitting or low-wasted.
Consider contrasting colors. Wear a brightly colored top with a darker bottom.
Make sure your waist is well-defined. Select pieces that include beading, ruching, or cinching at the waist, or use accessories such as a cinch-belt. By doing this, you can create the illusion of a larger butt in only a few minutes.;
, Today’s shapewear is considerably more flattering and comfortable than your grandmother’s girdles. Like girdles, shapewear and body slimmers are worn underneath clothing to smooth out your thighs and/or midsection, and create an hourglass figure.Girdles emphasize curves by forcing the fat from your tummy to your hips and butt. This is a great trick for people who carry weight around their stomach, but are less endowed in the butt. Shapewear tights and shorts can do a similar trick to a usually lesser extent. Popular brands include Spanx and Yummy Tummy. You can mix and match shapewear to emphasize – or de-emphasize – different parts of your body.Pieces that slim your thighs and stomach without compressing your rear lend themselves to creating the look of a more toned, rounded butt.


Purchase shapewear designed to flatten your midsection while lifting and separating your butt cheeks, giving your butt a larger, more perky appearance.Do not purchase shapewear in a smaller size. Not only will you have difficulty fitting into it, but too-tight shapewear can lead to health problems., Flaunt what you got with pants that are fitted around the butt, but don’t flatten. This includes wearing pants that fit snuggly but aren’t too tight, avoiding baggy or too-large jeans, and selecting pants that include some design or embellishment around the butt. Deciding what to wear depends largely on your body type:If you have a large bust but slim waist (ice-cream cone or triangle shape), you want to minimize the bust while drawing attention to the hips and butt. Choose A-line skirts and dresses that flare out at the hips. Define your waist with belted jackets, tops, or dresses. Elongate your body by wearing high heels. Avoid skinny jeans or pants that taper at the ankle, skin-tight clothing, and hight-necked tops such as turtlenecks.
If you have a boyish or athletic body type, try wearing jeans, pants, or skirts that sit an inch or two below your waist. Accentuate curves with tailored jackets and wrap dresses. For slim individuals, select jeans that have some embellishment – such as embroidery or beaded design – on the back pockets. Avoid oversized or baggy tops and bottoms.
If you are smaller on top but larger on the bottom (pear or teardrop shape), then you are fortunate to have naturally wide hips and bottom. Create a balanced look, especially if you have a slim midsection and slender arms, by wearing bottoms that sit at the waist. These include empire-waist dresses, A-line skirts, and wrap dresses. Avoid skinny jeans or pants that taper at the ankle, tucking your shirt in, or wearing jackets that extend below your waist.
 Skirts are often more flattering than pants when it comes to making your butt. However, finding a figure-flattering skirt depends on your body shape. Common body types include: hourglass or figure eight, pear or teardrop shaped, athletic or boyish, and ice-cream cone or triangle shaped.Try on different skirts based on shape, length, color, and pattern until you find something that works for you. Pencil skirts or bandage skirts look best on hourglass body types, but should be avoided among pear-shaped or athletic body tapes. These skirts can be dressed up or down. Cotton-spandex skirts are generally more popular with the younger crowd, whereas skirts made of sturdier fabrics look more professional and sophisticated. These skirts are tightly fitted, so they emphasize your curves to the maximum. Pair them with a loose top for a casual look, or a button down or blouse for a more sophisticated one.
High-wasted, flared skirts look great on pear shape body types. These cinch in at your natural waist (the thinnest part of your torso) and flare out, making you appear to have a small waist and big hips. These skirts are often called “skater skirts” or “circle skirts”.
Rounded skirts with stripes create the illusion of curvier hips and work well on those with a narrow waist and small butt, such as triangular and athletic body types.
A-line skirts look good on athletic, triangular, and pear-shaped body types, but should be avoided among curvier or heavier women.

