 Age, in general, doesn’t matter. What matters is motivation. If you’re child shows an interest in learning how to sew, this is the indicator that they might be ready to start learning.Some sewing instructors, however, recommend waiting till your child is around 6 years of age before introducing them to a sewing machine. Prior to this, hand sewing is the best option.
Because hand coordination is required for sewing, another indication of whether your child is ready can be based on hand-eye coordination.;
, Sewing machines can be a little intimidating for first time sewers. As with sewing in general, the best indication of whether your child is ready for work on a sewing machine is their interest in the machine. While it may seem like a good idea to buy a sewing machine specifically for children, these machines are normally of a very low quality and will easily break. There is no reason why a child cannot use a ‘real’ sewing machine from the start.Remember to start off any lesson on the sewing machine with a ‘safety talk’ so your child understands where to and not to put their hands.
One possible way to start a child on a sewing machine is to allow the child to work the pedal, while you control the fabric. This will allow the child to feel a part of the process, without being scared of having fingers near the needle. Once more comfortable, you can allow your child to take over control of the fabric as well.
 When using a sewing machine it is often tempting for the child to ‘put the pedal to the metal’ and sew really fast. Unfortunately not only can this cause injury to little hands, it is incredibly difficult to control the direction of the fabric when going this fast. Teach your child that the best way to sew is slowly and carefully.The ‘slowly’ tip also works for hand sewing. While kids can only sew as fast as their hands can move, there is no need to rush hand sewing. If it takes all day to sew a square — that’s okay. It is better that they feel good with their accomplishment rather than needing to make several corrections because they went too fast.
 Allow your child to pick every aspect of the sewing project to be undertaken. This may mean odd combinations of fabric and colours, but that’s okay. The sewing project should be about the child, and making sewing fun and exciting. Kids are more likely to enjoy the project if they feel they were apart of all the decisions.One exception to this ‘rule’ is to provide advice if your child wants to use a pattern that is really complicated (e.g. a shirt) or a fabric that is difficult to work with (e.g. velvet). You don’t want to set your child up for failure, so you may need to encourage an alternative in this situation.
 Once kids have found a pattern they like, and they’re able to sew the project with great success, they may want to sew the same project over and over (and over and over). Having them grow really comfortable with a specific pattern is great as it will boost their confidence.As your child is sewing the same project again, suggest they change something up. Add a different feature, or a different colour combination, etc.
One small and simple project can actually teach kids a large variety of sewing skills that will help them with every new project they take on.
 Most professional patterns are made on very thin and flimsy tissue paper. While they type of paper is fine for adults, it can be really frustrating for kids to work with. Instead of using the tissue paper, trace the pattern onto thick paper or cardboard for your child to use.


Thick card stock paper may work, as well as the cardboard cereal boxes are made from.Instead of pinning the pattern to the fabric (as you would with the tissue paper), simply have your child trace the pattern onto the fabric with a fabric pencil. Cutting around a pinned pattern is not easy, even for more experienced sewers. Tracing the pattern directly onto the fabric will make it easier for your child to cut it out properly.
 When experienced sewers are sewing pieces of fabric together, they know they have to keep their stitching ¼” or so from the edge of the fabric. The line that needs to be sewn along is, technically, invisible. For an older child or an adult, this is an easy concept to master. For a young child, this can be really confusing. Instead of telling kids to follow an imaginary line while they sew, use a fabric pencil and draw the line they need to stitch along directly onto the fabric., Normally, when laying the pattern pieces out on a piece of fabric, you want to cover as much of the fabric as possible so you don’t waste any. Kids, however, may find it more fun to start by cutting pattern pieces out of the middle of a piece of fabric, making it harder to use the fabric again later.Demonstrate to your child how to lay out all the pattern pieces so you maximize your use of the fabric. Encourage them to do the same. Indicate that more projects can be made if less fabric is wasted!

, One of the hardest parts of hand sewing is getting the end of a piece of thread through the eye of a needle! To help alleviate this frustration with your child, use embroidery needles and thicker thread instead of the ‘normal’ stuff.Thicker thread could include the thread used for hand-quilting or upholstery. ‘Regular’ thread is quite thin and can tangle very easily.
An embroidery needle — around size 5 — works best. The eye of this needle is easier to see and thread.

