 Before you apply for jobs, you will need a few references from people who can attest to your skills, experience, and positive characteristics. It is best to get references from people inside of the industry, but if you do not know anyone yet, you can ask professors, former bosses, and other people in your network. You should aim to have at least three to five references ready when you apply.Keep your references updated about your goals and progress. They might have advice about how to successfully apply for jobs. If you show that you are dedicated, they may even spend more effort writing the recommendation.
 Sending out mass applications for jobs will not increase your chances of success. Instead, look into each job that you are applying for. You should know who the executives are, where their headquarters are located, and be aware of any recent developments in their financial state.Tailor your resume and application to the specific bank that you are applying to.


If you are applying to a large national or multinational bank, you should set up a news alert through Google Alerts or a similar program. They will send you notifications whenever that bank is in the news.
 If you are called to an interview, you will want to demonstrate that you are interested in the job. A good way to do this is to prepare questions for the interviewers. These should be questions that are not easily answered by googling the company. They should show awareness of the company’s practices and demonstrate a willingness to learn.Some good questions include:


“What skills would you say make a successful candidate?”
“Who would I be working for at this bank?”
“How would this position evolve over the next 12 months?”
You can also specific questions about the development of the bank. For example, “What is your bank’s strategy for increasing their market share in the coming year?”, You may want to use your network during the interview by naming important executives or well-connected friends. If done poorly, namedropping can come off as pretentious or rude. Instead, wait until you are asked a question to state your connections. Only namedrop if you actually know the person and if they know you. Your recruiters may follow up on it, and you do not want them to find that you do not know the person well.


For example, if they ask, "Why did you apply to our bank?" you can say, "I am friends with the regional director, Michael Jones, and he said that this would be a great opportunity for me to break into the industry."
You may also namedrop when asked about your skills or past experience. For example, if asked about your previous experience working at banks, you can say, "I worked under Lisa Williams when I interned at this bank, and I learned alot from her.", After the interview, you should send the recruiters an email thanking them for the opportunity. This should be a short email that emphasizes your interest in the job. Do not ask them if you have received the job or not.A good email might say, “Thank you for the interview at your bank. I appreciated the opportunity to speak with you. Please let me know if you have any questions for me. I look forward to hearing from you soon.”
Even if you do not get the job, a good email will help you network with them. They may be willing to tell you why you did not get the job so that you can improve for your next application.

