


This larger can had a pull top so it was flattened to allow good airflow.;
,,, If you are careful, you can also poke out the concentrator hole at the same time, in the larger can.
 It is approximately 1/3 of the diameter of the actual can.
 (Be careful of sharp edges here!) On the left you can see the ash grate with holes made as we prepared the concentrator.
 This will allow lots of air flow from the small holes in the inner can.
 It will be a little floppy at first, but when the fuel is put inside, it should be relatively level. The nail can be used later to remove the assembly.
 We used the can opener to shorten the inner can by cutting off the rim. It can be a little tricky the first time since the can wiggles around. Lying the can on the side helps it remain steady so the can opener makes a clean cut. You could also elevate the outer can a little bit later on, but that might be less reliable. One other way to do this is to leave the cans the same height and poke larger holes all the way around the top of the inner can using your large nail.
, It was weathered at least a year or more and split very well just by stomping on it. The piece in the image was about 3 feet (0.9 m) long and filled the small can.
 This produces some splinters, so watch your fingers.
 And we packed in some paper napkins and drizzled a small amount of vegetable oil on the tips of the sticks and the napkins for a hot start. The napkins work as a little wick at first and heat up the cans and wood very well. Poke those napkins in between the wood sticks very gently and carefully. Use a fork or dull knife to avoid splinters.
 Then light all the paper napkins and slide the outer can on top. The fire should come out the concentrator hole very clean, with low smoke.
, The fire should hit the middle of the pot and touch it, but should not spread out beyond the sides. The ring of small bricks around the pot concentrates the heat on the sides of the pot very well. At the end of burning, all the bricks were quite warm too.
 I think the draft was slightly improved and heat directed even better at the pot. Still the bricks were all quite warm too.
 The water boiled rapidly after about ten minutes and boiled fiercely for at least ten minutes too. I made two cups of tea.
 I was quite surprised by that power output (hot enough to boil water outside on a freezing cold day.) The overall clean burn was also impressive. Starting produced a little smoke though. I think it was mostly due to the burning labels on the cans and the plastic linings in the food cans. It produced a small amount of charcoal. This can also be used for heat.
 This forced air in through the small holes at the bottom and the charcoal burned with intense heat.

