 Most cities have animal control offices to deal with complaints about animals.In some cities, animal shelters handle these complaints. To find the appropriate office, you can look for “animal control” in your phone book.


You can also search the Internet. Type “animal waste complaint” and “your city.” The appropriate office should show in your search results.
Once you find the appropriate office, write down the phone number that you call.;
, Before calling, pull together the relevant information to give to animal control. For example, you should have the following:a description of the animal
the animal’s address
the time of the incident
any other relevant details

, Some cities give you the ability to make an anonymous report. You might want to report anonymously if you are afraid of the animal owner or if you otherwise don’t want to get involved in any dispute.


However, if you report anonymously, then animal control might not do anything. In order to properly punish the animal owner, animal control may have to request a hearing where evidence is presented against the dog owner. Animal control might not be able to bring this hearing if you are not willing to testify.
 Some cities have online forms you can complete in order to make an animal waste complaint. For example, you can file an online complaint in New York City., After you complain, animal control should reach out to the animal’s owner. An inspector may even stop to meet with the animal owner.You should offer to help animal control in any way that you can.


For example, you should share with the inspector any documentation you have of the waste.
 After being contacted by animal control, the owner may still refuse to pick up after their animal. In this situation, you need to make a second complaint to animal control. In some cities, such as Fort Worth, you will have to fill out an affidavit. The affidavit should include:the name of the animal’s owner (or a description if you don’t know the name)
the animal owner’s address
a description of the animals
the date and time of the incident
any other details
the names and contact information for other witnesses
your signature before a notary public

, Unless animal control observes the animal depositing waste, they are usually unable to issue a citation. However, animal control can issue citations if you have:a color photograph of the animal depositing waste
the animal is visible in the photograph
you document the date, location, and time of the incident

, It might be easier to make a video instead of taking photographs. Most smart phones have the capability to film short videos. Be sure that the animal and the owner are both visible, which will make it easier to identify both.
 In some cities, animal control might need more than one person to make a complaint before they do anything, especially if you didn’t get a picture of the incident.You should check if you can get at least two witnesses.


Speak to people around the neighborhood who might see the animal owner not pick up after the animal.
Document the witness’s name and contact information, such as phone number and email address. Ask the witness if they would be willing to testify.
 When the animal’s owner is uncooperative, animal control may issue a citation. However, the animal owner can challenge the citation at a hearing. If so, then you could be asked to testify.Make note of the date and location of the hearing. If you have never been to the courthouse before, then give yourself plenty of time on the day of the hearing to arrive on time.
 You want the judge hearing the case to take you seriously as a witness. Accordingly, you should try to look as professional as possible. Courts are conservative places, so you should dress conservatively.


You probably don’t need to wear a suit to an animal waste hearing. However, you should dress “business casual” in dress pants and a dress shirt. Wear dress shoes, not sneakers, and remove any noisy or flashy jewelry.
Make sure that you cut your hair and are clean and neat.
 You might be nervous if you have never testified before. Nevertheless, you should come across as a credible witness if you follow these tips:Listen closely to the question. If you don’t understand it, then ask that the question be rephrased.
Always think before answering. Take a couple seconds to make sure you understand the question and know what you want to say.
Be as brief as possible. You are there to give evidence and not to pass judgment on the animal owner.
Avoid humor. A courtroom is a serious place, and you should take the hearing seriously.

