 There are several physical signs that may indicate the presence of scoliosis. Because most cases of scoliosis affect the mid-to-upper back (called the thoracic spine), uneven shoulder levels is a common sign.Look in the mirror with your shirt off, relax your arms, and see if your shoulders are uneven.


"Humping" of shoulders blades (one that sticks out more) is also common with thoracic scoliosis. Bend over at the waist with your shirt off and ask a friend or family member to see if one shoulder blade sticks up more.
Your ribs may also be distorted due to scoliosis, which can cause your shoulder blades to become distorted as well.
Keep in mind that uneven shoulders are also common in certain types of athletes who use primarily one arm all the time, such as tennis players and baseball pitchers.;
, In addition to uneven shoulders, watch for other signs of asymmetry in your body, such as your head being a little off center from your torso or pelvis.Both thoracic and lumbar (lower back) scoliosis causes a crooked posture that can often be seen in how the head is positioned over the rest of the body.


Due to input from the visual center of your brain, your head will normally be completely level, so if it looks like you're leaning to one side or crooked, the problem likely exists in your body (typically your spine).
Stand away from the mirror and have a friend or family member take a picture of you in a bathing suit. Look at the picture for any signs of leaning or asymmetry in relation to your head.
 Scoliosis in the lower thoracic or lumbar regions of the spine invariably affect the balance and symmetry of your pelvis.One side will be raised and look unusually high, which makes your waist uneven. Stand in front of a mirror with just pants or shorts on. Position your hands above your waist on the sides of your hip bones (iliac crests) and see if they are uneven.


Although a crooked upper back with uneven shoulders can often be hidden with clothing, an uneven pelvis/hips is often obvious to onlookers, who might bring your attention to it.
An uneven waistline affects how pants sit on your hips, which affects the relative leg lengths of the pants. Thus, people with scoliosis often notice that one pant leg is shorter than the other. Some people even notice that one leg looks longer than the other.
 Although skin changes don't happen in every case of scoliosis, some people experience skin changes early on in life and then develop scoliosis later on. If the appearance or texture of your skin overlying your spine develops dimples, hairy patches, rough spots and/or color abnormalities, these may be signs of dysraphism, or abnormal development of the spinal cord and nervous system.However, these skin changes usually happen early in life and lead to scoliosis at a young age.


Ask your spouse or friend to examine the skin of your back closely under good light. Have them take a high resolution picture and look at or show it to a dermatologist for a professional opinion.
Other causes of similar skin changes on the back can include inflammatory arthritis, an underlying infection, skin cancer from too much sun and hormonal changes.
 Most people who develop idiopathic scoliosis, which means from unknown cause, don't feel much or any pain associated from the condition. However, between 20-25% of people with idiopathic scoliosis do feel pain, which is often described as a constant ache throughout the day punctuated by bouts of sharp pain with vigorous movements.Upper or lower back pain that doesn't get better or fade away within a week should be looked at by a health professional. If you also have any of the above-mentioned signs, then scoliosis is a possibility.
Manual therapy (chiropractic, physiotherapy, massage) does not make a significant long-term impact on back pain caused by scoliosis.
Adult scoliosis caused by degenerative arthritis, tumors, spinal trauma and/or muscular diseases have a much greater incidence of pain compared to idiopathic scoliosis that starts during adolescence.
 If you notice any of the above-mentioned signs or symptoms, see your doctor and get in efforts to get a proper medical diagnosis. Your doctor will visually inspect your spine, then x-ray it in order to confirm scoliosis or perhaps another condition. A thorough scoliosis evaluation includes a full length, whole spine x-ray in order to visualize the curve and measure in degrees.A standard exam used by most doctors and nurses to screen for scoliosis is called the Adam's Forward Bend Test — the person bends forward 90 degrees at the waist and the symmetry of their spine and shoulders is evaluated.
The curve is measured on x-ray by the Cobb Method and a diagnosis of scoliosis is made if it's greater than 10 degrees.An MRI or CT scan may also be recommended if there's concern about possible spinal cord compression or other abnormalities.
 Another type of doctor that is well trained in spinal problems and treatment are chiropractors. Your family doctor may not be as comfortable examining and diagnosing problems in your spine due to a lack of experience or training, so your chiropractor can be a good alternative. Chiropractors also conduct spinal exams, orthopedic tests and take full-spine x-rays before rendering a diagnosis.


In general, a scoliotic curve of the spine is only considered clinically significant if it's greater than about 25 to 30 degrees.Chiropractic spinal adjustments and other related therapies (such as electronic muscle stimulation) can provide short-term relief to people with scoliosis, but it doesn't cure or resolve the problem.
 An orthopedic doctor is a bone and joint specialist who can also diagnose cases of adult scoliosis. Your family doctor may refer you to one who focuses more on spinal conditions if your scoliosis appears moderate-to-severe. More specifically, scoliotic curves exceeding 45 to 50 degrees are classified as severe and often require more aggressive treatment, such as surgical techniques.Spinal surgery in adults is sometimes recommended when their curves are greater than 50 degrees and they have nerve damage that affects their legs, bowel and/or bladder.Surgery can involve spinal decompression, fusion and/or the insertion of metal rods in order to straighten the spine. Ribs may also be removed to allow for easier breathing.
Wearing spinal braces is only effective for kids with scoliosis who have not reached skeletal maturity. With adults, their spine has stopped growing, so bracing is ineffective.
 Adult scoliosis is often the result of either untreated or unrecognized cases of childhood scoliosis.If the cause of the spinal curve during childhood is unknown, it's called idiopathic scoliosis and this category comprises about 80% of all cases. If you're born with the condition, it's referred to as congenital scoliosis. Most congenital cases are also idiopathic.


Relatively common congenital causes of scoliosis include spina bifida, muscular dystrophy and cerebral palsy.
About 40% of adult scoliosis patients experience at least a small progression of their spinal curves., Although most adult cases of scoliosis are both congenital and idiopathic, up to 20% of cases are caused by known degenerative conditions of the spine, such as arthritis.The most common type of arthritis of the spine is the "wear and tear" type called osteoarthritis, which typically affects the lower lumbar spine because it bears the most weight from the upper body. Osteoarthritis of the spine affects the vast majority of people (to varying degrees) older than the age of 55 years.


The discs and joints connecting the lumbar vertebrae often wear down with age, and sometimes unevenly, which causes a lateral listing or scoliosis and uneven hips / pelvis. This can easily be seen on x-rays.
Your risk of developing osteoarthritis of the spine is greater if you are overweight, sedentary, do lots of sitting, and have a poor diet that's low in minerals, vitamins and protein.
Severe spinal arthritis can be treated with surgical techniques that fuse and straighten the spine.
 Another secondary degenerative cause of adult scoliosis is osteoporosis (loss of bone mass) of the spine.Osteoporosis most often affects the upper thoracic spine, and because it leads to brittle bones, the vertebrae there eventually fracture and collapse. Often osteoporosis of the thoracic spine creates a hunch back appearance, and sometimes due to an uneven collapse, the spine also lists to the side (laterally) to create a scoliosis.


Osteoporosis is much more common in Caucasian and Asian women with slight (thin) builds, especially those who are sedentary and don't exercise much.
A lack of dietary minerals, especially calcium and vitamin D, increases your risk of developing osteoporosis.
Osteoporotic spinal fractures can also easily be seen on x-rays and diagnosed by your family doctor or chiropractor.
Treatment involves surgical techniques, weight bearing exercises and dietary supplements.

