 When you are feeling lonely, it might feel like you are isolated. Feeling down can cause you to want to withdraw. That's normal. But you will feel better if you attempt some human contact.Pick up the phone. Reach out to a friend and ask if they have a few minutes to talk.
You can try keeping the tone light, but making your feelings clear. Say, "I'm feeling a little lonely and I could use a laugh. What's the funniest thing that happened to you today?"
The phone is a great way to keep in touch. Maybe you have moved away from some of your friends and are looking for a way to connect. Don't be afraid to dial their numbers regularly.;
, Traveling is a great way to beat the loneliness blues. Figure out somewhere to go and start planning. Organizing a trip will give you something fun to focus on and look forward to.Go visit a friend. Have you been longing for a girls weekend with your best friends? Find a great spot to meet and start planning.
You can also plan a solo trip. Choose a place to visit that you've always wanted to see.
You could also mix some alone time with some socializing. Have you been missing your brother lately? Take a road trip. You can take a few days to yourself on your way to visit him.
 Start putting some dates on the calendar. Reach out to some friends and set up some outings. When you're feeling lonely, it can be really helpful to have something fun to look forward to.Plan a variety of activities. For example, e-mail a friend you haven't seen in a while and ask if she's free for a coffee date.
You could also schedule some evening activities. Ask your neighbor if he wants to try out the new pizza place around the corner.
Consider having a party. You don't need a special occasion to reach out to your friends and ask them to come over for a wine and cheese party.
 When you are feeling especially lonely, it might not be enough to just have a casual get together with a friend. Sometimes you might feel like you need some more in-depth bonding. Try reaching out to someone you really care for and asking for some quality time.Contact a family member. Try saying, "I've been feeling a little down lately. It would be great to spend some time with you. Do you mind if I come spend the weekend with you?"
Be honest about how you're feeling. Remember, it's normal to feel lonely. Let your friends and family help.
Do something you enjoy. Ask a close friend to go on a long hike with you. The fresh air and companionship might make you feel better.
 You don't have to reach out to someone you know. You can actually feel less alone by connecting with a perfect stranger. Try doing something nice for someone.Give up your seat on a crowded bus. Smile and say, "Here, you take this seat." You'll feel like you are helping someone, which will make you feel better.
Volunteer. Find an organization that you find worthwhile and donate your time.
Consider serving soup at a local soup kitchen. You'll definitely be able to feel like part of a community.

