 Before you’re able to walk the dog on your own, go along for walks with your parents or older siblings who are big enough to handle the dog. Ask if you can help hold the leash. Some leashes, which can be found at pet stores or online, even have extra handles for this reason., You won’t be able to safely walk a big dog until the dog is willing to obey your commands. Dogs, however, may be less willing to obey kids. While training them to do tricks can help you get to know each other, the dog will only be willing to obey you once they know you’re in control. To help achieve this relationship, practice telling your dog to do basic obedience tasks, such as “sit” and “stay”.Talk to your parents about the way you should reward your dog for obeying you. With family dog’s it’s important that everyone is on the same page about the dog’s discipline and training.
Before you will be able to safely walk your dog on your own, be sure that your dog obeys your commands to “leave it” and “come” as well.
 If there isn’t room in your yard, have someone take you to a safe, fenced-in area where you can practice walking your dog. Hold the leash firmly, with the loop around your thumb or palm. Stand beside the dog and start walking forward. Stop walking and command them to “stop” or “heel,” depending on what they’ve been trained. This will ensure the dog is paying attention to you and that you’re in control.


If the dog attempts to misbehave by pulling or ignoring your commands when you’re the one holding the leash, you need to practice more obedience commands with them.
Ultimately, your dog needs to learn that they need to obey you before you can safely walk them. This is best established through patient and consistent training.
 Big dogs need sturdier collars and leashes, and even adults often need harnesses to help control larger dogs. Specific devices designed to help control a large dog can be especially helpful during leash training, which should be done initially by adults only.


When you do begin walking a large dog after it has been trained, use a body harness to ensure that you're physically able to control them if necessary.
A specific example of collar that an adult can use to help train a larger dog is the Halti, which loops around the dog's muzzle and prevents them from pulling forward.