 When your child is being stubborn, they may be testing you to see what they can get away with, and a screaming match reinforces that they have some control in those situations. Instead of fighting, try to stay calm and focus on making the goal happen, rather than showing your kid why they are wrong.If your kid won’t get dressed, for example, put your effort into getting them in their clothes rather than fighting with them. Lay their clothes out and offer to help them put them on.
Once the task is completed, you can work with your child to come up with ideas to help them get ready on time and/or express consequences as fits your parenting style.
 Try to minimize “no” in daily life and instead offer explanations or alternatives. This way, when you offer a strong or firm “No!” in critical situations, it holds its impact.If, for example, your child regularly asks to play games when they should be studying, let them know, “We can play after you finish your homework,” instead of simply saying “No.”
Reserve “no” for situations such as when your child starts verbally or physically fighting or practicing other disruptive or harmful behavior. Then, offer it as a stern command.
 If your child continues to try to push you and other methods of engagement have not worked, close the conversation. Let your child know, “This is not negotiable. I will not talk about this anymore.”Use a strong tone when communicating this message to your child so that they understand you mean what you say.
Stick to your message. Once you say you will not discuss something anymore, do not start to fight with your child about it. If they throw a tantrum, ignore them or work with them in accordance with your parenting style, but do not discuss the issue any further.
Don’t put your child on the spot. If there are any extended family and friends around, don't embarrass your child by putting him/her on the spot in front of others. This can potentially lead to a dysfunctional relationship with much resentment and hostility.
If it has been a long day, and your children have been very trying, and you feel you are at your wits end with anger, don't attempt communication at all until you are able to regain your composure. It is nearly impossible for anyone to respond in an appropriate and objective manner until then. It is acceptable to revisit the conversation later when you are not so upset.
 It is important to communicate with your children in a positive manner, and to model this type of communication to them. Always communicate with your children and with other people from a space of love and compassion.

Do not use negative words that will devalue your child's sense of self-worth or importance. For example, never tell your child they are stupid, dumb, or lazy. Don't even use these types of words in phrases that aren't targeted towards your kids.
For example, don’t say, "Why did you do that? That is just stupid." Never allow them to hear you say things like this to other people either.

