 Retinol and vitamin A can help your skin cells regenerate and stimulate collagen production. This will improve any fine lines or wrinkles in your eye area. These ingredients can also help to reverse sun damage around your eyes, such as sun spots.Only use a small amount of eye cream with retinol and vitamin A on your skin, as applying too much can make your skin sensitive or irritated.
Retinol can make your skin sensitive to the sun so always apply sunscreen on your eye area after you have applied the eye cream and before going into the sun.
Look for eye cream that contains SPF, especially if it also contains retinol and vitamin A. This will ensure your skin is protected from sun damage.;
, Undereye puffiness occurs when fluid builds up in this area, causing swelling. You may get undereye puffiness due to allergies, a lack of sleep, or a poor diet. Eye cream that contains caffeine or cucumber can help to reduce swelling.Eye creams that contain ingredients like green tea, aloe vera, coconut oil, chamomile, and licorice root can also be good for reducing puffiness and swelling.
 If you tend to get dark circles under your eyes, look for an eye cream that contains vitamin C, vitamin K, and caffeine. Cucumber and kojic acid are also good ingredients for reducing dark circles.You should also look for an eye cream that contains light-reflecting ingredients. This will help to brighten up this area.
 If you have oily skin, look for an eye cream that does not contain oil. If you have dry skin, look for a moisturizing eye cream (or eye balm). If you have combination skin, look for an eye cream that will suit both oily and dry skin.
 If you’d prefer to save money on eye cream, make your own at home. Make an eye cream to reduce undereye circles with cucumber, mint, aloe vera, and almond oil. Or try an eye cream made with ground coffee, olive oil, and beeswax to reduce fine lines around your eyes.
 Unlike eye creams, eye balms do not contain water. Eye balms are usually wax-based, which means they form a protective barrier on your skin and keep your skin hydrated. If you struggle with dry skin around your eyes, an eye balm is for you.Though you can try an eye cream for dryness, eye balms may be more effective. Some eye creams contain thickeners, preservatives, and additives that can actually make your skin even more dry.
 Use an eye cream that contains shea butter, jojoba oil, and beeswax. Check that the eye balm is all natural and made of moisturizing ingredients.Look for eye balms that contain natural herbs like mint and rosemary, as they can be soothing for dry skin.
 Stay away from eye creams that contain fragrance, as they can end up drying out your skin more. Check that the eye balm contains no additives, preservatives, or chemicals. Avoid eye balms that contain alcohol, as they can irritate and dry out your skin., Get in the habit of applying the eye cream or balm regularly. Put it on in the morning before you start your day. Or, apply it at night before bed so the ingredients can be absorbed into your skin while you sleep.


Try to integrate the eye cream or balm as part of your beauty routine. Apply it once a day and as needed so you can start to see improvements in your eye area.
 To apply the eye cream or balm, begin by applying small dabs under your eye. Use a clean finger to press down lightly on the cream and apply it in a smooth swiping motion. Work from the inside of your eye to the outside of your eye.Make sure you apply the eye cream to the inner corner of your eye below your eyebrow on your upper lid as well. Work outward from the inside of your eye.
 Keep the eye cream or balm nice and cool by storing it in the fridge. This will help to preserve the cream or balm, especially if it’s all natural. It will also feel good to apply the cold cream or balm to your eye area. This may be ideal if you are trying to soothe dry skin or puffiness around your eyes.