 You need to allow yourself time to mourn the end of a serious relationship, or a serious case of unrequited love, but once enough time has passed you should be ready to take on the world again. Let go of the past and embrace this time as a new beginning, a new chapter in your life. Remember, the best is yet to come!

, Now is the time to reconnect with the friends you may have neglected while you were dating. Call up your childhood besties, your high school gang or your college roommate. Reconnect with your friends and you'll soon have so many social engagements you'll wonder what you've been doing for the last few months/years of your life.
 Now that you're no longer hung up on thinking about someone else, you probably have a lot more free time on your hands. Now is the time to reinvent yourself and become the person you've always wanted to be be. Dye your hair red, take a Japanese class, develop a six pack. Take the opportunity to try something new and you might just discover a hidden talent or a previously unrealized passion.
 Take advantage of your new-found emotional freedom and the endless possibilities that singledom entails. Go out with your friends, meet new people and flirt shamelessly. Your ex didn't like dancing? Hit the dance floor! Didn't appreciate your best friend's humor? Laugh all you want! You'll soon be having such a good time on your own that you'll forget why you ever wanted to be in a relationship to begin with.
 Once enough time has passed and you've soaked up all the goodness single life has to offer, you can start to think about dating again.Don't just ask a person you just met , go places and talk to people be wild and go to paris or a different town for a couple days.


If you've just come out of a long-term relationship, make sure to take things slow, rebound relationships rarely work out. If you start dating too soon, you'll end up comparing your new love interest to your ex, which isn't fair to him or her.
Enter your new relationship with hope and optimism - and who knows? They might just be "the one."

