 Italians rarely wear socks with sandals or white socks beneath trousers. On the other hand, they typically wear socks with closed shoes. They always match the colour of the sock to the colour of the shoe.


When Italians do wear socks, it’s often very short socks not knee length or calf length socks. These socks are sometimes called “fantasmi,” which means invisible.
 This is especially important if you’re in a big city where safety could be an issue. Advertising that you are a tourist could make you a target.The best way to look like a tourist fast? Wear a fanny pack or money belt. This just advertises that you’re walking around with money.
Lugging around a backpack can also get you pegged as a tourist. You will want to carefully store important documents, and credit cards, in an inside pocket or front pocket so someone doesn’t pick your pocket.
T-shirts, tennis shoes, and any shirt or sweatshirt with a slogan on it will probably make you look like a tourist. Slouchy and scuffed is out; fitted and impeccable is in. Nice fabrics go a long way.
 Italian fashion sense varies depending on what portion of the country you’re in. It’s a mistake to think there’s just one way to dress in Italy.


The main geographic differences can be found between the south and the north of Italy. Remember that Milan is in the north, and it’s a sophisticated city that is a major hub of the global fashion industry. The style there would be sophisticated and reliant on designer name brands.In the south, such as in Rome, there would be more adherence to local traditions and trends that are not as contingent on the fashion industry. Dress more formally if you’re visiting a big city instead of a rural country town.
Another difference to consider is that the north gets pretty cold in the winter, although it’s warm during the summer months, whereas the south is pretty warm all year round.
In the summer, it can reach temperatures of 35 degrees Celsius in Rome. That's in the 90s in Fahrenheit. It can be difficult to predict the spring weather, which can seesaw between chilly to warm, ranging from 15 to 28 degrees Celsius (59 to 82 degrees Fahrenheit), with temperatures down to 10 degrees Celsius at night. Watch the forecasts.

