 Grip the ball like you would grip a four-seam fast ball. Place your index and middle fingers an inch apart across the seams. Place your thumb on the other side of the ball between your two fingers.






;
, Be sure to hold the ball like you would handle an egg: firmly, but not too tight.
 Make sure your wrist is not stiff because it will need to be able to snap quickly.
 Any baseball pitch requires the pitcher to shift weight in order to gain momentum for the pitch. The dominant leg will step back before sweeping forward across the body as the hands come up and then down in preparation for the throw.









You may want to look up video that shows you a standard pitch before you attempt to try it: , Start by standing with your feet shoulder width apart.
 Take a small step backwards with the same foot as your pitching hand. You’re pitching hand is usually called your stride hand.









As you do that bring your pitching hand and glove to your head.
 Bring your stride leg up and over across your body, bending the knee as it rises parallel to the ground.









Tip: Keep your back knee slightly bent to improve balance.
 Make sure your hips are facing to the side.









If you are pitching with your right hand, your hips will be rotated to the left.
If you are pitching with your left hand, your hips will be rotated to the right.
 As you lower your stride leg, lunge forward with the stride leg toward the target.
 As you lunge forward, pull your pitch arm behind you and above your shoulder. Your glove hand should be pulling your shoulder toward the target.









Rotate the arm counter-clockwise behind you. Your arm should be making a circular motion.
 The Secret of the Demon Miracle Pitch emphasizes the importance of hip and shoulder unison. Practice the unwinding motion several times before throwing the ball.
 Rotate your arm away from the body. After you have pulled the arm back, rotate your arm forward and away from the body with your palm facing third base for a right-handed pitcher and first base for a left-handed pitcher.









The pitching arm will come forward and down so that the back of your hand will face you.
 Make sure that the palm of your hand faces away from you with the thumb toward the ground. This begins before the release to create the side-over-side spin.
 Snap your wrist as you release the ball and turn your hand away from your body as though it were a football.









Allow the ball to roll off of your pointer finger.
The gyroball does spin not backward (like a fastball) or forward (like a curveball) but in a spiral (like a well-thrown football).
 Do not let the arm drift back in toward the body, as per normal American baseball customary motion. Your arms should be totally across the body.








