 If your error was very serious, or if you are well-known and hold a big position, you might want to think about your online presence when rebuilding your reputation. Don’t underestimate negative online info. To start, you will need to take stock of the situation.You can get a quick sense of your online reputation by checking Google’s autocomplete. Just go to the Google homepage. What appears when you type in your name, or your company name?
When you enter your name, for example, do you get something positive or neutral like “Harold Bing Brew Co. CEO” and “Harold Bing business award”? Or is it damaging, like “Harold Bing mugshot”?
Look at online news stories or reviews about you or your company, if applicable. Check local sites or other social media.
Set up a Google Alert in your name, so that you’ll be notified any time something new is posted., Programs like Google Suggest reflect real internet searches and should give you an idea of how people associate your name and reputation online. Did you find something unwelcome in your results? There are some things you can do.Do not try to manipulate the results. While some people suggest this approach, using techniques like crowdsourcing,you might end up causing more damage.
You might try acquiring the search term and building an optimized page to tell your viewpoint. That way, when someone types “Juliette Page embezzler” she is directed to your side of the story – that the charge is false, misunderstood, or not reported right.
You can also request that the search engine take down the autocomplete. This is hard and usually only works with results that suggest hate or violence, porn, or personal information. Still, it may be worthwhile to try.
 Your online reputation could get out of control. Don’t despair, however. There are people and agencies who can help you manage this kind of situation, like Reputation.com or BrandYourself.com. The work will be pricy, but it may just salvage your working reputation.Reputation managers won’t always be able to get rid of negative content from the web. But they should be able to highlight positives about you.
For example, their services might include setting up a domain in your name for a page presenting your side of the story.
They can also respond to negative comments or reviews and manage your online presence on sites like Facebook, Twitter, or Youtube.
The goal is not to eliminate all negative info about you, but to tip the balance in your favor whenever someone searches for you online.Keep in mind that management services don’t come cheap. Expect to pay between $20 to $200 per month.

