 High necklines frame your neck and face, and as a result, they also tend to draw more attention to a double chin. Direct the eye away from your chin by opting for low v-necks and similar collar styles. The idea is to keep the collar of your shirt as far away from your chin as possible.


If you're wearing a button down shirt, leave the top two or three buttons undone.Deep necklines are better than broad necklines since they draw the eye down and away from your chin. If plunging necklines are too far out of your comfort zone, though, a broad neckline—like a boat neck or wide square neck—is still a much better option than a high collar.;
, Small dangling earrings are acceptable, but when you wear bulky earrings that end just around your jawline, you end up inviting onlooking eyes to your jawline—and, more significantly, your chin.The right earrings can help turn attention away from your chin. Play around with various post earrings in a range of sizes and styles. Small posts that add a touch of sparkle or larger posts that demand attention can keep people focused on your eyes and upper cheeks.
 Adding too much bulk to your neck can accent a double chin, but if you choose long necklaces and thin scarves, you can actually guide the eye further down your torso. People are more likely to direct their attention toward the end of your accessories, so the lower your necklace or scarf goes, the further you can separate their gazes from your chin.


Avoid choker style necklaces or other necklaces with short chains. Long, beaded necklaces that drape over your chest are a better option, especially if the beads start small near the neck and get progressively larger as they get lower on the chain.
If you opt for a scarf, choose one in a muted pattern or color and stick to light materials, like chiffon. Avoid heavy, bulky scarves.
 For guys with double chins, picking out the right tie for an occasion can make a big difference. Bow ties hug the neck and draw extra attention to the area below your face. Long ties, on the other hand, encourage the eye to look further down and away from your chin.


Generally, you'll want to stick with a standard long tie instead of a super skinny one. A standard long tie keeps your features looking more balanced, while a skinny long tie can make your face, chin, and neck look oversized.
 Contouring is the art of applying different shades of foundation in a way that tricks the eye into seeing the fake shadows and lines on your face, thereby changing its overall perceived shape.


Apply a foundation that matches your skin tone to your entire face, all the way from your hairline to your neck. Blend it in well.
Pick out a second foundation that is two shades darker than your standard, skin tone foundation. Apply this foundation to your chin and jaw line. Use a foundation brush, pad, or your fingers to blend it in evenly., Pick out a matte bronzer and apply it to your neckline, around the base of your neck and collar. Avoid applying the bronzer to your chin area.


Avoid shimmering bronzers since they tend to look unnatural.
If you use bronzer on your cheeks, use the same shade for your neck. Doing so will make your look appear more natural.
 When applying lipsticks and lip gloss, go for "nude" or understated look. Since your lips are so close to your double chin, drawing attention to them can also invite attention to your chin.


Apply a hydrating lip balm, then layer a natural color lipstick or gloss on top.
Matte colors are preferred over glossy or sparkly colors.
If you want to give your lips a little more attention, you could outline them with a natural lip liner before applying a natural shade of lipstick or gloss. The liner should match your natural lip color.
 Use eyeliners, shadows, and mascaras to draw attention to your eyes. By inviting onlookers to look you straight in the eyes, you can subtly convince them to look away from your double chin.


Dress your eyes up, but don't get carried away. For daytime looks, stick with neutral eyeshadows, blended eyeliners, and a light coat of mascara.
For evening looks, you can glam your eyes up a bit more dramatically. Consider applying a smokey eye using shadows and liners, then top your look off with two coats of black volumizing mascara.
 By keeping your hair short, you can reduce the amount of bulk around your chin and neck.


Make sure that the cut you get does not curl under your chin, though. Onlooking eyes are naturally drawn to the end of a hairstyle, and if your hair style frames your double chin, it will draw more attention to it.
Long hair styles can also work as long as they are not excessively bulky around the neck. If you want to keep you hair long, make sure that it stays long enough to dip well below your collarbone.
Everyone's features are a little different, so for best results, talk to you hair stylist about the best cuts to mask your double chin.
 If you have long hair, consider styling it so that the bulk of your hair rests on top of your head instead of falling below your chin.


Stacking your hair on top of your head draws the attention toward the top of your face. As a result, your face and neck look longer, and your double chin will become less noticeable.
 Men have the option of hiding a double chin with a well-groomed beard. Just make sure that your beard is neatly groomed, trimmed, and stylish. Facial hair is a great way to mask a double chin, but a rugged or disorderly beard could backfire and make your overall appearance look sloppier.


You can still take advantage of this trick even if you do not want a full beard. Extend your shave line further down the neck, positioning and tilting the stubble to create a deeper shadow.This trick can elongate the appearance of your neck, thereby reducing the visual impact of a double chin.
 This is not an ideal method, but if someone is about to take a picture of you and you don't have time to prepare, it is one of the quickest fixes you can use.


Casually place your hands in front of the lower part of your face, just below your mouth and over your chin.
Duck behind someone taller so that his or her shoulder blocks the bottom part of your face and neck.
Use any other prop you have available to you that is large enough to hide behind without looking unnatural.
 If you feel comfortable with having a super close-up of the rest of your face, ask the person taking your photo to bring the camera in as close as possible.


Your face will need to be centered in the frame, and other parts may also need to be cut off. If you take a photograph where you can see past the top of your head and beyond the sides of your face, having your chin cut off in that photograph will seem like poor work or an obvious attempt to hide something.
 Angle your face so that it is at eye level with the camera. Tilt your head up and to the left or right to help conceal the excess skin from the lens.


It's also a good idea to simultaneously contract your jaw and neck muscles. Do so by pressing your tongue into the roof of your mouth. You won't be able to grin wide, but you should still be able to manage a natural smile.You can also elongate your neck by rolling or pushing your shoulders back a little.
Another trick to make your head tilt look natural is to stand next to someone or something tall. In such circumstances, an upward head tilt will make it look like you're simply trying to improve the overall composition of the photograph.
 Digital photo editing can hide or alter nearly anything, and a double chin is no exception to this rule. That being said, good photo editing is much harder than it looks. You can minimize the appearance of your double chin in a photo, but if you try to erase it from the photo completely, your tampering might be obvious.


If you lack photo editing experience, start by playing around with filters, exposures, and highlights. You can create interesting lighting effects on a photograph that look intentional and artistic, and some of these effects may also draw attention away from your chin in the picture.

