 You want to get the same experience as any other patron, as many restaurants will give you special treatment that may change your review if they know you're a critic. Instead of telling them you are there to review their food, simply head inside and take a table, acting like any other customer. The Association of Food Journalists even suggest that you avoid large culinary events (grand openings, staff parties, etc.) so you don't risk being approached by chefs looking for a good review.


If you are an established reviewer you should make reservations under a different name.
You should still bring a notebook or small recorder with you to take notes, though you can also take them on your phone. To write a great review, you should be taking notes.
 Did you need a reservation, and how far in advance was it set up? Where is the restaurant, and what is the neighborhood like? How was the parking? These facts will make up a very small part of your review, but this information is essential to help potential customers find the perfect restaurant for their night., Give your reader a feel for your experience. Does the wait staff treat you like family or an old friend, or is the place elegant and classy? What is the dress code like? What kind of atmosphere is in the restaurant? Be creative in the description -- a good food review is not just about the menu, it is about the entire experience.


Do the decorations create an appealing ambiance?
How are people enjoying their meals? At large, talkative tables or many small, intimate dates?

, Avoid thing like, "the service was good/bad." You want specifics. The best way to get them is by asking questions. While you don't want to pester people, a good waitstaff will know what foods go well together, if there are any allergens in the dish, and the basic presentation of the dish. Most importantly, a good waitstaff is there when you need it -- when water glasses get low, when a fork is dropped, and when you're ready to order your next course.
 You will not be able to eat everything on the menu. You should, however, touch as many sections of it as you can. Be sure to get a drink, an appetizer, a main course, and a dessert to get a sense of the kitchen's full capabilities. If you can, come with a group of people and have everyone order something different (beef/fish, the soup/salad, sauteed/simmered) to get a good idea how the kitchen handles the entire restaurant.


As a food reviewer, you need to try everything you can to get a good idea of the restaurant.
What you order is, of course, a matter of personal preference. However, asking the servers for recommendations is a great way to see what the kitchen and staff are proudest off. Most servers have tasted everything on the menu with the chef's guidance, so they should be able to help you order and determine what you're eating.

