 You must be at least 15 years and six months old in order to qualify for any driving privileges in Arizona. At that age, you can earn a learner's permit. At the age of 16, if you meet other requirements, you can obtain a Class G graduated driver license. When you turn 18 you will become eligible for a Class D regular driver license., If you are at least 15 years and six months old, you can sign up for and take a state-approved driver education course. During your course, you will receive 30 hours of classroom instruction as well as six hours of behind-the-wheel training.


If you complete this course successfully, it will satisfy the requirement for 30 hours of supervised driving that you need to get your Class G driver license., If you do not take a driver education course, you can still sign up with your local MVD Office to get a learner's permit. When you go to your local MVD office, you will need to fill out a Driver License Application (Form 40-5122) and have a parent sign it. You will also have to prove your identity in the same manner you would have to if you were applying for a normal driver license. Next you will take a vision and written exam. If you pass these tests, you will need to pay $7 in order to receive your learner's permit.


The written exam is relatively extensive and you should study before you visit the MVD., Your learner's permit will allow you to drive so long as you have a licensed driver who is 21 or older with you in the front seat at all times. You should try to log 30 hours of total driving time with your learner's permit. 10 of those hours should be at night., Once you have turned 16 and held your learner's permit for six months, you will be eligible for a Class G driver license. In addition, you must have logged your required 30 hours of supervised driving or completed a driver education course. To get your Class G license you will need to visit your local MVD office and:


Show your valid learner's permit;
Bring written certification proving you logged 30 driving hours or a certificate of completion for a driver education course;
Prove your identity;
Bring registration and proof of insurance for a vehicle you will be using for the driving test;
Pay the $25 fee; and
Pass your MVD road test, which will involve driving with a MVD employee.