 If you want to authenticate a work of art, you need to prove to an authenticator your work is legitimate. You will need to show where you obtained your work, its history, and previous owners.When you obtain a piece of art, hold onto any paperwork related to that item. For example, hold onto to receipts and bills of sale. If you purchased a piece of artwork through a well known and respected art dealer, its more likely to be authentic.
You should also obtain paperwork that can prove a piece is legitimate. This can include magazine articles on the item, the names of previous owners, and an artist's catalogue featuring the piece.
 You do not want to have your artwork authenticated by just anyone. It's important you find a legitimate authenticator. As you begin searching for authenticators in your area, watch for signs the people you find are legitimate.You can start your search with a simple Google search. You can also ask at museums and art departments at universities. Workers or professors at these places may have experience with art authentication.
Art authenticators should not issue certificates of authenticity for pieces outside their area of expertise. A scholar in renaissance oil paintings, for example, should not be issuing certificates of authenticity for the works of Jackson Pollock.
Art authenticators should have an extensive process for issuing the certificate. They should have a team of experts looking at your art instead of relying solely on their own appraisal.
Google the name of a potential authenticator. You should find things in your Google search showing this person is an expert. The authenticator should have published papers about the artist in question, curated galleries of works by this artist, and have studied the artist extensively in school.
 Once you've found a solid authenticator, arrange to have him or her examine your art. You may have to make a trip if you cannot find an authenticator in your area. In addition to presenting the art, bring in your evidence that it is authentic. The biggest things authenticators look for is called provenance. This is essentially the history of documented ownership, as authenticators may be able to trace a work back to the original artist to authenticate it. Make sure you bring in any information you have regarding past owners of your piece.If you are able to trace ownership back to the original artist, physical examination of the work is not needed. If physical examination is necessary, the authenticator may have to work with multiple people to determine authenticity.
 If your art is found to be legitimate, work with the authenticator to receive your certificate. Fees and the process vary from one authenticator to the next. Ask your authenticator what steps you have to take to get the certificate.


It's very important to have a certificate of authenticity if you plan on selling an artwork. As art forgery is common, buyers are unlikely to waste time on artwork that has not been proven to be legitimate.

