 If the package is labeled “prewashed,” you don't need to wash the fruit again, although you can if you like. Do not wash berries until you are ready to eat (or freeze) them.Wash your hands well, along with your counter tops, sink, and cutting board.
Wash fruit in cold or lukewarm running water. Warm or hot water may damage fruit.
Scrub whole fruit (like apples and pears) gently with a soft-bristled brush, or just rub the fruit with your fingers.
Use a commercial fruit-washing solution, if you like, but water should be sufficient.
If you want to soak your fruit, use 3 parts water to 1 part vinegar and soak in the sink for 5 to 10 minutes. This may help extend the life of the fruit, but is entirely optional., When freezing fruit, be careful not to stack wet pieces on top of each other. You'll wind up with a big brick of frozen fruit that is difficult to eat – and even more difficult to share.


Wash your fruit before cutting it into pieces.
Pat the pieces dry with a paper towel. You can leave a little moisture, but the pieces should not be completely wet.
Arrange your fruit pieces on a cookie sheet or large serving plate, on top of a layer of wax paper.
Be sure the pieces aren't wedged too close together, or stacked on top of each other.
Once your fruit pieces are completely frozen, you can transfer them into a tupperware container or a larger zip-lock freezer bag, and they won't stick together.
 Before freezing, skewer your fruit with toothpicks or popsicle sticks. Once frozen, your snacks will have little “handles” – making them easier to manage.


Insert one end of a popsicle stick into larger fruit pieces like banana halves.
Use toothpicks in smaller treats like melon cubes, or mini popsicles made in ice cube trays. (Decorative toothpicks are especially festive – you can find these in the baking supplies section at the grocery store.)

, Store your fruit as far from possible away from raw meat, seafood, and poultry – meat juices can leak or drip onto fruit and contaminate it. refrigerator.Keep your fruit separate from meat in your shopping cart and in your shopping bags.
Also store fruit separately from and above any meat in your refrigerator.
 Most fruits should be refrigerated at 40 degrees Fahrenheit (about 4.5 degrees Celsius) or below. However, don't refrigerate tropical fruits, like mangoes, because the cool temperatures can cause shriveling, darkening, and an unpleasant flavor.Refrigerate cherries, strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, blackberries. Don't wash them until you are ready to eat (or freeze) them, as water may damage them.
Store apples up to a week on your kitchen counter, or longer in the refrigerator.
Store citrus fruit in the crisper drawer in your refrigerator.
Keep melons in the refrigerator on a shelf – not the crisper drawer.
Peaches, plums, nectarines, and other stone fruit should be ripened in a paper bag on a countertop, then moved to the refrigerator.
 Use separate cutting boards for meat, vegetables and fruits to avoid contamination. Clean your fruit cutting board before each use.To help you remember to keep cutting boards separate, buy a different color for each use. For example, a red one for raw meat, a green one for vegetables, and a yellow one for fruit.
 Before you prepare your fruit, be sure to wash it thoroughly. Many fruits are listed on the Environmental Working Group (EWG)'s “Dirty Dozen” list of foods most likely to be contaminated by pesticides. In order of potential danger from contaminants, these fruits are:Strawberries.
Apples.
Nectarines.
Peaches.
Grapes.
Cherries.
Grapes.
Blueberries.

