 If you have had a heart attack or stroke, or have certain risk factors, your doctor may recommend a daily, 81mg tablet of aspirin. Aspirin thins your blood by preventing blood cells from sticking together, thus decreasing the risk of clots.Be aware, though, that aspirin introduces additional bleeding risks such as a hemorrhagic stroke and GI bleeding.


If you have had stomach ulcers, GI bleeding, or are allergic to aspirin, let your doctor know. If you are taking regularly scheduled NSAIDS such as ibuprofen, you may also increase your chances of bleeding. Let your doctor know before starting an aspirin regimen.
Aspirin may interact with other medications such as heparin, ibuprofen, Plavix, corticosteroids, and antidepressants as well as herbal supplements such as ginkgo, kava, and cat’s claw., Exercise is very important in reducing your risk of heart attack and stroke. Although you cannot undo what damage has been done, you can prevent further complications if you include exercise along with your medication.It is recommended that you exercise 150 minutes a week, which is generally broken up into 30 minutes a day of moderate aerobic activity such as brisk walking.Try to avoid exercise that might cause serious injury, complications, or internal bleeding. Ask your doctor what activities are best given your personal history and the medication you are taking.
 Changing your diet can help to prevent further heart problems. Changing your diet can also enhance the effects of your medication to keep your blood thinner and healthier.


Control your portion sizes by using smaller plates and keeping track of how much food you eat at each meal.
Eat more fruits and vegetables, which are full of vitamins, nutrients, and antioxidants.
Try eating whole grains instead of white flour.
Include good fats, such as nuts and oily fish like tuna or salmon.
Include lean protein in your diet, such as egg whites, low-fat dairy, and skinless white meat chicken.
Eat foods that are low in saturated fat. The foods you eat should have less than 7% of their total calories from saturated fat. You should also avoid trans fats, which should be less than 1% of the foods total calories.
Avoid oily, salty, or greasy food, fast food, and frozen, prepackaged food. Even frozen meals that claim to be healthy contain a lot of salt. Also avoid pies, frozen waffles, and muffins., Water is a great natural blood thinner. Dehydration makes your blood thicker, which causes clumps that turn to clots. Drink more water each day to help thin your blood and keep yourself healthier overall.


Some doctors suggest drinking around 64 ounces of water every day. Other doctors use the formula that, for every pound you weigh, you need to drink half an ounce of water. For example, if you weight 140 pounds, you should drink 70 ounces of water a day.
Don't over-hydrate yourself. Make sure you have plenty of water, but if you feel too full, do not force yourself to drink more water.

