 Because they are said to be little people, you could build a trap for a leprechaun out of a shoe box. Either way, choose something small.


Make a trap door in it. Or prop it up with a dowel that you glue to it.In addition to a shoebox, you could use anything small, such as a clean can, a paper towel roll, a bag, a net, or an old shoe. You could also put honey inside the trap so the leprechaun will get stuck inside the trap.
Cut a hole in the top of the shoebox, and cover it with a small piece of felt. You will place your bait on top of the felt. When the leprechaun snatches it, the leprechaun will fall down the hole and into the box.;
, You could use a cookie can or oatmeal cylindrical container instead, cover it in scrapbook paper, and prop a cardboard ladder up the side. If the leprechaun enters this vault, he won’t be able to get out.


Put two holes in either side of the cylinder at the top and put a toothpick or other small stick through each end.
Tape a perfect circle you make out of construction paper to the skewer. This will make a swinging trap door., Since leprechauns are drawn to shiny things, you could wrap the top of the leprechaun trap with tin foil.


You could also paint it gold. Sprinkle it with glitter and other shiny decorations that will appeal to a leprechaun.
Some people paint their leprechaun traps green in honor of the leprechauns' native Ireland. Decorate the trap with Irish symbols the leprechaun will like. Four-leaf clovers and rainbows may attract the leprechaun.
 Since leprechauns are tied to gold, that’s a good choice for bait.


Try an earring. Gold coins are said to make good bait for leprechauns. You can buy gold foil covered chocolate coins at candy stores. As for food and drink, leprechauns like whiskey and dandelion tea. They live in the wild, so they eat nuts and mushrooms.Put the box in a corner and wait for the leprechaun to take the bait. Time your trap right. Folklore holds that leprechauns are very active the night before St. Patrick's Day (March 17).Go looking for secluded spots around the yard. Leprechauns like to use rocky places, caves, holes and other hidden areas to live and make their shoes.
 How do you know if you trap snagged a curious leprechaun?


A trail of green or gold glitter may be spotted leading into and out of the trap. Perhaps a leprechaun would leave a trail of Lucky Charms cereal if you really want to get creative. The leprechaun might turn a nearby cup of milk green with green food coloring or leave tiny footprints around.A leprechaun is no taller than 2 feet (0.6 m) 6 inches (75cm),so his feet are smaller than most human footprints.

