 Dog owners may use dog diapers for a number of reasons. They can be used to deal with incontinence, during house training, or if a female dog is in heat.


Urinary incontinence is typically associated with senior dogs who have lost the ability to control their bladders as a result of muscle weakness or a decrease in hormones that influence bladder control.Female dogs that have not been spayed will have an estrus cycle. A dog diaper can help to minimize the mess associated with a female dog in heat.
Most dog trainers will recommend against using dog diapers during house training but they can be used if you have to leave the dog alone for a significant amount of time to minimize accidents.;
, Your pet may be suffering from a medical condition that is causing their incontinence. The veterinarian will confirm a diagnosis and try to determine the cause. The veterinarian may be able to treat the condition, which might stop the dog’s incontinence.


There are a number of medical conditions that are associated with urinary incontinence. These include: a spinal injury or degeneration, urinary tract infections, protruding intervertebral discs, prostate disorders, or some type of congenital abnormalities.If the veterinarian prescribes a treatment, you may still want to purchase dog diapers to use during the course of treatment.
 Dog diapers come in different sizes that correspond to the weight and waist size of the pet. You will need an accurate weight measurement to determine the correct size of dog diaper for your pet.


Take large dogs to the veterinarian to get weight measurements. Most veterinary offices will have a walk-on scale designed for animals.
Weigh smaller dogs at home. Step on a scale and record your weight. Pick up the dog and weigh yourself again. Subtract the combined weight of you and the dog from your weight. This number is the dog's weight.
 Dog diapers need to fit snuggly at the waist to ensure they will not slip off or allow urine to leak from the front.


Make sure the dog is standing. Ask a friend to help keep the dog in the proper position if necessary.
Wrap a cloth measuring tape around the dog's waist. Make sure to measure far enough towards a male dog's torso to cover the end of his penis. If you measure too close to the hindquarters, the diaper may not cover the urethral opening making the diaper useless.
 When shopping for dog diapers, you have the choice of cloth diapers that are reusable or single use disposable diapers.


Cloth diapers are an eco-friendly option that you can clean and reuse. They do require the owner to clean the diaper, which some owners would prefer not to do. If your dog will need to wear diapers consistently for a long time, cloth diapers will be less expensive than disposable diapers in the long run.Disposable diapers are convenient and easy to use. There is less clean up and they can be more easily adjusted than many cloth diapers. Disposable diapers are good for short-term use and tend to be less expensive than cloth diapers.
 There are three primary types of dog diapers: a male wrap band, a full diaper, and a diaper that uses harnesses to stay in place.


A male wrap band is essentially a band that goes around your dog’s middle. These can be used on male dogs who are marking or spraying in your home.
A full diaper is a diaper that looks very similar to a human diaper, but has a hole cut for a tail and fits dogs.
A harness diaper is a full diaper that uses harnesses, that resemble suspenders, that go around the dog’s shoulders to hold the diaper in place.
 Dog diapers are primarily designed to help with urinary incontinence. If your dog is suffering from fecal incontinence, you can purchase a dog diaper that is specifically designed for fecal incontinence.


Check the packaging of the diapers. If they can be used for fecal matter, this will be written somewhere on the package.
If your pet is suffering from fecal incontinence, be sure to check your dog's diaper often and be prepared to clean the area with gloves and disinfecting wipes.
 This number will vary from dog to dog. Disposable dog diapers are typically sold in packs of 12 or 24 diapers. Cloth diapers may be sold in single packages or in packages that contain 3 or 4 diapers.


Note how many times per day the dog typically urinates.
If you are purchasing diapers for your female dog’s estrus cycle, you should anticipate changing the diaper at least twice a day for up to 2 weeks.
Buy a large enough package of disposable dog diapers so that you can use a new diaper every time the dog urinates. It is unhealthy for a dog to wear wet diapers for long periods of time and can lead to diaper rash.
Purchase 2 cloth diapers with disposable liners to begin with. If you find that you need more than 2 cloth diapers, purchase additional diapers.
Keep in mind that disposable diapers will be more economical for temporary use, but cloth dog diapers are more cost effective for long term use since you can reuse them.
 You can purchase dog diapers from most large retailers, at pet stores, or online. You will probably find more options to chose from in a larger pet store.
 Using the weight and waist size measurements that you took earlier, find the size that best corresponds to your dog’s measurements.


The number of sizes that a brand will have available is dependent upon the manufacturer. There are typically fewer sizes in cloth diapers.
Consider buying the next size up if you have a male dog. Especially when you use disposable dog diapers, you may find that the size that corresponds to your dog's measurements doesn't adequately cover the dog's genital area. Male dogs need the diaper to fit higher on their waists to prevent leakage., Continued use of dog diapers can cause broken or irritated skin. Dog diapers with soft, absorbent linings can help keep the dog from developing diaper rash.


Treat diaper rash and discomfort. Your pet’s skin can become red, chafed, and sore from extended diaper use. You can avoid diaper rash by changing the dog’s diaper each time it urinates, so it does not experience extended contact with the urine.Unscented baby wipes are a convenient way to clean your dog and to soothe irritated skin. You can also use hypoallergenic baby powder to dry the area.

