 Talk with your vet about customizing a diet for your dog that will aid in digestion. This, in turn, will make it easier for your dog to eliminate waste on a schedule. You may need to add ingredients, such as fish oil and soy, to your dog’s diet. Supplements, like psyllium, are also known to reduce diarrhea in canines., You can also investigate homeopathic options for your dog, including boiling 1 tablespoon of corn silk herb into 2 cups of boiling water, thus making corn silk tea. You then spoon-feed your dog 1 teaspoon of tea per 20 pounds of body weight. You do this twice a day.Corn silk is believed to help the bladder by reducing inflammation.
Make sure to check with your vet before making any alterations to your dog’s diet.
 Some dogs are incontinent as a complication connected with obesity. Work with your vet to determine a nutritional plan that will gradually reduce the calories ingested by your dog. Combine this with additional exercise, if you can., Use a baby wipe or a warm wash cloth to wipe down your dog’s upper thigh and genital areas after each accident. This is especially important to do with an older dog who may not be able to clean itself. You can also apply an anti-inflammatory cream to irritated areas.This extra care will help to prevent urine scalding, where a dog’s urine literally burns its skin. Regular cleanings can also make it less likely that your dog will suffer from a secondary bladder infection., Get a pair of pet safety trimmers or take your dog to the groomer and ask them to remove the fur around your dog’s upper thighs and genitals. This will need to be done very carefully in order to avoid nicking the skin. Repeat this process regularly and it will keep your dog cleaner and reduce the odds of infection., The endless cycle of cleaning and caring for your dog can wear on you over time. However, remember those reasons why you love your dog and practice patience. If you get frustrated, leave the room and count to five. Ask others in your family to help pitch in as well. Remember that your dog wants to get well too.