 If you are taking care of someone after an episode, it’s important for the person to feel safe and secure in the environment. This alone can help recover memories.A safe environment can help create a sense of calm, which can allow for memories to resurface. You may return the person to his home, or create a safe space elsewhere.


Consider including blankets, pillows, and other soft items. Add familiar items or cherished items, such as photos of pets or children.
Part of feeling safe and secure includes feeling supported by other people. Let the person know that you are there to help — offer to listen, to attend therapy with the person, or to offer comfort in other ways. Assure the person that it is safe for him to come to you when he feels upset and needs emotional support.
As a friend or family member, you may feel frightened by what happened, or perhaps betrayed or upset by the person's behavior during the period of dissociative amnesia. Your safety is important, too. Working with a therapist — either on your own or as part of family therapy — can help you address these concerns.
 Dissociative amnesia is usually the result of a traumatic or highly stressful event or situation, such as an accident, witnessing abuse or being abused, rape, natural disaster, financial crisis, or war.You should never attempt to address trauma without the assistance of a mental health professional, so make sure you are working with your therapist. Under the direction of your therapist, you will carefully deal with the trauma or conflict, learn new and productive coping skills, give meaning to the trauma, and work on ways to move forward with your life.Dealing with the trauma and learning coping skills for future times of stress can help you get back to living a functional life.
 Stress can be a trigger for dissociation.Avoid de-stressing with activities such as drugs, alcohol, zoning out with tv/video games, bingeing on food, or oversleeping. To decrease dissociative episodes, find more effective and positive ways of coping. Manage stress by exercising regularly, engaging in positive social relationships, and relaxation.Start a meditation practice, yoga, or qi gong to help relax the body and mind.


Start a stress journal to identify patterns of stress in life. You may notice certain people, situations, times of day, or activities cause you stress. Work to identify and eliminate or reduce the stress of these situations.
For more information, check out How to Relieve Stress.
 Treatment can help you resolve any issues that the episode brought up, such as returning purchases, negotiating any decisions made, or repairing any relationships that were hurt.


When resolving problems, it can be helpful to explain the diagnosis to anyone involved. The therapist or treating professional may need to intervene to confirm the diagnosis.
 Often, people with dissociative amnesia suffer from other disorders such as depression or anxiety.Seek treatment for any mental health problems. It’s important to receive a diagnosis and treatment from a trained professional, such as a psychologist.


There is no medication approved to treat dissociative disorders; however, some mental health professionals may recommend using medications to supplement treatment. Especially if there is co-occurring depression or anxiety, medications may be useful in treatment., Meditation can help you manage dissociative symptoms and bring more awareness to your internal states.There are many ways to practice mindful meditation. Many techniques include focusing on your breath by observing the inhales and exhales. Engage your senses. For instance, you can focus on your sense of hearing, and listen to the sounds in your environment: the hum of the air conditioner, road noise, or the sound of the wind through the windows.Then, focus on your sight and intensely take in the sights around you. Remember that your thoughts and feelings are fleeting and do not define you.One of the most important parts of mindful meditation is to observe thoughts and feelings without judging them. For example, if your mind wanders, don’t get upset. Just notice, “My mind is wandering” and bring it back gently.For more information, check out How to Do Mindful Meditation.

