 The injection kit will contain: an integrated safety syringe, or separate syringes and needles, ampoules of your injectable hydrocortisone, alcohol wipes or tissue, preferably also with an amp snap for opening glass vials. You must have at least 2 vials of injectable drug, in case of breakages.


The needles should be a suitable length for IM use, ie blue or green. If you have shorter, orange needles, which are usually for use in diabetes, it is best to inject in the upper arm. The most common hydrocortisone injectable drugs for steroid-dependence are hydrocortisone sodium phosphate and hydrocortisone sodium succinate.
Acetate-based hydrocortisone injection preparations such as Cortistab® are for joint injections only and should be avoided. They are too slow acting to do any good.
 For separate needles and syringe, attach the needle to the syringe by pushing them together.
 If you have been issued hydrocortisone sodium phosphate as a liquid then the ampoule will already be pre-mixed and ready to administer. However, in some countries, hydrocortisone sodium phosphate is supplied as a separate powder and water, similar to hydrocortisone sodium succinate.


If you have been issued with separate power and water, you will need to prepare the medication. Within North America and many countries in Europe, this is now supplied in an Act-o-Vial, a 2-chamber bottle. In other countries it is issued as a rubber-stoppered bottle containing the powder, and a separate water ampoule.
Double check your measurements and how much hydrocortisone you're getting. For example, Act-o-Vial contains 2ml water, so that 2ml = 100mg hydrocortisone and 1ml = 50mg, which is the recommended dose for 1-5 year olds. In comparison, the liquid preparation that is the drug of choice in the UK (hydrocortisone sodium phosphate) is pre-mixed in just 1ml, so that 1ml = 100mg hydrocortisone.
, If you have a bottle with the hydrocortisone sodium succinate, it is best to hold this upside down while you draw up the liquid. If you are treating a child, check that you have the correct dose for their age or weight. For children over the age of five years, and for adults, the dose is usually 100mg hydrocortisone.
 Hold the syringe at eye level and check for bubbles by gently tapping it. If you see what look like little bubbles, this is trapped air. For an IM injection, it does not matter so much if a little air remains in the mix, although it is best to expel it before injecting. You can expel any air bubbles by gentle pressing the plunger (top of the syringe) down until a drop of liquid forms on the top of the needle.

