 If you're going to be somewhere your child will get motion sick, try to skip foods that can cause nausea. For instance, spicy foods or greasy foods can often cause a child to feel sick. Even too much sugar can cause nausea. Try to stick to bland foods if you know you're going to be somewhere your child may get sick, such as the car. If it's a fairly short trip, you can just avoid eating right beforehand.If your child needs a snack, try something that isn't too harsh on their stomach, such as crackers and water.;
, In the car, the best place to help prevent motion sickness is in the front seat. However, if your child is under 13 years of age, they should sit in the backseat, where the middle seat is the best, as it still allows them to see out the front.However, keep in mind that laws vary by country and state about when a child can sit in the front seat.


If you're traveling by plane, pick a seat right over the wings, preferably by the window. Your child can stare at the horizon, and the wings are the most stable part of the plane., You can use medications to help prevent motion sickness before it starts. However, keep in mind that most of these medications will make your child sleepy. If your child is over two, you can use Dramamine, designed to help with motion sickness. If your child is over six, you can use Benadryl, which is an antihistamine that may also help.Always read the label first to check for medications your child is allergic to. In addition, it's always best to talk to your child's doctor before giving them a new medication.
 Acupressure bands are stretchy bands that go on your child's wrist. They have a small piece of plastic on one side that's supposed to go on the inside of your child's wrist. The plastic presses on a pressure point that can help with nausea and motion sickness.Put these on your child before you get in the car. They should be about half an inch above the wrist crease, with the plastic point on the inside of the wrist.
 No remedy is fool-proof, so your child might still get sick. It's a good idea to be prepared with zip-top plastic bags or paper bags (for vomit), air freshener, wipes, washcloths and water (for a compress), and towels to clean up any messes. Also, be sure to have a change of clothes on hand for your child.If your child is prone to throwing up, consider placing a towel underneath them to help catch vomit.
If your child is under 3, don't give them a plastic bag to throw up in. Make sure to use paper. However, zip-top bags are still good for holding soiled clothes.
 Motion sickness happens because there is a disconnect between what the inner ear is sensing and what the eyes are seeing. It's also caused by the nerves in the limbs. Therefore, a child looking outside the car or plane will perceive movement, so they are less likely to get motion sick.Looking out the front window is best., Watching something in the car, such as a movie, or reading a book can make motion sickness worse. It increases the disconnect between the outside movement and your child's body not recognizing movement. Therefore, it's best to have your child skip these distractions if you know they have problems with motion sickness.In addition, avoid other situations that cause motion sickness. While you child can't avoid every instance of motion sickness, as being in the car is a primary cause, teach your child to avoid other places that may cause motion sickness. For instance, watching 3D movies can cause some people to be motion sick. Roller coasters and even swings or other playground equipment can also be a problem., Many people find that distractions can help with motion sickness. Try playing a game with your child when they're feeling sick or put on their favorite music, both of which can help them not feel as sick., Another good distraction is using soothing scents. Lavender or peppermint can be soothing, and it can give your child something else to think about besides feeling sick. In fact, some people are sensitive to bad smells when they're motion sick, so it can help cover up those., Chewing peppermint gum can also be a good distraction. Some people find that ginger helps, so try giving your child ginger candy to reduce the nausea. The distraction and the ginger can help with the motion sickness.Don't give candy or gum to kids under the age of 4 because it is a choking hazard.
Don't let kids of any age suck on candies in a moving vehicle because sudden stops and starts may cause them to inhale and choke on the candy.
 Sips of clear liquids can help to calm your child's stomach. Water is best, but any clear liquid can help to settle their stomach.Some people also have good luck with fizzy drinks, such as lemon-lime soda or ginger ale.
 Of course, staying still can be difficult for any child. However, having your child try to not move their head and body can help with the symptoms of motion sickness. Try having them rest their head on a pillow as they look out the window., Crack a window to let some fresh air into the car. It can keep your child from getting overheated. Plus, the fresh air may help the child feel better. If it is too hot or cold, try taking the air off recirculate in your car, which may help some.If you're on a plane, open the air vents for circulation.
 Once your child starts to get motion sick, it can help to take a break. If you're in the car, stop for a little while so your child's body has time to adjust to not moving. Walking around or laying down with their eyes closed may help while you're stopped. If you're in a plane, encourage your child to walk up and down the aisles.You can also try putting a cool cloth over their head to ease the sickness.