 Tape the short sides together. Start by taking two sheets of paper and folding each in half "hamburger style". Be sure to crease them well. Then, unfold them and tape the sheets together. Be sure that you are taping the edges parallel to the crease you made when you folded them in half like a hamburger. Now set these two pieces aside. This sheet will be referred to as sheet A.
 You need to tape the longer side of the papers together. This sheet will be referred to as sheet B.
 The line should be about 3 inches (7.6 cm) away from the tape. Now cut along this line. Try to follow the line. This will become the front of your house.
 Set Sheet A so that the tape line is at the top. At the bottom of the larger sheet of paper, Sheet B, draw a door. You can also draw on some windows, plants, or any other decorations you want at the front of the house. , Use the creased piece of paper as the floor. Tape the bottom of the piece, Sheet B, that you just drew onto the middle of the creased piece of paper, which is Sheet A. Before you tape, make sure that the creases on the floor line up with the sides of front of the house. If they don't, you can either make a new floor following the steps above, or just re-crease the paper so that is properly aligned. , Stand the creased sides of the floor up so that they are aligned with the sides of the front of the house. Tape them to the sides of the front of the house. Don't worry if the walls of the house are too short, you’ll fix this soon. , Measure the excess space on top of your existing walls to find out how much extra space you will need. Then, cut two pieces of paper to that height. You can also draw or cut windows or other decorations on the walls at this point if you want.
 Be sure to also tape it to the front of the house for stability.
 Cut the door so that it is still connected on one side. Then, crease it so that it will swing open and closed as you wish.
 Equilateral triangles will have three sides of the same length. Now you need to cut them out. These will be the sides of your roof. If you want, you can also cut or draw windows on these to act as skylights.
 Cut out two rectangles that are 4" wide and the length of the top of your house. For a more realistic look, draw lines or roof tiles on each of the rectangles.
 Tape each rectangle to one side of the triangles. Then, tape the tops of the rectangles together. When you are done, you should have a large 3-D rectangular prism shape.
 You should have a finished doll house! Now you can furnish it with toy doll furniture to give your dolls a beautiful paper home.

