 Despite the name "diabetes", this condition is different from the better known and much more common diabetes mellitus (sugar diabetes). However, what the two conditions do have in common is that dogs drink excessive amounts of water and pass large volumes of urine.
 While diabetes insipidus in itself is not a painful condition, the main problem is your dog's constant need to drink. It takes a special sort of owner to cope with a dog's constant demand for water and then to bring the dog outside to urinate. Indeed, because the signs start in young life, affected dogs can be difficult, if not impossible to housebreak, and many of these dogs end up being euthanized because of it. However, it is important to keep in mind that just because your dog takes a little more work, does not mean that you should love him any less.


Untreated, even a house broken dog may have a full bladder that leaks in her sleep. Potentially this could cause sores and skin infections.
 To appreciate the problems of treating diabetes insipidus it helps to understand what drives the condition. There are two forms of this disease: nephrogenic (kidney based) and central (brain based.)Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is a problem that is present at birth. The kidney does not have the ability to recognize a hormone, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) which is released when the body needs to conserve water. Thus, at times when your dog is thirsty and no drinking water is available, the body continues to lose water through urine, rather than reclaiming water, which produces concentrated urine.
Central diabetes insipidus results from a gland in the brain failing to produce ADH. This deficiency denies the kidney the signal it needs to concentrate urine.
Unfortunately, it is very difficult to distinguish the two types of diabetes insipidus. The symptoms for both forms are identical and indeed, even with sophisticated imaging such as an MRI scan, unless physical damage to the brain has caused a loss of ADH production, it is difficult to distinguish the two.

