 When summer begins, find fun ways to stay active. Get a group of friends together and play outside. Try playing football, soccer, or kickball. Ride your bike or skateboard around. Get creative! Exercise doesn't just mean hitting the gym or playing outside. Even simple household chores, like walking the dog or cleaning the house will get you up and moving!;
, Grains, like breads, pasta, cereal, and rice, give your body energy. Nutrient rich veggies, such as broccoli, peas, tomatoes, carrots, and green beans, contain important factors such fiber, vitamin C, and potassium, all important for a healthy you. Fruits like apples, strawberries, peaches, raspberries, pears, bananas, blueberries, and oranges, are naturally low in calories and fat. Fruit contains many nutrients in which your body needs. Different unsaturated fats include olive oil, canola oil, and peanut oil are considered the healthiest, but should still make up a very little portion of a healthy diet. Consume plenty calcium rich milk products for strong bones. These include milk, yogurt, and cheese. The important thing about meat and beans is that it helps you maintain your protein balance. In fact, your muscles, organs, and immune system are built of mainly protein. Find just the right balance for you to create a healthy diet for you. You can refer to a food guide pyramid.


When consuming food, do not eat past your limits. When you feel full, stop eating! Don't force yourself to shove down food you don't need. Eating using a smaller plate will trick your mind into thinking you've had your fill.
 Drink plenty of water. A healthy amount is about six (6) glasses a day. Milk is a healthy choice as well. Stay away from energy drinks, such as Red Bull and Monster. They are tempting, but extremely dangerous! Face it, Kidney stones are no fun, and who wouldn't prevent cancer that can be prevented? Don't take the risks of energy drinks. Another downer to energy drinks is that they spike your sugar levels, and then they go right back down. So after that killer energy hype, you're going to crash.
 A lot of teens don't establish much of a routine, but they are very important. We need 8-10 hours of sleep a night. So if you have to wake up at six, you should go to sleep around nine. This means you should be in bed relaxing and trying to fall asleep at about 8:30 PM. This can be adjusted to your preference, depending on how long it usually takes you to doze off. Try to create a set way of doing things. Do you like to shower at night before bed or in the morning? How long does it take you to get ready in the morning? Take into consideration the time you will have to leave every morning and how long it takes you to get ready each morning. These are the factors to take into consideration when creating a routine. Set aside time in the morning to shower, eat breakfast, style your hair, get dressed, do your makeup, etc; Just make sure you have enough time. For your evening routine, establish times you will use to study and do homework, and shower, if you shower in the evening. Also, figure out how long it takes you to get ready for bed each night.
 That would be a bad way to start an amazing year. Take time before school starts to buy all the supplies needed. School is a structured learning facility, and without proper supplies, you won't learn to your full potential. Most schools provide grade specific supply lists. If your school is one to do this, go by that list. If not, buy plenty of supplies on your own. Recommended supplies are:


Pencils
Pens
Spiral Notebooks for note- taking and classwork. It's a great idea to supply yourself with one notebook for each class.
One folder for each class
Highlighters
A binder to organize schoolwork
Erasers
A 4- function calculator
Index cards
Notebook paper- get plenty of this!
A few composition notebooks

, It should have plenty of space for all your supplies and provide good back support. Never wear a backpack with only one strap. Use both to avoid injury. It may look 'cool' to wear your backpack with only one of the straps, but it will have damaging effects in the long run.
 This part is a lot of fun. Since you will be attending a new school, try something new. Basic wardrobe supplies include:


A variety of jeans (Bootcut, Skinny, Jegging, Flare, etc;)
Graphic tees (These have endless possibilities )
Hoodies (You can buy them in all clothes stores in different colors and patterns)
A few cute blouses
Skirts
A simple belt that will go with everything.
A few pair of shoes that you feel confident in.
 However, extremely baggy clothing or clothing that doesn't fit right and is way to tight is very, very, unattractive. Never force yourself into clothing that makes you feel uncomfortable. It's okay to experiment with different styles and find what suits you.
 Lay out a flattering outfit in a place you can find it when you wake up. This will be the outfit you wear tomorrow, so choose wisely. Go through your evening routine and drift off to sleep. Let all your first day worries drift off to bed with you and be prepared to wake up refreshed and prepared for a wonderful first day. Set your alarm 15- 30 minutes earlier than you would usually wake up for school just in case anything unplanned happens. Make sure you know prior to the start of school what form of transportation you'll be using to get to and from school to avoid the first day rush. If you are planning to ride the bus, you may have obtained a bus pass that you will need to present to the bus driver as to enter the bus. Make sure that is with everything else you plan to take to school. Pack your backpack the night before school each night, starting the night before the first day. It's a good habit that should be obtained and sustained.
 Think positive. While you are getting ready, if allowed, play some upbeat, positive music while you prepare yourself. It shouldn't be too loud, and surely not sad at all. You want a positive outlook on the day. To begin with, allow yourself five to ten minutes to wake yourself up and get moving. This ten minutes may include using the bathroom or splashing cold water on your tired face. Once you are awake, begin your morning routine. Take a look in the mirror to make sure you look exactly the way you want to, and then take a look over your backpack to make sure you have everything you need. When it's time to leave, smile as you walk out the door, assuring yourself the day will run smoothly and perfectly.
 It makes you look friendly and approachable, which you are. Since you are new, it would be okay to walk up to a fellow student in your grade and ask about the school. First impressions are important, because you will never have a second chance for a first impression. Who knows, you could make new friends!!

, Politely introduce yourself to your teacher. Remember: First impressions are everything. Repeat this with all of your classes on the first day. Most of the time, teachers take the first few days for kids to adjust to the new grade and get situated before throwing out any real assignments. In the case that this doesn't happen and your school has you jump right into assignments, take note of it. Most schools supply the students with their own planner to write down important dates and assignments. Make writing in your planner a habit from the first day to the end of the year. As soon as you get an assignment, it should be taken note of in your planner, and continue doing so throughout the year.
 You will get more respect from fellow peers and mentors by doing so. Become very well knowledgeable of school guidelines and procedures and abide by them. Never do something bad because all the 'cool' kids are doing it. The really cool thing to do is follow the rules. This will give you a more pleasurable learning experience. Remember to never disrespect your teachers, seeing as they take time to educate you for a good future.
 Build your social group with loyal, trustworthy, and kind people. It is perfectly okay to have a social life and friends and plans, but your social life should be balanced with your school life. School life should always come before your social life.
 Trying to add romance to your life is a bad idea at this point. Face it: hormones are raging, and you are unlikely to make good decisions. The chances of you marrying somebody you date in seventh grade are very slim. Save the romance for a more mature point in your life. Focus on school.
 Doing so will make you a very reliable student. Truth be told, teachers don't intend assignments to be mid-evil torture devices. They are only meant to better you as a student.
 Always take notes in class and study. If you rush when taking notes, keep two notebooks for notes: One of which can be done fairly sloppily in school while to rush to take notes, and one of which you copy the rushed, sloppy notes into neatly and orderly. Always begin studying one week prior to a test, and never wait until the night before. A positive benefit of studying is that even when you have an unexpected pop quiz, you will be prepared with information obtained from studying. Study even when you don't have a test on the way. Studying will help you obtain good grades and positive school habits.
 Never say never. If you get a bad grade on a quiz, study harder. Did those mean girls tell you your outfit was ugly? Just laugh and say, "Okay, if you think so" and ignore them. Don't let them ruin your self confidence.
 You can go home on the very last day of school, knowing that you had an amazing year.

