 To adopt a herding dog, you will need to find an adoption agency. Look for an agency or organization that offers adoption services for rescue dogs in your area, as it will be more convenient for you to visit the agency and find a dog.


You may need to contact the adoption agency directly to see if they have any herding dogs up for adoption. You could also put your name down in the event the agency gets a herding dog so you can be notified.;
, You can also do a search online for adoption agencies that specialize in herding dogs. There are many herding dog only adoption agencies across the country. Do a search for “herding dogs adoption” and see what comes up. You may find an agency in your area or only a short drive away.Many herding dog rescue organizations will have detailed information on their website about the current dogs they have for adoption. You may be able to look at images of different herding dogs and get basic info on each dog. This can help you narrow down the type of herding dog you are looking for and make the adoption process much easier.
 You can also find a good adoption agency for rescue dogs by speaking to friends or family who own rescue dogs. Maybe you have a close friend who already owns rescue dogs or herding dogs who were adopted from a shelter. Perhaps you know a family member with rescue dogs. Ask them about how they found a good adoption agency for dogs and how they handled the adoption process.


For example, you may ask, “Can you recommend a good adoption agency for herding dogs?” or “How did the adoption process go for you? Any advice you can give me?”

, Australian Cattle Dogs, also known as Australian Heelers, are great breeds if you are looking for a pet with a lot of energy. This breed are also known to be devoted and loyal to their owners. They weigh around 35 to 50 lbs and have a life expectancy of 12 to 15 years.This breeds tends to bond very closely with their owner and can be stubborn, intelligent pets. You will need to be able to keep these dogs busy and active. You will need to devote one to two hours a day to walks and physical activity for these dogs.
They will often herd anyone or anything they can, from people to the lawn mower or the vacuum cleaner. They do well with being given a job or role and as an owner, you will need to direct their herding tendencies through training and attention.
In addition to daily walks, playtime, and feedings, you will need to brush their short, dense coat once a week.
 The Australian Kelpie is excellent at herding and may not be suited to a small space like an apartment or condo. This breeds does well in a large home and a large yard where they can run and herd. Kelpies can weigh 25 to 45 lbs and have a life expectancy of 10 to 14 years. They are prone to eye issues so you should get your dog check for this problem if you end up getting this breed.This breed can have three coat types: smooth, short, and rough. You may opt for a short coat Kelpie if you are worried about shedding and allergies in your home.
Kelpies can be demanding in terms of attention and training. They are known to be independent and must be trained to obey an owner. You will need to be willing to commit one to two hours a day to training, walking, and playing with them.
 This breed is ideal if you are looking for a dog that is good with children and does not require a lot of space to thrive. They do not need a big yard or home but they do need attention and daily exercise. Australian Shepherds are known to be loyal, intelligent, and energetic pets.Male Australian Shepherds can weigh 50 to 65 lbs and females can weigh 40 to 55 lbs. They have a life expectancy of 12 to 15 years.
This breed enjoys running, jumping, and roughhousing. They need training so they do not do any destructive behaviors like digging up the yard and chewing items.
This breed requires regular brushing and nail trimming. They can eat a lot of dog food every week due to their high energy. You will need to be able to devote one to two hours a day to walks and playtime for these dogs.
 Perhaps the most commonly known herding dog is the Border Collie, recognizable by their black and white coats. These medium sized dogs weigh around 30 to 55 lbs and have a lifespan of 12 to 16 years. They are best for owners who like to be outdoors and do regular exercise, as they have a lot of energy and enjoy being outside. They are also very intelligent and intense, which means they will require hands on training to learn how to respect and obey their owner.Keep in mind Border Collies are not recommended as pets for children younger than 12. They require at least two hours a day of activity so they do not do any destructive behaviors like digging, chewing, or barking.
This breed is prone to several health issues including eye problems, hip dysplasia, seizures, and joint issues.
 The two other herding dog breeds you may consider are the Louisiana Catahoula Leopard Dog and the McNab Shepherd. Both breeds are medium to large sized dogs that can weigh between 40 to 100 lbs. If they are raised from puppyhood, they can be good with children. Both breeds can be very smart, energetic, and loyal.Both breeds require at least one to two hours of exercise a day. They may do best with one pet families as they will need attention and hands on care to thrive.
 Once you have located an adoption agency and decided the breeds you are interested in, you should complete the adoption application. Most adoption agencies will require you to complete the application as part of the adoption process. The application will require basic information such as the name or names of the dogs you are interested in adopting as well as your personal information.You will also need to specify your living situation, such as whether you live in an apartment, a condo, or a home.
You may need to note if you live alone, with a partner, or with a family.
The application may also ask you if you have a fenced yard or access to an outdoor area for the dog.
 As part of the application, you may also need to supply two personal references who can vouch for your experience with animals and dogs. The references could be close friends, family, colleagues, neighbors, or dog trainers. The references should be able to provide information on pets you already own, your living situation, and your qualifications for adopting a dog.You may also need to provide a reference for a veterinarian who you go to regularly for your other pets or who you are going to start going to once you adopt the dog.
 In the application, you should expand on your past experience as a pet owner. You may list the pets you have owned before, such as cats, dogs, or other animals. You should also note if there are any pets you currently own and provide their age, breed, and gender. This can help the reviewer of the application determine if your experience and your living situation are good for a herding dog.As part of the application, you may also need to provide information on how often the dog will be exercised, where the dog will sleep in your home, and where the dog will stay during the day.
For example, you may note: "I can commit to one to two hours a day of walking, playing, and going outdoors with the dog. The dog will have its own bed and sleeping area. It will stay in a kennel when I am not home."
You may also need to note if you plan to bring the dog on outdoor activities like hiking, walking, swimming, or running. This will show the reviewer that you plan to include the dog in physical activities on a day to day basis.
For example, you may note, "I plan to bring the dog outdoors with me on hikes, walks, and runs. I lead an active lifestyle so I want a dog who can compliment this well."

, A big part of adopting a herding dog is being willing to be patient with the dog and devoted to its care. You may need to note in the application what you expect from a dog and what you are prepared to do for the dog to ensure it gets the best care possible.For example, you may have to answer questions like, “What characteristics are you looking for in your adopted dog?” or “What are you willing to offer to the adopted dog?”
You may also need to confirm that adopting a dog means you may get a dog with health issues or a history of trauma. You should be prepared to address the needs of the dog and work with a certified dog trainer to help the dog adjust to you as their new owner.

