 If you're just meeting a new person, you might not want to introduce the topic on your first date, unless you've met through a special interest dating site. If you're already in a relationship and would like to introduce your fetish to your partner, start slowly. Talk about your fetish with acceptance. If you treat your fetish as a normal, safe experience, this increases the chance of your partner's accepting it this way too.Your partner may already be aware of your interests, or she may not be.
Depending on the dynamics of your relationship, you may want to set aside time for a lengthy conversation on the fetish.
 Your partner may need some time and privacy to process the new information. Don't expect immediate understanding - though this might happen! Instead, follow your partner's lead. Allow your partner to understand your fetish at her own rate of speed.Don't be ashamed. If you feel ashamed, you'll be sending a mixed message to your partner, and it will result in harm to your own self-esteem. There's nothing to be ashamed about.
You don't have to defend your fetish to anyone, so don't get defensive. Having a fetish is normal and natural.
 Remember that you've already come to accept your fetish, which was likely a process. Your partner now has the opportunity to accept your fetish too. She might also reveal fetishes or sexual interests of her own. Allowing yourself to listen openly to her concerns, questions and reactions will help strengthen your relationship.If your partner refuses to talk about your fetish, give it time. She may just need time to process, or she may be in denial.
Discussing fetishes might make some people nervous. Never force the conversation.
 Your partner may not know how to ask questions about your fetish. You can be supportive by asking questions of her. For instance, learn more about her fears or curiosities about your fetish by asking questions. Don't assume that the questions must come from your partner.


Show her some online information that she can continue to explore on her own.
Remember, she may not know how to put her thoughts and feelings about your fetish into words. This will take time, but you can help through asking your own questions.
 This might help your partner understand what you want. Seeing pictures might help your partner view your fetish as normal, rather than something strange and scary.If you've found a supportive community, you may have also found ways to introduce the topic of your fetish with your partner.
Sometimes you can find a group for people new to the fetish community which can be a resource for your partner to learn more about your fetish.
 Consent is essential in a healthy relationship. If you have different sexual needs than your partners, recognize this and seek alternatives.A therapist or counselor may be able to help you through this juncture of your relationship.
Most sex-positive therapist support adapting the relationship to the needs of the person with the fetish rather than working to eliminate the fetish itself.

