 If you have a violin teacher or friend who plays the violin, asking them may be useful as they will probably know who is the best dealer to go to.;
, A violin costing $1,000 will get you a decent violin, but cheaper violins can often be equally as good. Ask to try each violin in your budget range, and then get them to tell you about the instrument. If you are unsure what you are looking for then bring someone along who does if possible.


Remember that ultimately, it is your ability to play that matters; if you're a good player, you can make a tin violin sound amazing.
 The bow is equally as important in producing a sound as the violin itself. As a beginner violinist, you may not realize this, but it can be a reason behind not enjoying playing the violin, so it is a good investment to purchase a quality bow.


A mid-ranged bow is about $200-$500 dollars. Spending more than this may be a good idea if you are are planning to take your music learning further than a hobby.
 The strings too, have an impact on the sound quality the violin produces. The more popular brands of violin strings tend to produce a strong, pleasant sound, which is what renders them popular.However, it pays to experiment with strings from different brands as you become more confident playing, as eventually you'll find yourself preferring some strings over others, owing to both the sound produced and how they feel. This is not something an article can teach you; it's a feel-sense that you'll gain through playing and experimentation over time.
 These are: Speed, pressure and sounding point., Put more pressure on the bow as you play, to produce a fuller sound.
 Speed will create a louder sound. Do be aware that speed can also create a harsher sound, so it's important to refine your technique as well as playing faster.
 The flatter the bow is placed, the louder the sound that is produced. This occurs because more hairs from the bow are touching the strings on the violin.
 Playing at the heel of the bow produces a stronger sound compared to the tip.
 A good violinist does not apply the same sound level throughout a piece but varies the sound to reveal the mood and varying shades of the music. It is important to learn innately when to increase your violin's sound and when to keep it softer, varying it as you play the music., It's a cliché but the more you practice, the better you get. Moreover, the violin improves in tone too; research undertaken in the 1990s showed that the more a violin is played, the more the instrument's tone improves.