 Individual activities might involve your child selling something, like candy, to raise money for charity. You child might also collect useful articles of clothing, like jackets and shoes, for the less fortunate. These activities can often be made into a group one if there’s enough interest. Talk with other parents to get your child’s friends involved.


Some individual activities include: gathering items for donation (shoes, shirts, jackets, food, etc.), helping out at a retirement home or medical center, picking up garbage in your neighborhood, and so on.
Some group activities include: helping out at a soup kitchen, assisting with a food/clothing drive, volunteering at a charitable organization (like the Red Cross or Salvation Army), and more.;
, Where there’s a need in the community, there’s something your child can do to help. Homeless people need food and clothing, schools and classrooms need books and supplies, retirement homes need support, and even afterschool programs need volunteers.


Brainstorm ideas with your child. Choosing to help in an area they’re passionate about will make them more willing to put in work helping.
Consider activities that directly involve your child. For example, if a member of your family has battled cancer, your child might want to get involved with cancer fighting volunteer work.
There are many ways of meeting a need. When you’ve found a need your child is passionate about, work together to find ideas that can help., There are many organizations that can help your child get more involved, like Goodwill, Big Brothers and Sisters, and Meals on Wheels.You can inquire more about volunteer opportunities with these organizations on their homepage or by calling their volunteer hotline.


There may be lesser known outreach programs in your area that your child can take part in. Find these with an online keyword search for “volunteer outreach opportunities near me” or “community outreach opportunities near me.”

, Community centers and colleges frequently coordinate community betterment activities. You can often find advertisements for these on message boards at local centers or online at their homepage.


Make a quick call to your local community center or college to ask about volunteer opportunities. The operator should have information or be able to transfer you to the appropriate party.
Your child’s school, too, is likely involved in various community service activities. Inquire with your child’s teacher or call the office about volunteer work.

