 The first step to fixing your doll's hair is finding out what is wrong with it. Some dolls may just need their hair combed or brushed, while others need their hair washed. Some doll hair may need to be trimmed to hide frizzy or matted ends. This section will help you determine what the problem is and how to go about fixing it.;
, A simple brushing can get rid of tangles and help a doll's hair look nicer. Work in small sections, and start from the ends first. Do not brush from the roots down, as this can strain and damage the hair fibers. Use a wide-toothed metal comb or a wig brush with metal bristles. Avoid plastic combs or brushes (including metal brushes with plastic points), as the plastic will create static and cause flyaways.








If your doll has curly hair, then brush each curl individually, and gently wrap the curl around your finger.
Do not use a brush that you use for your hair. Brushes collect a lot of natural oils from hair, and these oils may damage doll hair.
If your doll has yarn hair, then brush it gently with a wide-toothed comb, or with your fingers.
 If the doll hair is mostly nice, but the ends are matted and frizzy, consider trimming the ends off with a pair of sharp scissors. Keep in mind, however, that this change will be permanent. Doll hair does not grow back.
 Doll hair can be dampened and then wrapped around straws or hair curlers (depending on the doll's size). This method can be used to restore a doll's curly hairstyle, or it can be used to help conceal matted, frizzy ends. To learn how to curl your doll's hair, refer to the section in this article on curling your doll's hair.
 Sometimes, a doll's hair is just dirty, and can benefit from a gentle wash. You can also wash a doll's hair to soften the fibers and help manage tangles. To learn how to wash your doll's hair, refer to the sections in this article on washing synthetic hair and washing natural hair (real hair and mohair).
 Before you decide to wash your doll's hair, you will have to determine what it is made out of. Some doll hair can be easily washed, while others can be ruined by washing. Similarly, some dolls can safely come in contact with water, while others can be ruined if they come in contact with water. Here are the doll and doll hair types can and cannot be washed:


Dolls made out of synthetic material, such as plastic and vinyl can safely come in contact with water. Most modern dolls bought from the toy store are made out of synthetic materials.
Dolls made out of wood or porcelain will need extra caution when getting their hair cleaned. Any moisture that touches the doll's head may cause rot or mildew to form, ruining the doll.
Doll hair made out of real hair and mohair can be washed with caution: most dolls with this type of hair have wigs that are glued onto their heads (as opposed to being rooted).
Doll hair made out of synthetic material can be safely washed. Most modern dolls from the toy store have hair made from synthetic materials.
Doll hair made out of wool cannot be washed as water will ruin it. Consider cleaning the hair by brushing cornstarch or talcum powder onto it instead, and then brushing it off again.Doll hair made out of yarn can be washed with caution: most dolls with yarn hair are made of fabric, and may begin to rot or form mildew if they get wet. If you must wash yarn hair, then wash it like you would synthetic doll hair, but with fabric softener or laundry detergent intended for hand-washing.
 You can use any container as long as it is large enough to fit the doll's hair without causing it to scrunch up.
 Put a small amount of dish soap into the water and swish it around to help mix it.You can also use a wig shampoo, which you can find at beauty salons and wig supply shops. Avoid using ordinary shampoo, as it can cause the doll hair to become poofy. 








If you must use regular shampoo because you do not have any dish soap or wig shampoo, then use a mild shampoo, such as one used for children or infants.
 Using a brush with metal bristles or a wide-toothed comb, gently brush the doll's hair out. Start brushing from the ends first, and then work your way up towards the roots.









Do not brush your doll's hair starting from the roots. This is damages the fibers and causes them to wrinkle, frizz, and tangle.
 While water will not ruin the paint on a doll's face, it may cause moveable eyes to develop rust or mildew. If your doll has blinking eyes that close when you lay her down, consider taping some cotton balls over them. This is so that the eyes don't get wet and rust when you wash the doll's hair.
 Turn the doll upside down and place the hair into the water. Avoid getting the roots of the hair wet.
 Run your fingers through the doll's hair, massaging and lathering it. If the doll's hair is especially dirty or dry, then you can consider letting the doll's hair to soak in the water for 10 to 15 minutes.
 You can rinse the doll's hair by placing it beneath a faucet and running clean, cool water over it. Do this until the water runs clear, and avoid getting the doll's head wet.
 Washing the doll's hair may have caused it to become tangled. You can detangle it by applying a gentle conditioner to the hair and working it through the fibers until they are smooth and no longer tangled. Be sure to rinse the doll's hair under cool, running water until the water runs clear.









You can also use fabric softener instead., If you wish to add curls into the doll hair, do so now. Doll hair styles easiest when it is damp or wet. Use hair rollers if it is a large doll, or straws if it is a smaller doll. Never use a curling iron or hair straightener, or you will risk melting the hair.
 Once you have finished washing the doll's hair, lay the doll down onto a towel, and spread the hair out around her. You can also press another towel on top of the hair to soak up any remaining moisture.









If there are any fibers still sticking up, you can gently run a wide-toothed comb through the hair.
 Once the doll hair has dried, you can consider running a wide toothed comb or a metal brush through it. If you curled the doll's hair, take out the hair curlers. If you want ringlets, leave the curls as they are; for fluffier curls, gently pull the curls apart with your fingers.









If you taped cotton balls to the doll's eyes to protect them, you can remove them now.
 Many dolls with real hair or mohair have wigs instead of rooted hair. The dolls are usually made out of porcelain and should not get wet. To avoid getting your doll wet when washing her hair, you will need to remove the wig from her scalp. Gently pry the wig loose, starting from the edges. If you cannot remove the doll wig, or if it starts to tear, then leave the wig on the doll and proceed with caution.
 Start by loosening any tight snarls with the tail end of a comb, then switch to a brush. Gently brush the doll's hair in small sections, starting from the ends and moving upwards towards the wig base.
 You can use a sink, a small plastic bin, or even a bowl—so long as it is large enough to fit the entire doll wig, without scrunching up the fibers. Add a few drops of mild shampoo and gently swish the water around to mix it.
 Let the wig sit in the shampoo water for 10 to 15 minutes. Make sure that the wig is completely submerged. Do not massage the fibers, as this will ruin them., After the wig has soaked for 10 to 15 minutes, take it out of the water and run clean water over it to get the soapy water out. Do this until the water runs clear.
 Soaking your doll wig in a solution of cool water and a few drops of vinegar can help make the doll hair appear shiny. To do this, fill a new container with clean, cool water, and add a few drops of vinegar into it. Then, place the wig into the water for about 5 minutes.









The vinegar smell will disappear once the hair dries.
 Once you have finished washing the hair, hold the wig up by the base and let the water drip out of it, then place it on a towel. Spread the doll hair out in a fan shape. This will ensure that all of the fibers dry evenly.
 You can help the doll hair dry faster by placing another towel over the wig and pressing down on it, soaking up as much water as you can.
 Once you have removed as much moisture as you can, take the wig out of the damp towels and place it onto a fresh, dry towel. Once again, spread the fibers into a fan shape, and let the wig sit undisturbed until it dries.
 Once the wig has dried, place it onto the doll's head to make sure that it still fits. If the wig fits properly, you can glue it back onto the doll's head. Apply some craft glue to the doll's head using a paintbrush, and slide the wig on.If the wig doesn't fit anymore, you will need to stretch it or tighten it until it fits. You can tighten a wig by running thread through the hem and pulling it until the wig fits. You can loosen a wig by cutting a few threads loose in the hem., If you wish add curls to the wig, then you can mist the hair with some water, and curl the hair. You can use hair rollers, straws, pens, pencils, or dowels to form the curls. You can also use a curling iron set to the lowest setting, but do so with caution, as heat can damage the fibers.
 Most doll hair can be curled while it is still wet, even if it came straight originally. Curls can be great at concealing frizzy ends. This method works great for synthetic hair, real hair, and mohair. It will not work on wool hair or yarn.


Keep in mind that if your doll's hair came straight, the curls you add may loosen over time.
Never use a curling iron on synthetic doll hair. You may consider using a curling iron on real hair, but do so with extreme caution, and use the lowest setting. Heat can still damage real hair.If your doll is large, you can use small hair rollers like you would on your own hair. For most dolls, however, you will have to make your own curlers.
 You are looking for thin, cylindrical objects, such as straws, pencils, pens, or dowels. Remember, the shorter the object is, the easier it will be to work with.


The thinner your object is, the tighter the curl will be.
 Take a small segment of doll hair and start wrapping it around your curler. Start with the ends of the doll hair and roll upward.









If you are curling a larger doll's hair (such as an 18 inch doll), work in segments that are about an inch wide.
If you are curling a smaller doll's hair (such as a fashion doll), work in segments that are a centimeter wide, or smaller.
 You will need to secure your roller so that it does not fall off. Depending on what you have used for your curler, there are different ways to secure it:









If you used a straw, you can fold the straw in half over the hair, and tie it with a small rubber band. You can also secure the hair with a bobby pin by slipping the pin over the hair; the bottom of the bobby pin will go into the straw and the top of the pin will hold the hair down.
If you used a pen, pencil, or dowel, then you can take a small rubber band and wrap it around the hair that is on the roller.
 Once you have secured your first roller, move onto the next segment of hair and repeat the process: wrap the hair around the curler, roll upwards towards the scalp, and secure it.
 You will need to let the doll sit with her hair in curlers until the hair dries. Do not attempt to speed up the process with a hair drier, as heat can damage doll hair.


If your doll has real hair, you can consider using a hair drier, but do so with extreme caution, and use the lowest setting.
 Once the hair has dried, gently take out the curlers. Remove all of the bobby pins and rubber bands, gently unroll the hair, and pull the curler out.









For ringlets, leave the hair as it is.
For fluffier curls, gently pull the curls out with your fingers until you get the desired look.

