 More, the better!;
,, Craft as many wooden planks as you can, but leave 3 wood or more.
 This lets you craft more useful items.
,, They can be found underground or in caves. Using your pickaxe, mine at least 12 stone.
 With the stone, craft a furnace and a stonecutter. Place both next to the table.
 Scroll down until you see sandstone, the one that looks like rough bricks placed together. Tap on it again and again to make sandstone out of the sand.
 Craft the square out of the brick sandstone or keep it in brick form.
 This is your new house. Don’t be greedy! Stay away from making a roof and make sure the height of your walls are 2~3 blocks.
 Scroll down until you see door. Craft one or two, depending on whether you like single or double doors.
 Do this by selecting door from your inventory and tapping on the block which your door will be standing atop of.
 Tap on the third square, towards the right, once it turns black. This lets you collect the charcoal.
 They are found on the first menu towards the middle. Then go to tools menu and scroll down until you see torch. Tap the one with white writing and craft them.
 Now your house will be dark. Tap torches along the walls to brighten up your house.
 Also chop some wood using anything.
 Then go to the tool menu inside your crafting table and craft a stone sword with the sticks and stone.
 Place both of them side to side inside your house. You will now have one large chest. Open it by tapping on it. This reveals many squares inside it. Tap on items inside the inventory column to move it inside the chest. Stuff everything except for the sword and pickaxe inside the chest.
 Find some sheep (they can be white, black, brown, or gray) and keep tapping on them so they turn red. They will collapse and reveal wool. Collect them by stepping on them.
 Take out wooden planks out of your chest by tapping on them. Then craft a bed inside the crafting table.
, This puts you in bed.
 Cows can give beef and leather, pigs give porkchops, and chickens give feathers and chicken meat.
 Wait until the arrow fills up, then tap on the third square and collect your roasted meat.
 Carry around all the meat you have (must be roasted) and eat it when you lose health (indicated by hearts on the top of your screen). You can eat by holding on to the middle of the air. Use your finger to hold down a very far place or even clouds.
 Now you can eat food if you lose energy and sleep so night monsters can’t get you! (night monsters can be prevented all the time by making difficulty level zero in options)!

, Full Version Survival. If you have Lite, PC Full, or X Box, we have no idea how you can do the things listed above, so too bad.
 Try making new goals for yourself, such as

