 Window guards are metallic devices installed in the lower half of windows that slide open vertically. They are usually barred devices, designed to keep children from falling out of windows. Some states require window guards be installed under certain conditions.Window guards are usually required in public buildings. However, if you have a child under 10 living with you, a window guard may be mandatory by law. This varies by city and state. You can check your state's government website to find out your state's regulations. This is usually under the Department of Public Safety.A window guard is not easy to install. Some states may actually require professional installation. An improperly installed window guard can easily be removed by a child. The bars of a window guard are also prone to sloppy installation, and can easily be installed in a way that would allow a child to fit through the guard.While professional installation may sound costly to you, it may actually not cost much at all. Your state may provide window guard installation for free or cheap. If you're renting a building, your landlord may be legally required to provide you with a window guard at no added cost. Once again, check with your state's Department of Public Safety.
 Window guards come in many shapes and sizes. However, you should make sure you choose a window guard that's safe for your type of window.


A safe window guard should be at least 15 inches tall. The bars in the window guard should be close enough together that a 5-inch ball cannot pass through. A window bar that does not meet these regulations is not considered safe. It also may not legally count as a window guard by your state, which could land you in legal trouble depending on your state's regulations.Some states, such as New York, have a list of approved window guard manufacturers. You should check to see if your state has such a list before selecting a window guard.When purchasing a window guard, you should make sure the guard is safe for your specific type of windows. Somewhere on the ordering form or box containing the guard, it should specify what type of window this guard is compatible with. You can purchase a window guard online or at a local hardware store., In order to be safe, window guards should not come off easily. One-way screws, installed with a Philips head screwdriver, are vital for the safe installation of window guards. Before having your guard installed, pick up a handful of one-way screws at a local hardware store., It is not recommended that you install a window guard yourself. Window guards are complicated to install. An faulty window guard is extremely dangerous as a child could slip and fall out of a window. Many states require professional installation.


Call a local hardware store and ask if they do installation. If they do not, they may be able to direct you to a local business that installs household items like window guards. Always read reviews of any establishment you're doing business with ahead of time. Make sure customers were satisfied. Good service is especially vital when the safety of your children is at stake.
If you live in an apartment, your landlord may be legally required to provide a window guard, free of charge, if you live with a child under 10. Call your landlord and request a window guard be installed as soon as possible.