 This normally only works if you're new, but if you stick to a certain personality that may be mean/angry etc. You will gain respect for it, as long as you're not unjust or act like you're better than your students.;
, Have a discussion with your class about what could make class more interesting, and what would help them. Remember that while you are in charge, everything you do is to try to teach them; so if they complain about something as a group, it's worth looking into. The same things normally come up like listening to music, participation, and eating in class. Listen to their suggestions and compromise.
 Listen to your students! You'll be amazed how much they'll respect you when you do. But don't let the kids rule you, and be careful not to rule them. Remember that, though they are younger, you are all equals. Of course they'll want to take advantage of these fun things, but you still want to maintain control. Do not be overly strict; don't tell them that you'll hold them in after the bell, because it's not only your time, but their time. Remember that your class is most likely not the most important thing to them, and don't act as such. They have busy lives, just like you.
 Any subject can be interesting if done through a game or puzzles. Never waste the students' time by giving busy work. Make sure that your assignment is actually going to teach them something or help them apply class principles in real life. Busy work is a hassle for everyone. Moreover, they will see it it as pointless for you teach something not relevant to the subject you are teaching. No matter what you teach, but especially for math, make sure that you give examples for every type of problem you expect your students to complete.
 While still dressing appropriately for your age and maintaining decorum, keep in touch with fashion to help the students relate to you more. Discussing what's new in trends with your students will give you a better feel for where they're coming from as well.
 Make sure to remind them about things when necessary.
 Be someone who can give advice on solving the students' dilemma. Give respect, and never humiliate a student in front of the class unless the context is a very clear joke. Remember, humiliation offends far more people than just the student in question. Don't draw sticks or cards with student's names on them - this serves no purpose other than to humiliate them. Teach the material, and if they know, they will raise their hands. If they don't, it's your job to show them, so you should just tell them the answers on the sheet or work.
 Stay interested and involved with your work, remember why you became a teacher in the beginning. Your love of a subject and excitement for it can influence your pupils greatly.
 It will be difficult for them to respect you if you cannot keep a handle on your classroom. Once you have shown them you can handle the group, it will be easier to be relaxed and fun with them. Don't be the 'cool' teacher that lets their students get away with murder!

