 Elbows are usually neglected in the shower which allows dirt particles to build up and create dark and rough patches. Use mild soap, warm water, and gentle circular motions to remove dirt build-up.


Also, it is recommended to lube up your elbows before a steamy shower to help the lubricant penetrate deeper into dry areas.Be sure to rub in moisturizer within a few minutes after toweling dry. This helps to slow the natural evaporation of moisture.;
, Exfoliation is scrubbing off dead skin cells to reveal the new and improved skin cells underneath.You can use various creams and scrubbers, in or out of the shower, to slough away dead skin buildup.


Exfoliation should only be completed 1-2 times weekly to avoid irritation.You can use a scrubbing brush, pumice stone, or exfoliating cream to remove dead skin.
Choose products which contain lactic acid which will assist in reducing superficially present keratin buildup in dead skin cells, which is a protein that can cause blockage of healthy skin pores. Keratin has an important role in maintaining the health of your skin, but an excess of keratin is called hyperkeratosis.If you are experiencing this, then it is important to see your general practitioner or a dermatologist to find out what is causing it.
 Try soaking in a warm bath for half an hour to soften skin on the elbows. Prolonged exposure to warm water will soften skin.


Follow all other suggestions: use a moisturizer, wash with mild soap, and use an exfoliating body scrub or scrubber to remove dead skin.
Avoid using bubbles or bath products which contain sodium laureth sulphate which can exacerbate dry skin.Excessive bathing can also make skin drier, so make sure to limit your time spent in the shower and don’t use hot water.Also, be sure to use proper bath products, exfoliate, and apply a moisturizer directly after you towel dry.
 Dehydration occurs when your body doesn't have enough water or fluids to function correctly. Dry skin is often a symptom of dehydration.Not only should you make sure that your body is taking in enough water, but you should also ensure that your skin is as well.


Water consumption depends on size and weight. As a rule, you should attempt to consume between half an ounce and an ounce of water for every pound of body weight (daily).
Look for "skin hydrating" beauty products to add to your regimen. Steer clear of any soaps that are antibacterial, perfumed, or that contain alcohol. Choose mild, fragrance-free soaps and moisturizing soaps., Banana peels are not only rich in vitamin C (which helps in healing) but they also have antifungal and antibiotic properties.Try rubbing the peel directly on your elbow or creating a banana paste and leaving on for 15 minutes before rinsing clean. There is no maximum number of times per week to complete the process; it's fine to try it every day. Experiment with what works for your body.
 Lemon is an astringent with exfoliating and bleaching properties so it is great for minimizing rough and dark patches of skin.Apply either lemon juice, or a lemon paste, directly to the skin, leave on for 15 minutes, and rinse with warm water. Repeat once daily for best results.


Cut lemons in half and apply juice directly to the skin, rubbing away the pulp. As a word of caution, if your skin is severely chaffed, you may experience a stinging sensation.
You can also mix lemon juice and baking soda to form a paste instead.
Avoid sunlight or cover with loose clothing.
Immediately apply moisturizer after rinsing and drying elbows.
 Almonds are natural moisturizers that can assist in achieving great skin that is soft and smooth. The vitamin E in almonds helps to both nourish your skin and protect it from UV damage.Try mixing it with other skin boosting products to find a recipe that works for you.


Try almond oil and sugar to remove dark spots. Mix 2 tbsp olive oil with sugar and gently massage into skin for 5-6 minutes. Rinse with warm water and don't use soap for at least 2 hours afterwards.Combine almond powder and yogurt (which contains lactic acid) to form a paste which can be used as a lightening agent.
 Cucumbers have so many wonderful properties that make it great for the skin including cleansing, hydrating, and reducing dark marks.Use as a juice or puree, use individually or combined with additional products, and apply anywhere from 15-30 minutes for results.


Because cucumbers are 95% water, they can be used to cleanse and hydrate skin naturally.
Mix equal parts cucumber juice and yogurt and apply as a paste to hydrate dry skin.
Mix equal parts cucumber juice and lemon juice and apply on dark areas for 15 minutes to make a natural bleaching agent.
 The constant use of the elbows as well as exposure to sun can lead to thicker skin on the elbows. In addition, because moisture retaining glands are not present in the elbows, moisture must be manually added. Try using a thick lotion to keep elbows lubricated.


Try applying petroleum jelly and covering with a sock at bedtime to lock in moisture.
Try lotions with ingredients like urea, lactic acid, hyaluronic acid, or alpha- or beta-hydroxy acids which are often used to help treat small bumps on the skin. Try moisturizing at least three times a day, every day.
 Sun exposure leads to a buildup of dead skin cells, which can cause darker looking skin on elbows.Always use sunscreen when you go out to protect from harmful UV rays.


Use sunscreen lotions instead of sprays to add additional lubrication.
Use at least an SPF 30 to protect from damaging UV rays.
 If you are taking any medications and notice a darkening of the skin on or around your elbows, talk to your doctor to determine if this could be a side effect of your prescription.


For example, medications such as birth control pills, medications used to ease the side effects of chemotherapy, thyroid medications, human growth hormones, and some body building supplements have been known to cause darkening of certain areas including the elbows.