 Just because a stim is a little odd or noticeable doesn't mean that it's a bad stim. A stim is bad if it fulfills one or more of these criteria:


Does it cause physical harm? (biting, head-banging)
Does it pose a health risk? (placing objects in the mouth, spinning until she falls down)
Does it make a mess or destroy things? (ripping paper)
Does it violate others' personal space? (playing with their hair without permission)
Does the autistic child say they want to change the stim?;
, As a parent, teacher, or educator, it's understandable to be worried about autistic children being bullied. However, modifying the child's behavior for this reason sends the message that bullying is the natural consequence of looking different, and it is their fault for failing to be normal. It is the bullies who need the behavior change, not their victim.


Spend part of a day teaching students what autism is, and how to be supportive and helpful.
As a teacher, take bullying very seriously (in all forms, for all victims).
Cultivate an atmosphere of respect for individual differences. Children will model their behavior after yours.
 Teaching takes time and effort. It can be even more effort for the autistic child, if the new stim doesn't work quite as well. Trying to redirect too many stims can harm their self-esteem and ability to focus. Save serious interventions for serious cases.
 What circumstances arise before the child begins stimming? Keep a journal tracking each instance. Here are some examples. (Keep in mind that possibilities are not limited to this list.)


Boredom/sensory seeking
Frustration
Hunger
Fear or pain

, Stimming is a tool. Talk to the child about it if you can, or draw hypotheses based on your log. Here are a few example possibilities:


Pain management
Sensory seeking (heavy work, touch, vestibular, etc.)
Release of pain or emotion
Cry for help or attention

, There is a group of experienced people who know exactly how these stims work—autistic adults. Try reading blogs and reaching out through the #AskAnAutistic hashtag.


Read lists of stims.
Read from autistic adults who had the same stims. What did they use as replacements? Did the replacements work?

, The child can try these out and use the ones that work best.


For a heavy work sensory seeker, try wall push-ups, lifting heavy objects, and grasping the hands and pulling the elbows away from each other.
For a biter, get gum, candy, and chewy jewelry.
For an head-banger, try heavy work, hitting their fist or head against couch cushions, or hitting their head against a glider rocker.
 Make it clear why this stim is not a good one, so that they recognize that there is a good reason for them to stop. Then propose your suggestions.


"It worries me when I see you hitting your head like that. You could hurt yourself. I'm sure it's not fun for you either. What if you tried punching pillows, or hitting your head against couch cushions instead?"
Many nonverbal children can understand spoken words, even if they look inattentive. Explain it even if you aren't sure that they can understand.
 Ask your child if they have any ideas for replacement stims, and what they think would help them use the harmful stim less. If their ideas are incorporated into the plan, it helps them feel ownership of the process.


"Do you think chewy jewelry would help?" "Would you like to help me pick out some jewelry from the website?"
"This is the list of ideas I wrote. What do you think? Should we add or change anything?"
"Let's go to the store this afternoon, and you can pick out the stim toys you want to try."

, Your support can help the child transition. For example, if your son puts objects in his mouth, and the two of you decide that gum is better, he may not have gum on hand all the time. Make it clear that whenever he wants gum, all he needs to do is ask, and you'll give it to him.
 For example, if your student hits herself when she's upset, talk to her about what makes her so upset, and what you can do to help. Maybe she can't handle noisy classrooms, or she's struggling with English, or she has an underlying condition that's giving her headaches. Address the underlying problem and the bad stim may disappear.
 They may use the stim unconsciously, forget about the alternatives, et cetera. Speak patiently so that they know you aren't mad at them. Ask them what they should do, or remind them what they should do.


"LeBron, is that food? Does it belong in your mouth?" "What belongs in your mouth?"
"What do we do when we want to play with hair?"
"Remember, when we want to spin, we stop before we get dizzy. Your trampoline is right over there if spinning isn't enough."

, Autistic children may revert to harmful stims if they are under large amounts of stress. Use a very patient tone of voice, and ask as little of them as possible to avoid further stressing them. If they are in danger of harming themselves, give a gentle reminder. Otherwise, choose to remind them once they're calm or just let it slide.


"Julie, I understand you're upset and hurting. Why don't we put a pillow between your hands and your head so you don't injure yourself?"
"Please don't bite yourself. Here's your stress ball and chewy toy. Would you like to take one?"
"Rosario, I saw that you were hitting yourself this morning. You seemed very upset, and I was worried about you. Would you like to talk about what happened?"
Avoid grabbing or crowding them, as they may panic and lash out.
 While they probably understand why they should do it, a little encouragement from you never hurts. It will help them remember to keep working on it, feel proud of their progress, and use healthy stims to keep everyone happy and safe.


"LeBron, I'll get you a carrot right away. Thank you for asking."
"Rosario, I'm glad that you told me that the classroom was too loud as soon as it started bothering you. You didn't hit yourself once! Feel free to come to me any time you're getting really upset."
"Julie, I just wanted to say how brave and strong you were, head-butting the couch cushions today instead of punching yourself. You did a wonderful job handling your frustration, and I'm proud of you."

, Activity can help boost mood, improve general health, and moderate the need to stim. Try taking walks, swinging, hiking, climbing, swimming, biking, and whatever the autistic child might enjoy.
 Stimming is important to your child's sense of well-being. Here are some items you can keep around the house for them to interact with:


Beanbag chair
Swing
Fidget toys (tangles, stress balls, and more)
Floor trampoline
Lava lamps and fans to watch

, Some therapists will try to force compliance, extinguish stimming, or do other things that harm your child. Only take your child to therapy that they enjoy (or at minimum, feel neutral towards). Make it clear to other adults that your child's differences are to be respected.


ABA is known for ethical issues. However, some therapy is labeled as ABA for tax reasons, but is based on a foundation of consent. Use your own sense of morals and observe your child's reaction to know if it is ethical.
Autism cannot be cured or ethically suppressed. If someone is claiming that they can do this, beware.
 Encourage their special interests and other abilities. Find ways to make them feel competent and talented. Growing up is not only about improving one's weaknesses, but building upon one's strengths.
 Honor all the child's communication attempts—speech, typing and other forms of AAC, gestures, and behavior. Paying attention to the child's communication encourages them to communicate more. Help them learn to recognize their needs and ask for help when they need it.
 Your child faces many everyday struggles that non-disabled people never have to worry about. If you were in their situation, you'd cry and melt down too. Treat them with compassion, and presume competence, and treat them like they want to behave well.
 Your child is a person with feelings. Show that you care about them (including the autistic parts of them), and that they are not a burden or tragedy in your eyes. Your acceptance and love are what they need most of all.

