 Juice one lemon and pour the juice into a saucepan along with 1/2 cup (100 g) of the granulated sugar. Cut one vanilla bean in half and scrape the inside of the pod. Put the seed paste into the saucepan and add 4 cups (400 g) of fresh blueberries.If you don't have vanilla bean, you can stir 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract into the mousse base once it's cooked.
 Turn the saucepan on to low heat and stir the blueberry mixture occasionally. Let the mixture bubble gently and simmer it for about 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and pour half of the mixture into a bowl to cool.The berries should soften and burst once they've finished cooking.
 Set a fine mesh strainer over a bowl. Put the remaining half of the blueberry mixture into the strainer and press it against the strainer using a spatula. The seedless puree will drip into the pan and the solids will stay in the strainer.You can just throw away the solids.
 Pour 1 tablespoon (10 g) of gelatin powder into the seedless blackberry puree and whisk it until the gelatin dissolves. Put the bowl in the refrigerator to chill.The mixture should become cold, but it won't set up.
 Get out a completely clean mixing bowl and place 2 egg whites in it. Add a pinch of cream of tartar and beat the egg whites with a stand or electric mixer on high speed. The egg whites should whip up into firm peaks.Ensure that the bowl is totally clean and that there's no bit of yolk in the egg whites. These prevent egg whites from whipping.
 Keep the mixer running on high speed and add the last 1/4 cup (50 g) of granulated sugar. Beat the egg whites for another minute. The egg whites should turn glossy as the sugar dissolves., Pour 1/2 cup (120 ml) of chilled heavy cream into a large mixing bowl. Use a stand or electric mixer with whisk attachments to beat the cream on high speed for several minutes. Beat the cream until soft peaks form in the cream when you lift away the attachments.If you can, chill the bowl and attachments in the freezer for a few minutes before you beat the cream. It will beat faster and you'll get more volume.
 Remove the bowl of blueberry gelatin from the refrigerator and spoon it into the mixing bowl with the whipped cream. Use a large metal spoon to gently fold the blueberry mixture into the whipped cream until it's incorporated.To fold, hold the spoon and use a twisting motion with your wrist to gently combine the blueberry mixture into the whipped cream. The goal is to incorporate the blueberry mixture while keeping the volume in the whipped cream.
 Fold the egg white mixture into the blueberry whipped cream mixture until it's just incorporated. You can spoon or pipe the mousse into serving dishes. Chill the mousse for at least 6 hours before you serve it. When you're ready to serve the mousse, top it with the reserved blueberry mixture you sweetened.The gelatin and egg whites need time to set up before you serve the mousse. This is why it's important to chill it.

