 Although drainage with a needle is still widely used by doctors, it's no longer recommended by many sources because the hematoma often returns to some extent.Regardless, your doctor may prefer needle aspiration and go about it in a similar fashion to the above recommended procedures. Afterward, your doctor will apply a special compression wrap to the site to prevent additional blood from pooling in the wounded ear.


Aside from expertise, the main difference between you draining your ear and your doctor doing it is that your doctor will use a local or topical anesthetic to make the procedure nearly painless.
Applying pressure with a tight bandage also helps any torn skin reconnect to the ear cartilage beneath it.
The doctor will likely apply gauze to both the front and back of your ear before wrapping it with sterile bandages.
 This procedure is quite similar to the needle and syringe drainage and compression technique, but instead of using a compression wrap to apply pressure on your ear, a physician will place a special splint inside to keep more constant pressure on the wound in order to completely drain it.


Splinting may take the form of sutures, which are placed through the ear in a manner that holds a special gauze in place.Alternatively, the splint can be made from pediplast or silicone and molded to your ear.
If a splint is used, your ear will need to be checked by your doctor again in one week. Sutures stay in place for two weeks unless redness or tenderness develops. A molded splint may be kept in place even longer.
 The most commonly recommended method for doctors to drain a cauliflower ear is by a small incision from a scalpel.Making an incision completely drains the blood and greatly reduces the chance of a hematoma forming again, which can be an issue with the needle drainage technique. Making an incision is also easier to get thickly coagulated or clotted blood out of your ear.


This type of procedure is typically performed by a plastic surgeon or by a licensed otolaryngologist (ear, nose and throat specialist).
With an incision technique, the doctor will have to close the wound with a few stitches, which will either dissolve or be taken out a week or so later.
Stitches will keep the detached skin over the cartilage, giving it an opportunity to reattach itself to the cartilage properly.

