 Place a large pot on the stove, and add 4 to 5 quarts (3.8 to 4.7 l) of water. To season the noodles, you should also stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons (17-34 g) of salt. Next, turn the heat to high and bring the pot to a boil.Don’t add oil to the water. While it can help keep the noodles from sticking together, it can also make them too greasy to allow the sauce to stick to them.;
, When the water reaches a boil, add 1 pound (450 g) of fresh lo mein noodles and allow them to cook until they are soft but still slightly firm. While you should consult the package instructions for cooking times, it typically takes about 3 minutes.








If you can’t find fresh lo mein noodles at your grocery store, you can use Asian style egg noodles or even thin spaghetti in their place.
 Once the noodles are finished cooking, dump them into a colander in the sink to drain away the boiling water. Next, run the noodles under cold water to chill them slightly. Shake the colander well to ensure that they’re fully drained, and set aside.
 In a small bowl, mix together 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of dark soy sauce, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of light soy sauce, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of sesame oil, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of sugar that’s been dissolved in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) hot water, and a pinch of five spice powder if you like the flavor. Stir until all of the ingredients are well blended, and then set aside.








Depending on the flavors you like, you can also incorporate 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of oyster sauce, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of hoisin sauce, and/or 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of sriracha sauce into the lo mein sauce.
 In a large wok or skillet, place 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of a neutral oil, such as canola or vegetable oil. Heat the pan on high for 1 to 2 minutes so that the oil is hot when you add the other ingredients.








You can usually tell that the oil is hot enough when it starts to shimmer in the pan., When the oil is heated, mix 1 clove of garlic that’s been minced; 1 cup (115 g) sliced mushrooms, such as shiitakes, button, or your favorite type; and the white parts from 1 scallion that’s been cut in 2-inch (5 cm) lengths. Stir fry the mixture for approximately 30 seconds.








If you like ginger, you may also want to mix 1 teaspoon (5 g) of minced or grated fresh ginger into the pan with the garlic, mushrooms, and scallions., After you’ve briefly stir fried the garlic, mushrooms, and scallions, add 1 red, orange, or yellow bell pepper that’s been julienned and 1 small carrot that’s been julienned to the pan. Allow the mixture to stir fry for another 30 seconds to 1 minute.








Make sure to keep the heat turned to high so the pan stays as hot as possible.
You can add any of your favorite vegetables to the lo mein. Bean sprouts, bamboo shoots, baby corn, and napa cabbage are other options that you may want to consider.
 After you’ve stir fried the vegetables, slowly drizzle in 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of shaoxing wine or another rice wine and combine with the other ingredients. Let the mixture stir fry for another minute.You should always be careful when adding alcohol to a hot pan because it’s highly flammable. Measure the wine beforehand and place it in a glass or bowl so you don’t have to pour directly from the bottle.
 Once the wine is incorporated, mix a handful of snow peas that have been trimmed and a handful of leafy greens, such as bok choy or choy sum, into the pan. Stir fry the mixture on high heat until the greens begin to wilt, which should take one or two minutes.
 After you’ve cooked the snow peas and greens with the mixture, stir in the cooked noodles. Use tongs or chopsticks to move them through the pan, so they’re not all stuck together in a clump.








The noodles can sometimes get stuck together when they sit in the bowl after cooking. To ensure that they’re loose when you add them to the pan, you may want to rinse them with warm water to break up any clumps.
If you want to make a hearty meal of the lo mein, consider mixing in some type of cooked meat. Beef, chicken, pork, and shrimp are all delicious additions to vegetable lo mein.
 Once the noodles are incorporated, add the sauce mixture that you created to the pan. Stir fry all of the ingredients until the noodles are well coated in the sauce and a uniform color.








The best way to ensure that the noodles are well coated with the sauce is to use a folding motion as you stir fry. Scoop and lift the ingredients to move them through the pan.
 When the noodles are completely coated in the sauce, transfer the lo mein to a serving platter or individual bowls. The dish is best served while it’s still hot, so get it on the table as quickly as possible.If desired, garnish the lo mein with a drizzle of toasted sesame oil.