 When asked what a mad scientist looks like, many people envision a wild-eyed fellow in a tattered lab coat. However, mad scientists actually have a wide variety of stylish options open to them.Mad scientists usually conform to one of two distinct styles:


Dapper and well-dressed, like Nikola Tesla. Tesla was one of the finest scientific minds of his day, but he also believed he had contacted aliens and believed he was in a mutual love affair with a pigeon.
A typical mad scientist of the type described above. Dress in a shabby lab coat. This style evokes Mary Shelley’s classic character Dr. Frankenstein, as well as certain incarnations of Spiderman’s foe Doctor Octopus.
If you do not wish to adjust your style of clothing to act like a mad scientist, that’s okay. If you’re trying to act like a mad scientist for a Halloween party or a theater production, though, dressing the part will help you get into the role.;
, Albert Einstein, for instance, was not a mad scientist, but his hair was often mussed and wild-looking.Capture this eccentricity when acting like a mad scientist. Grow your hair out to at least a medium length. Pull your hair up and out to give yourself a zany look. Fix it in place with hair gel or hair spray.
 Learn to listen to others and talk to them about what they want to talk about. Be persuasive. Ask people what they need and how you can help. Compliment others on their ideas and style. Make yourself someone that others want to be around because you are so pleasant and intriguing.Don’t dominate a conversation. Nod when others talk to show you are listening.
Do not your powers of persuasion and social skills to manipulate others.
This type of mad scientist cons people into thinking he is harmless when in fact, he has diabolical schemes in the works.
Certain incarnations of Lex Luthor best exemplify how this characteristic looks in mad scientists.
 To capture or recreate this feeling for yourself, identify an area of your own life that you wish was different. Devote yourself to making a positive change.


You might realize that your community has widespread poverty and decide to volunteer regularly at your local soup kitchen.
Perhaps you’ll realize that your school is underfunded and start a crowdfunding effort or engage in other entrepreneurial activity to help improve the quality of your school.
Instead of following the mad scientist method of correcting the wrong or meeting your goals no matter what, use a reasonable, measured approach when acting on whatever it is that really drives you.
Live your life passionately, just as a mad scientist would.

