 The nature of collaboration involves people with different priorities working together. Issues will arise, and you should discuss them honestly instead of keeping them in the dark.


Make it clear that conflict resolution isn't about determining who's right or wrong. Keep the discussion focused on how best to adjust the process or action in question to remove the conflict and move the collaboration forward.
If you see a member develop signs of apathy or hostility, ask them in private what caused the change. Discuss the cause at the next meeting if it is related to the collaboration.
 The goal of the collaboration is to achieve a goal, not to instill every member with the same viewpoint. You should discuss these differences, but sometimes you'll need to agree that the conflicts aren't going away and choose a compromise or an alternative path forward.
 If a member is barely attending meetings or not fulfilling the assigned role, find out why and fix it:


Ask the member if there are any issues with other members or the collaboration process so you can discuss them openly.
If the member is a representative from another organization, make sure that organization isn't overworking them. Remind his boss that a certain level of commitment was expected, and ask for the member's work duties in writing.
If the member simply refuses to participate or doesn't have the qualifications necessary, find a replacement. This risks offense, but is crucial for the collaboration to be a success.
 If members are used to certain matters being handled in a different way, or have different definitions of a term, set aside time to discuss and resolve these.


Put the definition of controversial terms in writing.
Adjust the language of your charter or mission statement to a wording everyone can agree on.
 Research how to run an effective meeting, and share your results with the facilitator or meeting convener. Make an effort to enhance trust and engagement among members.


Even small gestures such as bringing refreshments to a meeting can make members more engaged.
If meetings are running slowly due to an unskilled facilitator, select a new one everyone trusts, and who has the skill to manage the discussion without offending anyone.
 There are many ways to address this issue before resorting to an attempt to remove them from the team, which can cause bad blood.


Controlling or manipulative behavior could be caused by fear. If the members are representing another organization, they may be worried about it losing its autonomy. Try to discover the underlying issue and discuss it with the collaboration — or, if it's a personal issue, ask them to deal with it on their own time.
If a member withholds a conflict of interest or doesn't speak up when they oppose a decision, use meeting time to discuss each person's perspective in turn.
Use a more structured discussion system to ensure argumentative members don't dominate the meeting.
 Decide on clear goals and methods you can put into writing to reduce confusion. If members are still arguing over written goals, spend additional time tweaking them.


This may signal a desire for concrete accomplishments, rather than an actual disagreement over end goals. Try agreeing on specific results and attainable, short term strategies in line with your charter.
 If the leadership of member organizations is pressuring your collaboration for quick action, remind them that the collaboration has its own authority. Planning is a necessary step in collaborative efforts.
 Sometimes, you should collectively select a third party mediator. The mediator will facilitate one or two meetings to resolve the conflict, and should be replaced if he or she becomes personally involved. Use a mediator in the following situations:


When a group leader is directly involved in the conflict.
When there is disagreement over whether or not a conflict exists.
When cultural differences are involved and a mediator who understands both perspectives is required.
When impartiality is essential, such as when conflicts of interest arise.
If the group is poor at conflict resolution. Consider a mediator who can train the group in conflict resolution rather than requesting one each time a problem arises.

