 To achieve this, you'll need to purchase a very good shampoo and conditioner that will help bring the desired results to your hair without hurting it. Ask your hair stylist for advice on what to get for your hair type. You can also try some drugstore brands, such as "Herbal Essences". As mentioned in some of the books in the series, Massie Block usually has her hair parted right. This can be seen on the book cover of the book 'Charmed and Dangerous.


If you have some money, purchase a few of those salon products that your stylist mentioned.
If you have not enough or no money, purchase one or two of the products that your stylist has on sale. Then, wait for the rest of the needed products to go on sale.

For example: When that deep conditioner you've been eyeing goes down a few dollars, immediately purchase it!

;
, Purchase different brands of shampoo and conditioner to get soft, shiny hair, but make sure you stick with the correct hair type. If you find that one brand isn't working, try another!


If you have oily or greasy hair and washing it three times a week isn't working, try washing it four times a week, but never wash your hair every day or you'll wear it out.
Try rinsing your hair with cold water, as it will give it some shine.
Avoid using hot water when showering, as this is bad for your hair. Water that is too cold isn't good for your hair as well. Therefore, it's best to stick with lukewarm water when washing your hair.
 Too much heat applied to your hair will cause damage and possibly split ends. However, if it's necessary for you to use a blow dryer on your hair, purchase one of good quality that has been well-made, but still keep the amount of heat introduced to your hair as low as possible.


After blow-drying your hair, run your fingers through the ends of your hair with a little bit of oil-free lotion. Not only will the lotion help eliminate frizz, but it'll also give your hair a non-greasy shine and contribute in getting rid of those split ends.
 However, if aren't comfortable with dying your hair, you aren't allowed to, or you already have her hair color, you can skip this step. Keep in mind that it's best to use temporary dye on your hair in case you change your mind about the color or looking like Massie.
 You should style your hair according to what looks best on you. Make sure you also have plenty of hair accessories to have a cute and functional style.


If you want curls, get a light perm, good quality curling iron, or you can twist a section of your hair over a chopstick and secure it with a rubber band. Do this all over your hair and leave it in overnight for spiral curls. Make sure you do it over damp hair and use a smoothing cream beforehand.
If you want straight hair, get a good quality straightener.
If you want waves, it's recommended you get some hair curlers and curl-enhancing mousse. However, if you want to naturally get your waves (this is much better for your hair than curling it):

Shampoo and condition your hair.
Once your hair is dry, ask someone to braid your hair into a tight French braid, or do it yourself.
Leave the French braid in overnight.
Take the French braid out in the morning.


Note that in the summer collection series, Massie has a streak of purple hair below her right ear.

