 Use your shampoo, conditioner, and straightening serum and follow your normal routine of lathering up. Bust out that nice hair dryer you just bought, the round brush, and get to work, starting from the nape of your neck.









You can now choose to either blow dry your hair or to straighten it with a flat iron, or both. If blow drying, take a wide brush and straighten your hair as your hair stylist would do. Watch out not to turn the blow dryer on maximum heat and not to keep it too close to your hair., This step may not be necessary if your hair responds well to blow-dryers and brushing. But if you have rather curly hair and tangles are common, give it an extra comb-through.









Always be gentle on your scalp. When you're brushing or combing, take extra care in not pulling or tugging on your follicles.
 You may think you're saving time in the long run, but when you take large sections, you just wind up going over them again. Keep your sections to about 1" (2.5 cm) wide to get a more uniform, straightened-for-longer look. And you won't be exposing the strands to heat over and over -- just the one time.









If you have fine hair, keep the hair straightener on low; but thick and coarse hair can tolerate the medium and high settings. If you're curious, grab a tissue and test the flat iron on it. If it scorches, it's obviously too hot for you. And though it should go without saying, always, always, always use a heat protectant on your hair to defend your strands against the heat., You've invested in a good hair dryer and a good flat iron, so it's high time to invest in some good products. Get a hair spray you know you like and some anti-frizz spray or gel that contains silicone.









That's right, silicone. It's found in many haircare products. It minimizes frizz because it's water-resistant, and so it prevents humidity from entering the hair shaft and swelling it. Using a shampoo, conditioner, and styling serum all containing silicone will not only control frizz but also help with detangling and shine.,