 Clutter is one of the major offenders when it comes to blocked or sluggish energy in your home. Recycle that collection of old newspapers and magazines (and consider canceling subscriptions), clean out your closets and drawers (get rid of anything you haven't worn or used for more than a year), and weed through your collection of books, music, and other media.;
, Dust and dirt have an effect on the psyche. Break out the vacuum cleaner, the broom, the dustpan, and the mop!

,, Now that you've gotten rid of your clutter, it should be easier to clean the floors -- always a good starting point for a thorough housecleaning. You may choose to move in either a clockwise (deosil) or counter-clockwise (widdershins) direction through your home. If you move clockwise, concentrate on bringing in lightness, peace, clarity, serenity, prosperity, or whatever positive energy you wish for into your home: the emphasis for this direction is on invoking, or inviting in. If you move counterclockwise, concentrate on banishing dirt, old memories, dustiness, mustiness, and blocked energy: the emphasis is on banishing, or pushing out.
, If you have carpets, consider making a small mixture and sprinkling or spraying it on the floors after vacuuming. Just a few drops of the essential oils will suffice: Salt (purifying and grounding); Sage essential oil (purifying); Lemon essential oil (gives energy and a clean smell); Patchouli (brings prosperity -- go extra light on this); Pine (brings prosperity and love)


Don't forget to wipe down surfaces, clean mirrors, and de-clutter your bureau and desk. If necessary, get a box and place all your old mail and bills in it. You can go through your papers later, but looking at them night and day can be a constant source of stress.
Once you've gotten rid of all the dust and clutter and your floors and surfaces are shining and clean, you should already be feeling better. Use one or more of the following methods to clean out any lingering stagnant energy:* Burn white sage and waft the smoke around your house in a counterclockwise motion, banishing old, stuck energy from your home. Always burn herbs with a fire-safe container! Ring a bell or a rattle through your home, again in counterclockwise motion. Yell, clap your hands, stamp your feet, and laugh.
When you feel that your home has been thoroughly cleansed, say in a strong, clear voice, "My home is cleared of all negative energy. Let it be a place of peace, serenity, love, and prosperity."

, Don't forget the door to the basement or garage!
Sprinkle salt water around the outside walls of your home.
Place a penny (right side up) in each of the outside corners of your home.
Place a protective symbol--such as a mirror, a household god, or a broom - at or near your front and back doors. It's best to use the symbol most closely aligned with your own ethnic heritage.

