 Over time, wheel nuts will slowly work themselves loose. Using your caravan when its wheel nuts are loose can leave you vulnerable to dangerous and potentially expensive accidents so make sure that you always double check that they are adjusted to the manufacturers recommendations (usually between 90-110nm) using a torque wrench before using your caravan, or before storing it for long periods of time;
, Dirt and grime can quickly build up in and around the vents and seals that perforate your caravan’s bodywork. Left unattended, this buildup can prevent proper airflow and potentially damage the rubber seals that are needed to prevent rain-water etc. from penetrating your investment. Regularly clean out these weak points using a soft brush or scraper whenever you get the chance – doing so will help to prolong the longevity of your caravan, and ensure that it keeps you warm and safe during cold nights.
 The drum on a caravan’s handbrake is particularly prone to rust, corrosion and general wear. By testing it before and after every trip, you can help to ensure that it’ll never cut out on you unexpectedly; damaging your caravan and putting you at serious risk of accident or injury. According to the caravanning magazine’s helpful technical guides, the best way to test a caravan handbrake, just apply and then release at least three times. As long as there is no obvious grating, and the brake applies smoothly, it is in perfect working order.
 One of the most important safety features on a caravan are the road lights, and making sure that these are kept in good working order is one of the key parts to maintaining your caravan properly. Test them at least once before and after every trip by getting the caravan hooked up to the car, and then getting someone to stand at the rear and act as a spotter for any issues or problems. To keep them clean, just ensure that you wipe down the lenses whenever they become dirty, and check for any water seeping down in front of the bulb.
 According to the Camping and Caravanning Club’s guide to powering a caravan, a caravan’s leisure battery will normally last between 7 and 8 days when fully charged, but it’s important to remember that discharging a battery below the 50% mark will prevent it from ever being fully charged again, so always ensure that the battery is fully charged by plugging it into a voltmeter before you leave on a trip – readings of 12.7-12.3 indicate a fully charged battery, while readings of 11 indicate near complete discharge.
 Left for long periods of time, the water in your system can become stale and unpleasant. It can also begin to damage the pipe seals throughout your caravan. Drain it at least once a season using the built-in valves, and use this opportunity to check for any signs of leakage. Provided everything looks ok, you can refill the main tank and pressure test all taps and showers.
 Over time, dust, resin, bird mess and excessive amounts of sunlight can all have a tremendous impact on the structural integrity of your caravan – exposure to the elements damages seals, vents and electrical connections as well as causing discolouration of the caravans shell. The best way to avoid this is to keep your caravan covered with a water-proof cover. Providing that the cover is made of a breathable fabric, and fits properly, it can be used to prevent damage to your caravan whenever it’s not in transit, and could considerably prolong the life of your investment

, Whenever you’re in transit, take the time to double check your caravan’s tire pressure at a garage or service station; paying close attention to the manufactures recommended PSI.
 Once mold has started to colonize the inside of your caravan it can be relatively difficult to destroy, so take steps early to ensure that you’re not creating the kind of environment that will encourage fungal invasion.
 It’s easy to forget, but a fully functioning smoke alarm can save lives, so make sure part of your regular maintenance schedule leaves room for a quick test – depressing the ‘test’ button on most modern smoke alarms is all that’s needed to ensure that the electricals and sensors are all still functioning correctly.

