 Does your routine involve lurching awake to a blaring alarm clock, jolting yourself into consciousness by dunking your face in a sink full of cold water, and scalding your throat by chugging down some coffee? If so, trying to engage each of your senses in a more pleasant, uplifting manner may help set a better tone for your new day.Natural sunlight signals the body to transition from sleeping to waking modes, so try to start each day by opening the shades. Better yet, open up the window or go outside. Breathe in the fresh air, listen to the birds chirping, and welcome the new day (if you are lucky enough to have that as your outdoor environment).
Filling your room with warm, welcoming colors like reds and blues, having the color and fragrance of fresh flowers at the ready, and cueing up some uplifting music can all help engage your senses in a positive manner first thing in the morning.
 With many people using their smartphones as their alarm clock, a natural first move once awakened is to check emails, texts, social media updates, news feeds, etc. Fight this urge, and make the first part of your new day all about you.If you can give yourself fifteen minutes, great. If you can only manage five, take it. Start your day by practicing “mindfulness” — meditation, prayer, reflection, whatever it is that allows you to focus inward and prepare yourself for the day ahead.
Many people find it beneficial to spend at least some of this “me” time focusing on gratitude. Meditate on all the things you have to be grateful for, starting perhaps with the fact that you have risen to see another day. Focusing on your reasons to be thankful before getting into the day’s obstacles can make them seem less overwhelming or insurmountable., It may seem quaint in today’s digital world, but taking the time to actually write down your thoughts can be a refreshing exercise. It helps you visualize your thoughts and establish them as a guide for your day.


Some people find writing down the previous night’s dreams to be helpful, even if they don’t make much sense at the time. If that’s not appealing to you, why not go completely “retro” and write daily entries in a journal or diary?If you tend to wake up already stressed out by all you need to do that day, you may benefit from jotting down a daily “to ignore” list (as opposed to the more common “to do” variety). List things that need not be addressed today — non-essential emails, cleaning the bathroom, whatever they may be — and pledge to set them aside for the coming day. Focus your energies on what you can do, not what you could do.Some people find that doing an early morning “brain dump” helps set their focus and energizes their creativity. Jot down whatever ideas, schemes, or plans that come to mind first thing in the morning, no matter how strange or impractical they are. Think of it as “clearing the decks” for your creative mind at worst, and at best as a source of inspiration., Make each morning something to look forward to by budgeting in some time to do something enjoyable just for you. Starting off your day with a smile makes it much more likely that you’ll go through the day with one.Take some time to read from an uplifting religious, spiritual, or just plain enjoyable book. Do some knitting or model-building. Call an old friend, or meet up for coffee. Read a story to your kids. Make love to your partner. Make some “happy time” a part of how you begin the day.