 Set a limit on how many squares of chocolate you're allowed per treat portion and stick to that. This can allow you avoid guilt, which can trigger stress eating of diet-unfriendly foods.


Usually one to two squares is enough per treat time. Whether you treat yourself daily or every few days depends on your diet's treat allowance and your self-discipline at eating only one to two pieces at a time.
Consider dosing out and packaging up your treat allowance ahead of time. Break up a dark chocolate bar into one or two square segments, then bag them individually. Perhaps even mark the day for each and a motivational message, if that will help keep you going with your diet plan.
 When you do include chocolate as part of your slimming regimen, appreciate its taste fully. To this end, it is recommended that you do the following:


Set aside the chocolate treat time for the end of the meal. Your stomach will already be full from eating the meal, so there's less danger of exceeding your limit.
Really focus on tasting the chocolate, not simply crunching it into pieces and swallowing it. Take your time, let it melt on your tongue and savor very small bites of each square so that eating it is a slow but mindful process. See also How to Taste Dark Chocolate.
Good quality chocolate can be a form of relaxation or even meditation when eaten slowly.
Enjoy the chocolate squares in place of a fattening dessert that you might once have had. For example, two squares of quality dark chocolate can replace a slice of cake or pudding.
Have some of your dietary allowance of fruit with the chocolate. Make sure it complements the taste, such as a few slices of mandarin orange with orange flavored dark chocolate.
 At snack time, this can be a tasty way to have a morsel of chocolate and avoid snacking on something unhealthy.


Coffee and chocolate are often considered a natural combination, but remember that if you use milk, you risk neutralizing the beneficial antioxidants.Tea, on the other hand, contains additional flavonoids and can pair just as well with chocolate.
Try matching the chocolate flavor with the tea flavor. For example, try rose infused dark chocolate with rose tea. The flavor alone will linger for a long time, helping you to appreciate a small morsel and not feel compelled to over-snack.
Learn to focus fully on the flavor and you'll be retraining yourself to eat chocolate with restraint and full appreciation.
 Chocolate drinks are a great way to get the flavor without the calories, provided you choose the right drinks.


Choose a sugar-free or low-sugar hot chocolate mix or dark, quality cocoa and make up hot chocolate for a lovely, guilt-free evening drink. Sip slowly and savor the flavor.
Add sugar-free cocoa to cold milk when the allowance for the milk is part of your diet. Mix well and again, savor the flavor. But again, remember that you’ll be neutralizing those antioxidant benefits with the milk.
Avoid chocolate milkshakes, milk drinks with sugar and chocolate, and any chocolate alcohol drinks. All of these will be too calorie and sugar-laden.
 This can give you the taste of chocolate with a fraction of the calories.


The same principle applies to putting a few dark chocolate shavings on top of your morning yogurt. Maximize the flavor impact of every bit of chocolate you consume.
Raw cocoa nibs are another option. These are available from health food stores. Be aware that they're quite bitter though and are somewhat of an acquired taste.

