 If you have a mild case of ringworm, you can use an antifungal cream on the infection. This may help relieve symptoms and clear the ringworm.Creams or lotions such as clotrimazole or terbinafine can help treat your ringworm.Apply the cream or lotion as indicated on the packaging or by your doctor. Usually you need to treat the area for 2-3 weeks.
You can purchase antifungal creams at most pharmacies and some grocery stores or larger retailers.;
, Garlic is a food that also has antifungal properties. Applying garlic slices to your ringworm may help clear the infection.Peel a clove of garlic and slice into thin sections. Place the thin slices of garlic onto your ringworm and cover with a bandage.Wear the bandage and garlic slices overnight. Keep doing this until your ringworm clears., Apple cider vinegar is another food with certain medical properties. Dabbing apple cider vinegar onto your ringworm for a few days may remove it from your skin.Moisten a cotton ball or pad with apple cider vinegar and dab it directly on to the affected area.Apply the apple cider vinegar 3-5 times per day for 1-3 days., Some people suggest making a paste with salt and vinegar and apply it to your ringworm. This may help clear your ringworm within a week.Mix salt and vinegar until they form a paste and then apply directly to your ringworm.Allow the salt and vinegar paste to sit on your ringworm for five minutes and then rinse it off with water.It can take up to seven days for your ringworm to disappear with salt and vinegar treatments., Tea tree and lavender oils both have powerful anti-fungal properties. Applying either of these oils may stop fungi from developing and kill ringworm completely.Mix a 1-1 solution of tea tree oil and water. Use diluted tea tree oil twice daily on the affected area.It can take up to four weeks for tea tree oil to heal ringworm.Apply a small amount of lavender oil to the affected area daily. It may take up to a month for lavender oil to treat ringworm.If pure lavender oil is too strong for your skin, try diluting it with some distilled water.
 Aluminum salts, such as an aluminum chloride 10% soIution or aluminium acetate, are known for their anti-perspirant effects. They may blocks sweat production and help alleviate ringworm.:


Mix one part of the solution with 20 parts water.
The solution shall be applied for 6 to 8 hours. It is advisable to apply the solution overnight because sweat production is lowest at nighttime.
The solution should be washed off before excessive sweating begins. Repeat this procedure until the ringworm heals.
You can get aluminum salts at most pharmacies.
 Good hygiene is integral to preventing ringworm and treating it. From washing your hands to only using your own personal items, simple measures of good hygiene can help you heal this fungal infection, keep it from spreading to others, and may help keep you from being re-infected., Ringworm comes from a parasites that feed on skin cells on the outer layer of your skin.By showering daily and washing your hands frequently, you may be able to prevent ringworm.Use a mild cleanser to wash skin or a simple hand soap to keep your hands clean after using the bathroom or touching shared surfaces.If using a shower in a gym or other type of locker room, wear shower shoes to keep from contracting ringworm on your feet or other area., If you have ringworm on your scalp, use an antifungal shampoo such as Nizoral or ketoconazole. This may be easier and more effective than using other home methods. You should see your doctor if you have scalp ringworm, as you usually need oral prescription medications. A shampoo with tea tree oil may also help., Be sure to allow your skin to dry completely after a shower. This can eliminate a damp environment that promotes fungus growth.You can dry your skin using either a towel or let your skin air dry.
Use talc, cornstarch or rice powder to help keep your skin dry. This can absorb excess sweat. Reduced perspiration may help skin stay fungus-free.
 Ringworm is highly contagious. Don’t share your personal or borrow them from others. This may help prevent ringworm or avoid re-infection.Towels or clothing may provide a medium for contracting fungus by sticking in the fabric.Hairbrushes and combs can also spread ringworm, so don’t share or borrow these items., No matter what time of year, try and not wear too much clothing. Wearing clothing appropriate to the weather can keep you from sweating and promoting the conditions that lead to ringworm.In the summer, wear soft and lightweight clothing. Cotton is a good option that will allow your skin to breathe.Layer your clothing in winter. If you get too hot or start to sweat, this can make it easier to remove items of clothing without getting too cold. Merino wool is a good option for winter that can keep you warm and dry.