 There are many types of meditation, so finding the one that works for you is important. Meditation has been shown to lower blood pressure, lessen anxiety, and much more. If you’re looking for a way to rest without actually sleeping, meditation is a rewarding and mindful way of achieving that goal. Rather than laying on the coaching tossing and turning trying to feel rested, practicing meditation can actively improve your quality of rest.
 Work breaks into your day before you start to feel exhausted or overtired. If you keep pushing yourself until you actually start to feel awful, it will make it much harder to recover and feel rested. Work breaks into your life on a daily basis, a weekly basis, a monthly basis, and a yearly basis. Everyone needs time to recoup and recharge. This can be as easy as sitting outside for a few minutes before going back to work, taking one day to yourself a week, or a relaxing vacation. , We all have a strong habit of discursive thinking, which means one thought flows to the next and then the next. This can be exhausting, and if you practice not thinking you can give your mind a valuable break. Open your senses to what is happening around you and pay attention, but don't think about them. Just experience them. When you find yourself drifting back into a line of thought, notice this and go back to paying attention to what you are experiencing.
 Sleeping is the one time when we are really able to give our minds a rest. Although meditation can help, sleeping is absolutely necessary to feel rested. Don't sacrifice sleep for other activities because the odds are they won't benefit your well being and happiness nearly as much as those extra hours will.
 Sounds like running water, birds chirping, and even storms can help you relax and stop stressing about whatever is going through your head. You can find playlists of these online. Other great options include gongs, chimes, or whatever instrumental music you might like. The brain always wants some sort of sensory input , and by supplying these sounds you might be able to let go of the more stressful input that you are supplying.

