 The most important thing you can do to help you save money is stay informed. Read online reviews for different contractors in your area, research the cost of labor and building materials, and learn as much as possible about the repair job itself. Knowledge of the job itself will allow you, for example, to know when a component could easily be reconditioned even when your contractor is recommending full replacement.;
, Soliciting multiple bids for a major home repair is a standard method for getting a good price. However, selecting the lowest bid can end up costing you much more in the long term if the contractor is unqualified. Make sure contractors are licensed, bonded, insured, and can provide references and examples of past work. Using a good contractor is often worth an increase in price, as quality work will help prevent the need for future repairs.
 When contractors provide construction materials themselves, they typically charge a markup for their shopping time (they also don't tend to shop for the best price). Materials like drywall, paint, flooring, cabinetry, and wallpaper can all be purchased beforehand. This will help you avoid paying a markup on materials.


Note that many contractors will refuse to use certain low-quality materials. This is because they guarantee their work, and are not comfortable guaranteeing the performance of a cheap, low-quality part. This typically applies to materials like pipe fittings, fasteners, and wiring, rather than finishes like paint and flooring.
 National governments in many countries have implemented tax credits for home improvements like weatherproofing, insulating, and installing efficient furnaces, air conditioners, and appliances. Research the tax incentives available to you and take advantage of them if possible during your home repair project.
 This is the most ambitious but most effective way to save money on home repairs. Tasks such as replacing drywall, painting, updating fixtures, and installing new flooring rarely require a building permit and can be performed yourself. Make sure to research the tasks involved thoroughly, and take extra care with regard to safety.

