 Vodka sauce is traditionally served with penne or rigatoni pasta, though you can use it to top any type of pasta that you like. As you start to prepare the sauce, bring a pot of water to boil on the stove to cook your pasta.Be careful not to overcook your pasta. Test it a minute or two before the instructions say it will be done to see if the texture is right. It should be slightly firm when you taste it because it will continue to cook while you drain it and in the sauce.
You don’t necessarily have to use vodka sauce on pasta. It can make a delicious sauce for pizza, chicken, and fish too.;
, Set a large skillet or saute pan on the stove, and set the burner to medium heat. Add 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of olive oil and 2 tablespoons (30 g) of butter, and heat until the butter is completely melted.While the combination of butter and olive oil offers the best flavor for the dish, you can use 4 tablespoons (120 g) of butter by itself or 4 tablespoons (120 mL) of olive oil by itself if you don’t have the other ingredient on hand.
You can tell that the oil and butter are at the right temperature when the mixture goes from completely smooth to rippled in the pan.
 When the butter and olive oil is properly heated, add 1 cup (approximately 1 medium onion or 150 g) finely chopped onion 2 to 3 cloves of chopped garlic to the pan. Allow the garlic and onion to cook for approximately 5 minutes, or until the onion becomes soft and slightly brown.Stir the onion and garlic as they cook to ensure that they’re well combined.
Watch the pan carefully to ensure that the onion and garlic don’t burn.
 Once the onion and garlic have cooked for several minutes, remove the pan from the heat and carefully pour in ¾ of cup (180 mL) of vodka before returning it to the stove. Stir it into the onion and garlic, and allow the contents to cook for 2 to 3 minutes so the vodka can start to reduce.If you would like a sharper flavor to your sauce, you can add up to 1 cup (240 mL) of vodka. You may want to experiment to see what amount you like best.
To reduce the risk of fire, don't pour the vodka directly from the bottle into the pan. Instead, pour it in a measuring cup first and then add it to the pan from the cup.
Make sure to have a lid for your pan nearby when you add the vodka. If it ignites, immediately place the lid on the pan to smother and kill the flames.
 When the vodka, onion, and garlic mixture has cooked for a few minutes, it’s time to add the tomato puree to the sauce. Pour one can of puree, approximately 14 ounces (397 g), into the skillet, and stir until all of the contents are thoroughly combined. Reduce the burner’s heat to low.You can swap the tomato puree for a can of tomato sauce, but you’ll wind up with a slightly thinner sauce.
 When the tomato puree is completely mixed with the vodka, onion, and garlic, add 1 cup (240 mL) of heavy cream to the pan. Stir carefully to ensure that it’s fully incorporated into the sauce. Instead of the bright red of the tomato puree, the sauce will now have a creamy light orange color.Make sure that your burner it turned to low. You can burn the sauce very easily at this point.
The sauce requires heavy cream to give it the right consistency. Avoid replacing it with whole milk or half-and-half if possible.
 When the cream has been completely stirred into the pan, it’s time to season the sauce. Mix in ¼ to ½ (1.25 to 2.5 g) teaspoon of salt and fresh ground black pepper to taste. Add a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes too to give the sauce a little heat.Use as much or as little crushed red pepper as you like. If you aren’t a fan of spicy foods, you can omit it entirely.
 If you’ve made pasta to serve with the sauce, make sure to save a cup of the water that you cooked it in just before you drain it. That way, you can use the water to thin the sauce if it turns out to be too thick when you combine it with the pasta.Add just enough pasta water to make the sauce and pasta combination easy to stir together.
 Turn off the burner that the vodka sauce is on, and drain your pasta. Place the hot pasta directly into the pan with sauce and then toss the together to ensure that the pasta is evenly coated.Don’t put all of your cooked pasta into the sauce at once. Instead, add approximately ½ to ¾ and make sure that there is enough sauce to coat all of it. If there’s excess sauce, finish adding the rest of your pasta.
You should have enough sauce for approximately six servings of pasta.
 When the vodka sauce and pasta are fully combined, mix in 1 cup (450 g) of grated Parmesan cheese. For serving, you can top the pasta and sauce with a little more grated cheese.You can also garnish your pasta and vodka sauce with some fresh basil leaves for added color.
 While pasta and vodka sauce is a common dish, you can customize the recipe to suit your tastes. You may want to add some type of protein to the dish to make a hearty meal, or mix in some vegetables for added flavor.


Grilled chicken, sausage, and shrimp can be tasty addition to your pasta and vodka sauce. Cook approximately 1 pound (450 g) of your chosen meat or seafood fully, and then top each bowl of pasta and sauce with it. You may want to drizzle additional vodka sauce over the protein.
Peas pair well with vodka sauce. When the sauce is nearly finished, add 1 cup (150 g) fresh or defrosted peas to heat them through.

