 Whether you're sitting down or standing up, there's usually a chance to position yourself in such a way to hide what's going on down there.



Standing up: Try not to face to the side of anyone. A bulge in the crotch region is a lot less noticeable if you're facing someone head on than it is from the side.

Sitting down: Try casually crossing your legs. When men cross their legs, the pant material in the crotch region usually gets bunched up, offering cover to your mischievous main vain.;
, Putting your hands in your pockets is a perfectly natural gesture, making this very popular. Put both of your hands in your pockets so as not to arouse suspicion, and gently hold the erection close to your body, trying not to move so as to tame your member into timidity.
 Maybe you have no pockets in your pants (although men should always have pockets in their pants), or it's impossible to reposition yourself. In this case, look for something to put over your crotch region to hide your excitement. Try covering yourself with:


A book or a magazine. Pretend to lose yourself in an interesting article (just make sure you don't pick up Cosmo or you could blow your cover) and place the book or magazine over your lap.
A table. If you're sitting down, casually move your seat up as close as possible to the table.
A piece of clothing. If you've got a jacket or sweater, pretend to look for something in the jacket pocket, and then casually leave it in your lap.
 Basically, tuck your erection under your belt, from inside your pockets, using your hands. Warning: Only the most experienced tuckers can do this maneuver while facing a group of people. It's much better to find an excuse to be alone, or turn away from the group, and quickly do the tuck while no one can see. Tuckers with longer penises should make sure their upper garments are both opaque and securely occluding the entire glans.
 Again, this is only for the most experienced men, as creating a poor distraction could actually focus the attention on you, with potentially disastrous results.


When the time is right, say something like: "Wow, look at that man who's juggling cute little puppies while riding on a unicycle in the distance!" and run away when everyone's turned their heads.
 It's much easier said than done, but if you can find a way to distract yourself, you are halfway home. Get your mind focused on something important, irreverent, or just plain weird. The idea is that it's hard to actually think and have an erection at the same time. (Women have known this for centuries.)


Think about something really important. If you're older, maybe there's bills to pay, or deadlines to worry about. If you're younger, try thinking about your parents; it's a guaranteed boner-buster.
Think about something irreverent. Irreverent means not taking things seriously. Try picturing something really funny.
Think about something weird. The weirder the better. Some people think of cobwebs, or clowns, or maybe even the irreconcilable vastness of the universe. It could do the trick.
 When you walk, your body is forced to pump blood to your limbs in order to get them moving. That's why taking a nice little stroll could relieve you of your unwanted erection. Try mumbling something to your peers about obscure economic policy and walk away into the distance. The girls will think you're really mysterious.
 Most people don't walk around with ice cubes or ice packs, so it could be tough to work this one. But cold objects will constrict the blood flow to your Johnson, making it a lot less excited.
 Or just go to the restroom without offering an excuse; that could be less weird. When you're at the restroom, wash cold water on your face or do jumping jacks if no one else is there. Think about someone you know who may or may not be the least good-looking person in town.
 Don't rub it against your hand or another object, don't picture someone who is evenly mildly attractive, and don't fixate on your uncomfortable situation. Your discomfort will go away soon if you complete all these steps.

