 Once you've identified the problem you want to solve, figure out how you personally can start working to fix it. Even if you do not believe that one person can change the world, you should realize that one person can make a difference—one step at a time. How are you going to make a difference?


Find the place where your passions and skills intersect. For example, let's say your city has too few trees and you want to help. You can use social media to spread awareness about the problem by sharing what you know with as many people as possible and encouraging people to plant more trees.
 The problem you've identified isn't likely to be solved easily; it'll probably require a lot of work; maybe years of work. It's even possible that after years of work, the problem still won't be entirely corrected. However, if you set manageable goals and start working toward them step-by-step, you'll eventually be able to look back and see the progress you've made.


Set short-term goals. You can define short-term in a way that makes sense and is motivating to you. What do you want to have accomplished in one week, one month, or a year?
Set long-term goals. In five years, what do you want your community to look like? What about ten? What seems doable in that amount of time?

, To accomplish your goals, you're going to need an action plan. And to execute an action plan, you'll probably need some help and funding. Write up a plan that details everything you're going to need to accomplish a given goal, including the following:



People - Include the skill-sets that will be involved, the hours of work that they'll need to put in, the minimum number of volunteers or spokespeople that will be necessary to accomplish your goals.

Resources - These might include such things as: buses to take people downtown for a river cleanup; garbage bags, shovels, protective gloves, and masks for the volunteers; pizza, sodas, and a salad to feed them at lunchtime. Think it through down to every last detail.

Money - Create a budget and detail how much it's going to cost to execute your plan.
 Ask around to find out who else is as excited to make a difference as you are. Try to form a core group of activists committed to carrying out the plan to improve your community. Everyone will have something to contribute, and together you'll be able to start getting things done. Even just telling other people about your goal and what you are doing to accomplish it can help you to achieve it.To find passionate volunteers and spread the word about what you're doing; share information via social media. Go public with your plan to make a difference, and tell people how they can get involved. Hold meetings to discuss how to put your plan into action.
Some people prefer to help by by donating money instead of their time. Don't be afraid to ask for donations or hold a fundraiser to make money you can put toward your cause.
 Now that you have goals and an action plan for meeting those goals, it's time to get organized and put in the real time and effort it takes to create change. If you back out now, your community might never see the solution of your dreams. It's not going to be easy to make things better, but every bit of effort you put into your project will make a difference.

