 Serving the ball is the opening move for any volleyball match. The serve will send the ball over the net, being sent from the server to the defending team. Serving the ball properly can result in an immediate point being scored or will at least give your team more time to work to score a point later on during the rally.The easiest serve is the underhand serve. Hold the ball in one hand and bring your other hand up to strike the ball, sending it over the net.
Overhand serves are more difficult but can be more powerful. Toss the ball up into the air with one hand and strike it down and over the net with the other.
You cannot cross the end court line when serving.
 Passing the ball to your teammates will be a critical part of scoring more points in a volleyball match. Without proper team work your team won't be able to set up the ideal attacks. Review some of the following points to learn how you can best pass the ball and increase your chances of scoring:Curl your hands into fists with your thumb on the outside.
Bring your hands together.
When passing the ball, strike it with your forearms. Do not use your wrists or hands to pass the ball.
 Beyond offensive skills, defending your team can help keep the ball out of play, stop the opposition from scoring and get the ball back under the control of your team. Keep some of the following points in mind when practicing your blocking:The front three players will be in charge of blocking.
Blockers should reach over the net when blocking a shot.
You will need to pay careful attention to where the ball is and where you expect it to enter your side of the court.
 Setting the ball will likely fall to you during a game of volleyball and it's an important skill to develop. By properly setting the ball you will be lining up the best possible shots for your hitters to take. Try to remember some of the following concepts when developing your setting skills:Start with both hands up above your head.
Have your fingers wide before contacting the ball.
As the ball touches your hand, bring your fingers together and push it away from you.
Send the ball over to your teammate who is ready to strike it over the net.
 Striking will generally be the way your team will score goals. The striker is given the ball by the setter and then attempts to send the ball through the oppositions defense. If the opposition cannot stop the strike your team will score. Practice your striking to make your shots count.Approach the ball as it comes to you.
Squat low and get ready to jump up to meet the ball.
You will strike the ball as you would during an overhand serve.
Try to send the ball away from opposing blockers.

