 In 1998, Angelina cut her hair into a short pixie style. But this is an unusual look for her. You are more likely to see her with long hair with a slight natural wave in it.


You won’t see her with tight curls. She isn't going to be seen looking like she has permed hair.Angelina's hair is usually past her shoulders to mid chest length.
Avoid short bangs. A hairstylist was once quoted as saying Angelina loves to wear her hair “away from her face.” Angelina does often wear her hair parted to the side with long bangs and layers, though.
 As with hair length, Angelina has experimented with other hair colors, especially for film roles. For example, she dyed her hair platinum blonde in 1999 for the movie Girl, Interrupted, but she is almost always seen with dark or medium brown hair. Angelina sometimes brightens her brown hair with an auburn tint. The highlights are painted on her hair one-by-one. Her base hair color is usually medium brown. Don’t paint too many highlights into your hair. Her hair looks mostly naturally brown with just a little bit of softness.
Angelina’s been known to keep her hair shiny and healthy by using Aveda products and Couture Colour Pequi Oil Treatment.
 Angelina is a fan of loose, natural looking curls. To obtain this look, you should curl your hair with a large barreled curling iron or with Velcro rollers. Make sure the curls aren’t too tight. Her hair looks natural.


Take random sections of your hair and back comb them, and then brush the hair until it’s smooth. Take small sections of hair, twist them, and clip them. Then, use some fixing spray. Then release.
To increase the volume at the roots of your hair, capture sections of your hair with your brush and lift the hair upward 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm). Hold the section there while you dry underneath with the blow-dryer. Unpin the top section and repeat the drying process. Flip your head upside-down once more and spray a light-hold hair spray at the roots of your hair. Remain upside-down for a few seconds to allow the hair spray to dry, and then flip right-side-up again.
 When she is at awards shows in particular, Angelina loves to play with different styles. Occasionally, you will see her with an updo, but a half up and half down style is one of her favorites.


To get Angelina’s half up and half down style, take large Velcro rollers. Start with your bangs or the hair in the middle of your forehead, and continue rolling the front sections of the hair and then go back on the crown of the head at the middle part to create volume. . Roll them toward the face.
If you use a smaller roller, you will get more curl. A large roller provides more volume. Again, you could use a large barreled curling iron instead.
Use larger rollers as you work your way to the back of the head.
Put rollers in the end of your hair too, curling under. Let them set for a few hours. You could use a hair dryer instead if you don’t have that much time, but be careful that you don’t dislodge the rollers when drying the hair.
Remove the rollers, starting with the top ones. Take the hair at the crown area. Use a round brush to back comb it. Set it with hair spray. Do the same thing halfway to the front. Once the hair spray dries, brush it to smooth it out.
Take a section of the hair at each side and fasten the sections back with a clip.

