 Body image issues can be mild or severe. They may lead to minor self-esteem issues or to much more debilitating disorders. The counseling you choose to pursue may depend on how serious your body image issues.Since body image issues can lead to life-threatening eating disorders, those issues are more serious and require different counseling than self-esteem issues.
Body issues that lead to depression, isolation, and reluctance to leave the house also need to be addressed with more serious measures.
 To receive the specific counseling you need, you should search for a therapist or counselor who has experience with body image issues. This will ensure you are getting the kind of counseling that targets your issues.You can search for therapists through your insurance company, or through a number of mental health websites. You can contact them to ask if any of the counselors deal with your specific condition. Some websites will list the conditions or groups of people that a therapist specializes in, such as LGBT, men’s issues, or eating disorders.
 If you have body dysmorphic disorder, a therapist who specializes in the disorder can help you confront and overcome your issues. This disorder may arise when a person hates a specific part of his or her body.For example, you may hate your eyes, your nose, or even your genitalia. People who suffer from this form of body image issue may obsess about that body part and go to extreme lengths to hide it. Body dysmorphic disorder often is a result of this.
 If you have an eating disorder, you need to undergo counseling with a therapist who specializes in anorexia and bulimia. These are serious conditions that need to be addressed because they can lead to severe health problems.One form of body image issues relates to weight. These issues can lead to severe self-esteem problems, along with eating disorders like anorexia and bulimia. People with body issues relating to weight may diet often and over-exercise., Though many people associate body image issues with women, men suffer from significant body image issues, too.Men often suffer from issues such as body dysmorphia, eating disorders, and even steroid addictions.


Men also suffer from male-specific disorders, such as muscle dysmorphia. Muscle dysmorphia is more common in men who lift weights and who are quite muscular, but who do not think they are muscular enough. Men with muscle dysmorphia may see themselves as small and weak, when they are actually large and strong.Finding a therapist who can help you deal with this specific problem will provide better and more effective counseling.
 If you are part of the LGBT community, you may want to find a counselor who specializes in LGBT issues. People in the LGBT community face very specific body image issues that deal with gender or difficult to obtain standards held by the community.


People undergoing gender transformation in any form or degree should find a counselor who specializes in LGBT issues who can understand and aid in overcoming negative and harmful body issues.
Although heterosexual and homosexual men can suffer from eating disorders, gay men have a higher rate of eating disorders than straight men.Finding a counselor who understands your specific body image issues due to your circumstances can help yield better results.
 Some body image issues arise from trauma. If you have undergone trauma that affected your body, you should look for a counselor who specializes in dealing with trauma. Trauma-related body image issues arise from a different source than other body image issues and may need to be addressed and treated differently. Oftentimes, these issues may be connected to feelings of grief and sadness.A person may feel uncomfortable about his or her body due to severe burn scars, injury scarring, or amputation. Sexual abuse may also lead to negative body images.
 Some insurance companies cover therapy and counseling. If the insurance company does cover the therapy, they may require the counselor to be in the company’s network.Try searching through the insurance company’s network of psychiatrists and therapists. The network listing may provide searchable options for you to search for specific specialties, such as eating disorders or body dysmorphic disorder.
If the network listing doesn’t offer you any specialties, look for the counselor elsewhere on the internet.
If you can’t find someone who specifically states they deal with body image issues, try finding a counselor who deals with related issues, such as depression and anxiety.
 Even if your first therapist isn’t right for you, don’t give up. Sometimes, finding the right therapist to deal with your body image issues may take a few tries. There is a therapist out there for you.Ask for recommendations of a good therapist from your doctor. There are websites you can visit that may help lead you to the right therapist.

