 What items have you got? What colors are they? How many items have you got? All these things are important to assess in the transitional process of becoming cool and casual looking.;
, Anything that has holes or is worn out needs to go into the rag bag too.
 This saves money and you can totally make them your own with some mixing and matching of styles.
 Here are some tips on what you might like to wear:


Leggings. All types of leggings are okay, but try not to go too sparkly, glittery and over the top with them.
Cute tops. White, pink, blue, purple, black or white are great, but really any color is fine. Long sleeves are a very good choice, and T-shirts are also very good. It would also be nice if you were to wear a band T-shirt, or a graphic T-shirt. Try not to go sparkly or glittery with the tops though. If you want to have some sparkles, then wear it with jewellery.
Jeans. All types of jeans. skinny jeans, short jeans, flare jeans, big jeans or torn jeans. but nowadays people wear skinnies more than the other types. Anything is okay. Black jeans or the original blue jeans are a very good choice.if you are a colored jeans addict, then pastel pink/blue/purple/yellow would look great on the right top.
 You'll not only save money in the long run but the items will look better on you too.
 Cute dinky little charms on your phone are cute. Don't go over the top with necklaces though. The necklaces should be preferably short. If you want to do a kesha then use glitter and sparkles on some studs or kind of short earrings. charm bracelets are a big yes yes.
 Everyone loves a hat! Beanies and pompom hats are lovely. Don't go too crazy with the colors though. Aztec prints on hats are cool as well.
 For cool and casual hair, braids are perfect. Learn how to do the fishtail braid, or just a regular braid, for they add a lovely touch to your outfit! Avoid extreme curling or extreme straightening.
 If you want to dye your hair, dye it a light shade of brown or blond or if you are light-skinned. If you are dark, try a dark plum/auburn/burgundy or a dark brown.

