 Depending on what color you want to work with, you may need to add more water to get the desired color. Start with one cup of water per drop of food coloring. Mix well.Try mixing the dye and water into a spray bottle. This will make it easier to apply it to the pet.
 Make sure her fur is clean and well brushed. Dyeing works better with lighter fur. Cleanliness will help the dye last longer and will look better.
 Use a food processor or a masher to break down foods into a paste, mush, or powder. If you are using a dry food, try adding a small amount of water (1 tbs) until a desired consistency is reached.For trickier colors to obtain (like blues and purples), try adding the mashed food mixture to baking soda to make a paste. Start with ¼ of a cup of baking soda and add it to your food mixture until desired amount/color is achieved.
 Unless you want to also dye your hands, make sure you are wearing latex or plastic gloves to protect your own skin.
 This is easy to do in a few simple steps.Dampen your pet's fur with a spray bottle of water. You do not want to soak the fur, but spray so the fur is damp to the touch.
Apply the chalk directly to the damp fur. If you want a lighter color, use less chalk. If you want more or darker color, apply more chalk.
Wait for the fur to dry. This will help the color set into the fur.
Use a blow dryer (not too hot, try a medium setting) and blow warm air over the chalked fur. This will help the color set and last longer.
 There are a few tips to make this step go smoother. You can also use cotton swabs and small, clean, paint brushes to get areas around the eyes, ears, mouth, and nose.


Apply dye mixture in small areas. Start with an inconspicuous area to test the color. This will also help determine how the she will react to being dyed.
Avoid spraying dye into her eyes, mouth, or nose. This could harm the animal and/or agitate it.
Apply one color at a time. It is recommended to let one color dry before applying any more near or on top of it. This will stop color from running or mixing together.

