 If your state has its own equal credit opportunity laws, the state's attorney general is responsible for enforcement, including filing lawsuits for violations.You can find out the name of your state's attorney general, along with a link to the office's website, at http://www.naag.org/naag/attorneys-general/whos-my-ag.php.
Some states may allow a private cause of action, which means you can sue yourself if a lender discriminates against you.
The website of your state's attorney general's office typically will provide summaries of consumer protection laws in your state as well as fact sheets and other information to help you decide how to handle your claim.
Since you must choose to file a lawsuit under either state or federal law, but not both, you should choose the one that provides you the most comprehensive protection in your situation.For example, Illinois state law protects you from discrimination on the basis of your sexual orientation, which is not protected by federal law. So if you live in Illinois and were denied a loan based on your sexual orientation, you could only file a lawsuit in state court., Most states have a complaint form on the state attorney general's website, or you can find a paper form at your local attorney general's office.The complaint form will require you to submit information about yourself, including your name and contact information, as well as similar information about the lender.
Next you will provide information about the transaction. Include as many details as you have, including the dates you communicated with the lender, the amount of the loan, the names of representatives with whom you spoke, and any other pertinent information.
Typically you also will have the ability to attach copies of any documents associated with the transaction, including a copy of your loan application or your credit report, and any letters from the lender.
 After you've filed your complaint, someone from the state attorney general's office will investigate the incident and determine whether to file a lawsuit.Keep in mind that the attorneys who work in your state's attorney general's office don't represent you. If they decide to file a lawsuit after investigating your complaint, it is to protect the rights of all consumers in your state.
An attorney may contact you to ask for additional information or documentation regarding your complaint. Any information you provide will be used to evaluate the actions of the lender and determine whether they are in violation of state law.
 Some states have mediation services available in credit discrimination cases to assist with resolving your personal situation.While the attorneys in the state's attorney general's office don't represent you, these mediation services can help you resolve your dispute with the lender and receive compensation for any losses you may have suffered.
 If your state law allows private lawsuits for credit discrimination and you are unsatisfied with the results of any efforts from the state's attorney general's office, you might want to consider filing a complaint in state court.An experienced consumer protection attorney can help you understand your rights under state law and assess the viability of your case.
Make sure you get the ball rolling as soon as possible. State laws have deadlines, called statutes of limitations, for filing a lawsuit which may only be one or two years after the date of the incident.

