 Before starting the divorce process, sit down with your spouse and discuss your marital concerns. Getting a divorce is a serious matter and will take months, if not years, to complete. If there is an opportunity to work with your spouse and avoid a divorce, you should do so.


If divorce is inevitable, talking with your spouse may alleviate the need to hire attorneys or battle over property and children. Before filing for divorce, see if you and your spouse can work out the specifics. This should include a written agreement that discusses how property will be divided, who will have custody of any children, and how support payments will be made. This agreement can then be presented to the court in order to have your case expedited.;
, If you are married but do not want to get a divorce, you may be able to get a legal separation or have your marriage annulled. In addition, if you are in a domestic partnership, Maine will allow you to terminate it in certain circumstances.


To get a legal separation in Maine, you can petition a local District Court after you and your spouse have lived apart (or have a desire to live apart) for 60 consecutive days. The petition must be filed in the county where you or your spouse reside. If you are granted a legal separation, the court will divide property, allocate support payments, and make decisions about children. However, you will still be married to your spouse.
To get your marriage annulled, you will have to petition a court and provide evidence that the validity of the marriage is in doubt. For example, one of the party's may have been under the legal age, may have committed fraud in order to induce the marriage, or may be unable to consummate the marriage (i.e., have sex). If your marriage is annulled, it will be as if it never occurred in the first place.
To terminate a domestic partnership, you or the other party must marry someone else or file a consent to termination or file a civil case to have it terminated., If you can afford a lawyer and a divorce is imminent, you should always hire a qualified divorce attorney. You should also hire an attorney for any divorce complicated by property issues, arguments over children, or other factors. If you do not personally know of a good lawyer, use the Maine state bar's lawyer referral service. You will be able to talk to someone on the phone or submit a request in paper asking for a specific lawyer. You will talk to someone in-person who will ask you questions and get you in touch with qualified attorneys.If you and your spouse have agreed on everything and you feel like the divorce will be cordial, you may be able to forego hiring an attorney., To file for divorce in Maine, the court must have jurisdiction over you and your spouse. In order for this to happen, you or your spouse must meet certain residency requirements. In order to file:


You (the filing party) must have resided in the state for six months prior to filing, be a resident of Maine and have gotten married in Maine, or be a resident of Maine and have resided in Maine when the cause of divorce happened.
If you do not meet any of those requirements, you can still file in Maine if your spouse (the responding party) is a resident of Maine at the time you file., Apart from meeting residency requirements, you must also have a valid ground for divorce in order to file in Maine. Maine recognizes the following grounds as being valid:


Adultery
Impotence (i.e., unable to have sex)
Extreme cruelty
Desertion that has lasted for three consecutive years
Habits of drug or alcohol abuse
Nonsupport when the other spouse has the ability to support
Abuse
Incapacitation
Irreconcilable marital differences., Maine is an equitable distribution state, which means the court can distribute property in whatever way they feel is just and fair after considering all the evidence. All property acquired after your marriage will be considered marital property, even if it is held in one person's name alone. Non-marital property is property owned by either spouse before the marriage occurred.


Marital property will usually be split by the court in a just and fair manner while non-marital property will usually stay with its original owner., If you do not have any minor children from your marriage, you will start the divorce process by completing a complaint for divorce, family matter summons, and Social Security number disclosure form.The complaint for divorce will include your personal information as well as your spouse's, the date of your marriage, an indication of how you meet the residency requirement, whether real property will be involved, what your ground for divorce is, and your court request to have them separate property and determine spousal support.The family matter summons must be retrieved from the clerk of courts where you plan on filing. You will have to pay a $5 fee to receive a signed original.The Social Security number disclosure form will simply ask you to provide your Social Security number., If you are planning on filing for divorce and have minor children that will be involved, you must fill out a separate packet of forms. You will have to complete a complaint for divorce, child support affidavit, family matter summons, and a Social Security number disclosure form.


The complaint for divorce will ask for the same information as the complaint you would fill out if you had children. However, you will also be required to name your children in the complaint and provide the court with their dates of birth and present addresses. In addition, you will be required to tell the court where they have lived for the past five years, any other cases the children are a part of (e.g., abuse or assault cases), and whether you have ever received public benefits for the children.The child support affidavit will ask you to provide the court with a detailed accounting of your financial situation. This will include your income, benefits, support payments you make, health insurance costs, child care costs, and other assets and debts you have.
The family matter summons must be retrieved from the clerk of courts where you plan on filing. You will have to pay a $5 fee to receive a signed original.The Social Security number disclosure form will simply ask you to provide your Social Security number., Once you fill out the forms you will have to provide your spouse with copies of everything. This process is called "service." In Maine, you can mail the forms to your spouse if they agree, you can send the papers via certified mail, or you can hire a sheriff to serve your spouse in-person. If you use the sheriff, they will charge a fee of between $15 and $30.If your spouse has an attorney, you can serve your papers on the attorney instead of your spouse.If you do not receive an acknowledgement from your spouse stating he/she received the papers, you will need to serve them in a different way. In Maine, you can serve your spouse using alternate means if you first file a motion with the court asking for permission. In the motion you will state that you have tried (unsuccessfully) to serve your spouse using normal means. You will then ask to provide service by either leaving a copy of your papers at your spouse's normal address or by publishing a notice in the paper., After your spouse has been served, you will need to file a packet of documents with the county court that has jurisdiction over your case. You must file all of your paperwork within 20 days of serving your spouse. When you file, you will have to pay a filing fee of $120. If you cannot afford the fee, you will need to ask the clerk of courts for a fee waiver form. In addition to that form, you will have to sign an affidavit stating you do not have the money to pay the fees.In addition to filing the paperwork you have already filled out, you will also be required to file:


A family matter summary sheet, which you will use to enter basic information about you and your spouse, the type of action you are requesting (i.e., a divorce), and information about any children involved.
An acknowledgment of receipt (if you used service by mail) or a green card (if you used service by certified mail). These forms simply tell the court that your spouse has been validly served.If you had to serve your spouse using alternate means, the court will already be aware of your unique situation.
 If you are not the one filing for divorce but are instead responding to your spouse's divorce filing, you will need to respond quickly after being served with the court papers. Specifically, you will have 20 days to respond after you have been served., In Maine, the easiest way to respond is to file an entry of appearance. It tells the court that you want to be notified of all important dates moving forward.If you want a more in depth response option, you can file an answer and counterclaim. The Maine courts have different answer forms depending on whether you have children or not.However, in general, the answer and counterclaim will allow you to tell the court your story. In the answer portion, you will admit or deny each paragraph of your spouse's complaint. In the counterclaim portion, you will request your own relief and make your own statements about the divorce action.In addition, your judge may require you to fill out a child support affidavit if children are involved or financial statements if spousal support is involved., When you have completed all the required forms, you will take them to the court where your spouse filed the action. All of your paperwork will contain a docket number so the clerk of courts can file your forms with the correct case.
 Once the court receives a response from you or your spouse (whoever didn't file the complaint), they will issue a scheduling order. This order will detail when different proceedings will occur, what documents need to be filed, and how you can complete other requirements in a timely manner.


If your spouse did not file an answer, your case will be scheduled for an uncontested hearing.
If you and your spouse agree on the divorce and all other related issues, you can request an uncontested hearing by sending a letter to the clerk.If the divorce will be contested, the scheduling order may be quite detailed and long. In this instance, make sure you follow it closely so you do not miss an important deadline.
 If you and your spouse do not take part in an uncontested hearing, you will be required to go to mediation. When you sign up for mediation, you will have to pay a fee of $160 ($80 per party).At mediation, a trained third party will attempt to help you and your spouse come to an agreement on property division, spousal and child support, and child custody. You must make a good faith effort to come to an agreement. At the end, if there are still unresolved issues, you can request a court hearing., If you have children, you will be required to attend a case management hearing at the court. However, if you and your spouse agree on temporary arrangements for your children, you can file a certificate in lieu of case management conference. This certificate will require you to spell out everything you and your spouse agree on. If the judge agrees with the certificate, you will be able to forego the case management conference. If not, you will be required to attend.If you must attend, the court will notify you within two weeks after service has been completed. The court' notification will include directions regarding things to do before attending. In most cases, you should be prepared to tell the court where you and your spouse are having trouble reaching an agreement., Prior to your court hearing, you and your spouse will take part in a pre-trial conference in order to determine how much time the court will need to hear your case. This will help the judge determine how to schedule and what issues are up for debate., At your hearing, be prepared to testify and present evidence regarding how property should be divided, how support payments should be calculated, and who should have custody of any children.This hearing cannot be held prior to 60 days after filing.Arrive on time and prepared. In addition, dress appropriately.
Answer all questions completely and honestly.
Be prepared for a contested hearing. If you and your spouse are having trouble coming to an agreement, the court, as well as the opposing party, may ask tough and uncomfortable questions. If you find yourself in this situation, stay calm and answer as best as possible.
 After your hearing, the judge will make decisions about all of the issues and will make a ruling on your divorce. The judge will issue a divorce decree setting out all of the requirements of your divorce. You must follow the decree or you will find yourself back in court.

