 The bully likely interrupted you doing something like class work, reading, work for your job, or just talking to someone else. Ignore them by focusing back on what you were doing. Concentrate on your classwork, or project, go back to reading your book, or keep talking to your friend.


Aim for a short period of hard focusing at a time, about 10 minutes.It's easier to focus in short bursts and by the time you are done the bully likely has moved on.
Do more difficult tasks first.These tasks will required more of your attention and focus, drawing your concentration away from the bully.
Reward yourself for successfully refocusing your attention.Rewarding yourself now will help train your brain and make it easier to refocus next time.
 If you are in a situation like being on a bus, at work, or in a class, you won't have the ability to get very far away from the person, and walking away entirely is not a solid option. Just try and move yourself as far away from the bully as you can. Move to the other side of the classroom, or the other end of the bus, and stay away from them. It will be easier to distract yourself and get back to what you were doing, and if you happen to be closer to an authority figure they may witness and intervene.


If a bully is physically threatening you, immediately move towards an authority figure. If you are in a classroom move towards the teacher, if you are on a bus move towards the driver. You may be concerned about what the bully will think if you move towards an authority figure, but your safety comes first.
You can just walk away if you don't feel like saying anything. If you feel like you have to say something, keep it short and simple like “I don't have time for this.”, A great way to drown out the voices of the bullies is to listen to music you like. Carry headphones with you and put them in when the bully is around. This will help you focus on your work and keep you from reacting to whatever they are saying. Create a playlist that is positive and makes you feel good about yourself.


Music will help calm you from painful or stressful situations.Music helps reduce stress and anxiety.Music can help aid in better memory., If you have a friend with you or nearby, enlist their help. Engage them in a conversation or ask them to tell you about their night or their weekend plans. The more distracted you are the less you'll be affected by what the bully is saying and they will lose interest. Talking to a friend will also help with any anxiety you are feeling., The internet can be a great distraction tool, just be careful not to do this during a class or so much during work that it gets you in trouble. You are just looking for something to distract you from the bully until they loose interest.


Go to your favorite website.
Look for something cute or funny.
Check out online resources for bullying.Stop Bullying www.stopbullying.gov
National Crime Prevention Council www.ncpc.org/topics/bullying
International Association on Workplace Bullying and Harassment www.iawbh.org



