 You can find a list of local animal shelters and adoption agencies online. For example, visit the Shelter Pet Project website and enter your zip code to find the organizations in your area that can help you find and adopt a dog from a reputable source. The ASPCA also offers a free online search tool to help find adoptable pets. Other useful websites include Petfinder, WorldAnimal, and AdoptAPet.Visit adoption agencies' websites and look for information like regular adoption events.
Read third-party reviews of the agencies you’re interested in as well, on sites like Google or Yelp. Feel free to call a vet in an agency's area to see if they are familiar with the organization.;
, If there is an adoption facility that you’re interested in in your area, visit them. Aside from meeting the dogs that they have available, you’ll be able to learn about the agency by paying them a visit.Pay attention to the facilities cleanliness and organization, as well as the condition of the dogs you get to meet. Do the dogs appear healthy and happy?
Further, observe the staff. They should be experienced and willing to you help.
 Asking questions is the best way to learn more about an agency, as well as the experience level of its staff. Listen to signs that the staff is knowledgeable about the agency's policies.In particular, ask questions like, “How many adoptions to you complete annually?” and “What is your spay/neuter and immunization policy?”
Look for evidence that the staff care about the dogs they work with. In fact, they should ask you questions as well, to make sure you'll be able to care for a dog properly.
 Find the contact information for a particular agency that has a dog you found online and give them a call. Courteous, timely responses should always be expected to any questions you have, whether on the phone or via email.If the organization operates exclusively or heavily through foster homes, ask questions like, “How many dogs do you currently have available?” and “How many foster homes do you work with?”
The ratio between these numbers shouldn’t be more than a few dogs per foster home.
 If an adoption agency claims to be a nonprofit, verify this claim. Either way, ask to see the organization’s kenneling license whenever you visit a facility where dogs are housed.Unfortunately, some animal adoption agencies do not follow ethical animal treatment or business practices. Valid licenses and registration indicate that an organization is regularly inspected and meets the legal criteria to operate an adoption agency.
If you have any reservations about how animals are treated by a particular agency, ask a staff member directly. Say something like, "How much are individual dog's fed each day?" or "What disciplinary tactics do you use with the dogs?"
If you ever witness or suspect animal abuse, do not hesitate to contact law enforcement officials in your area.
 Another important factor is the cost of an adoption with a particular agency. While it may seem odd to pay a fee to a rescue facility or animal shelter, keep in mind that the organization has likely covered significant costs that you will not have to pay. Ultimately, adoption fees are often much cheaper than paying for the fees and services that would otherwise be necessary to acquire and care for a dog.Note that private breeders often charge hundreds of dollars for a dog that still needs to be immunized and fixed.
Even a “free” puppy from your neighbor might end up costing you more than the adoption fees at your local shelter once you get the necessary veterinary care.
In short, expect adoption fees to range between $75 and $225, well below the cost of providing a dog with basic initial veterinary services.

