 If you have any sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) or are HIV-positive, this is a conversation you'll need to have before you engage in sexual activity. Make sure to set aside enough time that you don't feel rushed or pressured.


If this is the first time you've ever had this conversation, remember that he's probably nervous too.
Remember that this isn't a conversation about moral values, but about good health.
 If you're planning on having safe sex with a new partner, it's your right to know if you're putting yourself at risk for an STD. Keep your question direct and to the point:


"Have you been tested for STDs?" or "When were you last tested or STDs?"
"What were the results?"
You can also tell him what you need: "Before we have sex, I need us both to be tested for STDs."

, These tests can be done by most health clinics for a low price. Because many STDs don't have obvious symptoms, you might not know whether you have an STD or not unless you get tested.If you're under 18, you may need a parents' permission to be tested for STDs. Laws vary by state.
Any time you've had unprotected sex (sex without a barrier) with another person, you're putting yourself at risk for an STD.
To put your mind at ease, get tested for STDs after every unprotected sexual encounter.
 The only real way to prevent STDs is to use barriers to protect you from contact with another person's body fluid. Using male condoms or female condoms are essential for having safe sex. If you're going to talk about having safe sex with a potential sex partner, you'll want to be prepared with the equipment to practice safe sex.Condoms can be purchased at most drug stores, pharmacies, or grocery stores. Your medical provider or health clinic might have free samples that you can use.
If you're allergic to latex, try latex-free condoms. Both latex and non-latex have similar success rates, but non-latex are often more expensive.Remember that birth control doesn't prevent STDs.
 The simpler you can keep this conversation, the better it's likely to go. Remember that this is a conversation about health concerns, not value judgments.You can start a conversation about safe sex by saying things like:


"Getting tested for STDs before we have sex will help us both."
"I don't think there's any sense in taking chances when we can know for sure."
"I really care about you, and I want to make sure we're both healthy."
"We can enjoy having sex much more if we both know that we're healthy."
"Using condoms is totally sexy for me."

