 Before you can use the Square app with your iOS or Android device, you'll need to sign up for a Square account.


The Square website is https://squareup.com.
In order to sign up with Square, you'll need a Social Security Number, a US-based bank account number, date of birth, and a US mailing address that's not a PO Box.When you sign up with Square, you'll get a free Square Reader for swiping credit cards.;
,, In the Enter your email and Confirm your email fields, enter the email address you'd like to use for your Square registration.
 In the Create a password field, enter a password you'd like to use.


Because Square involves monetary transactions, make sure that your password is hard to guess. Stronger passwords use a mix of letters, numbers, and other characters.Don't use a password that you use on another site.
Your password must be at least 8 characters long.
Click Show to see the password you're entering.
If you think you might have trouble remembering your password, write it down on a piece of paper.
 The default is United States.
, Click the What type of business is it? dropdown menu, and then click the phrase that best describes your business. Click the Business category dropdown menu, and then click the phrase that best describes your business.


The Business category dropdown will have different options depending on what you selected in the first dropdown menu.
Everything on this screen is optional.
 In the What is your business name? field, enter the name of your business. If you don't have a name for your business, enter your own name.
 If you're setting up a Square account on behalf of an employer, in the Employer Identification Number (optional) field, enter your EIN.


If you don't have this number now, you can add it later.
 Enter your legal first and last name. Enter your current street address. Enter your date of birth. Enter the last four digits of your Social Security Number. Enter your phone number.


Square will use this information to verify your identity.
All of the field on this screen are required.
, You'll receive an SMS message or email with a link you can use to download the Square Register app to your device.

