 Two or three smaller meals a day is better for your dog’s digestion than one large meal or leaving food out at all times. Consult your vet about how often and how much food is best for your dog’s age and activity level. Maintaining a healthy diet and weight will help prevent potential problems.


If you gently press your hands down your dog’s spine and cannot feel its ribs, it might be overweight. Talk to your vet and cut down the amount your dog eats. Cut down on giving your dog treats and other food between meals.
When buying food for your Italian Greyhound, look for brands marked for toy dog breeds. If you have a puppy, buy food marked specially for puppies.
Three-fourths to one cup of food twice a day is typically a good amount of food for a small dog.
Deciding what to feed your dog depends on what's affordable and on your personal preferences. For instance, you might prefer to make raw or homemade dog food or like the ease of store bought brands.
 While most Italian Greyhounds are healthy, the breed is prone to a few health issues, like hip, thyroid, and eye problems. Knowing if its parents were screened for or had any genetic disorders or breed specific issues will help you keep your dog healthy.Ask the breeder or shelter where you got your dog if its parents’ health records are available, preferably prior to purchasing or adopting.
Many of the health issues Italian Greyhounds are prone to are detected with blood tests that your vet will provide, so regular exams are important.
 Get to know your dog's normal behavior. Notice unusual behavior, such as excessively restlessness, pacing, difficulty walking or hesitating to jump, and dry heaving or vomiting. Call your vet if you're concerned about a possible issue.Pay special attention to your dog's legs, especially when it's a puppy or juvenile. Note limping or if your dog doesn't put weight on a limb. Italian Greyhounds have fragile bones and are prone to leg fractures.
 Your vet will provide routine screenings for potential inherited disorders, like eye and thyroid problems. They will also make sure your dog is up to date with its vaccinations and check its hips and legs or potential breed-specific concerns.Talk to your dog’s vet about its diet and activity level to help your dog maintain a healthy weight. Carrying too much weight will strain an Italian Greyhound’s legs and hips.
Ask your vet if they recommend flea and tick treatment for your location.
 Keep your Italian Greyhound warm with a coat, jacket, or sweater, especially when going outside during colder months. It should be form fitting, with a curve to match their backline, but should still allow for natural movement.Stay away from full sleeves, since they typically restrict movement.
Knit sweaters tend to fall down the dog’s back and aren’t the most warmest option.
When shopping for dog attire, look for products that are designed specifically for your breed in order to select the best form and material.
 Italian Greyhounds are at a higher risk of developing a condition called hip dysplasia. Be on the lookout for symptoms such as limping, hesitation when jumping, and loss of thigh muscle mass. It’s usually inherited, so knowing if either of your dog’s parents had it will help you and your dog’s vet maintain its health.Keeping an eye on your dog’s weight, avoiding overfeeding, and giving it regular exercise will help prevent or manage hip dysplasia.
Consult your vet to decide how much and how often you should feed your dog in order to prevent obesity.
Be aware dog can develop hip dysplasia at any point in its lifespan, including as a puppy.

