 Friendships take more effort to maintain as you age. You may find your social networks becoming wider, yet you may not have as many close, tight-knit relationships.

You may have a few friends you’ve known all your life as well as some dedicated new friends from different points in your life. Look at how long your current relationships have lasted — both romantic and non-romantic.

Have you been able to maintain quality relationships for a long time?
Are you able to get through difficult periods and keep your friends around?
Have you had long-term, stable romantic partnerships?
If you said yes to any of these questions, you may be managing grown-up relationships.;
, Even the most mature adults get into arguments. How you handle the argument is more telling than what started it. Grown-ups know how to respect each other’s differences. They remain calm during tense situations. They can agree to disagree or compromise to find a solution. They also know when to apologize and forgive without holding grudges., When you're young and immature, it's all about the chemistry and fireworks. As you grow older, you may look for a partner who is as much compatible as they are exciting. Ask yourself the following questions. If you answer yes, you may be involved in a mature relationship.


Do you and your partner work through your problems? Do you apologize to one another? Can you forgive each other during arguments?
Do you and your partner make compromises? Do you accommodate their needs? Do they accommodate yours?
Do you and your partner respect each other’s boundaries? Are you both able to have separate social lives, hobbies, interests, and jobs without becoming jealous or controlling?, Where does it take place? How many people are there? What are you doing? When you were younger, you may have wanted loud, crowded parties at clubs or bars. As you grow older, you may find yourself seeking quieter time with your friends. Sometimes, you might still want that big party. Generally, however, you may find that hosting dinner and game night at your home is more entertaining.
 As you grow up, you begin to separate yourself more and more from the younger generation. You may dislike their taste in music, clothes, or entertainment. You may find yourself disapproving of their choices in life. You may think that they are badly behaved compared to your generation. You may also might appreciate their innocence, play, humor, and freedom from responsibility that is often lost in adulthood. This shows that you are creating a difference between yourself, as an adult, and children.


If you have children, you may start worrying about their future. Children often force people to grow up quickly, no matter how old they are. You may be more aware of how your decisions affect their life, their behavior, and their future. Your decisions will start to include their welfare as well as your own.