 You will want to know where and when the abduction took place. Also try to get other relevant information about the abduction which could aid in finding the child:the identification of any witnesses
whether the person reporting the abduction suspects the child is in serious danger
why the child is in serious danger;
, You will need detailed information about the child before you can issue an alert. Accordingly, you should request from the child’s parents the following information:name
age and date of birth
height
weight
sex
race
eye color
hair color
what the child was wearing
any other unique physical characteristics
a photograph of the child

, You also need detailed information about the suspected abductor. Gather the following information:name
age and date of birth
sex
race
height
weight
eye color
hair color
what the suspected abductor was wearing
any unique physical characteristics
a photograph of the abductor, if one is available

, The abductor might be identified by the vehicle he or she drives. Accordingly, you should gather this information as well:make
model
year
color
license plate number and state
any other descriptors for the car

, Before submitting the AMBER alert, law enforcement should reasonably believe that the child has been abducted. This is a judgment call you have to make.However, your state might have specific guidelines. For example, in Texas, an abduction occurs in the following situations:if the child is abducted by a parent or legal guardian, the abduction was in the course of an attempted murder, or
if the child is 13 or younger, he or she was taken without permission by someone unrelated and more than three years older or by another parent or legal guardian who attempted to commit murder at the time of the abduction

, You can only issue the alert if you believe the child faces serious risk of bodily injury or death. The danger must also be “imminent.”This means that it will happen very soon.Accordingly, you should look at all of the information that you have and decide the child’s level of harm.
The purpose of this requirement is not to overburden the AMBER alert system with regular abduction cases where the child does not face substantial bodily injury or worse.
 An alert will only be effective if the descriptions of the child, the abductor, and the abductor’s vehicle are sufficiently detailed that law enforcement will be able to find the child.Remember that AMBER alerts can be sent out over the radio, Department of Transportation signs, digital billboards, and other mediums.Law enforcement and public citizens who see the alert need to be able to identify the child or abductor without a photograph. For this reason, you need sufficiently detailed information.
 You can only send an alert if the child meets your state’s age criteria. The age will vary depending on your state. However, the federal government has required that states honor each other’s requests if the child is under 18.For this reason, most states have an age limit of 17 or younger.
 There should be a form for you to fill out and send to your state agency. You should ask someone in your department for the form. Alternately, you could look online to see if your state’s form has been published.
 Each state’s form will be different. However, you will probably need to enter information about your department. Enter the following information legibly:whether this is an initial request or an update
the agency’s name and contact information
the name and title of the investigating officer
the investigating officer’s cell phone number
a phone number for media inquiries

, The form should tell you how to submit the AMBER alert request to your state’s centralized office. Typically, you can email the form or fax it. Look at the form to find the email address and fax number.If you email the form, then make sure to keep a copy saved to your desktop so that you can refer back to it if you need to.
 Not every jurisdiction requires this step. However, entering the information into the FBI’s database will allow the alert to be broadcast across state lines.


Be sure to flag the case as “child abduction” after entering the necessary information.