 If you believe something may be wrong with your dog, take him to the vet. The vet will perform a physical exam in order to draw up a short list of problems which could account for the symptoms.This list is used to decide on the most useful and appropriate tests that will help the clinician reach a diagnosis.
 The vet will try to localise which bodily system is involved. The vet will use a physical exam to look for areas of tenderness or pain, and areas which feel abnormal, especially if the main symptom is poor appetite and weight loss.
 If your vet suspects cancer, she will probably run screening blood tests. This is to check the numbers of red and white blood cells. This blood test also checks out organ function, which can highlight if the liver, kidneys, gut, or pancreas are healthy or not.Veterinarians in the US are now able to offer the VDI-TKcanine+ blood test. This new test looks for a blood biomarker that indicates abnormally rapid cell division. When cells reproduce in an abnormal way, they release a chemical called thymidine kinase, and it is this chemical which the blood test detects.As with any test, it is not foolproof. If the results point to cancer, it does not pinpoint which part of the body is affected. Further tests are still necessary in order to find out where and what type of cancer.
 Your vet may want to do further tests after seeing these results. Often imaging is the next step. The vet will choose which imagining test to use based on the equipment availability, operator expertise, and the client's financial budget.


Radiographs are a popular starting point since they can highlight soft tissue enlargements in the abdomen or chest and give excellent information about bones.
Ultrasounds are another commonly used tool. They give clues as to the size of organs, if abnormalities are present in the tissue structure, plus allow growths to be visualized., Biopsying the lump is a crucial tool for diagnosing cancer. The vet may use a needle to aspirate the lump.If the lump is large or in a hard-to-reach place, then a small sample may be harvested in order to get an answer as to what the tissue is. This then allows the surgeon to plan his surgery to obtain the best possible outcome for the patient.If the lump is small or in an accessible place like the skin, an excisional biopsy may be performed. This removes the whole of the lump, and then the whole lump is sent to find out exactly what it is.
 Diagnosing cancer, especially in the early stages, is problematic for a number of reasons. There is no one single test that guarantees to determine if your pet has cancer. Each type of cancer has its own type of test.In addition, the symptoms for cancer tend to be general rather than specific. Thus it's not possible to take one sign, for example a cough, and say conclusively that the dog has cancer.For example, if a dog has lung cancer, the symptoms will be those of shortness of breath and a cough. These signs are similar to the majority of other problems which affect the lungs, ranging from a mild respiratory infection to parasitic disease or heart failure.

