 These days it may seem as if your daughter is constantly challenging your authority. This struggle for control is perfectly normal, though and is a sign that your teen is seeking greater independence.

Your daughter is not only growing physically, but mentally as well. She is forming opinions about how the world works and oftentimes, her opinions do not align with yours.
Think of some areas where you can be more flexible and are willing to give up some control, to allow her to be more independent. For example, if you typically shop for and choose her outfits, give your daughter the responsibility of choosing her attire. Set some ground rules for appropriate attire, but ultimately leave the decision up to her.
 For a teenage girl privacy is very important. Respect her wishes that she might want some uninterrupted time alone once in awhile.


Knock on the door before entering and ask her if you can come in.
Let her demonstrate responsibility during this alone time. Don’t assume she’s doing something she shouldn’t be.If you notice your daughter is spending too much time in her room and seems withdrawn, you should talk with her about what’s going on. There may be a larger issue at hand, such as depression.
If you still have concerns about her spending time alone, talk about expectations and boundaries ahead of time. For example, she shouldn’t expect to have alone time when there’s a boy in the room.
 Let her go out with friends or attend a concert on a school night. Try to find the right balance between being overly protective and completely loose when it comes to rules.


Even though she’s getting older, your daughter should still have boundaries. For example, letting her go on a date is fine, but be sure to establish a curfew and discuss appropriate venues for the date.
Trust her to spend the night at a friends house without constantly checking in on her.
 As a parent you tend to make a lot of decisions. However, it’s important to let your daughter in on the process as well, whether it’s establishing a bedtime or setting a curfew; you need to allow her to start making her own decisions.


As your teenager transitions into an adult, she needs to practice making decisions on her own. Let her take the lead when it comes to the way her room is decorated or how her hair is cut and styled.
You may even want to involve her in family decisions such as where to go on vacation.
Every teenager is unique and matures at a slightly different rate. Start with small decisions and see how she does before moving on to bigger ones.