 Don't open any covers of the A/C, cooling and heating portions without turning off the power first.;
, Each has fans, electrical relays and various connections. Both might be in the same unit as in a window unit.The evaporator is inside the building to intake air and exchange the heat in that air to the cooled evaporator coils -- and they in turn cooling the air to be recirculated into the conditioned air space. This part called the "cooling unit" can seen inside the building (indoors part of a window A/C unit, for example).






The condenser is outside to disperse collected heat into the exterior air. That is the "radiator" like coils that are on the outdoors (back, of a window unit, for example). This may be a standalone box-like fixture with the compressor, louvers and grill like vents -- and its job is sending chilled water or compressed refrigerant (such as freon) to the evaporator through tubing or pipes (some systems use highly toxic ammonia as refrigerant, instead of safer freon).
 It is usually located in a convenient place, easily accessed (in a wall, mechanical room door or a ceiling for example). This maintenance is crucial, because when the filter is clogged the system becomes inefficient. If a system were ever operated with a torn, ill-fitted or missing filter -- the evaporator could become clogged with dust and fungi, and ducting could become dirty and all require extensive cleaning.
 The thermostat is the control inside the house that allows you to make a setting for ambient temperature (air temp) and select the air flow option inside your home. If this is broken, controlling the air temperature becomes impossible. This may mean that your air conditioner stops running entirely, it runs continually, or it works in rough starts and stops. Either way, it can end up costing you a lot of money, which is why it gets fixed so often.
 Refrigerant is a compressed gas that cools down the air by being pump through your A/C condenser and evaporator. There is supposed to be a certain amount of refrigerant inside your air conditioner at all times. When it gets low, your air does not get cooled down quite as much as it should.
 There is usually a pipe connected to your air conditioning evaporator unit that drains all of the condensation water that builds up while it is running. If the pipe is not draining correctly, water can leak on your floor, in attic space/ceiling, basement or on your roof. This can cause a lot more problems if not detected quickly and repaired (window A/C units usually drip outside, directly below the widow unit).
 The fan motor is what draws in the fresh or recirculating air through the cooling coils to cool down the air. If this is not working correctly, then your home will not be near as cool as it could be.
 If your air conditioner is making more noise than usual, it may be because your air compressor is becoming worn out. This means that noise is increasing, which can be annoying. This is why noise is a common air conditioning repair problem.
 In some cases, the electricity running through your air conditioning unit can overwhelm the fuses located in your breaker box on in the A/C unit. Having someone come out and look at the electrical circuits for the air conditioning equipment is an important choice -- so you do not end up hurting yourself.
 If necessary, contact a professional or ask a friend who knows more about home/appliance repair than you do.

