 In all likelihood, this was the first thing you tried. If you haven't, give it a shot. It's not guaranteed to work, because the banks don't compile the names of their contacts themselves. Instead, they just take whatever names the credit reporting agencies give them and send mail to those addresses.


No one would blame you if you didn't want to fool with this again, but you might make a little more headway if you let the bank know that you're considering filing a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or the Better Business Bureau (BBB).
Be sure to contact the bank issuing the offer and not the credit card company. Even though Acme Bank might be offering you a Visa credit card, it's still Acme that's making the offer and is thus responsible for the mail.
 Created in 2010, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is the Federal agency charged with regulating the financial industry's practices as they relate to consumers. If you are being bombarded with offers for credit cards and you have already opted out using OptOutPrescreen.com, it is possible a bank is operating in violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. If they are, they need to be reported.Initiating a complaint with the CFPB is easy. Go to http://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/#credit-card, read the description of the process at the bottom of the page, and click "credit card" at the top to get started. Simply follow the directions from there.
 The Better Business Bureau (BBB) is a nonprofit agency funded by merchants and businesses for the purpose of standardizing and certifying best practices when dealing with consumers. The BBB also rates companies according to how closely they measure up to the standards.When you're ready to get started with your complaint, simply go to https://www.bbb.org/consumer-complaints/file-a-complaint/get-started and begin the process. You won't need any special information. Just provide the name of the company you're dealing with and describe what action you've already taken in order to find a remedy.
 Similar to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) or the CFPB, individual states have offices of consumer protection. The procedures for filing complaints at the state level are usually similar to the procedures at the Federal level, although they may differ slightly.State offices of consumer protection can be found at https://www.usa.gov/state-consumer


