 When was the last time you gave your husband or wife a sweet, surprising gift? Maybe you both have everything you need, but it's nice to get a thoughtful gift every once in a while. It doesn't have to be expensive; just a little something to show your spouse you've been thinking of him or her and you're thankful to be married. Here are a few ideas for thoughtful gifts:


Cook your spouse's favorite dinner, and serve it with a nice bottle of wine.
Buy your spouse something you've seen him or her eyeing online for awhile, or something he or she admired in a shop window.
Flowers and chocolate are classic thoughtful gifts that everyone can appreciate.
Surprise your spouse by doing his or her regular chores sometime.
Clean up the bedroom, buy a few new throw pillows, and light some candles one evening when you're both staying in.

Plant your spouse's favorite flowers in front of the house.
Throw a dinner party and invite your spouse's family and friends.
 Are you taking your spouse for granted in any way? Do you know what worries he or she has, or what needs aren't always being met? Go out of your way to ease your spouse's mind and make life a little easier for him or her. Try to get more in tune with how you can be a better husband or wife. This will strengthen your marriage and help it feel more satisfying.


Divide the household chores evenly. Don't be lazy and let your spouse do all the work. Are you doing your fair share?
Take care of your spouse when he or she is sick or tired. Help him or her feel better in any way you can.
Spend time discussing your spouse's worries. Is there any way you can help to solve the problems? You'll feel closer to one another if you can find a solution together.
 A few compliments can go a long way toward spicing up a marriage. Just make sure they're genuine! What do you truly appreciate about your spouse? Do you ever make a point of telling him or her? Now's the time to start expressing your appreciation and letting your spouse know you think he or she is the most wonderful person in the world.


The number of compliments and positive things you say to your spouse should greatly exceed the number of negative things you say. You don't have the right to cut your spouse down, and you should never insult him or her. Be accepting, and if it's necessary to say something negative, be gentle.
Compliment your spouse in front of other people. Your spouse will feel great, and others will be impressed at how happy and sweet your marriage is. Never, ever criticize your spouse in front of other people; this can cause long-term damage.
 Tallying up how many times you took the kids to school this week, made dinner, did the dishes, and so on is a recipe for resentment. You and your spouse aren't opponents - you're a team! You're in this together, and you need to remind yourself of that sometimes. Don't get bogged down in keeping track of who does what chore.


Perform your responsibilities with a spirit of cheerfulness and generosity, rather than frowning and complaining all the time. Encourage your spouse to do the same. You'll find your days together become more fun that way.
If the division of chores and other responsibilities in your marriage is truly unequal, that's a different story. If your spouse isn't doing any work at all, and you feel like you're running the household on your own, you might need marriage counseling.

