 Include the following columns: Brand name, generic name, dosage, and a separate column for each time of day that medication is taken. When filling in the columns, put in a number for how many pills should be taken at that time. For example, if you take a certain medication once at breakfast and two pills at bedtime, put a “1” in the breakfast column and a “2” in the bedtime column.
, It will be labeled with the days of the week. If you take pills only once per day, there will be sections for seven days of pills. Other boxes have sections for seven days, four pill times per day. Choose a box with secure flip tops or secure sliding tops. A childproof lock can be helpful as well.
 Use your chart to fill it accurately. Now you can put away your master container somewhere secure (such as in the top of your closet) where it will not be in the way. Keep your weekly container wherever you are most likely to remember to take your medicine. Although medication should not be stored in humid or hot areas, it is still possible to keep your box in a kitchen cupboard or even in your bathroom cupboard, especially if you stick it in a ziplock bag.
 When you have three dates listed, call your pharmacy for refills, helping you avoid last minute refill emergencies.
 Two methods work best. Either buy a watch with alarms (preferably multiple ones) and set them to go off at daily regular times, or use alarms on your cell phone. Choose a unique ringtone that will mean “take meds” to you.
 Make a label for the pill container or write on it with a permanent marker (“lunch”) and put it in your pocket, briefcase, purse, or wherever it will be available during the day. You will find many different designs for pill boxes. They should either have tops that screw on, or latch in some way. You do not want to open your purse and find loose medication all over the bottom! Many pill fobs can be attached to a key chain, and there are even attractive fobs that can be worn as a necklace if you do some careful web shopping.

