 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (175 C). Remove the skins from 2 pounds (920 g) of onions (about 6 medium) and wash 1 pound (450 g) of carrots (about 6 medium) and 3 pounds (1.4 kg) of russet potatoes (about 12 small). Cut the onions into wedges and the carrots into 3-inch (7.5 cm) lengths. Set these aside while you peel and halve the potatoes.You could also cut the potatoes into 2-inch (5 cm) thick slices.;
, Cut a 3 pound (1.4 kg) lamb shoulder into 2-inch (5 cm) chunks. Use paper towels to blot the pieces of lamb dry. Sprinkle the lamb with salt and pepper. Heat 4 tablespoons of vegetable oil into a large saucepan or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add the some of the lamb and cook it until it's browned on all sides. Use a slotted spoon to remove the browned lamb and add the remaining lamb to the pot to brown.If you don't have lamb shoulder, you can use shoulder chops as long as they're thick.
 Use the slotted spoon to remove the last of the browned lamb from the pot. Add the wedges of onions and carrot pieces to the pot of drippings. Cook the vegetables over medium-high heat and stir them occasionally until they soften a little. This should take about 5 minutes.Sprinkle the vegetables with a little salt and pepper. While you will taste and season the stew at the end, it's a good idea to season the stew as it cooks so that the flavors develop.
 Once the vegetables have sauteed a little, place the browned lamb back into the pot and add 4 cups (950 ml) of chicken, veal or beef broth (or water). Bring the stew to a simmer and add one thyme sprig and the potatoes.Don't worry if the potatoes aren't totally covered by the broth or water.
 Cover the pot with the lid and place the stew in the preheated oven for 1 hour. Check to see if it's done by poking the lamb with a skewer or small knife. If it's done, the lamb will be tender. Use a spoon to scoop away any fat that's floated to the top of the stew before you serve it.If you'd like a thicker stew, mash up some of the cooked potato and return it to the stew. Stir it into the broth so it thickens the liquid.

