 Friends will not be needed tonight! If you had no plans, skip to step two.;
, Or, if you really have a good imagination, get anything that can function as a football. Tennis balls, basketballs, even a cardboard box could work.
 In an ideal world, there's snow on the ground. Since you will be playing out a legendary football game, the fun of the game will increase dramatically if there's snow on the ground. Plus, snow will soften the blow when you tackle yourself.
 You're going to need to envision twenty-one other players on the field with you at the same time.
, Pretend to be the public address announcer, this will make the game more legendary.
 You'll want the teams to be good, that way the game can be for the Super Bowl (or perhaps an AFC or NFC Championship, that way snow can be on the ground and the game does not have to be on a neutral site). Also, pick teams with players you know. It's way more fun to say "And Brady goes deep to Moss!" than "And Quinn throws it to... ahh... who's the Browns receiver..."

, The ball has been kicked, fifty thousand flashbulbs went off, the game is underway!

, Start sprinting upfield. Envision tacklers coming at you. When one of them gets near you, tuck the ball under your left shoulder and with your right arm yank your right leg backward. This should successfully tackle you. If not, you just broke free! Keep going!

, Perhaps you'll start with a pass play. Put the ball on the ground, and clutch it with your right hand in a "hiking stance." Determine your play, perhaps call an audible, analyze the defensive formation that you've visualized in your head. Now snap the ball from your right hand to your left hand through your legs. Get the ball into a throwing position and go into a five step drop. Envision the defense charging at you, envision your receivers running their routes. One open? Throw it to him! Determine if you threw the ball where he was in your head, or if not. 'Cause now it's time to be the receiver.
 Now, go where you expected the receiver to be and run the route. Toss the ball up where you threw it (if it was a bad throw, make it a bad throw and try to come down with it!). Make the catch, keep running until you tackle yourself! Miss it, incomplete, try again.
 Feel free to "be" the player that's making the big play. Defensive lineman? Toss the ball up and swat it away! Running back, receive a handoff from yourself and jump the pile!

,