 Since the Great Depression no other young adult generation has experienced such an extreme level of economic failure like Gen Y. Unlike recent generations before them, Gen Y is more concerned about making and saving money because this generation has seen parents lose jobs, income and homes due to the recession. Additionally, this generation has also entered an empty job market despite the record number of kids completing college, leaving many educated Gen Y young adults with no other choice than to take low paying jobs in order to earn some sort of a paycheck.


Discuss your child’s strategic plan for the future. Depending on where your child’s current educational or work status is now, discuss where he or she would like to be in the next five years and how that goal will be attained. Although he or she may not be currently working in a desired position, discuss how he or she will move forward and the steps needed to get to the reach their goals.
Ask if your child is concerned about saving money for the future. Although many young adults are worried about saving money, they may not believe they earn enough money to contribute to a retirement fund (or to increase payments to it). Plus, some young adults can’t picture their golden years at all (it's so far away in their minds as to be irrelevant) and they don’t want to hear about retirement and old age. You’ll need to determine if your child is mentally prepared to have a conversation about retirement before you lay out a budget and investigate savings vehicles.
If he or she doesn’t seem interested or concerned for the future, show them the hard evidence that now is the best time to save. Lay out a few facts and figures, such as telling them the later they wait, the more they’ll have to give from their paycheck and that they may have to work well into their seventies (which may not be an attractive option, especially for an angst-ridden young adult). Also, tell them that putting aside just a little amount of money from each payment won’t be as painful as they may imagine. At the very least, aim to open their mind to the possibility.;
, Sometimes kids don’t want to listen to their parents, but may take an expert’s advice.


Arrange an appointment with your money manager. The next time you visit your financial advisor, make an appointment for your child too. He or she may talk more freely about saving for the future with an expert who can lay out a specific plan.
Subscribe to financial publications. Numerous financial magazines are full of strategies and ways to save money, geared toward young adults. If your adult child lives at home still, cut out articles that may pertain to their specific situation or if they live on their own, have the subscription go directly to their house.
Talk with other Gen Y savers. In some cases, motivating your child and his or her friends to pool money saving ideas will spark ideas on ways to save. Everyone is in the same boat and most likely strapped for cash. What may work for one young adult may be something that another didn’t think of trying. Idea sharing may motivate and inspire your child to start squirreling away some cash.
 Even though a young adult in his or her twenties may think that retirement is light years away, create a career-long budget that will take your child into retirement. To create your budget, gather information such as current salary (which will hopefully increase through the years), age he or she plans to retire, when he or she plans to start saving for retirement, how much money will be needed to sustain spending needs and expected return on retirement savings.


Explain to your child how the early bird gets the worm––you’ll ultimately have to sock away less each year if you start now. Experts say that if you start saving in your mid twenties and want to retire at age 65, you will only need to save 15 percent of your pay. If you wait until your mid thirties to start saving, you’ll need to save 24 percent if you want to retire at 65. Play with several scenarios, such as retiring at age 57 or 70, along with different saving start dates.
Focus on your child’s current situation. Of course, he or she will most likely earn more money in time, but focus on current variables for the most realistic prediction. You can adjust your numbers once your child gets a raise or promotion (or if your child loses his or her job).
Don’t take Social Security or inheritance into consideration. No one knows if Social Security will be around for your child later in life, but current predictions aren’t good. Plus, if your child is gunning for Aunt Betty’s fortune when she passes away, he or she may be left out in the cold; more and more baby boomers are opting to "spend it all" and to not leave anything behind. Instead, focus on the controllable variables in order to arrive at a realistic budget. If any of the surrounding factors come to fruition, your child will have surplus cash.
 Because the concept of retiring may seem to be too insane for your child to wrap his or her head around, you will want to identify an easy, painless vehicle for saving.


Urge your child to inquire about the 401k or retirement program his or her job. Explain to your child that one of the easiest ways to create a retirement nest egg is to contribute at work. The money is taken directly from the paycheck, before taxes and some companies match contributions. After a paycheck or two, he or she won’t even miss the extra cash.
IRAs can supplement or be used in lieu of a 401k plan. A traditional or Roth IRA are both viable retirement options. Each IRA has its own set of advantages, such as the tax deductible feature of the traditional IRA and the Roth IRA may be ideal for those who are self employed.
The stock market. Considered to be the riskiest vehicle for retirement, dabbling a little in the market may garner additional cash. If your child is living hand to mouth, investing in the market may not be a viable option. However, if your son or daughter has invested in his or her 401k at work and has some surplus income, conservative investing (spread evenly between stocks and bonds) may contribute toward retirement. Instead of going in blindly, consider speaking with a skilled money manager or someone with an expertise in the market.
 Let them know that you're always available to help with advice and be patient––it may take time for your child to want to hear the message, which is really nothing new in the age-old tradition of parenting!

