 Then click uninstall at the top and follow your computers instructions to complete the removal.
Windows 8: Click Start, Search, and then type Control Panel. Click Control Panel > Programs > Uninstall a Program. Select Tny_Cassiopesa and any other unknown programs. Click uninstall and follow your computers instructions to complete the removal.
The browser hijacking program may have a different name on your computer; if you can't find one called Tny_Cassiopesa, try sorting by date and uninstalling any recently installed programs that you don't recognize.;
, These will appear within your browsers, and each browser has a slightly different way to remove them:


Google Chrome: Click the 3 bars in the top right corner of the homepage, then click More Tools > Extensions > and delete any unwanted or unknown extensions, particularly those identifying themselves as Cassiopesa.
Internet Explorer: Click the tools button in the top right corner, then Manage add-ons>Tools and Extensions> and remove any unknown extensions. Also, select Service Provider and Remove Cassiopesa if its there.
 Cassiopesa has probably set itself as your home page on your browser(s); to change this, just set a new one.


Google Chrome: Click the 3 bars in the Top Right corner and select Settings. Under Appearance, select Change > and type your preferred search engine.
Internet Explorer: Click the tools button in the top right corner of the screen and select Internet Options. Then change the homepage URL to a safe and secure one (like www.google.com or www.bing.com). Afterwards, click OK to save.



Google Chrome: Click the 3 bars at the top right corner and select Settings > Show advanced settings, and under Privacy select Content Settings > All Cookies and Site Data > Remove all cookies. After that, go back to Content Settings and select Manage Exceptions and type in www.cassiopesa.com and select Block.



Google Chrome: Click the 3 bars at the top right corner, select Settings. Under Search, click Manage Search Engines, and delete www.cassiopesa.com
The Cassiopesa homepage was changed for Internet Explorer during method 3

, To ensure that your browsers start fresh without any trace of Cassiopesa, your best bet is to totally reset them to their defaults:


Google Chrome: Click the 3 bars at the top, go to Settings > Show Advanced Settings. Scroll to the bottom and under Reset Settings select Reset and continue.
Internet Explorer: Click the tools button, Internet Options, and under the Advanced Tab select Reset and continue.
Firefox: Click the 3 bars at the top. Click the question mark menu button and select Troubleshooting Information. Then click Reset Firefox and Finish.

