 Adults are not as quick at learning new skills as children and they may find it difficult to remember letter sounds and words that a child would pick up easily. However, teaching an adult how to read is also an extremely rewarding experience. You will just need time and a considerable amount of patience.


Unlike children, adult learners cannot spend several hours in a classroom everyday. If they are juggling work and family life, they will have a couple of hours a week at most to work on their reading. This can significantly prolong the learning process.
Illiterate adults may also have a lifetimes worth of negative experiences and emotions that they associate with their inability to read, which can be difficult to overcome.
 In order to find out where to begin, you will need to assess your student's current reading ability. This may be a professional assessment or simply asking the learner to do whatever reading and writing he/she already knows, and taking note of where he/she struggles.


Continue observing your learner's level throughout the learning process.
If he or she consistently struggles with a particular skill or concept, take it as a cue to help work on that skill.
 An illiterate adult's greatest challenge is overcoming insecurity about their ability to read. Many adults suffer from a lack of confidence and from the fear that it is too late for them to learn how to read. Express confidence in their learning abilities and reassure them that it is never to late to start.


Reassure them that their familiarity with spoken English and their pre-existing vocabulary will play a major role in learning how to read.
Many adults have spent years hiding their inability to read from teachers, family and co-workers. Let them know that they no longer need to be ashamed or embarrassed and that you respect their courage in coming to you to learn to read.
 When teaching adults, look for materials that are not too childish, or at least ask whether they mind using children's materials. However, keep in mind that children's books can be easy beginning materials, as they use simple words and rhymes to reinforce the connection between letter patterns and sounds.


Also remember that if you use materials that are too difficult or outside of their comfort zone, adult readers can easily become discouraged.
Using materials that are challenging, yet manageable will help to build the adult reader's ability and confidence.
 Try to use material that is interesting and relevant to your student. By using relevant materials, you are making the learning process less of a chore and are encouraging your adult student by showing them the practical applications of learning to read.


Try using road signs, newspaper articles or restaurant menus when practicing reading.
Use technology by sending your student each new word they have to learn via text message. This makes learning fun and relevant to everyday life.

