 If you want to stay warm while saving money on heating bills, invest in an electric blanket or heating pad that you can sit on or wrap around yourself as you snuggle on the couch or work at your computer. This will not only save money, but can prevent power outages in cold areas where everyone is using his or her thermostat.You can find fairly efficient warming mats for outdoor pets. Place the warming mat on your chair and a wool blanket over your lap to create a warmer environment.
At night, use a hot water bottle. You can purchase them for $10 or less online.
Also, wearing an extra layer of clothing, such as leggings under your pants, or a wool sweater, can go a long way in keeping you warm inside your own home.
Instead of turning your thermostat up higher, turn it on earlier to give your house time to heat up. You may be making it hotter than necessary because you want your home to get warm as soon as possible.
 Hot water and broth raise the temperature of your hands as you hold the bowl or cup. Then they heat your body from the inside for 30 minutes. Drink a cup of tea in the morning to get warm as you get out of bed and include soup into your lunch or dinner plans.
 High protein levels and healthy fats increase circulation. People with low iron levels should take extra care to eat foods rich in protein and improve their circulation.


You should also consider throwing some ginger into that nutty trail mix. Ginger has been shown to get blood circulation going and to raise your temperature as well., Exercise also improves your circulation. Whether you exercise at home, in a gym or in the snow, doing 30 minutes per day will keep you warmer inside and out. This will keep your body temperature higher than normal even after you have finished your workout., If you're feeling cold, just cuddle up on the couch with your loved one, spending some time getting close. Just the act of snuggling and touching another person creates warmth. Soon, you'll stop feeling chilly and will feel your body -- and your heart -- getting warmer.
 Studies show that the body temperature naturally lowers when you get ready for bed, so you can counteract this by taking a nice warm bath a few hours before bed to raise your body temperature. If you take a warm bath right before bed, it might actually make your body temperature too hot, leading to a restless sleep, but taking a warm bath a few hours before sleeping should do the trick., One study found that being by yourself literally makes you colder, and that spending time with friends will help you get warmed up. The next time you're deciding between a date at home with your electric blanket and a day out with your friends, decide in your friends' favor if you want to stay warm.