 Even if you haven't yet decided whether to file for bankruptcy, you should look for a credit counseling agency that has been approved by the U.S. bankruptcy courts. These agencies have been screened by the federal government and are more reputable than unapproved private agencies.You can find a list of agencies in your area that are approved by the federal government on the Office of the U.S. Trustee's website.
Once you find agencies in which you're interested, visit their own websites to learn more about the agency, their location, and the services they offer.
Keep in mind that it's not necessary for you to file bankruptcy to use these services. They are available to anyone who is feeling overwhelmed by their debts and wants to gain better control of their finances.
Be prepared to pay a fee for credit counseling services. These fees are typically around $50, and many agencies have programs that will waive or lessen the fees if you are in particularly dire financial straits.
After you've chosen the agency you want to use, call or email to make an appointment. They typically will have a packet of forms for you to fill out, including a list of financial documents they'll need to assess your situation.
 The credit counselor will need an accurate and up-to-date picture of your finances. This includes not only creditor account statements, but also recent pay stubs or other proof of income.Typically the credit counselor will ask for the most recent statement for all credit accounts, as well as your most recent pay stubs, W2s, or other income documentation.
You also will be asked to submit information related to any assets you have, such as the deed to your house or the title to your car.
If you've received copies of your credit report, you may want to include those as well.
 If you were able to find a credit counseling agency located near you, typically you'll go to their office and meet with your counselor in person. Most agencies also offer you the option of holding the meeting over the phone or online.Your counselor typically will contact you after all of your financial documentation has been received.
If any other information is needed, your counselor will let you know. Otherwise, they'll schedule a meeting within a few weeks to sit down with you and discuss your financial situation.
At the meeting, you and your credit counselor will discuss your financial situation and whether there is a viable path for you to take that doesn't include bankruptcy.
 Based on the financial documents and information you submitted, your credit counselor will devise a proposed budget for your family combined with a plan to pay off your debts.If you've prepared your own budget, you may want to bring it along and compare it to the credit counselor's budget. There may be room to make adjustments.
Look over the plans carefully. If it seems doable, you can implement this plan and forego bankruptcy.
Keep in mind that while the counselor may propose a repayment plan, you're not required to accept it.
However, if you do decide to file bankruptcy, you will have to include a copy of your credit counselor's proposal. The bankruptcy court may disagree with you and order you to accept the plan.
In some cases, the credit counselor may conclude that bankruptcy is your only option. They can assist you with finding a bankruptcy attorney or taking the first steps toward filing your bankruptcy petition if they believe this is your only real option.

