 While in a bath or shower, exfoliate your skin at least once a week using a loofa, face cloth, shower puff, etc. Exfoliation helps to remove the top layer of dead and dry skin cells, which when left as is, prevent your moisturizer from penetrating into your skin deep enough., When in a shower or bath, use soaps and body washes that contain moisturizer to wash your body. The labels for soaps and body washes will indicate if they contain moisturizing ingredients.One option is to apply oil to your skin while in the shower or bath, and then rinse off as much as you can before getting out. This moisturizes you skin nicely, but removes the excess oil so it doesn’t stain your clothes or feel slippery., Whether you’re washing your hands, or having a shower or bath, use warm water and not really hot water. Unfortunately hot water can actually accelerate how quickly your skin ages and dries it out faster than warm water.If you’ve ever swam in a swimming pool or bathed in a hot tub, you probably noticed how dry your skin was afterwards. This dryness was caused by the chemicals used in the water to remove bacteria (as the water is used over and over again). Most city treated water also has chemicals added to reduce bacteria, although in much smaller amounts. However long exposure to that water can still cause your skin to dry out, so it’s best to keep your showers and baths as short as you can.
 In general, it is best to apply moisturizer to any part of your body after you’ve washed that part of your body and the skin is still damp. For your body, it is best to apply moisturizer after you’ve had a shower or bath. Pat off the excess water from your skin with a towel, and then apply the moisturizer to your damp skin.You can, however, still apply moisturizer to your body if you did not wash it. But the moisturizer will be more effective on damp skin.
Apply body moisturizer using short, but firm, strokes with your hand.Pay specific attention to applying moisturizer to the driest parts of your body like: hands, elbows, knees, and feet.
If you apply moisturizer to your feet after a shower or bath, be careful about walking around in bare feet afterwards. Avoid walking on tiles or hardwood floors without socks or slippers.
 Many products — other than specifically designed body moisturizers — can help hydrate your skin. For example, you can use coconut or olive oil, instead of moisturizer, to get the same, or even better, results.If you decide to use an oil rather than a moisturizer, remember to wipe off excess oil with a towel after it’s been applied to your skin.
Also keep in mind that some oil may stain the clothes you put on over top of your skin. Because of this, it is best to apply oils before bed, under your pyjamas.
 Your hands go through a lot over the course of the day. Every time you wash your hands, for example, the natural oils on your skin, plus any previously applied hand cream, gets washed off.Before bed, apply a larger than normal amount of hand cream and massage the cream into your hands for a few minutes.
It’s a good habit to start reapplying hand cream every time after your wash your hands to continuously rehydrate your skin.

