 When used in combination with a pain medication and/or a form of hormonal birth control, it can be a very effective method to treat primary dysmenorrhea.


Use heat as frequently as you would like, to ease symptoms.
Another option is to have a hot bath, if you prefer this over using a heating pad.
 It is for this reason that increasing your exercise can help to combat the pain of menstrual cramps.


Note, however, that overly strenuous exercise during your period can temporarily worsen period cramps.
Consistent, moderate exercise is your best bet when it comes to diminishing the pain.
 The hormones released during orgasm help to ease pain and improve your overall mood, so the type of sex does not matter so long as it facilitates orgasm. However, having sex during menstruation is not for everyone, so it depends on personal preferences.


If you (and your partner) are comfortable having sex while you are on your period, it can ease the pain of your monthly cramps.
It is often easier to have sex right before your period (as many people experience cramps just prior to menstruation), or in the first day or so of your period when the bleeding is lighter.
 If you suffer from painful cramps (dysmenorrhea), it is in your best interest to limit smoking and drinking as much as possible.


If you are interested in quitting smoking altogether and would like support, your family doctor can assist you in this process.
There are medications you can try that can aid in quitting smoking (such as Wellbutrin/Bupropion), in addition to nicotine replacement options that may help to diminish your cravings.
 In addition to traditional western medical treatments, there are a variety of herbal treatments and supplements that can help to combat primary dysmenorrhea. Vitamins E, B1, and B6, as well as magnesium supplements and omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to decrease painful cramps.There are also other more specific natural supplements such as Chasteberry that a naturopath may prescribe to aid with painful menstrual cramps.


You might also consider looking into acupuncture, which can also be helpful for dysmenorrhea.
 Therefore, if you suffer from a high-stress lifestyle, it is worth looking into ways to reduce this stress, and/or seeking support from a counsellor of life coach who may be able to assist you in better managing your stress.

