 For this hummus, you will need your hummus base, along with red bell peppers. You can roast the peppers yourself, or you can buy roasted red peppers in a jar. If you use the ones in a jar, use ¾ cup. If you roast them yourself, you need two whole red bell peppers.To roast the peppers, turn the oven to broil. Cut the peppers into long pieces, then put them on a baking sheet with the skin-side up. Broil them for five to 10 minutes. Then, place the peppers in a plastic reusable bag and let them cool for around 15 minutes. Afterwards, take the peppers out and remove the skins.
Add the roasted peppers to the hummus base in the food processor. Pulse the mixture together until the peppers have blended into a mostly smooth consistency.
 Another delicious flavor of hummus can be made by replacing the crushed garlic in the hummus base with roasted garlic. Add to the base hummus mix four roasted garlic cloves, ¼ cup of grated parmesan cheese, and ¼ teaspoon of cumin.In the food processor, add the new ingredients to the hummus base. Pulse until there is a creamy consistency.
 For a simple flavor addition to your traditional hummus base, try avocado. This adds a lot of extra nutrients and a rich, smooth flavor. Add one avocado and cilantro to the hummus base in the food processor. For guacamole hummus, you can add some tomatoes in the hummus, too.Pulse until smooth and creamy.
You can add cilantro and tomatoes on top.
 For a spicy hummus, add jalapenos. Use the base hummus recipe, except switch out the lemon juice with the juice from three small limes. Add two cups of cilantro and two large chopped jalapenos. Make sure to remove the seeds.Combine the ingredients until smooth and creamy.
 Gather two pounds (approximately 900 grams) of carrots and two teaspoons of cumin. Cut the carrots into small medallions and place them on a baking sheet. Cover the carrots with the cumin powder and drizzle with a tablespoon of olive oil. Roast the carrots for 20 to 25 minutes.After letting the carrots cool, place them in the food processor until they are chopped. Then add the hummus base. You can also add more cumin to taste.
 Gather five cups of spinach and five ounces (approximately 142 grams) of feta cheese cubes. Add the spinach to the hummus base and combine until smooth. After this is smooth, add the feta and combine until smooth.You can add more spinach or feta to taste.

