 Before actually cutting the glass, you’ll have to sketch a circle around the bottle so when you score it, your cut will be straight around the bottle.


Take a string and tie it around the bottle.
Use a permanent marker and draw a line around the bottle following just below the string.
Make sure your circle is straight.
Make sure you draw your line on the glass, not on the bottle’s label. If you have to (or want to) remove the label, you can., Whenever you work with sharp objects and glass, you need to properly protect yourself. Without protection you may injure yourself or someone else.


Use thick gloves that protect you up to your forearms.
Make sure to wear safety glasses to protect yourself from shattering glass.
Secure and handle knives properly. For instance, close or put away your knives or scoring tools once you’ve used them.
 Scoring is the process by which you create a noticeable division or break in the surface of glass. This encourages the glass, when broken, to break along the scored line. Use a tool of your choice scratch the outside of the glass.


Don’t push the tool too hard, you don’t want to penetrate or break the glass.
Make sure your hand is steady and you cut the glass evenly.
Try to make the cut in one rotation, rather than several.
A scoring tool is best, but you can also use glass drill bits, or a bottle cutting kit., After you score the glass, you’ll need to heat it so it can break along the score line you already cut. However, there are a few steps you need to take before you do this.


Soak the bottle in ice cold water for a few minutes.
Remove it and dump boiling water where you scored it.
Rotate the bottle as you pour the boiling water on it.
Submerge the bottle in ice cold water. The bottle should break in two.
You may need to repeat this process if the bottle does not break the first time., After you’ve successfully cut the glass, you’ll need to sand down the edges of the bottle. This is important, as the bottle could have jagged edges or other pieces that could cut you or someone else. Use a piece of sand paper to do this.


Allow the bottle to return to room temperature
Rub the cut area gently with a piece of sand paper.
Repeat the sanding process until the edge is smooth or round – whatever you prefer.