 You can find them at health food stores, feed stores, or on-line seed suppliers. Organic seeds are also available. Seeds come in packages as small as 8 to 16 oz. and sacks as large as 1 pound. If you're planning on eating a lot of alfalfa, it's cheaper to buy the seeds in bulk.;
, One tablespoon will yield 1 1/2 cups of alfalfa, enough to fill a jar and provide for a meal or two. Store the extra seeds in the original bag or in a sealable plastic container.
 Take the seeds you want to grow and place them in a fine-mesh sieve or on a piece of cheesecloth and rinse them thoroughly. Pick out any seeds that are broken or discolored.


Washing all your seeds at once will cause some to sprout before you are ready to use them. Only wash the seeds you plan to immediately sprout.
 Flat-sided jars work best because you can lay them on their sides to allow better circulation.
 Make sure the seeds are completely covered.
 This will keep the seeds in the jar when you drain the contents. Secure the covering with a rubber band.
 Keep the jar in a dry, warm place while you soak the seeds. The seeds don't need direct sunlight to sprout.
 Leave the cheesecloth or pantyhose in place and turn the jar upside down over the sink. The water will drain out, while the seeds remain inside the jar.
 Make sure all the water drains from the jar, so that the seeds don't rot.
 Good choices are a closet or pantry that provides a warm, comfortable temperature. Make sure the seeds are spread out across the base of the jar., Rinse the seeds with lukewarm water, thoroughly draining the seeds each time. Do this for three to four days, or until the seeds sprout to a length of 1 1⁄2 to 2 inches (3.8 to 5.1 cm).
 Spread the sprouts in a thin layer on a platter or dish and put them in a sunny window for about 15 minutes. This will activate important enzymes that make the sprouts so healthy. Wait for the them to turn green. When the sprouts turn green, they are ready to eat. Store them in the refrigerator, which also slows their growth, for up to a week.

