 Everything you do affects your teen. This means that if you have low self-esteem, talk negatively, or are overly critical, your teen may internalize this. To help your teen with their self-esteem, accept yourself for who you are. Even if you have negative thoughts about yourself, keep them to yourself around your teen.Model acceptance by saying things like, “I excel at…,” “My positive attributes are…,” and “I accept my faults for what they are.”

, Low self-esteem sometimes stems from a need to be perfect. Many teens compare themselves to others and see only the outside, which they think is this wonderful confident person, and feel bad in response. Help teach your teen that no one is perfect, and that is okay. Focus on the importance of trying and doing their best instead of being perfect.Some parents are afraid if they show their children that they are faulted or wrong sometimes that it will negatively influence them. Letting your teen know it’s okay to be human can help them have a healthier sense of self.
 Many people with low self-esteem see mistakes and failure as the ultimate crisis. Teach your teen to accept mistakes and failure as a part of life. Everyone fails, everyone makes mistakes, and they will fail many times during their life. Help them learn from their failures and see them as stepping stones towards their goals.In some instances, you can even celebrate failure. Let your child know it’s okay not to do excel at everything.
 Encourage your child to focus on their positive characteristics over their supposed faults. Help them learn to silence that inner critic that says they aren’t good enough. Teach your teen that they have many positive attributes that makes them a worthy person, so they should train themselves to think in a more positive light.Help them understand that negative attributes or supposed faults are not something to dwell on. Everyone has them, and they are more than their faults.
This means you may need to change the way you talk about yourself and others.
Encourage your child to make positive statements about themselves. Instead of “We lost because I suck,” encourage them to say things like, “We lost, but we played our best. With practice, we can get better.”, Setting goals and following through with them can help make your teen feel good about themselves. Model good behavior by setting your own goals and sticking to them. Encourage your teen to set concrete goals, and praise them when they stick to their goals.For example, your child may want to follow a regular exercise program, eat a healthier diet, practice their instrument, or follow a study plan. Help them set those goals, and suggest that they keep track of their progress.

