 Research indicates that hypochondriasis is correlated with depression and anxiety disorders, which suggests that there could be a genetic origin. In that case, you may need to try an antidepressant prescription to fully treat your issues. If that ends up being the case, don’t resist that treatment.


According to research, serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and tricyclic antidepressants are the most commonly prescribed medications for hypochondriasis. Generally speaking, these drugs are not considered dangerous or physically habit-forming. As with most mental illnesses, a combination of medication and cognitive behavioral therapy is the most effective course of treatment for hypochondriasis. It’s possible that you will not make sustained progress if you don’t take both seriously, so don’t make the mistake of discontinuing therapy or stopping your medication once you feel better.
 Though research into the connection between diet and hypochondria is in its infancy, a few general guidelines are recommended.


Eliminate all foods that you suspect could be allergens. Any food that causes you bodily distress will potentially produce symptoms that you could easily misinterpret. Additionally, it could be helpful to eat smaller meals throughout the day. Doing so will stabilize your blood sugar and help with digestion, thereby improving your mood and helping to reduce pains that could be misleading.Cut back on caffeine. Stimulants, in general, are dangerous for people will anxiety issues, and it’s difficult to control racing thoughts and sleeplessness if you’re had two cups of coffee before bed., Any vigorous physical activity will release endorphins – the “feel good” chemicals in your brain – and give you a natural high. Additionally, if you tire out your body, you’ll be more relaxed and less likely to stay up until 4:00 a.m. doing web searches for proof that the sounds in your stomach mean that you have cancer.


Work out for at least 30 minutes a day, five days a week. If you currently have no exercise routine, feel free to start out small with 15 to 20 minutes of walking per day. To help manage anxiety, the frequency of your workouts is more important than the duration, so don’t save all of your exercise for the weekend. Spread your sessions throughout the week. , Because excessive worry and anxiety often lead to difficulties sleeping, it’s common for those with hypochondriasis to fall into patterns where they don’t get a sufficient amount of rest every night. When that happens, you’re likely to be tired and cranky, making it harder to think clearly and fight against the sorts of thoughts that have caused your problems in the first place. Use relaxation techniques before going to bed. This can be as simple as doing a systematic relaxation exercise, such as gradually tensing and releasing all of your muscle groups, one at a time. You also might be the kind of person who deals with anxiety by taking a warm bath or listening to some calming music.
Go to bed at the same time every night. Though it’s difficult to maintain a sleep schedule when you’re exhausted after a sleepless night and want nothing more than to nap when you get home from work, you should fight the urge.

Any small disruptions in your sleeping patterns can make it difficult to get back on track, so you should do what you can to go to bed and get up at the same time every day.If you do, your body will calibrate itself to a consistent schedule, and you’ll feel more rested and balanced.
 Searching for the cause of your perceived symptoms will only exacerbate your condition. Avoid using the web for this purpose, and instead fill your time with other healthy activities.

