 The signs of an ingrown eyelid are usually linked to eye irritation. Thus, dogs with ingrown eyelids tend to have a permanently watery eye on the affected side. This is the eye's way of trying to get rid of an irritant.


The moisture from the eye is never successful at getting rid of the irritation, so the watering continues indefinitely.;
, A dog with an ingrown eyelid may squint and hold the eye partially closed. Having the eyelid closed may give the dog a bit of relief from the irritation associated with an ingrown eyelid.


However, dogs with this condition do not always squint, as they may have lived their whole life with an uncomfortable eye and are acclimated to the discomfort.
 This is another sign that your dog's eyes are irritated. Your dog's eyes may become red due to an ingrown eyelid because the surface of the eye may be constantly rubbed by the eyelashes from the under-turned eyelid.


This constant rubbing can even lead to corneal ulcers, which is when the clear surface of the eye is worn away and eroded permanently.
 Your dog may feel irritation on its eyes and rub or scratch them to relieve that discomfort. Some dogs will blink more regularly than you might expect, rub at the eye with a paw, or even push the face along the ground. These are all signs that there is an issue in your dog's eye.
 Some dog breeds are prone to having excessive amounts of skin on their faces and they also tend to have too much skin in the eyelid. This extra skin is on the outer surface and has a tendency to cause the eyelid to 'scroll' inward toward the eye.


Think breeds with wrinkly faces, such as bulldogs, basset hounds, shar pei, pugs, Japanese chins, Pekinese, and bloodhounds., There are some breeds that seem to be over represented when it comes to entropion. This may be because the condition is genetic and these breeds tend to be bred only with like breeds, to keep the breed pure. These include (but are not limited to):Cocker and Clumber spaniels
Dalmatians
Rottweilers
Akitas
American Staffordshire bull terriers
Poodles
Great Danes
Pyrenean Mountain dogs
Bernese mountain dogs
Golden Retrievers
Labradors

, If you see any of the signs of an ingrown eyelid you should have your dog checked out by a vet. He or she will be able to assess and treat your dog's condition. Assessment is done by observation, both by looking at the dog with the naked eye, and by using the magnification of an ophthalmoscope to look closely at the leading edge of the eyelid.Some vets will double check their observations by putting a few drops of local anesthetic into the eye. This is because general eye pain can sometimes cause the dog to squint and, in some cases, cause the eyelids to appear as if they are ingrown. However, if the pain is removed and the eyelid still lies in an abnormal position, then it is confirmed that the entropion is due to extra skin, rather than muscular contraction due to pain.
 This will help you to know exactly what is going on with your dog. For example, when the vet is looking with the naked eye, the vet may press gently with a thumb just below the eyelid in order to 'take up the slack' of any spare skin. It can then be possible to watch the eyelid unfurl into a more normal position. This will help you to understand the condition better.
 Treatment for an ingrown eyelid is a surgical procedure where a sliver of skin is removed from just below the eyelid. This rectifies the excess skin and allows the eyelid to sit in its intended position. This procedure is called a blepharoplasty.Surgery for your pet can be expensive. If you don't have the financial resources to pay for surgery for your pet, discuss other options with your veterinarian. This may include giving your dog treatment for pain and discomfort.
Some pet insurances can help with the cost of surgery. The insurance needs to have been purchased before your pet has a major health problem, but if you already have it in place it can offset the cost of surgery.

