 When you're selecting herbs, you want to pick very perky bunches and avoid any with lots of wilting leaves, or any sliminess or spotting. Generally, leafy herbs will spoil more quickly, compared to heartier herbs, which can be stored more easily.


Leafy herbs include basil, cilantro, parsley, and mint, and should be stored in water in the fridge.
Hearty herbs include sage, rosemary, thyme, and dill. These herbs should be bundled loosely and stored in the fridge, wrapped loosely in paper towel, but not in water.;
, Whether you've bought your herbs in a bunch at the market, or purchased them fresh in a plastic container, it's a good idea to remove the binding and examine them. Remove any wilting, spotted, or slimy stalks, and trim the end of all of the stems.Dry them thoroughly. Leafy herbs will spoil much more quickly if they're wet.
You don't have to trim much, just the very end of the stems. No more than a centimeter or two.
Do not remove the leaves from the stems. If you want to dry or freeze your herbs, skip to the next section.
 Generally, you want to treat fresh herbs the same way you would treat fresh-cut flowers. Put about 1-2 inches of clean filtered water at the bottom of a drinking glass and let your herbs sit with the cut stems submerged. Keep them unbridled and loose.


Don't submerge the leaves in water. Just the ends of the stems. Think flowers.
 Use a loose, open paper towel wrapped around the top of the leaves, and tucked into the glass. This helps to keep the moisture around the herbs, without trapping it against the leaves. It also helps keep the herbs from taking on the smells of your refrigerator.


If you don't have a paper towel, a plastic bag can work just as well. These tend to trap moisture against the leaves, making them spoil more quickly, but they can work just fine.
 Depending on how old your herbs were when you bought them, they should stay fresh in the fridge for up to a week. Change out the water every couple of days, and make sure they're not wilting or spoiling.


Remove individual leaves as you use the herbs, or remove whole bunches you plan to use and discard the stems.
Remove spoiled leaves you find, to keep the rest of the bunch from following suit.

