 Casually look around and go to closest bathroom. Here, you will be able to efficiently analyze and deal with the situation.


Make sure not to draw attention to yourself. Walk casually to this location, for others might not even be aware of your troubles.
 Your ally can help you get to a bathroom unnoticed. They can provide you with clothes and or other solutions you may not have access to.


You may even find, after looking around the room, that you are surrounded by friends therefore panic is unwarranted.
If you can't find someone else to rely on, remember that you are your best ally. Trust in your capabilities that you can get through the situation independently and successfully.
 Figure out how noticeable your wet spot is, and what you will need to mend it. You may find it is not visible and no action is necessary. But you may also find the situation to be dire.


Take your time. If you look too fast you may over or underestimate how visible it is.
 Once in the bathroom, scrub out the accident as best you can. Most bathrooms include soap, water, and paper towels or hand dryer. These are the perfect tools to remove stain or smell from your clothes.


Remove the item of clothing that is blemished and scrub, by rubbing the material together, with soap and cold water in the sink. Then soak up the moisture with paper towels or a hand drier until the material is dry.
Scrub gently or aggressively depending on what kind of material is blemished.
If you feel uncomfortable removing any clothing, scrub out the urine as best you can and dry afterward with your clothing still on. A simple excuse of “I spilled something on myself” would also serve as an understandable explanation.
 Clean the skin that made contact with the urine using soap and water. This avoids future smell and the spread of bacteria.
 If your accident pooled on the ground/chair you should soak it up. It could give you away or someone could slip, so give it a quick clean.


Grab a good handful of paper towels from the bathroom. Lightly wet some of them with a little soap and water, but keep the rest dry. (If there are no paper towels, use toilet paper.) Soak up the mess, wipe it down with the wet towels, and dry with the rest of the towels.

To do this subtly you could use a foot to wipe down the mess. If someone notices, use a credible excuse.


Dump the dirty towels back in the bathroom trash and thoroughly wash your hand with soap and water.

