 Before working your wrist muscles, warm them up by performing unweighted wrist movements. These could include hand circles and wrist flexions and extensions. This helps gradually loosen the wrist area and prepares you for training your wrists.
 Wrist extensions are an easy exercise that you can start doing at home to increase flexibility in the forearm muscles that power your wrist. Doing wrist extensions is the best way to gradually start getting bigger wrists.



Rest the back of your forearm on a table or on your leg. Your palm should be facing up, and your hand should be aligned with your arm.
Place a light weight in that hand, then slowly lower the weight toward the floor. The movement should take you five seconds, then bring the wrist back up to starting position. 
Do two sets of 10 or 15 reps with each wrist four or five times a week.
 Radial training works much like wrist extensions, except you're emphasizing a different muscle motion by changing the direction of the exercise. This type of exercise is very common in physical rehabilitation routines after wrist injuries, and you can do radial wrist exercises at home.



Grab a dumbbell, then stand with your arms at your side. Tilt the dumbbell toward the ceiling and slowly lower it down. Do two sets of 10 or 15 reps with each wrist four or five times a week.
 This is an excellent way of stretching your wrists out at the end of a work out, decreasing the possibility of injury or soreness.Do this at the end of each exercise routine.










Place one hand on the back of the other with the hand flexed towards the wrist. Hold the hand in place by applying some pressure on it and move the forearm lower to increase the angle. Hold for six to ten seconds, then work the opposite arm.
 Doing wrist stretches is an important part of working up to any strength training routine that you want to integrate into your overall fitness. Especially if you've got small or "weak" wrists, it's a good idea to stretch things out before you get started.



Get on your hands and knees and place your hands flat on the ground with your fingers pointing back toward your body. Keep your arms straight and locked and stretch your wrists gently. Don't force them. Count to fifteen.
When you get comfortable with that stretch, try to extend your legs out behind you and bring your hips down to the ground while pushing your torso up by fully extending your arms with your palms flat on the floor. In yoga, this is called the "cobra pose" and it can be very effective at stretching your wrists.
 Building strength takes time, which means you need to be patient. You're not going to do a couple exercises and wake up tomorrow to some big meat-claws at the end of your arms. The name of the game is consistency, not speed. Commit to a training routine and start doing it consistently, without taking a day off because you just don't feel like it. Have patience and work for stronger wrists.









