 This headband adds a cable knit pattern and the project is perfect for learning to knit a cable knit. This pattern also does not use that much yarn and is very pretty.


You will need to know how to perform the knit stitch, the purl stitch and the slip stitch to be able to complete this headband.
You will also need to know how to cast on and cast off your stitches., You will need size 10.5 knitting needles and one ball of yarn with a yardage of about 87 yards/100 grams in a color of your choice. These materials will be used in your project.
 Cast on and knit about a 4" x 4" sample square, and measure how many stitches are in each inch, and how many rows, with the yarn you've picked. Write down that information to help you determine the number of stitches for your final headband.


If you do not wish to make a swatch then you can simply knit the first couple of rows and see if it looks long enough.
 Usually you will use 13 stitches to create your headband. If you use a different number of stitches then you will have to readjust your headband rows to suit. You can use whichever cast on method your prefer for this project.


Good beginner cast on methods include the long tail cast on and backwards loop cast on.
 This headband entails a repeating pattern every eight rows. The eight rows are each different to create one section of the cable pattern. You will use the knit stitch, the purl stitch and slip stitches to create these eight rows. You will also need a cable needle for these eight stitches.


In row one knit thirteen stitches.
In row two knit two stitches, purl nine stitches and then knit two stitches.
In row three knit two stitches, slip stitch the next three stitches to the cable needle and hold in front, knit three stitches, knit three stitches from the cable needle and then knit five stitches.
In row four knit two stitches, purl nine stitches and knit two stitches.
In row five knit thirteen stitches.
In row six knit two stitches, purl nine stitches and knit two stitches.
In row seven knit five stitches, slip stitch the next three stitches to the cable needle and hold it in back, knit three stitches, knit three stitches from the cable needle and knit two stitches.
In row eight knit two stitches, purl nine stitches and then knit two stitches.
 Repeat this eight row pattern 14 times or until the headband is the correct length. Remember it will stretch so you will want it to be tight enough to stay on your head.
 Cast off your last row to finish the end of the headband and prevent it from unraveling.
 Using a piece of yarn and a blunt needle sew the two edges of your headband together. Line the edges up next to each other. Then, starting at one end push the needle through both layers and around the edge back through the same hole. Then move to the next stitch and push the needle through. Bring the needle around the edges and push through the next stitch along the edge. Continue until you reach the other edge of the pieces and have knitted the edges completely together.
 The headband should now be completed and you can try it on to make sure it fits correctly. Enjoy wearing your headband and keeping your ears warm!

