 All hairstyles will look more polished once done and be easier to create when your hair is healthy. If it’s not in its best shape, start fixing that early. Start by getting a deep conditioning and an allover trim. Continue these, in addition to maintaining the necessary balance of moisture and protein in your hair, through washing and conditioning. Finally, avoid styling your hair with heat as much as possible, or ensure you use thermal heat protectant products and low heat when you do.


You will know your hair needs more protein if it feels dry and frizzy, stretches a great deal but still breaks, feels limp when wet, or if it doesn’t hold its curl or style very well.
It needs more moisture if it breaks or snaps very easily, feels brittle or straw-like, or doesn’t stretch much or at all.Since you may not yet know what updo you will choose, don’t make any drastic hairstyle changes in cut or color before your wedding.On your wedding day, you also don’t want to overdo it on hair products. Your goal is shiny and frizz-free hair, but you also want it to look natural, not nuclear.;
, The classic updos are the French twist, bouffant, chignon and bun. From here, there are not only subcategories such as the beehive is to the bouffant but also hundreds, if not thousands, of variations to these four classics. A number of techniques are used in these variations, such as braiding, twisting, rolling, tucking, knotting, teasing and lots of pinning hair. Below are descriptions of the fundamental four.


A bun is typically made from a ponytail, though it doesn’t have to be, that’s wrapped around itself, whether twisted or braided. They can be anywhere on the head.
A chignon technically means a low bun, but in modern terms also represents using a variety of techniques like tucking and rolling hair. They are always low on the head. A French twist is a created by tucking hair in a vertical row at the back of the head. A French braid is a braid woven close to the head from three sections of hair.A bouffant is a style popularized by Audrey Hepburn, in which the hair is generally teased and arranged in a higher, rounded shape with bangs in most cases.
 When choosing an updo, thinking about your hair length at the time of your wedding (and trial run) is critical. While there are dozens of updos for short, medium and long hair, not all work for all hair lengths.Additionally, as with all hairstyles, some are more flattering on certain face shapes than others. Here are some tips for choosing an updo according to your face shape.Oval-shaped faces can do nearly any updo, and bangs will accentuate your eyes. But don’t wear too much hair in your face.
Round-shaped faces want to add focus to the crown, so a French twist with curls on top, tousled bangs to the side, and off-center parts all work well. Avoid slick-back styles, those that add width around your face, or straight and flat bangs.
Heart-shaped faces benefit from bangs and wisps on the side of the face and side parts but should stay away from slick-back styles and too much height at the crown.
Oblong/rectangular-shaped faces look good with slick-back looks, side parts, fuller styles such as piled curls and bangs to shorten your face. Shy away from tight curls on top of the head, wisps around the face and center parts.
Reverse triangle/pear-shaped faces look best with updos that add height on the crown, especially with full bangs, and updos with wisps of hair angled toward the face. Too much height, however, should be avoided as should center parts.
Square-shaped faces do well with wisps around the face and bang areas and curly updos. Straight, flat bangs and center parts, though, aren’t your best bet.Check out this website also to help you choose a flattering updo: thehairstyler.com/hair-consultations/find-your-perfect-updo-hairstyle.
 Not every bride chooses to wear a headpiece, veil or adornments in their hair, but if you do, it’s essential to factor yours into deciding upon an updo. It will affect your options. In fact, you cannot choose an updo until you’ve selected your headpiece.If, however, you find an updo you fall in love with, you might consider forgoing a headpiece altogether. Here are some tips on selecting headpieces and adornments if you decide to do so.


Stay away from headpieces that poke and prod at your head when you initially try them on; it won’t get any better, and by the end of your long wedding day your head will be killing you, literally.
Because of this, look for headpieces that require fewer pins or have fewer teeth in the combs.If your hair is fine and straight, your headpiece will need fine-toothed combs if that’s how it’s attached. If you find one with wide-toothed combs that you love, ask the store if they can replace them.Short-hair updos can greatly benefit from adornments, such as a rose tucked into the back where a bun might be if your hair were longer, for example.
Larger, oblong hair clips work well at the mid-to-lower seam of French twists, and jeweled pins clipped on low-swept fronts and among messy curls substitute nicely for a headpiece.
 What word would you use to describe your look and wedding? Vintage? Classic? Glamorous? When selecting an updo, keep this word in mind and choose accordingly. For instance, if your dress is a large but simple ball gown, a dramatic updo might be most appropriate while something more subdued and sleek might be best for a dress with a more intricate design.


Your updo should be complementary to your wedding gown, not in competition with it., When searching for a wedding gown, you’re able to try on dozens, or more. The same doesn’t apply when searching for the perfect updo. Nonetheless, to find what you most want, you need to see what’s out there from which to choose. Start looking through bridal magazines and websites, focusing on how various updos are paired with dresses and facial types.Also look at publications and websites in which celebrities are featured attending red-carpet events as many will be wearing updos.


When you find updos you like, either tear them from the publication or print them. Use a sharpie to write what you like about each, and file them in a folder marked “Updos.”
After you’ve collected a nice sample, go through them to see if you notice any themes, such as multiple photos of a side-swept, low bun or a particular way bangs are styled.
From here, narrow it down to 1-2 updo styles and choose the versions of each you most like.
If you’re having trouble, remember that classic updos are timeless, ones you won’t look back on in photos and regret. Trends come and they go!

, You may choose to do your hair yourself, or you may have a trusted friend or a stylist do it for you. Whatever you choose, don’t wait until the day of your wedding to find out what your updo will look like on you – or if it will even work with your hair texture and length. If your hair is the length it will be when you wed, you can go ahead and do the trial run as soon as you’ve selected a gown, veil and headpiece. If not, it’s best to wait until closer to your wedding day as weather affects hair, stylists move, you might change your mind and so forth.If you choose to go with a stylist but haven’t chosen one, ask other women you know, your wedding planner, the coordinator at your wedding or reception venue, look online, talk with your wedding photographer, etc., for recommendations.
Take your collected images with you, along with your headpiece, veil and a photo of your dress, to your trial run.
Ask to see the stylist’s portfolio, and don’t be afraid to not only voice your opinion but also seek another stylist if it’s just not working to your satisfaction.
 “Dirty” hair holds curl longer, is easier to tease and will have more shine as the natural oils in your scalp will have had time to spread the length of your hair. When you shower, put a cap on or pull it back with a scrunchy. At most rinse, but certainly don’t shampoo. And remember: Give yourself plenty of time, wear a button-down shirt or one with a very loose neck, and don’t suffer for hours from hair that’s pulled too tight or from pins jabbing you everywhere.