 Figure out exactly how many people, bearing in mind that a sleepover works best with a small group of good friends. Be sure to check in with your parents first to see what they suggest.
 Are you hosting a birthday-sleepover? A Halloween one? A summer-themed one? A Christmas-themed one? Or is it just for fun, with no purpose but to cure you and your friends' boredom? Make sure your guests know what they're coming to!;
,,, Include the address, too. For example, "Please come to my house at 100 Chocolate Cake street".
 This includes information such as: What to bring, what you will be eating at the party, and the activities/games that will be played. If your parents are bringing everyone home or picking everyone up before or after the party, make sure to include that.
 RSVP is a French phrase, which stands for "réspondez, s'il vous plaît." In English, that just means "Reply Please." Your RSVP could be your cellphone number, your home number, or your email address. It is advisable to set a date to RSVP before. For example, "RSVP Before October 12th."

, This could include cardstock, colored construction paper, printer paper, or stationary. Get creative! You can also buy some stationary that is aimed toward the theme of your party.
 Don't be afraid to use glitter, rhinestones, feathers, stickers, sparkles, pom-poms, drawings, ink stamps, lots of colors, cut-outs, markers. Choose anything you like to decorate with.
 Write your guest's name and address clearly and legibly on the envelope. You can decorate the envelope, too. Add a stamp and mail them! (Or if you can hand them out discreetly enough, give them at school, but be aware that if someone who wasn't invited finds out, they may be upset.)

, Don't get spotted, striped or pre-messaged cards, as if they are boldly decorated they will not be classy or neat, and the pre-message may not be what you want.
,,,,,".
 Then write out contact details, and the time, date and address of the sleepover. If they need to bring anything with them, write the list on the empty bit of inside card.
 (This is optional.)

,,