 The diversity in men’s fashion is always expanding, but you can still dress well by building out a wardrobe of staple pieces. Before you go out and buy some staple pieces do some research to see what kind of styles you like. Cut out pages from magazines you like, or download images you find online into a special "Fashion" folder.


Gather inspiration from websites. blogs, and magazines that cover men’s fashion. GQ and Esquire are two larger magazines which are focused on men’s fashion and lifestyle. You will not only find ads that feature looks you may like but also get style tips that you can incorporate.
Websites like fashionbeans.com, askmen.com, and the subreddit /r/malefashionadvice will give you style tips and keep you updated on current trends.
Save some photos of looks that you like to help you get an idea of what kind of basics you want in your wardrobe.
Go to clothing stores and try on some clothes. You don’t have to buy something just because you try it on. But seeing how certain clothes and fits look on you will help you to save money and look your best.;
, Dressing well on a college budget might require you to spend more effort finding the right clothes and building out your wardrobe over time. Knowing how much you can spend will help you to make smart buying decisions. Your clothing budget should come from your extra spending money, not money you need for rent, food, or other bills. If you are committed to dressing well you may have to spend less money eating out and save it for a new shirt.
Remember that you don’t need a brand new wardrobe right away. You may find that you already own some nice pieces that you can wear.
Don’t think that more expensive clothes are better. While GQ will give you style advice, the clothes which are featured are often more expensive. You can still find similar outfits at other stores for much less.
 You don’t need a lot of different clothes to make a variety of looks. You can create plenty of looks that get you from class to the gym to the bar with less than 30 pieces of clothing.


Focus on building a versatile wardrobe with items that are compatible with each other. Solid, staple colors and a few essential pieces can be paired with just about anything. Staple clothes include:
Jeans and chinos.
Collared shirt.
T-shirt.
Sweater and/or cardigan.
Dress shoes and casual shoes.
Jacket or blazer.
A nice coat if you live somewhere where the weather gets cold. Peacoats are a staple and always in fashion. You can explore other coat styles and should find one you like. But a peacoat is always in style.
 You want a look you feel comfortable and confident in. You may be more comfortable in a casual look of a sweater, jeans, and casual shoes. Or, you may like to dress up more and wear button-downs and chinos. Regardless of your preferred look, get clothes that fit your body well.


Everyone’s body is different and certain patterns, cuts, and even certain brands of clothing will work in your favor. Generally, thinner vertical lines will slim you down, while thicker horizontal lines make you look broader. Patterns typically shorten a part of your body. Slimmer cuts in shirts and pants will accentuate the shape of your body.
In addition to getting stylish clothes you need clothes that fit well and make your body look proportional.
Men with broader shoulders and a smaller waist will be able to wear most fits whether you like a slim cut or a looser one.
If you have a bit of a wider midsection, opt for tops that have vertical stripes or are a solid color. Get pants with a slimmer straight leg to make your legs look longer and create an even line from your waist.
Add layers to accentuate certain areas. If you have narrower shoulders you can throw on a jacket or a crew neck sweater to give yourself a broader look and more definition.
Invest in a trusty pair of dark denim jeans. Denim is one of the most versatile pieces of clothing you own.

