 The time to prevent the ballpark jumbotron proposal is before it starts.If you see a public proposal together on a television show or movie, say something along the lines of “Wow. I would absolutely hate it if someone did that to me. It’s so tacky.”
If your partner needs a more obvious example of why a public proposal is a bad idea, watch any of the dozens of public-proposals-gone-wrong videos that are widely available online. Fear of humiliation can be a powerful motivator.
 If you do receive a proposal in a highly public setting like a ballpark, it’s very likely that many sets of eyes, and even cameras, are watching your every move. Every second you take to get over the shock adds to the tension.Concentrate on your breathing to quickly regain some composure.
Identify a way out. Look for a door, a concourse, or even a natural barrier like trees or bushes. Having an escape route available will help reduce feelings of panic., You want to get out of the public eye in an expeditious manner so you can talk things over with less pressure.Do your best to control your body language and facial expressions, and suggest to your partner that “I would much rather talk about this privately,” or that “I want to answer you, but I’m too nervous in front of all these people.”
Try not to give the impression that the answer will be “no” until you’re safely out of sight. Any answer that isn’t an immediate “yes” will have your proposer worried and stressed, so do not add to it if you can help it.
 Consider giving them a hug while you do it, and do your best to keep a smile on your face. All eyes are on you.


Spare their pride and feelings if you can, but if that becomes impossible then your best move is to get things over with as quickly as possible.
 Regardless of how well (or disastrously) your refusal went, everybody in the immediate area is going to recognize you and maybe even ask you about what happened. Don’t give them the opportunity.


A modest disguise can help. Put on, or take off, a hat or sunglasses, or make other quick, minor changes to your appearance. People that only had a quick glimpse of you may not recognize you afterward.
Find the back door, or another exit from the area that isn’t crowded. You don’t want to have to shoulder your way through a throng of humanity while making your escape.

