 There is a productivity-enhancing approach to time management called the pomodoro technique that is helpful for some people. Basically, it can help you avoid procrastinating by guiding you to work for focused, specified time periods broken up by short breaks.The free web app will prompt you to work on specific tasks for an allotted 25-minute time period - a “pomodoro”.
This app will also help you better recognize the amount of time it should take to complete certain types of tasks.
Strict Workflow is another app that prompts you to work for 25 minutes, take a break for 5, and repeat. It also has built-in site-blocking capabilities., If you want to work for a certain amount of time, then take a break for a certain amount of time, you can also use a simple timer to do so. Thyme is a free timer app for Mac computers that sits elegantly in your menu bar and tells you how long you’ve been working on a certain task, etc.


Stayfocused is another simpler version of Pomodoro.cc, designed for use with Google Chrome., So, you successfully stayed on task for a solid hour and want to take a break to play online pool? You should! You should also use the free app called Take a Five to ensure your break doesn’t turn into a gaming marathon.Take a Five allows you to specify the amount of time a tab will stay open. It will then automatically close. Set it for ten minutes and break that rack - the clock is ticking.
 First developed as a web-based app, Plan will help you organize when and where you need to be, as well as what you should be working on. More than just a scheduling app, it can help you keep from procrastinating when it feels like you have too much on your plate.Plan will compile reports about your productivity. If you happen to be more productive in a certain location, or at a certain time of day, Plan will make sure you know about it.
 Finish relies on the motivating power of having a deadline. By prompting you to complete the initial steps of large projects by earlier deadlines, it prevents procrastinating until the final deadline looms. Finish also helps you sort and schedule specific tasks with different time frames. You’ll get reminders to finish tasks until you do.


Different settings allow you to reduce notifications, or only receive notifications regarding priority tasks, or use the app mostly for organization. Finish is only available for iOS products, and costs $0.99.
Exam Countdown allows you to schedule important upcoming responsibilities, prompting you to prepare for them ahead of time and offering tips about studying. It’s free and compatible with Apple products.