 Contrary to what many physicians believe, staying away from health resources does not decrease the worry. In fact, avoiding learning about the conditions you worry about only makes the fear grow over time.


For example, you worry about developing cancer, so you avoid news and health articles that discuss the disease. It seems this doesn't relieve your anxiety, it only helps the cancer grow more ominous in your mind.
Create a daily worry window of about 30 minutes in which you educate yourself about the conditions that influence your anxiety. Check out the symptoms, read testimonies of people with the disorders, and examine the worst-case scenario. You may get worried about developing the disorder, but ask yourself what are the chances of it actually happening. Then, ask yourself how you would handle it if it did happen.This practice helps you overcome the avoidance aspect that worsens your anxiety. It also helps you gain some control of the situation and view your fears in a more realistic way.
 Along with avoiding health resources and excessive worry, another common symptom of health-related anxiety is obsessively checking your body for signs of illness. In order to take back control and overcome these fears, you have to stop checking.If you have a frequent habit of checking, it may be too difficult to stop cold turkey. Start by reducing the number of times you check per day. Then, reserve checking to a certain time of the day (maybe during your worry window). Gradually, decrease checking until you are doing it once a week or once a month.
 Reassurance-seeking is another problematic aspect of health anxiety. You might call your doctor’s office excessively to report “strange” body sensations. You might phone your friends and family to verbalize your fear of developing a serious medical condition. Stop this right away.Set a rule with loved ones that you are not allowed to discuss health symptoms. Visit your doctor only as needed for routine exams or tests. When you ask a question, take your physician’s first answer and do not ask again or seek a second opinion.
The fact of the matter is, you will never be completely certain about your health or free from risk of illness. All you are doing is upsetting yourself and the other person by seeking out empty reassurances.
 Dealing with the symptoms of health anxiety may be challenging to do on your own. Ask your therapist, doctor, friends, and family to hold you accountable. If they are knowledgeable about what you need to change, they can correct you when you start obsessing over symptoms. It may also help to give your friends and family pamphlets and resources about health anxiety.


To your health providers, you might say, “I’m really interested in treating my health anxiety. So, please redirect me if I ask too many questions or seem obsessive about my health. I need you to help me stay accountable.”
To your loved ones, you might say, “I am struggling with health anxiety, which means I am constantly worried about getting sick. I have a problem obsessing over the slightest change in my body. Can you please be on the lookout for any anxious behavior and call me out on it? Or, if I am focusing on a condition, can you change the subject? I’d really appreciate your help.”