 Acid-free cardstock is a staple of scrapbooking. It is a stiff, heavy paper that can withstand the weight of embellishments, photos, and memorabilia. These characteristics make it ideal to use as a background for your album’s pages. Cardstock is available in every imaginable solid color, texture, and finish. When you select your cardstock, pick out colors, textures, and finishes that complement your scrapbook’s color story—the palette of colors you choose to use in the album.


You may also use cardstock to mat photos, frame pictures, and create embellishments.
Finishes include: iridescent, glossy, matte, and glitter.80 pounds is the most popular cardstock weight. It is similar in thickness to a business card.;
, Scrapbookers rely on acid-free patterned paper to help them tell their narrative, express their theme, and unite their album. The patterns you select should reflect your theme and align with your color story. This lightweight paper is perfect for accents and use as a background.


You may choose patterns that clearly expresses your theme—palm trees for tropical vacations or ballerinas for a dance recital—or you can pick paper with an abstract or geometrical pattern that will work for a variety of pages within your album.
If you struggle to mix and match patterns and colors, you can purchase sets of printed paper., In addition to using solid and patterned paper, scrapbookers also incorporate transparent sheets of acetate paper into their albums. Transparency paper may be completely see through or contain a printed pattern. You may use this paper as an overlay or for a background.


In an effort to keep your album cohesive, the transparency paper you purchase should match the cardstock and patterned paper you select for your project. Do not purchase transparency paper that is unrelated to your theme and/or color palette., Scrapbooking aisles provide consumers with a myriad of options, but don't allow the seemingly endless options to overwhelm you. If you are struggling to mix and match patterns, colors, and even paper types for you backgrounds, opt to purchase a curated pack of paper. Every pattern and color was carefully selected to complement the other options within the pack. A collection of paper will give you a good starting point.


Most packs of curated paper have a line of matching embellishments.