 Stenciling is a fun way to monogram shoes, but it requires several materials and a few special tools as well. Before you begin, you will need:

Computer or device with word program.
Printer.
Pen.
Regular printer paper.
Cardstock.
Exacto knife.
Scissors (optional).
Strong tape.
Fabric paint.
Spouncer (a sponge-like brush for stenciling).
Iron.
Ironing board (optional).
 Determine where you will place it on your shoe. Favor flat areas where the surface isn’t interrupted by any seams or stitched-on items like logos or stripes. Measure the dimensions of this area so you know how large or small your monogram should be.

Tongues are perhaps the most ideal to work with because they can be stretched flat over a work surface.
 First, design your monogram on your computer or device with Microsoft Word or a similar program, or sketch it by hand on cardstock. If your printer is able to print cardstock, use that for your print-out. If not, print it on regular paper and trace the design onto cardstock. Then use an exacto knife to cut the design out so the cardstock becomes a stencil.

Cardstock is thick enough to keep fabric paint from bleeding through. However, because it’s stiffer than standard paper, it doesn’t bend as well, which is why you should pick the flattest parts of your shoe to work on, ideally the tongue.
 Remove any laces so they won’t get in the away. If you’re placing your monogram on the tongue, use scissors to trim off any labels that may be on the back side, since these may prevent you from stretching it totally flat.If you’re placing it elsewhere, stuff the shoe full of paper, socks, or anything else that will firm it up.Decorative attachments, like bows, can also be removed to make more room.
 If you’re placing your monogram anywhere other than your shoe’s tongue, crop your cardstock around the stencil until it is small enough for you to tape the edges to the shoe. However, be sure there is still enough cardstock around the stencil to block your spouncer from touching the rest of the shoe. Secure your stencil to your shoe with tape around all sides. If you are stenciling the tongue instead:Trim off the top and bottom of your cardstock to shape your stencil into a wide rectangle.
Pull the tongue of your shoe free and stretch it flat over the edge of your worktable, with the rest of the shoe dangling off the side.
Center the stencil over the tongue using the monogram’s middle initial, if you included one.
Secure the stencil to the worktable with strong tape, which should pin the tongue down in place. If not, tape the tongue to the table, then the stencil over it.
 First, pour a small amount of fabric paint onto a paper plate. Dip a spouncer into the paint. Remove excess paint by dabbing the spouncer a few times on another paper plate until it’s relatively clear. Then monogram your shoe by pressing the spouncer over your stencil lightly and quickly.

It’s better to use too little paint at first and then add more. Keep your first application light and repeat a second time.
Allow the paint to dry for a couple of hours or overnight.
 After the paint has dried, remove the tape to free your shoe from the stencil. Place a thin piece of fabric over the painted area. Because it’s touching paint, use scrap material, not anything nice. Set your iron on high and then press the fabric over the paint, without using steam, for about ten seconds to heat-set the paint.