 Some vehicle’s owner’s manuals will suggest that you can use a range of octane levels when choosing fuel. Automakers suggest that in vehicles designed for multiple octane ratings, using the lower octane option may compromise the performance of your engine slightly. However, research has shown that the difference in the performance of these engines while using the lower octane options has been negligible at best. For most driving applications, using the less expensive, lower octane fuel will come with no adverse effects.If your owner’s manual allows for a range of octane levels, choose the one that best fits your budget.
Remember that the drop in the performance of your engine at a lower octane is negligible under most driving conditions.
 You may have heard the expression, “the air is thinner” at high altitude. The “thinning” of the air is caused by a reduced amount of oxygen in the ambient air around you. The higher you are, the less oxygen can reach you and your engine. Effectively, driving at a high altitude affects your engine in the same way reducing the compression ratio would. With less oxygen entering each cylinder, the likelihood of pre-detonation is reduced. At many locations that are 5,000 feet above sea level or higher, 85 octane fuel is sold for this very reason.If you live in a high elevation area (4,000 feet above sea level or higher) you can safely run a lower octane fuel than you might closer to sea level.
Remember that running a lower octane fuel can become risky if you drive your vehicle to a lower elevation.
 If you find yourself in a situation where your engine could benefit from an increase in the octane of the fuel its running, either because of extreme weather or severe duty driving, you can add ethanol to the fuel to increase its stability. Ethanol is a form of alcohol with an average octane rating of about 109, and mixing it with fuel can increase the octane rating of an entire tank.Most gasoline purchased in the United States is already about ten percent ethanol.
You can purchase ethanol octane boosters at most auto parts stores and many large retailers.
Always add ethanol to a full tank of gas.
 Regardless of the octane level you choose, running top tier gas in your vehicle will increase the engine’s longevity, as well as possibly improving your gas mileage and performance. To be considered a top tier fuel distributor, your gas must contain at least three times the required detergent levels set by the EPA. Premium fuel often contains higher levels of these detergents, so you may opt to purchase premium fuel strictly because it will reduce the likelihood of your fuel system clogging. You can find top tier gas at a number of gas stations, including:BP (British Petroleum)
Texaco
Costco
Exxon

