 A full-body cover-up for an average adult woman should be roughly 2 feet (61 cm) long. A cover-up that only covers the bottom half of a swimsuit only needs to be roughly 1 foot (30.5 cm) long.

If desired, you can take more precise measurements using a soft measuring tape.
For a full-body cover-up, hold the end of the tape at the height of your armpit, then extend it straight down to a point at your upper to mid thigh.
For a half-body cover-up, hold the end of the tape at your navel and extend it straight down to a point at your upper to mid thigh.
 Wrap a soft measuring tape around the widest part of the body your cover-up will need to fit around.

For most women, this will be the bust, hips, or stomach.
Make sure that the measuring tape wraps all the way around the widest part of your body. It should be taut without feeling tight, and it must also remain parallel to the ground.
 For this pattern, gauge isn't important. You will need to monitor the width and length of the piece as you work on it, however.

Even though gauge does not matter for this pattern, the type of yarn does. Use 100-percent cotton yarn since this type of yarn will not create a problem when it gets wet.
For worsted weight cotton yarn, an F-5 (3.75 mm) crochet hook is recommended.
 Tie the yarn onto your crochet hook with a slip knot. Chain stitch until you have a chain that is long enough to fit comfortably around the widest part of your body.

For a comfortable fit, make a chain that is 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) longer than your previously measured body width.
Regardless of the length of your chain, the number of chain stitches used must be a multiple of four.;
, When you reach the end of your chain, slip stitch the last stitch to the first, creating a large loop.

This loop should be able to fit comfortably around the widest part of your body.
Before slip stitching, make sure that the chain is straight. It should not be twisted or tangled when you join it.
 To complete the official first round, you will need to work a pattern of chain stitches and double crochet stitches into the chain stitches of your foundation ring.Chain two.
Double crochet once into the second chain from the hook.
Work six chain stitches from the loop on your hook. Skip over three chains of your foundation, then work one double crochet into the fourth.

Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.


Slip stitch the last double crochet to the first stitch of the round.
Turn the work to the other side.
 Most of the second round can be completed with chains and double crochet, but you will need to work one triple treble crochet toward the end.

Chain eight. Note that this chain will act as one triple treble crochet and three chains.
Double crochet once into the first chain-six arch of the previous round.
Chain six, then work one double crochet into the next chain-six arch of the previous round.

Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.


At the end of the round, chain three, then work one triple treble crochet into the last double crochet of the previous round. (See the "Tips" section for instructions on the triple treble crochet stitch.)
Slip stitch the first and last stitches of the round together, then turn the work.
 The third round also requires you to complete a pattern chain stitches and double crochets. No triple treble crochet is required for this round.

Chain one.
Double crochet once into the first triple treble crochet of the previous round.
Chain six, then double crochet once into the next chain-six arch of your previous round.

Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round. The final double crochet of this round should be worked into the other triple treble crochet of the previous round.


Slip stitch the last stitch to the first of the round, then turn the work.
 For the remainder of the fishnet cover-up body, repeat rounds two and three, alternating back and forth between the two.

Stop once the garment is within 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of your desired overall length. The remaining length will be reached when you complete the edging.
Do not fasten off the garment after your last round. Move directly into edging instructions.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into the first stitch of the last round of the fishnet body. Work one single crochet into each remaining stitch across the round.

Slip stitch the last stitch of this round to the first of this round.
Make sure that the right side of the garment faces you as you work. Do not turn the garment at the end of the round.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into each single crochet of the previous round.

At the end of the round, slip stitch the last single crochet to the first. Do not turn.
 Chain four, then work a series of double crochet, chain stitches, and treble crochet across the entire round.

Skip three stitches, then work one treble crochet into the stitch after that. Chain three, then work four double crochet around the treble crochet you just created.Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.
Slip stitch the last stitch to the first to complete the round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie off the yarn.

Weave the remaining excess into the wrong side of your stitches to hide it and further secure the tail.
 Attach the yarn to your hook with a slip knot, then work a foundation of chain stitches 2 feet (61 cm) longer than the foundation chain previously created for the fishnet body.

Do not slip stitch the ends together into a loop.
If you do not remember how long your original foundation chain was, you can re-measure the circumference of the fishnet body using a tape measure.
Alternatively, you could compare the length of your new foundation chain to the circumference of the fishnet body as you create it.
 Single crochet once into the first chain of your foundation, then alternate chain stitches and single crochet back and forth across the remainder of the chain.

Skip the next chain, then chain one. Single crochet once into the following chain of your foundation.Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 2 inches (5 cm) of excess. Pull this excess tail through the loop on your hook to tie off the yarn.

Weave the remaining excess into the stitches of your drawstring.
 Weave the drawstring cord in and out through the top row of gaps in the fishnet. Leave 1 foot (30.5 cm) of cord hanging out from either side.The top row is the row not lined with the fish fin edging.
Start and end at the seam of the fishnet.
Do not tie or stitch the drawstring in place. It must remain loose.
 Put on the cover-up. Pull on the drawstring cord until the top of the cover-up lies snug against your body. Tie the drawstring into a bow to hold the cover-up in place.

Note that the seam and tie should be positioned to one side of your body.
For a full-length cover-up, tie the piece above your bust.
For a half-body cover-up, tie the piece around your waist.

