 Each state has different rules regarding whether an injury is considered work-related for the purposes of awarding workers' compensation benefits.


Generally, the injury must occur while the employee is performing his or her job duties, and must fall within the scope of those duties.For example, suppose you own a bottling plant and you have one employee who is charged with removing broken bottles from the line. If she gets cut by glass while removing a broken bottle, her injury generally would be considered to have occurred within the scope of her employment.
In contrast, if the same employee was cut by glass while off the clock having lunch in the employee break room, you would have an argument that her injury wasn't work-related.
Keep in mind, though, that an injury isn't necessarily considered a compensable work-related injury just because the employee was on the clock when the injury happened. Each state has its own criteria for determining scope of employment., If the injury did not occur on company property or when the employee was on the clock, you may be able to argue the injury wasn't work-related.


You will need information about the employee's work status and a description of his or her job duties. Additionally, any other policies or safety rules of which employees have knowledge can be used to analyze and defend against a workers' compensation claim.
An employee's job description helps you determine whether the injury occurred within the scope of his or her job duties. If the employee was injured as a result of violating a known policy or safety regulation, you also may have a defense against his or her workers' compensation claim.To defend against a workers' compensation claim in some states, you must prove not only that the injury fell outside the employee's job description, but that the employee knew about this job description and intentionally acted outside of it.
Similarly, if the employee violated a health and safety rule, you may have to show not only that the employee was aware of the rule, but that the rule was consistently enforced.
You also want to interview co-workers, particularly those who were around when the accident occurred that caused the employee's injury.
 Even if the employee was on the clock at the time of the injury, certain circumstances can mean the injury itself can't be considered work-related.


For example, some states don't consider injuries that arise through horseplay to be work-related. However, in other states such as Pennsylvania an employee still may be eligible for workers compensation benefits for a horseplay-related injury under certain circumstances.Employers typically aren't liable for injuries occurring on the job if the employee was intoxicated or under the influence of illegal drugs at the time of the injury.Employers also can avoid liability in most states by proving that the employee's injury was intentional or self-inflicted.However, employers may remain on the hook for self-inflicted injuries such as suicide or attempted suicide if the act was due to work-related depression or other mental disturbance.
Similarly, employees typically aren't entitled to workers' compensation benefits if their injuries occurred as a result of willful misconduct.Keep in mind that if you argue this type of defense, you generally bear the burden of proving that the employee acted intentionally – that he or she knew the activity was against the rules and likely to cause injury, but did it anyway.
Co-workers who were around the employee when the accident occurred also can provide key information to help you understand what was happening and how the injury happened.
 If the employee's injury relates to a previous injury or condition, you may be able to argue the injury was idiopathic – meaning it happened spontaneously or as a result of an unidentifiable cause.Common examples of idiopathic injuries include strokes, seizures, or heart attacks.
Additionally, if the employee misrepresented his or her physical condition when hired, you can use that information to defend against a later workers' compensation claim.
For example, suppose you hire an employee for a job that requires repetitive lifting of 100-pound boxes, and the employee asserts that he is physically able to do that. However, the employee was currently under a doctor's restriction not to lift more than 40 pounds because of a back injury. If the employee re-injures his back at work, you can use this information to defend against his workers' compensation claim.
The same argument works in the reverse. If the employee suffers a minor injury on the job, then later does something in his spare time to exacerbate the injury, he typically won't be eligible for workers' compensation benefits., Typically you must have a doctor's testimony to support your argument that the injury isn't work-related.


Whether doctor's testimony is required depends on why you're arguing the injury isn't work-related. Primarily, a medical opinion is required if you are arguing that the employee isn't entitled to workers' compensation benefits because he or she was intoxicated or under the influence of illegal drugs when the injury occurred.
In those cases, medical testimony is required to prove that intoxication was a proximate cause of the employee's injury – in other words, that if the employee hadn't been intoxicated the injury wouldn't have happened.
You also may need medical testimony if the employee suffered similar injuries both at work and outside of work, and you're arguing that the disability the employee is claiming is unrelated to the workplace injury.