 Perhaps the most important thing you can do to make sure your baby has enough iron is to make sure they get it while in the womb. This is important, as babies acquire all the iron they need for the first four months of life while in the womb.


Have your doctor check your iron levels while you are pregnant.
Be specially cognizant of your iron levels if you are anemic, have other blood diseases, or are on a vegan or vegetarian diet.
Take iron supplements if your levels are low.
Stay proactive about monitoring your own health during pregnancy. If you're not healthy, your baby won't get everything they need before birth., Based on factors unique to your baby, your pediatrician will make recommendations about how you should maintain healthy iron levels for your baby. In the end, your pediatrician has the substantial experience needed to determine your baby's iron needs.


If you are concerned about iron levels, ask your pediatrician. For instance, say “since my baby was about two weeks premature, does she need iron supplements?”
Healthy babies born full-term already have enough iron for the first four months after birth.
Babies born premature may need iron supplements during the first four months after birth., If your doctor is concerned about your child’s iron levels for some reason, they’ll recommend follow up visits. These visits will allow them to keep a closer eye on your baby. Your doctor will recommend frequent follow-ups if:


Your baby is born premature.
Your baby is anemic or has a similar blood disorder.
You choose to breastfeed and you are anemic, iron-deficient, or are on a special (restrictive) diet., Regardless of whether your baby has a blood-related condition, was premature, or was born healthy and full-term, your doctor will recommend diagnostics to monitor the overall health of your baby – including their iron levels.


Doctors will run blood panels on your baby if there are any special circumstances, like premature birth.
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends screening all babies at 12 months for iron deficiency and anemia., Iron deficiency in babies often manifests as anemia, a condition where red blood cells can’t provide enough oxygen to the baby’s body. Anemia can be a life-threatening condition if not treated properly. Signs of iron deficiency related anemia include:


Paleness
Weakness
Excessive tiredness
Rapid heartbeat
Decreased appetite
Swollen tongue
Brittle nails.