 Don't get too many items, See this list of what you need:


Rails
Minecart
Powered rails
A pickaxe (stone or better depending on what you will be going through)
An axe (optional)
A shovel (optional)
Sign (for posting information)
Extra space for mined items
Map
Redstone torches (activate powered rails);
, Draw out your plan of your railway map, bridges, tunnels, signs etc. The map of your Minecraft city must also be needed to help building.
 This is a high-class railway system, so you must build a station for the railway. A tunnel is always the best so it won't block your buildings that you might build on the ground.
 Dig in a direction, so you could build stairs instead of ladders. Dig in 2-3 blocks wide.
 Make sure you make it convenient enough for yourself. Dig until you reach 8-15 blocks deep.
 If there is a cave, change your direction.
 It could be 1-2 blocks wide. You could put it to the side or end of your station.
 This is a high-class type, so you must make your station clearer and nicer. Start putting more exits of your station, so it would be easier for you to get to it. At each of those station exits/entrances, add signs that says whatever the name of your station is. Since the wideness is 2 blocks, put 2 signs. The signs should be on top.
 It could be like an arrow pointing to the direction on the sign.
 That should be showing where the exits lead you to, where the trains head to, etc.
, Put gold, diamond whatever you like.
 It is true that you could get it off your TooManyItems cheat, but this just makes it more real.
 Put minecart tracks along the way, but two or three powered rails at the start of the tracks without redstone torches, this helps stop the cart to stop moving. You must do that for all stations to help it stop. Between 7-14 Minecraft tracks, add one or two powered rails along with redstone torches on the wall. This speeds up the cart so it won't stop.
 According to building your first station, you must decorate this station too.
 Then, name your line.
,