 A great way to give yourself a feeling of accomplishment and a sense of self-worth is to serve others through a volunteer organization. If you are working with less fortunate populations, it will also help give you some perspective on your life and help you count your blessings.Volunteering can give you plenty of ways to help you appreciate yourself: Studies have shown it to lower depression, as well as increase your happiness, satisfaction with your life, self-esteem, and your sense of control over life.Volunteer with an organization whose vision you support. Figure out how your skill set can benefit their mission. Utilizing your skills to help those in need will help you to appreciate your talents and experience.For example, you could say, “I’m interested in volunteering for your organization. I have an accounting background, and was wondering how we might be able to incorporate my skills into a volunteer role.”

, If you need a self-appreciation boost, try donating money to a favorite charity. Studies have found that giving money to others will make you feel happier and better about yourself than if you were to spend the money on yourself instead.If you do not have a favorite charity, considering giving to someone. You could send a friend who is struggling a gift card, pay for a stranger’s coffee, or buy breakfast for a homeless person. These acts of kindness will make you feel good about yourself, and help someone else out, too.
 Looking for others’ positive characteristics and actions will help you better appreciate them and, in turn, help you better appreciate yourself. The good you see in others is also in you.Acknowledge other people’s good intentions, abilities, and traits. Complimenting others will make both of you feel good.
You could say, “Susanna, I love how patient you are with kids. You have such a good heart with them, and it shows. All the kids in the neighborhood just love you!”

, Talk to people you trust about your feelings or other things that make you feel vulnerable. Chances are, the person you talk to will be able to relate to your feelings and may be able to offer you some understanding. You may feel less alone, and your negative feelings about yourself may not feel so difficult to manage when you realize that many people struggle with the same insecurities.Expressing any vulnerable feelings will help you feel more empowered and less afraid.
You could say something like, “It’s hard for me to talk about how lonely I feel sometimes, because I don’t hear other people struggling with this like I think I do. Do you ever feel like that?”

, People will treat you by the standards you set. If you don’t appreciate yourself, other people will see that in your behavior and treat you accordingly. Set boundaries with others and enforce your being treated with respect.Healthy boundaries allow you to maintain your self-esteem and self-respect.
Setting boundaries requires firm, clear communication. For example, if your friend is routinely late when you get together, you could say, “John, it seems like every time we get together you are always about a half hour late. If you are running late, please text me and let me know.”

, Be gracious when someone pays you a compliment. Smile genuinely, make eye contact, and say “Thank you!”Being able to accept a compliment shows that you value and have confidence in yourself.
For example, say someone compliments you on your shirt. You could say, “Thank you! It’s one of my favorites!” instead of, “Oh, this old thing is falling apart. I wear it all the time.”

, Find other people in your life or in the public eye that you see as people who appreciate themselves and their gifts to the world. What do they do that makes them seem as though they appreciate themselves? Watch them and apply those behaviors to your own life.Ask a friend who has these qualities how they appreciate themselves. You could say, “You seem to really value yourself. What kinds of things do you do in your life to help you appreciate yourself?”
If you admire a politician or celebrity, for example, consider taping their picture somewhere where you will see it regularly (like by your computer or on your refrigerator), to remind you that you want to imitate their self-confidence and self-worth.

