 Determine how much of your arm you wish to cover, then measure the full span using a measuring tape.

This pattern is easy to customize, and you can use it to create a bolero with cap sleeves, short sleeves, or long sleeves.
Hold your arms out straight, then measure along your back from one desired stopping to the other, crossing over your shoulder blades in the process.
You may need someone else to measure the appropriate span. Alternatively, you can approximately measure the desired span by extending the measuring tape over the sleeves and back of a well-fitting shirt.
 Locate the widest part of your upper arm and loosely wrap the measuring tape all the way around it.

You'll need to crochet the height of the bolero so that it is at least as long as your arm circumference.
 Determine where you want the bolero to stop. Extend a tape measure from your desired stopping point to the base of your neck to determine your desired bolero height.

To be a true bolero, the height must be somewhere between your bust and natural waist.
Note that this measurement must be equal to or longer than your arm circumference. It shouldn't be more than double that circumference, however, since the sleeves might become too baggy.
 Tie the yarn onto your crochet hook using a standard slip knot.

You can create this bolero using any yarn weight and any size crochet hook. The crochet hook should be chosen based on the manufacturer's recommendations for the type/weight of yarn you use.;
, For an adult medium bolero with short sleeves, you'll need to work approximately 192 chain stitches.Alter the number of chain stitches to roughly match the length measurement you took previously. Make sure that your stitch count equals a multiple of five, plus an additional two (e.g. 127 chains, 172 chains, 212 chains, etc.). When finished, your chain should be long enough to extend across your back and over your desired arm length on either side.
 Turn the work over and single crochet once into the second chain from the hook. After that, single crochet once into each stitch until you reach the end of the foundation chain., Turn the piece, the work one no-turning-chain double crochet into the first stitch of the previous row. Double crochet twice into the same stitch as the no-turning-chain double crochet.

Work a double crochet pattern across the row:

Skip four stitches.
Work two double crochets into the next stitch.
Chain one.
Work two double crochets into the same stitch as the previous set.


Repeat your double crochet pattern until you reach the last five single crochets of the previous row, then skip over four of those stitches. Work three double crochets into the final stitch of the row.
 Turn the piece and work one no-turning-chain double crochet into the first stitch of the previous row. Work two more double crochets into the same stitch before progressing into the row pattern.

To complete the pattern for this row:

Skip over all the double crochets of the previous row.
Work two double crochets, one chain stitch, and two additional double crochets into each chain-one space of the previous row.


Continue this row pattern until you reach the last double crochet cluster. Work three double crochet stitches into the final double crochet of that cluster.
 As with your previous two rows, turn the piece and work one no-turning-chain double crochet into the first stitch. Follow this with two double crochets into the same stitch.

Work your row pattern as follows:

Chain two.
Single crochet once into the space above and between your row-two double crochets. Note that these stitches should still be worked into your previous row (row three).
Work two double crochets, one chain, and two additional double crochets into the next chain space.
Chain two.
Single crochet once into the space above and between the next row-two double crochet clusters.


Repeat this pattern until you reach the final cluster of double crochets, then double crochet three times into the final double crochet of the previous row.
 Continue working rows two, three, and four in the same sequence until the resulting rectangle matches your previously measured desired height.

For an adult medium or large bolero, you'll likely end up with roughly 70 to 73 rows. This amount can vary depending on your needs and preferences, but keep the final row count as a multiple of three plus one (e.g. 55 rows, 61 rows, 80 rows, etc.). When finished, the height of the rectangle should be able to join loosely around your upper arm.Do not fasten off the yarn at the end of the final row unless you do not plan to add any ribbing to the bolero.
 Chain one, then work one double crochet into each stitch across the final row of your main body piece.

Your stitch count should remain even with the stitch count of the final body row. Do not decrease or increase the row length while working any portion of the ribbing.
 Chain two at the end of the row, then turn the piece over. Front post double crochet once into the next stitch, then double crochet once into the stitch after that; repeat across the row.

A front post double crochet is essentially the same as a standard double crochet, but instead of inserting the hook through the indicated stitch and to the back of the work, you'll only insert it through the front of the stitch. The hook will remain at the front of the work and will not poke through to the other side., Chain two and turn the piece over. Double crochet once into the next stitch, then back post double crochet into the stitch after that; repeat across the row.

The back post double crochet is essentially the same as a standard double crochet, but instead of inserting the hook through the indicated stitch from front to back, you'll insert it through the back of the work and across the indicated stitch, keeping the hook at the back of the work the entire time., Chain one, but do not turn the piece. Front post single crochet into the next stitch, then single crochet into the stitch after that; repeat across the rest of the row.

The front post single crochet is the same as a standard single crochet stitch, but instead of inserting the hook through the indicated stitch from front to back, you'll insert it through the front of the stitch, keeping it only at the front of the work instead of extending it through to the back.
 At the end of the fourth row, cut the yarn, leaving a 3-inch (7.6-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the final loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Do not trim the remaining tail end. Instead, you'll weave this end into the piece toward the end of the project.
 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using another slip knot, then slip stitch into the first stitch of your first body row to join the new yarn to that row., Work an identical four rows of ribbing along the top edge of the rectangle, then fasten off the yarn.For the first row, chain one, then double crochet across.
For the second row, chain two and turn. Front post double crochet once into the next stitch, then double crochet once into the stitch after that; repeat across.
For the third row, chain two and turn. Double crochet once into the next stitch, then back post double crochet into the stitch after that; repeat across.
For the fourth and final row, chain one. Front post single crochet into the next stitch, then single crochet into the stitch after that; repeat across the row.
Fasten off the yarn at the end of the fourth row, leaving a 3-inch (7.6-cm) tail.
 Fold the entire rectangle in half so that the ribbed edges meet.

Position the bolero so that the joined edges meet along the horizontal bottom of the piece. You'll be joining these horizontal edges only; do not join the vertical edges together.
 Attach free yarn to your crochet hook, then slip stitch the across a portion of the horizontal joined ends at the left of the piece.

The exact amount of slip stitches you make will depend upon the sleeve length you wish to have. For cap style sleeves, you may only need to slip stitch across the first three or four sets. Short sleeves might be double that amount, and long sleeves will require four times that amount or more.
You can check on the amount by measuring the distance from your shoulder down to your desired end point on your arm. Create a sleeve that matches that distance.
 Attach free yarn to your crochet hook, then slip stitch across an equal portion of the horizontal joined ends at the right of the piece.

Make sure that your second sleeve matches the size and stitch count of the first sleeve.
If done properly, there will still be enough joined space between the two sleeves to cover the width of your upper back.
 Use a tapestry needle to weave all loose tail ends into the underside of the adjacent stitching. Doing so hides the ends while making them more secure., Open up the unjoined edges and try on your new bolero. The joined portion of the sleeves should fall over the inside of your arms, and the body of the shrug (the open space between the two sleeves) should span across your upper back.