 Attics are common hiding places, but difficult to search thoroughly and stealthily. Try looking when you're home alone, but be very careful not to step where there is not a board. You don’t want to bust through the ceiling and leave incriminating evidence you can’t possibly cover.
 If you're not allowed to use their car, that makes it a perfect hiding spot. Pretend to forget something out there after a car trip and search quickly. There are only so many places to hide items in the car, so look to the most obvious spots.


The glove box is an obvious pick for hiding something. If you're searching for something small like keys or a remote, try the glove box.
An arm rest area is another obvious hiding spot. Sift through the oil change print outs and the car registration to find thin items like cards, phones, and games.
Pop the trunk. There is usually a button to get it open. Larger items can be hidden very easily in the trunk.
 More than likely your parents have a few things they like to do in their spare time. Those items provide good hiding spots because they check back often, and know when things are out of order.


Golf bags are a perfect, deep spot for longer gifts. If you suspect you’re getting a baseball bat, that’s an ideal location.
If your father does a lot of yard work, or your mother does a lot of gardening, their tools are probably pretty dirty. They may think you’ll be less likely to look among these items, and that’s why they will use that spot to hide things.
Crossword puzzles and Sudoku books are a great spot for thin items like gift cards, pictures, and concert tickets.
 If they use this location, it’s more than likely going to be a short-term hiding spot. They wouldn’t want to block the air-flow into the house for very long.


Large presents or items need somewhere big enough to conceal the size of the item. Check the largest air return first.
Small vents often have quick turns in them. A shorter item would likely fall into the ventilation system. Search for longer items here, ones that wouldn't fall through.

