 Rinse out your mouth with cool or cold water. Rinsing may get rid of any debris that is causing your gums to itch and help soothe inflammation and swelling.Try and rinse with filtered or bottled water. You could be allergic to something in your water and that is causing your itchy gums.;
, Suck on a piece of ice if your gums are itchy. The cold can numb the discomfort and reduce any inflammation associated with itchy gums.Try popsicles or other frozen foods if you don’t like ice cubes.
Allow the ice to melt, which can keep your oral cavity hydrated and may prevent further itching.
 Depending on the source of your itchy gums, gargling with some saltwater can relieve itchiness. Rinse with saltwater until your gums stop itching.Mix one tablespoon of salt in glass of warm water. Gargle a mouthful for about 30 seconds, concentrating on your gums. Spit out the water when you're finished.Avoid swallowing the mixture and don’t use it for more than seven to 10 days., Mix a solution of hydrogen peroxide and water. The solution may minimize any itchiness or associated inflammation.Mix 3% hydrogen peroxide with an equal amount of water.Rinse with the mixture for 15–30 seconds and spit it out when you’re done.Avoid using hydrogen peroxide for longer than 10 days.You can also try rinsing your mouth with bee propolis liquid, though this may stain your teeth. Add six to 10 drops into a glass of water and rinse for one minute before spitting out the solution.
 Mix baking soda and water to form a paste, then apply it to your gums. The paste may control any bacterial infections causing your gums to itch.Spoon one tablespoon of baking soda with a few drops of filtered or bottled water. Add small amounts of water until the mixture makes a thick paste.
Consider trying a mixture of baking soda and hydrogen peroxide., Recent studies have shown that aloe vera can help with inflammation due to oral conditions. Dab some on your itchy gums to help relieve the condition.You can find aloe vera in the following forms, all of which may help your itchy gums:Toothpastes and mouthwashes
Gels, which you can mix with water and drink or dab directly on your gums
Topical sprays
Juices, which you can swish around

, Consider limiting foods and drinks that may make any itchiness or inflammation worse. Limit or avoid spicy and acidic foods or tobacco.Be aware of trigger foods that make your itchiness worse. These may be the signal of an oral allergy as the cause of your itchy gums.Eat foods that won't make the itchiness worse. Try yogurt and ice cream, which may cool and sooth your gums.
Foods and drinks like tomatoes, lemons, orange juice, and coffee may make your itching or any inflammation worse.Stay away from tobacco products, which might be the source of your itching or make it worse.
 Studies have shown that psychological stress can contribute to periodontal disease. Reducing the stress in your life may help relieve itching gums.Avoid stressful situations whenever you can.
Exercise and gentle activities can minimize stress.
 If you are experiencing itchy gums and home remedies don’t help after seven to 10 days, schedule an appointment with your dentist. She can figure out the cause of your discomfort and find the right treatment for it.Itchy gums may be a product of fungal, viral, or bacterial infections; certain medications; nutritional deficiencies; improperly fitting dentures; teeth grinding; allergies; stress, or periodontal disease.Schedule your appointment as soon as possible. You may not notice any changes to your gums or mouth with some oral conditions.
Tell your dentist when the symptoms started, what treatments you’ve tried, and what relieves or makes symptoms worse.
Let your dentist know any medical conditions you have and medications you are taking.
 If you’re itchy gums, your dentist may check and test for gingivitis, which is a mild form of gum disease with a variety of causes.Once she’s determined a cause for your itchy gums, your dentist will develop the best treatment plan for you.Your dentist may be able to diagnose gingivitis or the cause of your itchy gums by examining your teeth, gums, and oral cavity.She’ll especially check your gums for redness, puffiness, and easy bleeding, which are symptoms of gingivitis.Your dentist may refer you to another doctor such as an internist or allergist to rule out underlying conditions., Depending on your diagnosis, your doctor may suggest or prescribe medication to relieve the itching sensation. You may also need medication or treatment to treat underlying oral or medical conditions.
 In many cases, itchy gums and gingivitis are caused by a buildup of plaque and tartar. Having your teeth deep cleaned can remove the cause of your itchy gums and promote your overall oral health.Your dentist may clean your teeth using one of the following procedures:


Scaling, which removes tartar above and below the gum line
Root planing, in which the dentist scales the root surface of the tooth, getting rid of bacteria and infected areas. This process leaves a polished surface for your gum to easily reattach...It is an easy surgical procedure performed with local anesthesia.
Lasering, which also removes tartar, but causes less pain and bleeding than scaling or root planing., If your dentist opts for planing or scaling your teeth, she may insert an antiseptic treatment into pockets in your mouth. These can further treat your condition.Your dentist may place the following in oral pockets:


Antiseptic chips with chlorhexidine. These are time-released and inserted into oral pockets after root planing.Antibiotic microspheres with minocycline. These are placed in oral pockets after scaling or planing., Your dentist may also prescribe an antibiotic such as doxycycline following a cleaning or even without one. These may treat persistent inflammation and prevent tooth decay., An antihistamine can neutralize allergens and help relieve your itching gums. If your condition is a result of allergies, take an oral antihistamine whenever you need one.Some oral antihistamines you can take are:


Chlorpheniramine is available in 2 mg and 4 mg. Take 4 mg every four to six hours and don’t exceed 24 mg per day.
Diphenhydramine is available in 25 mg and 50 mg. Take 25 mg every four to six hours and don’t exceed 300 mg per day.
 Spray or suck on an oral analgesic. Throat lozenges or sprays contain mild analgesics that may relieve your discomfort.


Use throat lozenges or sprays every two to three hours, or according to the package or your dentist's directions.Suck on the throat lozenge until it’s gone. Chewing or swallowing it whole may numb your throat and make it difficult to swallow.
 An antiseptic mouthwash with chlorhexidine can disinfect your mouth and relieve itching. Swish one around your mouth at least twice a day.Pour 15 ml of the mouthwash into a cup and then swish it around for 15 to 20 seconds before spitting it out.
 If your itchy gums are caused by severe gum disease, you may need surgery. Consider this option if your dentist diagnoses you in the later stages of periodontal disease.There are a few different procedures that may help you:


Flap surgeries, which involve detaching the gums from tooth and bone, removing plaque and suturing your gums to fit snugly around your tooth. This is performed under general anesthesia, so you will not feel anything during the surgery.
Bone and tissue grafts, which replace bone lost as a result of serious gum disease.