 Before applying any makeup, your face should be cleaned, moisturized, and dried. If you wear a full face of makeup, make sure the following steps are finished before starting your brows:


Begin with a layer of makeup primer. Primer will prevent your makeup from smudging and help it to last longer. This is extremely important when trying to maintain the illusion of natural eyebrows on bare skin.
Sponge on a light layer of foundation. Follow up by adding concealer to any problem areas you want to cover up. Blend well with a makeup sponge or your fingertips.
Many people use only bronzer or only blush, but if you use both start with the bronzer. Once these elements are ready, you can move on to drawing your brows.;
, Powder will help set your foundation and concealer. It also helps to ensure your skin is nice and dry. If there is too much moisture when you draw them on, your eyebrows may start to run. 







, You will be using this mixture to draw on the base of your brow. A combination of black with one or more shade of brown tends to look the most natural. A little bit of black powder in a light brown mix will make the lighter shade look more convincing, while some brown will soften the harshness of pure black.
 Use a small slanted makeup brush to form the base of your eyebrow. Use your brow ridge as a guide for your eyebrows' shape. Drawing drastically away from your brow ridge will make your eyebrows look less realistic. Otherwise, you can experiment with different shapes before deciding which looks right for you.









If you don't have a small enough makeup brush, you can use a cotton swab instead., Use a black-brown eyebrow pencil sharpened to a fine point. Draw small lines from the bottom of your eyebrow outline feathered away from your nose. A few stray "hairs" that don't perfectly line up with your brow outline will keep your eyebrows from looking too perfect and more like real eyebrows.
 The sealant will keep your drawn on eyebrows smudge free for up to 24 hours.









If you find that the sealant gives your brows too much of a shine, add another dusting of translucent powder. The powder will mattify and remove the sheen.