 It is much easier to play as the Ottoman civilization in deathmatch than in supremacy.;
, The number of cards, or shipments, you can choose is equal to your home city level minus 1.
 If you are not already there yet, click on the tab that reads: New World Trading Company to pick cards that give resources (they are the cards with numbers greater than 100 and have pictures of food, wood and coin in the background.)

, Next, select as many of the resource cards that ship wood to the new world as you can up to the one that ships 600 wood. Finally, select all the cards you can that ship coin to the new world as you can up to the card that ships 1000 coin.
 Next, click on "Build A Deck", which is an option that allows you to add and remove cards from your current deck. When you create a home city, it automatically begins with a standard deck of 15 cards. Add all the cards you just picked into your updated deck. Then take out any you feel are not as useful such as the "Team Cheap Trading Post" card. When you have all those cards you just selected in your deck, you can begin a game.
 During the game, your town center continuously spawns settlers at no cost, but at a slow rate - slower than training them in other civilizations. At the start, it is recommended you begin by hunting. When you have 9 settlers gathering food, allot two settlers for gathering wood. Finally, set the town center's economic unit gather point on the coin mine nearest to your town center. When a settler is trained, it will automatically begin mining.
 You should have one shipment by then. Go to your home city and request the "Crates of 700 food" card. When it arrives, send a settler to gather from those crates. Construct a Barracks and an Artillery Foundry.
 From the Artillery Foundry, train Abus Guns, which counter infantry. When you feel you have enough and your town is secure, advance to the Fortress Age. Keep repeating until you have advanced to the Imperial Age or attack you enemy.
 Keep trying if it fails!

