 Before you begin to balance, rinse your crystals under cold running water. This removes any contaminants. You can also take notes and write down how you are feeling prior to the balancing process.


These crystals should only be used for balancing. It may help to just have a set of 7 crystals that you use to balance yourself.
 Go to a quiet place and lay on your back (or your stomach if applying crystals to your root chakra, as lying on your back can make this difficult and uncomfortable). Take a few deep breaths and exhale slowly to relax. You can also set the mood with anything else you find relaxing such as music, nature sounds, or the sound of running water.As you inhale, imagine that you are breathing in a healing white light. As you exhale, imagine that you are breathing out all of your stress and negative emotions.
Your energy is connected to your thoughts. It is important that you have positive thoughts when you are trying to balance your chakras.
 Take the crystal that corresponds to your chakra and place it on that chakra. The energy of the crystal will vibrate and restore balance. Imagine that the crystal is glowing and spreading throughout your chakra.Place quartz crystals around your colored crystal to intensify the effect. Quartz crystals activate the energy centers of your body and have the power to modify existing energy.
Your symptoms may be worse after you place the crystals on your body. This is all the bad energy working its way out and is the beginning of your healing process.You can place the crystals directly on your skin or on top of your clothes.
Start at the root and work your way up. Place the crown chakra crystal right above your head instead of directly on your head., The crystals work on their own. You do not have to do anything extra. Leave them in place between five and 10 minutes, and then evaluate how you feel. Make mental or handwritten notes about your symptoms. If you feel more balanced, remove the crystals.If you do not feel better, leave the crystals on for another five to 10 minutes.


If you have a long-term blockage (e.g. chronic pain or long-term depression), it may take more than one session to balance your chakra. Focus on making small improvements instead of achieving complete balance in one session.
 Once you are finished with your session, remove each of the crystals. Start at the crown and work your way down. You do not have to deactivate your crystals.Drink a lot of water after your session to continue the balancing process.