 If you’re looking to feel energized and refreshed on a regular basis, exercise is a big part of the equation. One way exercise works to make you feel refreshed is it reduces stress and helps you expend anxious energy. Try to work a 30-minute exercise session into your schedule 5 or 6 days out of each week.Start small by taking two 15-minute walking breaks at work every day.
Regular physical activity also helps maintain good blood pressure and decreases cholesterol levels.
Exercise stimulates the release of endorphins, which is a hormone in the body that promotes feelings of well-being, even relieving pain.;
, Not only can building consistent exercise into your routine help you stay refreshed, but choosing a physical activity that makes you feel happy—without necessarily any set schedule—can help you feel refreshed for an afternoon. Grab a pickup game of basketball or soccer with some buddies to reap this benefit from exercise.


Fun outdoor activities can also include taking a weekend hike, going for a family bike ride, playing softball one Sunday after church, going swimming with the kids, and many more.
Try to work this unstructured physical activity in once a week.
 Do your part to keep from getting sick by keeping your yearly physical, dental, and eye exams. Sick people do not feel refreshed. Make appointments with your doctors now and keep them every year.


The recommended frequency of doctor visits is different for each gender and age group, but most things are standard for everyone.
For example, everyone ages 18-39 should get their blood pressure checked every two years and go to the dentist once or twice a year., Sleep is a major part of feeling refreshed. Lack of sleep affects everything—your ability to focus, your energy level, your emotional well-being, even your productivity. Take measures to ensure that you get good sleep and for long enough.Adults 18 and older need 7.5 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
Keep a sleep diary that records how you feel at the end of each day, as well as how much sleep you get each night. Looking back in this diary can show you where you need to make changes., Something as simple as taking a shower can help you feel refreshed for hours. Keep up with your physical hygiene even when you can’t get in the shower to help you feel refreshed. The feeling of oily skin before it has been washed, or teeth that have not been brushed, can weigh on you without you realizing it.


Try changing into clean clothes after you get off work to create a feeling of being refreshed.
Taking a relaxing warm bath with scented soap and bubble bath can both relax and refresh you.

