 You will need many of the measurements listed above for tailoring and creating various items of clothing. Read above if your pattern or instructions call for those measurements.
 Measure the distance between the shoulder seams on an appropriately fitting shirt or jacket or the area you wish the shoulder seam to be. This measurement should be taken across the top of the back and be parallel with the floor.
 Measure the distance between the seam or desired seam of your collar and your shoulder.
 Measure the distance between your shoulder seam and your desired sleeve cuff. This measurement should be taken in a straight line along the outside or top of the arm with the arm held up (parallel with the floor).


This will help account for the fact that the cuff will move up the arm when the arm is extended, ensuring that your sleeve measurement is not too short.
 Measure the distance between the middle of the upper shoulder seam and the bottom hem or desired hem of the jacket. It may also be necessary to take a measurement from the back center of the collar seam down to the hem, if the collar seam is particularly high.
 Measure the distance between your shoulder seam where it meets with your collar and your natural waist, as described in the above section. This should align with the fullest part of your chest.
 Measure the distance between your shoulder seam where it meets with your collar and your nipple line. This should align with the fullest part of your chest.
 Measure the circumference around your upper bust by aligning the measure at the middle of your back, just below the bust line (it should at this point be parallel with the floor), and then closing the tape over the top of your breast. This should help measure breast fullness and rise.
 Measure the circumference around your under bust by aligning the measure at the middle of your back, just below the bust line (it should at this point be parallel with the floor), and closing the tap just under your breast. This should help measure your rib cage width.
 Measure the distance between the waist and the hem or desired hem of the pant. This should be taken in a straight line down the front center of the leg.
 Measure the distance between the crotch seam or desired crotch seam and the cuff or desired cuff of the pants, along the inside seam. This is considered a very personal measurement and tailors should generally respect your personal space and not get too close. If you are uncomfortable, tell them.
 Measure the circumference around your ankle and account for how loose you would prefer the cuff or alternatively measure the cuff of an existing pair of pants by taking the length from side seam to side seam along the hem.
 Measure the distance between the front center of the waist hem and the crotch seam. This is considered a very personal measurement and tailors should generally respect your personal space and not get too handsy. If you are uncomfortable, tell them.
 Measure the distance between the back center of the waist hem and the crotch seam. This is considered a very personal measurement and tailors should generally respect your personal space and not get too handsy. If you are uncomfortable, tell them.

