 One of the largest industries is consumer debt collection. As a result, there are many positions, which require only a high school diploma or an equivalent.


If you don’t have a high school diploma, sign up to take the GED.
You can often earn your diploma in less than three months.;
, Though it’s not a mandatory requirement, most consumer debt collector positions, prefer candidates with call center or customer service experience.Customer service experience can be anything from working as a waiter or waitress, to being a barista at a local coffee shop. Regardless of your age, you can gain customer service experience by working at a minimum wage job.
If you’d like to gain call center experience, try doing a search online for “call center jobs.” Sites such as Careerbuilder.com and Monster.com are a good place to start. You’ll be able to find a wide range of jobs, where you can gain call center experience.
Companies are often looking for someone with at least one to two years of experience in customer service, so make sure you’ve spent enough time working in the field.
If you’re looking to start a consumer debt collector job directly out of high school, plan ahead and begin working in customer service during your sophomore year. That way, you will have the two years of experience and will have your diploma.
 Before applying for a consumer debt collector position, create a resume. The resume should include your contact information, education and related experience.Make sure your contact information is at the top of the page. This includes your name, address, telephone number and email address.
Include your education next. You should indicate the type of diploma you have, along with the institution where you received it. Indicate the date it was received as well.
List previous work experience, starting with your most recent position. Include the name of the organization you worked for, along with the dates you worked there.
 There are many entry-level opportunities in the consumer debt field. To find positions, do a search for “consumer debt collector jobs.” Sites such as Monster.com, Careerbuilder.com and Indeed.com are good places to start as you can search for jobs by location.


Before applying, customize your resume to match the requirements. Never lie or stretch the truth, but match what they are looking for, with what you’ve done in previous positions. For example, if they are looking for someone who is good at multitasking, be sure to highlight how you handled multitasking in your past jobs.

