 There are many apps available for faxing documents from your phone. Search the Play Store for "fax apps," and from the resulting list choose the app that best suits your purposes.For the purposes of providing a guided example, a description of Mobile Fax Free, an app that allows you to send a single page fax for free, will be included along with a general description of using a faxing app.;
, The documents or method in which your mobile app sends faxes from your phone should be described in the Play Store with the app details. If this description is unclear, open your app and search for a description of acceptable file types for faxing.


Mobile Fax Free utilizes a scanning feature, where you take a picture of the document you intend to fax. All you need is your physical document and you're ready to fax.
 This will likely bring you to a screen that will prompt, guide, or make options available to you so that you can begin the faxing process. Use your app's interface to begin the faxing process.Mobile Fax Free will have a button labeled "Scan Document." Press this to take a picture of your document and prepare it for faxing.
 For some applications, this may be as simple as pressing a Send Fax button, but others may require some kind of verification or confirmation. Follow the prompts of your app to initiate your fax.


For the guided example, when using Mobile Fax Free, it is as simple as pressing the "Send Fax" button to initiate your fax.
 You will need the phone number of the fax machine you are trying to connect with before you can complete sending your fax. Now you can confirm your fax is ready to send, likely by pressing another "Send" button, and your fax will be sent!Some apps may require you to input your recipient information before pressing the "Send Fax" button.
You may have the option of writing and sending a cover letter and may be able to input the name of the person and/or company you are faxing.The guided example can be completed by inputting the phone number for the fax machine you are trying to reach in the "Send to" field, and clicking the "Send Fax" button again.

