 Lots of people who feel socially shy, anxious, or find communication difficult often focus on themselves and their own social performance. Look at someone at your school that is popular, gets along with people, and has lots of friends. What does this person do that makes him or her so likeable? Notice the way this person stands, body language, facial expressions, and the way he or she interacts with others, verbally and nonverbally.See the positive things this person brings to social interactions, and practice them in your own interactions.
When you’re focused on yourself, you may miss the cues that other people give you. Start to notice cues that people give in other interactions, and see if you can start to pick up on cues in your own interactions.
 If you cross your arms and legs and look down, it’s unlikely people will see you as a warm and inviting person to talk with. Instead, make sure you communicate your openness by appearing open in your body: lean toward people, smile, nod your head, and maintain comfortable eye contact.Try and avoid crossing your body, but keep your shoulders open and not hunched.


When making eye contact, it’s okay to look away; no need to lock eyes indefinitely. You can also look at different focal points such as the forehead, nose, mouth, between the eyes).If you’ve generally avoided eye contact in the past, it may be a difficult practice to adopt, but keep at it.
 Don’t feel 100% responsible for carrying a conversation. If you’re so wrapped up in thinking about what to think next, you may miss what the other person is saying.Listen to what the other person is saying, and ask questions that build on what is said. For instance, if someone tells you, “I like to garden”, ask “What kind of plants or flowers do you grow?” or “How did you get into gardening?”


Active listening means you put your attention onto what is being said and show interest in it and the person. Don’t be afraid to nod your head, say “oh yeah” or “really?” or “Wow! That’s fascinating!” to show that you are listening along.
 It’s one thing to know what to do, it’s another to practice these skills! Practice different skills with people you feel comfortable with first, then start using your skills more broadly with people at school. Remember that the more you practice, the more natural it will begin to feel.Even if it feels completely out of your comfort zone, keep practicing! It will become easier.

