 When something negative happens in our professional lives, it can be hard to focus on anything else or anything that came before or that is yet to come. Anger, resentment, and self-doubt tend to take over. When this happens, try to take a step back and evaluate the situation from a less emotional place. For instance, if someone else was promoted instead of you, think about the facts of the situation, rather than reducing it to a matter of "My boss hates me" or "I made a mistake and so not getting advanced is my fault." Instead, think about why the other person was a good fit for the job and how you can improve to ensure that next time you don't get passed over.


Always maintain a panoramic view. Instead of getting caught up in the heat of the moment when someone seems to be insulting or dismissive of you at work, try to think about why they might be speaking that way. Get away from the notion that it's always something you did, and take things like stress and ego into account.
Recall as well the facts of your own past successes. For example, if you've been promoted or praised at work somewhat recently, remind yourself of this and why you were tapped in the first place. This can help boost your self-confidence without relying on a pre-packaged pep talk; instead you're using your own experiences and abilities to motivate and instill confidence in yourself!, Sometimes, workplace politics or interpersonal drama can result in your self-confidence at work taking a hit. Maybe you were chewed out by a petty boss; maybe you were demoted or had your hours (or pay) cut. Whatever the case, the best way to begin to move forward again is to maintain a focus on your work; this is why you were hired in the first place and what you're good at in this context. Ignore gossip and rumors, stay on task, and don't waste time. Not only are you demonstrating to the business that you're a valuable commodity; you're reminding yourself of the same thing.


If the humiliation or difficulty you're dealing with at work is abusive or illegal, keep an incident log and get in touch with Human Resources or outside authorities (depending on the situation). You have the right to work without being harassed in any form by other members of the workforce.
 Do what you can to work where you perform most strongly on the job. Never lose sight of the fact that you have strengths that are important and useful to the business and your career. Training can go a long way when it comes to building confidence at work. The more knowledgeable you are about your work and about management, the more confident you can be in your ability to do your work well.As long as you stay focused, you can make some headway in your profession, which should increase your workplace confidence significantly. If you level off for too long and keep doing the same thing, you'll get bored and feel stagnant. Instead, branch out!There are many free resources available to working professionals that you can utilize to learn and grow in new areas of your business. There are books and free online courses available where you can read up on your work and learn different occupational skills, such as management and teamwork. Your human resources department should also have access to free training and support materials and could be a good place to get started in working on your professional development. Ultimately, you should use your resources to learn and grow. Just the simple act of taking action towards growth can help improve your confidence.
 Focus on competence; instead of focusing on your interior self, think about competencies, which are more task-oriented, rather than self-oriented. Learn and build new skills, even if you're initially uncertain or fearful of them. Acknowledge your professional weaknesses and try to improve them. Fear is a truly formidable adversary and the only way to get over it and become confident at work is to do the very thing that you are afraid of and in this way build resilience.Maybe you're nervous about giving oral presentations in a professional atmosphere. Work with your boss and co-workers to enhance these skills in an encouraging, non-threatening environment. Once you can give an oral presentation without being cripplingly nervous, you'll build that professional confidence.
 It's only thing to feel confident, but it's another to exude that confidence in the workplace. Consider your appearance at work and take care to dress professionally (in a manner appropriate to your profession) and look polished; these are quick fixes that can help you feel more confident, powerful and ready to take the day.Consider as well how you perform in meetings. Are you maintaining eye contact and looking alert? Are you just sitting there or do you try to show engagement by nodding or asking a question at an appropriate moment. Make an effort to look eager and engaged and maintain an open posture (e.g., don't cross your arms) to show others that you're confident and excited about your job.
Avoid apologizing all the time, especially when something isn't your fault; this tells others that you lack confidence and rely on others for validation.

