 Make sure all roommates are available for enough time for a good talk, at least 20-30 minutes. Depending on the nature of your relationship, you could say, “I’d like to talk about expectations about clean spaces,” if your roommate asks what the meeting’s about.Don’t wait too long before scheduling a meeting.
Make sure you leave plenty of space in the meeting for your roommate to bring up concerns of her own. Remember, you’re not scheduling an intervention, but a conversation.
 A solution-oriented meeting should close with assigned duties, and, in the case of a messy roommate, deciding who is responsible for chores and when will be an important next step. For example, you might offer to clean the bathroom weekly, if your roommate agrees to take out the recycling and trash.It’s probably a good idea to schedule a follow-up meeting so that you can check in about how the assigned chores are going.
Make sure the tasks are relatively evenly divided.
Be aware that most people have some fluctuation in their schedules and there may be times when either you or your roomie let things get out of hand because of school or work pressures. This is normal and to be expected.
 If you’ve tried the assigned schedule route and one of you just isn’t holding up his end of the deal, you might consider implementing a penalty system. For this to work, of course, you’ll all have to agree upon it, but some people would rather pay a penalty than do a chore.An example of a penalty might be: “If I allow my household chore to remain undone for more than __ days, I agree to pay $__ to the household beer fund.”
If your messy roommate can afford it, a possible solution is that the he pay for a cleaning service to take care of his end of the chores. Be aware that this is usually not an option for dorms, but may be for apartments or shared houses.
 Doing things together is often more fun than doing them alone. In addition, if your roommate is new to keeping things clean, he may benefit by seeing how you address cleaning chores. Scheduling weekly times to take care of the household chores together can be both fun and fruitful.For example, maybe Saturday mornings can be a good time to focus your attention on household chores.
Follow your cleaning by doing something fun together, such as order a pizza, watch a movie, or invite friends over.
 If your roommate genuinely isn’t bothered by the level of clutter in your shared space, maybe the best solution is to realize that it’s only a problem for you. Rather than getting stressed out every time you find a dirty cup on the back of the toilet seat, or a stinky sock on the kitchen counter, just clean it yourself.Realize that your messy roommate will move on eventually.
Focus your attention on what you have in common, and what you enjoy together. Spending all your time feeling stressed about a messy roommate will only ruin your day.

