 In most states you only have 20 days to file your answer.You may have longer than 20 days if you were served by mail or some other way rather than in person. There should be a summons or other document with the complaint that tells you exactly how long you have to respond.Debt collection law firms may file hundreds of lawsuits a day, assuming most of the defendants won't answer and they'll win a judgment by default. By responding to the complaint, you force the debt collector to prove its case against you.;
, Before you start writing your answer, take some time to read over the complaint and review your own financial records to find any documentation you have about the debt.


If you have a copy of your credit card agreement, review the terms to find out which state's law applies to the agreement and what the agreement says about selling the debt to a collection agency.
You also can check your credit report to find out additional information about the debt such as your payment history, the date of your last payment, and when it was sold off to a collection agency.
If you recognize the debt and don't dispute it, evaluate your budget and finances and consider whether you can settle the debt without having a judgment on your credit report or going through the stress of a trial.
Many states require credit card companies or collection agencies to attach documents such as the signed credit card agreement to their complaint. If these documents were not attached, you also may be able to state in your answer that the plaintiff failed to state a claim for which the courts can grant relief., If the lawsuit was filed after the statute of limitations expired in your state or the state that governs the credit card agreement, the plaintiff cannot use the courts to collect the money.The statute of limitations for credit card debt typically is between three and six years. You can find out the statute of limitations in your state by using the map available at http://www.creditcards.com/credit-card-news/credit-card-state-statute-limitations-1282.php.
The length of time typically is computed from the date the last payment was made.It doesn't matter the size of the payment. You also may restart the statute of limitations period simply by talking to a customer service representative and acknowledging that you owe the debt, so if the statute of limitations is an issue in your case, don't contact anyone at the credit card company or collection agency that's holding the debt.Some credit card agreements include a clause that they are governed by the laws of a particular state, rather than the law where you live. For example, American Express card agreements are governed by Nevada law, which has a six-year statute of limitations., State law and court rules include various affirmative defenses available to debtors who are sued by credit card companies or collection agencies.


Affirmative defenses rely on facts outside the complaint. As you are the party raising these issues, you have the burden of proof.One affirmative defense you must state in your answer is lack of personal jurisdiction based on improper service. The court has rules on what constitutes proper service – the correct way to deliver the complaint to you so you have legal notice that you are being sued. If the complaint was delivered to you in a different way, you can assert this defense.For example, New York law states the complaint should be given to you personally at home, or mailed to you. If the plaintiff mails your complaint, they must also have a copy attached to your door or given to someone of suitable age. Therefore, you might assert a defense of lack of personal jurisdiction if the complaint was given to your six-year-old son.If the plaintiff is a collection agency rather than the original credit card company, you might be able to raise the affirmative defense that they have a lack of standing – meaning they are not the correct person to sue you because you never entered into an agreement with them.If you challenge the collection agency's right to sue you, they must present evidence to the court – such as the valid written transfer of a signed credit agreement – that they have the right to sue you. Many collection agencies don't have this documentation.If you were a victim of identity theft and never applied for a credit card at all, this also can be raised as an affirmative defense.Many states such as New York require debt collection agencies to be licensed and registered in the state and include a license number in the complaint. If such information is missing, you may have an affirmative defense based on the plaintiff's failure to include this information or conform to these laws., If the debt is substantial, or there's any information that you don't understand, an experienced attorney can assist you in answering the complaint and protecting your interests.


Your state may have additional defenses that you overlooked in your research, but an attorney experienced in credit card lawsuits and consumer defense would know exactly what means are available to you to dispute the debt.
An experienced consumer attorney knows the law and the court system, and also has familiarity with the collection agencies and their tactics.In some situations, such as if your only income is from Social Security or other public benefits, you may be considered judgment-proof by the court. Certain types of income including disability benefits cannot be collected to satisfy a debt.An attorney would be able to tell you if your income is exempt or you are otherwise judgment-proof. Additionally, if you receive public benefits you probably qualify for free or reduced-fee representation from your local legal aid clinic.
Most consumer defense attorneys will at least provide you with a free consultation, and may be able to work with you on fees. The attorney understands that you probably don't have a lot of money to spend on a legal defense if you're being sued for a credit card debt., Many states have forms and instructions available for answering a credit card lawsuit, either online, at the court clerk's office, or at legal aid clinics.


In some states, you may have received an answer form with your summons and complaint, or you may have to go to the clerk's office in the court where the lawsuit was filed to get the form., The caption is the heading for all documents in the case and can be found at the top of the first page of the complaint.


If you don't have an answer form, copy the caption on the complaint, including the formatting.
The summons and complaint you received should have the same heading. It states what court the lawsuit was filed in, the name of the company or collection agency that filed the lawsuit, and your name.The caption also includes the number the lawsuit was assigned. If your caption does not include a number, it means the plaintiff had the complaint delivered to you before it actually filed the lawsuit., If you don't have a prepared form, start your answer by stating who you are and the purpose of the document you're filing with the court.


This doesn't need to be more than a sentence or two, and you can generally copy the language in the introduction to the complaint, changing words where necessary to suit your position. For example, if the complaint begins "Comes now the Plaintiff, XYZ Debt Collection, and submits this Complaint," you could write something like "Comes now the Defendant, Sally Consumer, and submits this Answer."

, Any allegation to which you don't directly respond will be treated by the plaintiff and the judge as though you agreed to it.You have three options to respond to each allegation: you may either admit it, deny it, or say you lack knowledge or information about it. Saying you lack knowledge has the effect of a denial, forcing the credit card company to prove the information.Most answer forms have a box you can check to generally deny all the allegations in the complaint, if you don't want to go through them separately and if you don't admit any of them.
Keep in mind that the company suing you has the burden of proof on all the allegations it makes in its complaint.If you admit an allegation, you're making their job easier because you're saying they don't have to prove that allegation. They're the ones taking you to court – make them prove their case.
You must answer truthfully, but denying an allegation doesn't mean that you're saying it's false or that you're trying to avoid your debts– it means you're saying the plaintiff must prove it.For example, if the complaint states that you entered into a credit card agreement with the plaintiff, but the plaintiff is a collection agency who bought your debt from the original credit card company, you should deny that allegation. You never entered into any agreement with the collection agency itself.It's possible your credit card agreement has a clause allowing the credit card company to sell the debt to a collection agency if you don't make a certain number of payments on time, but that's the collection agency's responsibility to prove – not yours.
Specifically make them prove the amount you owe. Your debt may have changed hands multiple times before it was taken over by the collection agency that sued you, and somewhere along the line there may have been an error in calculation., If you have any affirmative defenses that apply to your case including the passage of the statute of limitations, you must list them separately after responding to the plaintiff's allegations.If there is an affirmative defense that applies in your case, you must raise it in your answer or you won't be able to bring it up again in the future.Since affirmative defenses are waived if not raised in your answer, you should err on the side of including a defense, even if you're not entirely sure if it applies to your situation. It's better to include an affirmative defense you later learn you can't prove than to later find out an affirmative defense you didn't raise would have won you the case.If your income is exempt from collection, for example if your only income is from Social Security or disability benefits, you can include this at the end of your answer for information purposes.The plaintiff may reconsider the cost of suing you if it realizes it cannot collect.
You may have a counterclaim if the debt collector has violated the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act (FDCPA). Review the federal law or speak with an attorney, especially if you've been receiving phone calls from the collection agency late at night or at your workplace.If you successfully prove violations of the FDCPA, you could be awarded attorney's fees and costs along with statutory damages of $1,000, in addition to any other punitive or economic damages., After you've completed the body of your complaint, leave a blank line and some space for your signature.


Below your signature, print or type your full legal name as well as contact information including your address, phone number, and email address., If the court requires any additional information or forms, they will be included with your answer form or listed on your summons.For example, some states such as Washington require you to fill out a Declaration of Exempt Income and Assets in addition to your answer. This form lists income such as Social Security benefits and assets such as your residence that are exempt from collection by state law., Some jurisdictions require you to have your signature verified by signing it in front of the clerk or in the presence of a notary public.


Answers typically must include verified signatures if you raise certain affirmative defenses that relate directly to the merits of the plaintiff's case.Make at least one copy of your answer for your records before you file it, as the court will keep your originals. You should also make a copy to send to the plaintiff's attorney – don't send the plaintiff your originals., The certificate of service states that you have had the plaintiff served with a copy of your answer.


Write the date you plan to have the plaintiff (or the plaintiff's attorney) served and the address on the complaint, then check the box or write out how you intend to provide service. Typically you can have your answer hand-delivered – whether by a sheriff's deputy, a private process serving company, or by anyone over the age of 18 – or you can mail the answer using certified mail., You must serve the plaintiff on the same day you fill out the certificate of service.You typically can serve the answer by mailing it to the plaintiff's attorney using certified mail. You'll find an address under the attorney's signature on the complaint. Once you mail your answer, keep your certified mail receipt as proof of service.If the complaint you received did not have a file number, you may not have to file your answer with the clerk (since the lawsuit itself has not been filed yet), but you do have to serve the plaintiff by sending a copy of your answer to the plaintiff's attorney before the deadline listed on your summons., You typically can file your answer with the court either by mailing it or hand delivering it to the clerk's office.


When you file your answer, the clerk usually will provide you with a court date for the trial. Mark that date on your calendar and be sure you show up to court on that day if you aren't able to settle the case before then.Some states such as Massachusetts require you to file your answer with the clerk within five days of the date you served the plaintiff.Any such deadline will be listed on your summons.
 If you have the ability to do so, you might consider contacting the company that sued you and finding a way to settle out of court.


The company may be much more willing to settle for a substantially lower amount after you've filed an answer to the complaint requiring them to prove each allegation. Additionally, collection agencies typically are more willing to settle if you've hired an attorney.