 The puppy period lasts up until three years of age, and during that time they will expect their owners to take on the role of “mom.” This means giving affection and discipline, but also protection. When a puppy is picked up it often assumes that a danger is nearby and that you are taking it to a safer place. So, picking up and carrying your puppy is an expected and important part of their development., Holding your puppy is also a good way to increase its ability to tolerate and enjoy social interactions. Puppies have a window for social development that closes when they turn 14 weeks old, so it is critical that they are handled a great deal early on in their lives. Puppies that aren’t socialized properly can turn into aggressive and fearful adult dogs.To get the benefit of socialization, however, you must handle the puppy gently and create a positive memory of human interaction., Carrying your puppy is also a way to take it into public in the early months of its life before it is fully protected with vaccinations. Many vets will suggest that you either keep your puppy indoors prior to vaccinations or your carry it everywhere. The reason for this, in part, is that viruses, such as the parvovirus, can be picked up on the ground by unsuspecting puppies.The parvovirus is often spread through contact with the feces from an infected animal, which a puppy can encounter while playing on the ground in a variety of locations.
 Puppies simply don’t need to be exercised the way that adult dogs do. Making a puppy walk for longer than five minutes or so can actually be harmful to the development of their bones. If you want to walk around the neighborhood, carry your puppy for at least part of the way., It is very controversial, but some breeders and dog owners still use a puppy’s reaction to various holding positions to determine their final temperament. You can often judge if a puppy is more laid back by how they respond to your carrying attempts, but forcibly cradling a dog to watch for signs of acceptance (also known as the “Cradling Test”) is not a good idea. It can ruin the trust between an puppy and owner and make a puppy fearful.