 Input your username and password in the appropriate text boxes at the top of the Facebook home page. If you don't already have a Facebook account, you'll need to sign up for a Facebook account, then add some friends before you can create an event.;
, If you haven't removed it, there should be a small icon labeled "Events" on the left side of your screen under a column marked "Favorites."


If you don't see the "Events" link, simply start typing the word "events" into the search bar at the top of the screen pre-filled with the text "Search for people, places, and things." An entry labeled "Events" with the subtitle "App" should appear in a drop-down menu beneath the search bar - click it.
 On your Events page, look for a grey button at the top right of the page, just to the left of a gray button labeled "Today" and above a small calendar. Click it!

, A pop-up window will ask you to give your event a name, specify a location, date and time, and write a short description. At bare minimum, you need to name your event - the other information is optional (but recommended.)

, This is written as a small blue text link at the bottom left of the pop-up window. You'll be brought to a list containing all of your Facebook friends. Check the box next to the name of each friend you want to invite.


The top of the list is, in theory, populated with the people you're closest to (family members, close friends, significant others, etc.) If you don't see the name of someone you want to invite, simply scroll down or type his or her name into the search bar at the top of the friends list to search for him or her.
 You'll be taken back to the first pop-up window. Finish adding information about your party, then, when you're finished, click the blue "Create" button.
 As soon as you create your event, you'll be taking to its specific event page. Here, you have a variety of options for customizing your event page as well as the specifics of the event itself. Below are a few options you should consider:


Add a photo. Your event page will be more visually appealing to your guests if you add a photo for the event. Simply click the large "Add Event Photo" button at the top of the page, then choose to either upload a photo from your computer's hard drive or pick one of your photos on Facebook.
Edit the event's info. Click the gray "edit" button marked with a pencil to change your event's name, description, time, or location. Here, you can also assign other hosts to the event. Hosts can edit the event's info, invite people to the event, and add other hosts, just like you.
Invite more friends. If you remember someone else you want to invite, don't worry - just click the gray "Invite Friends" button near the top of the screen marked with an envelope. You'll be presented with a list of your friends again - simply check their names, as before.
 From the event page, click the small gray button marked with a gear. This will give you a list of more specific, advanced options you can use to take your event to the next level. These are:


Edit Hosts: Add or remove hosts for your event.
Message Guests: Send your guests Facebook messages. Useful for notifying everyone of a change of location, for instance.
Create Repeat Event. Automatically create a separate copy of your original event. New event retains invite list, description, title, etc. Useful if you plan to meet multiple times (e.g. book clubs, etc.)
Cancel Event. Delete the event page. This automatically sends a notification to your guests.
Turn Off Notifications. Disables notifications from this event - you won't see anything about it in your feed, etc.
Export Event. Send your event to your calendar or to an email address.
Promote Event. Review options for buying advertising space on Facebook.

