 The most common complication of diarrhea is dehydration, which can be dangerous. Be sure to drink water, broth, and juice consistently throughout the day. Even if you can only take small sips at a time, it’s important to replenish the fluids you lose through diarrhea. Drinking water is good, but be sure to also drink broth, juice, or some sports drink, too. Your body needs electrolytes like potassium and sodium.Some people find that apple juice makes symptoms worse.Suck on ice chips if you are too nauseated to drink anything.See a doctor right away if you can’t keep down any liquids for over 12 hours, or have diarrhea or vomiting that lasts longer than 24 hours. If you become severely dehydrated, you may need an IV at the hospital.If a child or baby has diarrhea, don’t give them fruit juice or anything carbonated. If you breastfeed, continue to breastfeed them as usual.;
, Try loperamide (Imodium A-D) or bismuth subsalicylate (Pepto-Bismol). Use these only as directed. They should be easily available at your drug store or pharmacy.


Don’t give these to a child unless you check with your doctor first.
Some diarrhea gets worse if you take these medicines, like if your stomach problems are caused by a bacterial infection.It’s okay to try an OTC anti-diarrheal, but if it worsens your diarrhea see your doctor right away for alternate treatment.
 You can try taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (or NSAIDs, like ibuprofen and naproxen) to help reduce fever and ease the pain of stomach cramps. However, in large doses or with certain conditions these medications can cause irritation and damage to the stomach. Only take these medications as prescribed or indicated on the bottle, and avoid them if:Your doctor prescribed you a different medication, or you take another NSAID for a different condition.
You have liver or kidney disease.
You’ve ever had stomach ulcers or bleeding.
You’re under 18. Consult your doctor first, or before giving aspirin to a child or teenager. Using aspirin to treat viruses (including the flu) in kids and teens has been linked to a potentially life-threatening illness called Reye's Syndrome., As with any illness or medical condition, one of the best things you can do for your body is to settle down. Get plenty of sleep, stay warm, and allow your body to rest. This will help you fight off any infection that might be causing the diarrhea, and recover from the physical stress of feeling ill.
 If your have diarrhea or vomiting that lasts over 24 hours, or you can’t even drink water for more than 12 hours, see your doctor to prevent dehydration.Visit your healthcare specialist if you have severe abdominal or rectal pain, black stools or blood in your stool, fever over 102°F (39°C), a stiff neck or severe headache, or yellow tinge to your skin or the whites of your eyes.You might be dehydrated if you feel really thirsty, have dry mouth or dry skin, aren’t urinating much or have dark urine, or feel weak, dizzy, fatigued, or lightheaded., Children and infants get dehydrated more quickly than adults, and the consequences are more severe. Signs of dehydration in children include: sunken eyes, a sunken soft spot on the front of the head, fewer wet diapers than normal (or generally none in over 3 hours), tearless crying, dry mouth or tongue, a fever of 102°F (39°C) or higher, irritability, and drowsiness.Also take the child to a doctor if they have diarrhea lasting over 24 hours or have black or bloody stools.
Take your child to emergency room if they’re lethargic, have severe abdominal pain, have a dry mouth, or you cannot reach your doctor.
 Call emergency services immediately if you or someone else has trouble breathing, chest pain, confusion, extreme drowsiness or trouble waking up, fainting or loss of consciousness, a fast or irregular heartbeat, seizure, stiff neck or severe headache, or severe weakness, dizziness, or lightheadedness.