 You can find nihari masala powder in Pakistani or Indian grocery stores, or nihari masala spice mix to grind at home. If you purchased the pre-made spice mix, skip directly to the next section.


You may also use garam masala or potli ka masala spice mix.;
, Nihari spice mixes vary from chef to chef, but most of them use at least the spices described here. If you have not had nihari masala before, you may wish to try the basic recipe out first before you make major adjustments. You could, however, add a few dried red chiles for a spicier dish, or add spices that you know were used in a nihari you enjoyed in the past. If you want to experiment more, there are many additional spices you could add to taste:


Besides dried red chiles, you could add mace, star anise, poppy seeds, paprika, or rock salt.
Spices that may be difficult to locate outside of Pakistan or India include amchoor (green mango powder), and jeera. The word "jeera" is used to mean several different spices, any of which can be used in masala. It is sometimes sold as black caraway or black cumin, or a mix of the two., Add the cumin and fennel to a dry, non stick pan and heat while stirring. If you are using dried red chiles or mace as well, add these at the same time. Keep heating and stirring for a minute or two, until you spices release a stronger scent and the color just begins to change.


Stop roasting immediately if the chiles turn black., The remaining spices take less time to roast, so add them to the mix later. Roast the cloves, peppercorns, cumin, nutmeg, ginger powder, both types of cardamom, cinnamon, and bay leaf with the other ingredients for about a minute longer, while stirring.Add any remaining optional ingredients at the same time.


If the initial spices are already much darker colored and more fragrant, and you do not want to risk burning them, you may skip this step and add the remaining spices to the mix un-roated., Pour the roasted spices into a food processor, spice mixer, or mortar and grind until it has formed a powder. Remove the hard cinnamon stick if present. If using the masala immediately, grind the bay leaf along with the other spices. Otherwise, set aside the bay leaf for later.


Some people add a little chana dal powder to this mixture as well, a powder formed from lentils, chickpeas, or peas. This is not vital for meat dishes such as nihari, which already have a good source of protein.
 Use immediately, or store in a sealed container. Place a bay leaf in with the spice mix to add additional bay flavor. Keep in a dry, dark location, or in the refrigerator if keeping it more than a few days.
 Pour the water into a large, soup pot. Bring to a boil.
 Most commonly, nihari is made with beef shank or shoulder, but lamb, mutton, and goat meat are also popular. Cuts of red meat that include cut bone will create a more flavorful stock due to the presence of bone marrow.


If no cuts with bone are available, use 1–1.25 lbs (450–550g) of boneless meat instead., All the spices intended for the stock can be added at the same time. While you may add any savory spice, especially those also found in the masala spice mix, the ingredients listed here are a good selection.This includes 1.5 tsp (7.5 mL) ginger paste, 1.5 tsp (7.5 mL) garlic paste, one bay leaf, one cinnamon stick, and 1 tsp (5 mL) salt.
 Bring the water to a boil again, then cook the meat on medium low heat until it becomes tender. If you are short on time, you may cook for as little as one hour, but a cooking time of two or more hours is recommended for a more flavorful stock. For maximum flavor, cook for six hours on the stove, or for two hours in a pressure cooker.


Check the water level periodically, and add more if necessary. The water should always be above the level of the meat.
 Store in a sealed container in the refrigerator before the soup cools down. If you are making the rest of the nihari today, remove the meat with a slotted spoon and set aside 4 cups (950 mL) of the stock for immediate use.Remove and discard the bay leaf and cinnamon stick before storing.
 Add 4 tbsp (60 mL) ghee to a large pan with a heavy base, or use an oil with a medium to high smoking point, such as safflower oil. Heat over medium heat.


Avoid olive oil, which is more likely to burn at this temperature., Finely slice or chop half an onion, or a full one according to taste. Add this to the pan, then add 2 tsp (10 mL) garlic paste and 1.5 tsp (7.5 mL) ginger paste a minute or two later.


Note that this is in addition to the ginger paste used in the soup stock. These ingredients are all listed at the top of the page in separate sections.
 Immediately add some soup stock from the last section over the frying vegetables. Cover the pan and heat on low for 5-6 minutes, or until the pan is about to dry out, whichever comes first., Remove the meat from your stock and add it to the pan. Stir in the masala spice powder, either a store-bought mix or the one you made earlier in this recipe. Coat the meat well.


Add a splash more stock if necessary to help coat the meat.
 Fry the meat for one or two minutes on each side, over medium heat. You may need to rotate the meat more than once if it is in large or unwieldy pieces.
 Add in the remaining stock you set aside at the end of the last section. Stir this gently together with the meat and spices, cover the pan again, and cook over low heat for 10 minutes.
 In a separate bowl, mix together 2 tbsp (30 mL) flour and 6 tbsp (90 mL) water until it forms a consistent paste.Stir this into the pan of meat. Cover again, then simmer another 10–15 minutes. Add more water if the pan is drying out.
 Many people garnish nihari with strips of ginger and coriander leaves for additional decoration and flavor.A lime or lemon squeezed over each plate is a simple way to add tang.


Serve with rice, naan, or any type of bread.

