 These three skills are essential for unlocking the Regis. You can get Dig from the Fossil Maniac's brother on Route 114. You get HM03 (Surf) for defeating Norman, the Petalburg Gym leader. Dive can be obtained from Steven in Mossdeep City.;
, You'll need to have beaten at least the first seven gyms to be able to access all of the moves you need to get the Regis. After defeating Tate & Liza in Mossdeep Gym, you'll gain the ability to use Dive in deep water. This is the last necessary skill to unlock the Regis.
 This is a rare Pokémon that can only be found in Underwater areas. In Ruby and Sapphire, use Dive on Route 124 and 126 to try to encounter a Relicanth, which has a 5% chance of appearing. In Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby, you can find additional Underwater areas on Routes 107, 129, and 130. There are also several underwater areas scattered throughout the world.
 You can fish for Wailmer in most areas in the game. Once you level Wailmer up to level 40, it will evolve into Wailord. You can also try to catch a Wailord by surfing around on Route 129, though it only has a 1% chance of appearing.
 This is the easiest place to start your Surf. If you miss the right currents, you can fly back to Pacifidlog Town and try again.
 This will take you to Route 132 in a moment.
 Walk across the island and then surf again to the shallow spot. Walk around to the other side and then Surf again from the southwestern side of the shallow spot.
 Walk to the far-western side of the island. Make sure that you are at least three steps down from the top of the shore, and at least three steps up from the bottom of the shore.
 The currents should drag you directly to the dark spot of the water that you can Dive into.
 You can find the dark spot in the bottom-right corner of Route 134, surrounded by six rocks.
 This will be on the other side of a loop in the cave.
 You will surface in the Sealed Chamber.
 There will be lots of Braille inscriptions in the cave, but you're looking for the one along the back wall of the cave. The Braille inscription reads "DIG HERE".
 Walk up directly to the inscription and face into it. Use the Dig command. This will make a door appear in the wall.
 Relicanth will need to be the first Pokémon in your party list, and Wailord will need to be the last. Use your party screen to reorganize your Pokemon.
 If Relicanth is first and Wailord is last, an earthquake will occur. This indicates that the doors to the Island Cave, Desert Ruins, and the Ancient Tomb have all been opened around the world. These three doors lead to the three Regis., Regice is a level 40 Pokemon, but it is recommended that your party be at least level 50 in order to stand a chance. A common strategy to weaken Regice without knocking it out is to use a Pokémon with the False Swipes move. This lowers the enemy's health without knocking it out. Another common strategy is to try to put the opponent to Sleep or to Paralyze it. This will increase your chances of capturing the Pokemon.
 Ultra Balls will give you the best chance to catch Regice. Depending on Regice's health and status effects, you may need quite a few Ultra Balls.
 The Island Cave on the western side of the route will be open now. Head into this cave.
 The Braille inscription asks you to wait "twice", which means you need to sit and not move for two minutes. Set your game down for a few minutes so that you don't accidentally move your character. If you do move, exit the cave and try again. After two minutes, a door will open.
 You'll only have one chance to fight Regice, so make sure you save before fighting. This will allow you to reload your game if you accidentally knock out Regice before capturing it, or if it wipes your party out.
 Walk up to Regice and begin the fight. Whittle down its health and then try to put it to Sleep or Paralyze it. Once Regice is in the red and is asleep or frozen, start throwing Ultra Balls at it., If you want to be able to capture Regigigas, you'll need to give Regice a nickname. You can do this as soon as you capture it, or you can take Regice to a Name Rater to give it a new name. The Name Rater can be found to the south of the Contest Hall in Slateport City.
 This move is required to gain access to Regirock.
 Like the other Regis, Regirock is a level 40 Pokemon. Bring Water Pokémon to land effective hits. Bring along a Pokémon that can put Regirock to Sleep or Paralyze it, as well as a Pokémon that has False Swipes. Finally, make sure you're stocked up on Ultra Balls.
 You'll find the Desert Ruins on the east side of the Route.
 The Braille gives you instructions on waht you need to do to access Regirock.


Walk two steps to the right and then two steps down.
Use Strength at this spot and the door will appear.
 You only get one shot at Regirock, so you'll definitely want to save before approaching it. This will allow you to quickly reload your game and try again if something goes wrong.
 Start the battle with Regirock. Use your Water-type Pokémon to take out big chunks of Regirock's health, and then use False Swipes to lower it as low as possible without knocking it out. Hit Regirock with Sleep or Paralyze, and then start throwing Ultra Balls at it.
 You'll need this move to open the door to Registeel.
 Like the other two Regis, Registeel is a level 40 Legendary Pokemon. It is a Steel-type, which will make it tough to damage. Bring Fighting, Ground, or Fire-type Pokémon to do good damage to Registeel. Also bring a Pokémon that knows False Swipes, as this will allow you to lower Registeel's health without knocking it out. If you can bring a Pokémon that knows Sleep or Paralyze, that can help you capture Registeel. Bring Ultra Balls as well!

, The cave of the Ancient Ruins is on the western side of the Route.
 The Braille inscription gives you instructions for accessing Registeel.


Move to the middle of the room.
Use the Fly move and the door will open.
 You only get one chance to catch Registeel, so make sure that your game is saved right before starting the fight. This will allow you to reload and retry if you accidentally knock it out.
 Start the fight and lower Registeel's health as fast as possible with your Fighting, Ground, and Fire moves. Use False Swipes to lower Registeel's health without knocking it out. Once it's health is in the red, put it to sleep or paralyze it, then start throwing Ultra Balls., You cannot encounter Regigigas until you have defeated the Legendary Pokémon that is wreaking havoc in your game.
 You'll need Regirock, Registeel, and Regice in your party in order to encounter Regigigas.
 If you didn't give Regice a nickname when you caught it, travel to Slateport City and speak to the Name Rater. You can name Regice anything, it just needs to have a nickname before you can encounter Regigigas.
 Your Regice needs to be holding a Snowball, an Icy Rock, a Never-Melt Ice, or a Casteliacone.


Snowballs can be won at the Battle Maison, or found on wild Snorunts.
Icy Rocks can be found at the Weather Institute.
Never-Melt Ice can be found in Shoal Cave.
Casteliacones can be won from the Contest Hall or bought in Mauville City if you have Regice in your party.
 This is the cave that you found Regice in. Make sure that you visit during the daytime, as Regigigas does not appear at night.
 The fight will begin as soon as you enter the cave if you meet the requirements. Save before entering, since you only get one shot at Regigigas.
 Unlike the three Golems, Regigigas is Level 50, so you'll likely be in for a tough fight. Regigigas is weak to Fighting-type Pokemon, so use these to take down the majority of its health. Once its health is low, use False Swipes to drop it lower without knocking it out. Use Ultra Balls once its health is almost gone.

