 Is your goal to get a guy's attention in class or do you want to get into a certain clique?;
, Write down some questions on a piece of paper or ask if you don't know what to say.
 Follow everyone's AIM or Facebook pages to keep in touch with your class. Every once in a while write them a friendly "hi" or comment on their pictures on Facebook. Don't write too much and don't comment on every photo. If someone comments on yours, just say thanks and when someone says something funny just type 'lol' (laugh out loud).
 Download new music every once in a while, go shopping to get the latest fashionable items and so on.
 Meet with people often and throw get-togethers every once in a while on weekends. Try to meet a different person every time to make things interesting and expand your group of friends. Also it's good to choose different activities to do each time: Go to the pool/beach, local hangouts (ice cream shops, cafes..) go to the movies, go ice skating etc.
 Practice small talk with people and you'll get the hang of it. Don't ask random questions and stick to the things around you.
 It's not nice to use someone but it's middle school (and it's not exactly using). Be nice and flirt when you are around them. Don't be desperate but don't play hard to get them. Middle schoolers can't afford it yet.
 First impressions are super important because if you mess something up on the first impression, that will be your reputation for a while. Be clean, don't be mean to anyone, and be positive.
 If your friends are talking about shoes, just talk about it too. Don't stick around if you've got nothing to say, though. But don't say " Hey, my dad took my boarding last weekend" if they talking about something which is not related to that. If they are laughing, laugh along but do put your opinion into the conversation.
 Don't let them know you were reading about how to be popular on wikiHow just to get the courage to come up to them. Make them think you aren't intimidated by them and talking to them is as casual as taking a shower or brushing your teeth at night.
 It may cause a stain on your reputation and isn't good if you want a boy/girlfriend. Keep a deodorant and pads in your bag, extra pair of clothes and take showers daily.
 Take care of your body, drink lots of water, and exercise daily. That is a lifetime tip though, not just a popularity tip. Wear clean clothes, brush your hair and style it everyday, and get a manicure every so often.
 Everyone has the one thing that makes them feel pretty, if it's their eyes, or their hair, or even if you like your fingers, make sure they can be seen! Put a cool hairband in your hair, paint your fingernails a cool (but not too extraordinary) color and such.

