 Doctors say that many common techniques are actually ineffective, unsafe, or simply too unstudied.Taking long walks to stimulate labor is likely to be ineffective. In addition, if it does work, it is likely to be dangerous because it is not good for the mother to start labor in an exhausted state.The effectiveness of spicy foods is likely to be a myth. Doctors say there is no evidence that spicy foods start contractions.Castor oil has been demonstrated to be ineffective at inducing labor. And, even worse, it can give you diarrhea and dehydrate you, making for an unpleasant and risky delivery.;
, Usually they have not been scientifically tested. In addition, the quality and dosages may not be well regulated.Cohosh is an herb that has chemicals similar to estrogen. Doctors advise against using it because it has not been studied well enough to determine whether it is safe.Evening primrose oil is also not well studied and should not be used. It can also cause allergic reactions.There is no evidence that bathing in water with ginger oil will shorten the duration of labor. In addition, taking ginger orally is not recommended because of concerns that it could increase the risk of bleeding., In a few years, scientific research may have a better consensus on whether these methods are effective.


Acupuncture is a frequent technique performed on expectant mothers in parts of Asia and scientific studies are underway. The relaxing effects of the acupuncture may make for an easier birth, but it needs further study.Have sex (preferably with orgasm) and stimulate your nipples. If your partner is male, have him ejaculate inside you, as the prostaglandins in semen may help trigger uterine contractions. Sex will release oxytocin and may promote contractions, although it is unlikely to induce labor., During this procedure the doctor reaches inside your uterus and inserts a gloved finger between the wall of the uterus and the amniotic sac (pouch of water holding the baby). This separates the amniotic sac from the uterine wall and stimulates the release of prostaglandin, which helps to soften the cervix..You may experience cramping and bleeding.
This technique is most likely to be effective if your cervix has already started to dilate.
 This can be done either through medications or using mechanical methods.The doctor may give you prostaglandins either orally or directly inside your vagina to stimulate dilation. This should be done at the hospital so that your contractions and your baby’s heart rate can be monitored.
Alternatively, the doctor might use a catheter with a small balloon to dilate your cervix. The balloon is expanded while it is beyond the cervix in the uterus, and then tension is placed on the catheter. This stimulates the release of prostaglandins.
 The doctor will use a thin hook to reach inside you and puncture the amniotic sac. You will likely feel the water flow out when it breaks.This is generally only done if the cervix is starting to dilate and the baby has already turned so the head is in the birthing position.
The hospital will monitor the baby’s heart rate throughout the procedure.
 This will stimulate contractions if the labor isn’t progressing. It is most effective when the cervix has started dilating.


The doctor will monitor your progress and your baby’s heart rate.
 These include situations in which it is safer for your baby to be born, rather than stay in the womb. Common reasons include:It is two weeks after your due date and labor hasn’t started.
Your water broke, but no contractions started.
An infection in your uterus is endangering the baby’s health.
The baby isn’t growing properly.
There isn’t enough amniotic fluid around the baby.
The placenta has started to break down or detach from the uterine wall.
You have a health condition that is dangerous for you or the baby, such as high blood pressure or diabetes.
 Some women try to schedule the birth at a time that is convenient, but the risks generally outweigh the benefits of doing that. Risks include:An increased likelihood of a C-section. If the cervix isn’t dilated and ready, inducing may mean you need a C-section.
The medications used to induce might stimulate too many contractions and cut off the baby’s oxygen supply and lower its heart rate.
Labor induction increases the likelihood that the umbilical cord will go into the vagina before the baby and get compressed during birth, lowering the baby’s oxygen supply.
Induction creates a higher risk that the uterus won’t contract enough after the birth and that you will bleed too much.
There is a greater risk of rupturing your uterus or getting an infection.
 Under these circumstances, inducing labor may be too dangerous.The placenta is blocking your cervix.
The baby is in the transverse fetal position (crosswise) in the uterus.
You have an active herpes infection.
The birth canal is too small.
A prior C-section or major surgery on your uterus which may make you vulnerable to rupturing your uterus.

