 Obtain as much information as possible about your pal’s diet in order to identify smart restaurant options. Some diets are very restrictive, so knowing what he or she can or cannot eat will be helpful in deciding where to go together.


Are there very specific restrictions? Some diets “forbid” carbs, whereas others are all about counting calories. Find a restaurant that allows him or her more than one menu choice. For example, if your friend cannot eat carbs, an Italian restaurant may not be the best choice unless it also specializes in steaks or seafood.
Is there a certain time of day your friend needs to eat? Some diets have a strict eating schedule (for example, eating every two to three hours) or eating earlier in the day is preferred.
Is there a certain restaurant that is definitely off limits (per his or her plan)? Although you can probably get a good idea of which restaurants are off limits, ask your friend if he or she has a preference or can definitely not eat at a certain place.;
, The best way to have a comfortable lunch is to find out what your friend prefers doing. For special occasions such as a birthday or celebratory lunch, fulfilling his or her ideal choice is the best way to proceed. Some things that might work include:


Cooking together. Many diet and nutrition experts suggest eating as many meals as possible at home, in order to adhere to a diet plan. Consider either cooking a meal together or surprise your friend with a meal taken directly from his or her diet plan. For example, if your friend is doing the South Beach Diet, refer to the South Beach Diet cookbook. That way, your friend can choose healthy ingredients and know exactly what he or she is eating.
Going to a restaurant that includes calorie count on the menu. Some restaurants will include the number of calories (and in some cases other nutritional information such as carbs or fat) next to the main course. Also, numerous diet websites and apps have nutritional information for a variety of restaurants, so consider using that resource if the calories are not on the menu. In some cases, calling the restaurant beforehand may yield useful information on diet options; they may even agree to make up something special.
 Even if your friend selects a restaurant you're unfamiliar with, consider the luncheon to be an adventure and keep an open mind.


If he or she wants to eat at an odd time (either before or after traditional lunchtime), schedule lunch on a day you are both off from work or when you can reschedule your day without too much trouble. If time is a factor, match your schedules until you can agree upon a specific time that works for everyone.
 Look after your needs too––ask about the restaurant and menu your friend chooses if you have specific dietary needs or have a limited palate. Even though your friend may be on a diet, you may have specific dietary needs too, such as food allergies, vegetarianism or an aversion to spicy food. Although you're trying to accommodate your friend's needs, don't forget about your requirements too.


On the odd occasion where you can't find a place suited to both your needs, choose your friend's preference and eat before going. When there, have simple options such as a salad or even just a cup of coffee and something to nibble. At least you will be there and you can explain that you're not feeling hungry today or that you had to partake in a work morning tea before coming and that you suddenly feel full. Or, tell your friend you're on a diet too, in solidarity!

, If your friend is on a diet, chances are he or she is in the process of changing the usual lifestyle patterns and evolving to a healthier way of eating. Instead making the luncheon food-centric, focus on the conversation and interaction.


Engage in dynamic conversation to get caught up in each other’s lives. Stay focused on each other and steer clear of conversations about dieting and food. If your friend looks like he or she has lost weight be sure you tell him or her and compliment your buddy on the obvious progress.
 Consider eating low calorie too, or choosing the same or similar selection/portion size to support your friend. If your friend orders the petite salad, rethink asking for the mega-burger. Sure, it’s your life and you aren’t the one on a diet, but if you want to show your support and really be there as a friend, don’t order something that you know your friend would rather be eating. This show of solidarity with your friend can be a great morale booster and can underline your friendship more than words.


Being supportive includes not making the conversation about all the concerns you have that your friend is getting enough nutrition. Unless you're a nutritionist, don't even start. If your friend seems stressed out, ask after his or her work life and home life but avoid linking it to the diet. There can be any number of causes of feeling tired and stressed out, food being only one of them.
 If you're having trouble finding a restaurant or a time to get together for lunch, consider a fun activity that both of you can do within the time allotted. Some ideas include:


Exercise class or race. Your friend may be integrating exercise into his or her life and enjoying it. If your buddy likes to workout, ask him or her to invite you to a favorite class or to complete a fun run together. Alternatively, introduce your friend to something physical that you enjoy at lunchtime, like running through the park or rock climbing a local climbing wall.
Spa or mani-pedi. Get massages or have your nails done together as your activity instead of eating. This is for guys too!
Visit an art museum or a local festival. Grab a healthy protein shake and then take your friend to enjoy art or a local festival. If you go to an ethnic festival, clear it with your friend first––ethnic festivals are chock full of delicious (and most likely not diet friendly) food. But it will also have music, art and craft, clothing, perfumes and soaps, etc. that you can concentrate on instead of food!
Go to a ballgame, shop or hit a concert or show. Find an activity that you both enjoy doing and either eat at home before you go or bring along a healthy snack such as an apple or almonds.

