;
, In the United States, ABC, ESPN and Univision will be airing World Cup games. If you want to host a party but you don’t have cable television, you will need to plan it during one of the 10 games that will be aired on the ABC network.
 If your friends aren’t avid soccer fans who watch foreign leagues, then you should choose a game featuring the home team in your country. Everyone can appreciate the national pride.


If your friends are avid soccer fans, choose a more heated game against rivals who repeatedly win the World Cup. France, Brazil, Argentina, England, Germany and Italy are generally crowd-pleasing games.
 You may ask your friends to pick a team or even bet on the whole World Cup results. If they are soccer fans, start an email chain, a fantasy World Cup league or a group Facebook page to increase the excitement before the day.
 You will need at least $25 to $50 to get snacks and decorations. However, you can also have an elaborate party with color-themed costumes, sports memorabilia and a full dinner if you have a larger budget., Soccer fans start making their plans to watch World Cup games weeks or months in advance, and you will have some competition from other parties during your home team’s group round and qualifying games.


The type of invitations you send out will depend upon your budget. If you have a low-budget party, send emails or e-vites. If you have a larger budget, send mail and online invitations. If you have a large invitation, consider sending out flags or key chains for the national teams to get everyone excited.
You may also want to plan an impromptu party when you team qualifies for the next round. Send email invitations and go to the dollar store for supplies a day in advance.
 Most people are happy to bring one dish and six-pack of the drink of your choice. You will unusually take on the burden of providing extra food and drink in case the stores run out.
 If Italy is playing, make spaghetti or have pizza. If Germany is playing, consider sausages.Create a culinary play-off by providing food from both of the competing countries. If your friends are foodie’s, this is a great way to peak their interest.
Choose finger foods if you don’t want to spend a lot of money on disposable plates and silverware.
 At the very least, opt for streamers and balloons in the countries’ colors. Consider these other options as well:


Split the room up by color and country. Decorate one side of the room in one country’s color combo and the other side in the opposing teams colors. Guests can choose sides if they want to promote the rivalry.
Buy inexpensive cotton shirts or tank tops in the teams’ colors. If you don’t think people will wear jerseys, they can decorate their shirt with marker when they get there. Have a team roster and ask them to choose a player and write the last name across their shoulders.
Order team flags. You can get a set of 10 country team flags for $10 on the Internet. You can also find flag drink picks, stickers and temporary tattoos, if you want to provide more for your guests.
 Remind people to bring a dish or wear team colors if they want to. Announce that the party will start promptly 30 minutes before kickoff to avoid interruptions during the game.
 If the game is at night, it can be disruptive. Controversial calls and penalty shootouts can cause fans to yell.
 Some fans may come over for a pre-game show or a pre-game drink. You want to encourage early attendance when a game is televised live.
 Unless everyone is rooting for the same team, don’t be too aggressive. You should encourage friendly competition, not anger toward an opposing team.
 Encourage them to dress up or don a streamer as a scarf.
 A porch or another room will allow them to leave without interrupting the game for the fans.
 A foosball table, lawn soccer field or small foam soccer set will be popular with athletic or competitive friends., Keep spirits up when it’s not going well. You may find yourself in the role of the cheerleader as the host.
 Continue the celebration down at the pub or bar if you are exhausted from your hosting duties.

