 Think of your friends from school for a second. Odds are, you probably hung out with your closest pals during school breaks and fell out of touch with those you only ever saw in the classroom. However you might meet your new friends, don’t let those initial circumstances define your relationship. Extend your relationship outside of the proverbial classroom. For example:If you’ve become pals through a mutual friend, don’t allow yourself to become dependent on that mutual friend. Suggest some one-on-one time without them instead.
If you’ve met new friends through, say, an art class, find other activities that you can all participate in before that course ends, whether it’s joining a new class or just meeting up for coffee.
 Planning to meet up for coffee or drinks or a movie is all well and good, but expect to lose favor with people if you constantly break plans with them. Whatever your plans might be, see them through. Prove yourself to be reliable so they don’t start thinking of you as a flake who isn’t worth their time.


Obviously, stuff happens, and sometimes you do need to break plans. That makes it all the more important to follow through whenever you can, even if you don’t find yourself in the mood for coffee or drinks when the time comes., Accept their offers to meet up and hang out whenever possible. This doesn’t mean you have to go out partying the night before a big test or meeting just to please your new buddy, but remember: strong friendships need regular contact. Show them that you want to remain friends by seizing each chance they give you to spend time together.Keep in mind that they’ll probably stop giving you the chance if you keep turning them down. So if there’s a specific reason why you have to keep saying “no,” let them know what it is. Offer alternatives so they know they still matter to you.
For instance, if they keep asking you to go out dancing on Thursday night when you have to wake up early every Friday, explain the situation. Then suggest another time to meet up, or maybe a more laidback activity for Thursday night if that’s the only time they can meet.
 Don’t make the other person feel like they’re the only one making an effort to stay in touch. Take on an equal amount of responsibility in keeping your friendship active. Whether they’ve set up some fun activity to do together or just reached out to you with a phone call or email, return the favor and do the same with the same frequency.One exception would be if they happen to be shy or otherwise reserved. In that case, matching their level would obviously spell doom. If they’re not the type to reach out themselves, it will probably be on you to keep in touch.
 When you hang out with friends or meet new people, be sure to focus on them rather than expecting them focus only on you. You’ll be able to better connect with others and develop more meaningful friendships when you show interest in other people. When you are fully engaged in what they are saying, how they are feeling and thinking, it shows.Be genuine. Don’t pretend to listen as others can pick up on that quickly, and may find it insincere or off-putting.
 Avoid the temptation to act like someone you’re not just to impress someone. Although doing so might seem to work at first, expect it to grow tougher the longer you try to keep it up.If you feel like playing a part is necessary to maintain your friendship, then the truth is that you’re probably better off being friends with someone else.

