 Before they crawl, they can benefit from lying on the floor and kicking their legs. To exercise the arms, interact with them by practicing grasping, pushing, and pulling. Once they're crawling, provide an extensive space for them in the home, or on a grassy surface outdoors, while ensuring the surfaces are free of sharp objects.As your child begins crawling, walking, and exploring their world, you will need to take steps to child-proof your home so that your child is not unintentionally injured. This may include putting safety latches on cabinet doors, covering outlets, putting up safety gates, putting bumpers on sharp corners, securing bookcases to the walls, and so on.Child-proofing will give your child a safe space to develop.
 Encourage your child to walk with you as much as possible, instead of overusing the stroller. Allow them to take part in routine household tasks and activities such as setting the table, unpacking groceries, sorting laundry, walking the dog, and raking leaves. Frequent trips to parks with a playground will allow them to exercise all muscles in the body, and give them a chance to begin friendships with their peers., From five to 11 years, children are physically developed enough to benefit from a combination of aerobic (walking, basketball, soccer) and strengthening (climbing on playground equipment, snow shoveling) activities. Try to make sure they get at least one hour of moderate- to high-activity exercise per day., To help cut down on screen time, simply remove television sets and computers from the child’s bedroom. Restricting the time your child spends watching tv, sitting at the computer, and using mobile devices is a good way to make more time for exercise and social interaction.


After-school sports or other organized activities are an excellent way to schedule in most of the recommended daily exercise time., Trips to the playground, after-school activities, and clubs are just a few ways to put your child into contact with others their own age. From three years forward children should increasingly interact with their peers and begin forming social bonds. And emotional development should go hand-in-hand with social development, so the more your child interacts, the better they’ll be able to handle emotional challenges., By giving direct instructions and offering feedback, you can help your child adopt the building blocks for getting along in social situations. Teach them the importance of eye contact, listening, sharing, saying “please” and “thank you,” greetings, taking turns, cooperating, being inclusive, showing affection, apologizing, forgiving, and empathy., Starting at birth, your child will need regular wellness check-ups with their family doctor or pediatrician. The doctor will be able to make sure your child is hitting their developmental milestones, give vaccines, and address any health concerns you may have.In addition, your child should start visiting a dentist when their first tooth appears, then at least every six months for a checkup to ensure their mouths and teeth are healthy.