 A good wine starts with the planting and tending of the fruit orchard.;
, So any winemaker needs to be able to be flexible and have ability to multi-task.
 Making the wine in the cellar and marketing the wines locally and internationally is also part of the job.
, A good part of the time will also be in contact with people in regards to selling wine in the store, promoting and introducing the range of wines to clients, buyers and friends.
 Winemakers need to be passionate about all aspects of the wine industry, enjoy drinking the wine they have produced and be open to wine styles that they may not necessarily be accustomed to drinking. Being open to criticism and the ability to produce a wine that the public will like (not only what you like) is very important.
 To be successful the winemaker must have a real love of everything to do with winemaking.
 A winemaker will be working as part of a team and must enjoy working with people and be able to communicate at all levels., A winemaker needs to be scientifically, analytically and mechanically minded as well as a people person with lots of creative abilities. Being slightly eccentric or outgoing may also help as winemakers are often linked to the brand or product by the public and the winemaker often must conduct public relations duties.
 All winemakers should at least have some formal wine education either at the college level or University. There are several colleges in Canada that offer wine education. There is even long distance education available that the owner/operator could conduct at their own pace. Hired winemakers should have a diploma in Cellar Technology or a B.Sc. in Microbiology or Oenology. Some winemakers rely on gaining a lot of hands-on experience in grape growing and winemaking areas so many winemakers have traveled extensively in wine producing regions of the world.
 There are plenty of opportunities for travel in this job. Most winemakers are also responsible for marketing the wines and can spend a considerable amount of time traveling to establish a market. Many owner/operators and winemakers visit the established wine markets all over the world and also investigate new and emerging markets. This obviously depends on the wineries budget, marketing and distribution philosophy and size., Good winemakers are much in demand, as the industry is experiencing a shortage of these skilled men and women.