 Use scissors or an Exacto knife to cut a plastic bottle below the base of the cap. Cut right where the plastic begins to flare out and get wider.


Use any bottle you like for this project, whether it’s from water, soda, juice, milk, or any other beverage. You may select a bottle based on what color the cap is or how big it is, depending on what you want your lip balm container to look like.Use caution when cutting plastic with scissors or a blade. The plastic can be slippery and difficult to work with.;
, Make sure the inside of the cap and piece of the plastic bottle is clean and dry. If you want to, you can smooth down the cut edge of the plastic with sandpaper.You can also use a nail file to smooth the plastic edge in place of sandpaper.
Note that if you use a cap for the base in the next step, you may need to adjust by cutting more plastic away, so don’t sand down the edge until you are sure of your plastic size.
 Make the base for your lip balm container by using a piece of plastic. Cut and glue the plastic to your top, then cut it to size when dry.


Cut away a piece of plastic from a bottle. It can be the bottle you cut from originally, or any bottle with a flat plastic section (milk bottles work well).
Glue your top piece with the cap to the piece of bottle plastic using super glue or craft glue. Once it has dried, cut the plastic base so that it is the same size and shape as the rest of the container., Opt to make the base for your lip balm container out of a second bottle cap. Fit the plastic on your top piece into another cap to complete the base.


Make sure you use a cap for your base that’s of the same size as the first. Then push your plastic end into it until it fits snugly. You may need to adjust by cutting away more plastic or sanding down edges further until it fits evenly.
Apply super glue or craft glue to the plastic or inside of the base cap to secure them to one another., Pour homemade lip balm into your new container while it is still warm. Or take a portion of whatever item you want to store in a smaller size and fill the container up to the lip.


Allow homemade lip balm to set after you pour it in warm by placing it in the fridge undisturbed so it creates a smooth, even surface. Don’t use the balm or screw on the cap of your container until the balm is solidified.
If you are using another premade product rather than homemade, soft material that you can scoop, like petroleum jelly or lip gloss, works best for transferring to a new container. While you can attempt to melt down existing lip balm for pouring, the process will likely be messy and difficult.
Make sure you fill your new container just up to the lip of the plastic, where you would usually drink from if the bottle was intact. Overfilling it will not allow the cap to screw on smoothly.

