 Plug headphones into your seat and select radio stations, TV shows, or movies to watch or listen to. You can also watch the plane’s movement on a map or other information about the flight and where you are.


Watch or listen to something at the same time as a friend or family member so you can talk about it with them later.
Also check out the SkyMall catalog or any other materials in the seat pocket in front of you.
 Talk to others around you on the plane, whether you know them or not. Get to know people by asking where they’re from, where they’re going, what they’re reading, or anything else you’re curious about.


Make sure to give people space and respect that they may not be in the mood to talk or may want to sleep, read, or do another activity on their own. Be respectful and polite when interacting with people you don’t know.
 Walk back and forth in your cabin and even do some light stretching where there is room next to the lavatories, for example.Be careful not to bump or disrupt other passengers when you’re moving around, and don’t go into restricted areas that you’re not supposed to be in.
Don’t get out of your seat when the seatbelt signs are illuminated or the captain or attendants tell you to be seated. Obey all instructions from flight staff.
 Enjoy seeing the sights of the landscape you’re flying over, and how different things like clouds, mountains, and fields look from above.


Play a game like seeing if you and friends or family can guess where you’re flying over without looking at a map, or finding animal shapes in the clouds.If you’re not sitting in a window seat, you can get up and look out the window near a lavatory or other area on the plane with windows. Just make sure you don’t get in the way of other people waiting or flight attendants who need to move through the area.
 Set a challenge for yourself that you have to complete before the plane lands at your destination. Compete with a friend or family member if you can! Some ideas for challenges could be:


Learn 5 names of people on the plane you didn’t know before
Learn 10 new things about the city, state, or country you’re flying to
Try every free beverage on the beverage cart (ask nicely!)
Finish a book or piece of writing

