 This will create the base for your pompom maker. If you want a really big pompom, you can use a small bowl or even an old CD or DVD.
 The circle should be ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide. The bigger your outer circle is, the bigger your inner circle should be. Avoid making the inner circle too big, however, or you'll have a hard time tying your pompom together.
 Cut your larger circle out first, then the smaller one. You will end up with something that looks like a doughnut. If you are a child doing this craft, ask an adult to help you with this step.
 The slit needs to go from the outer edge straight down to the inner edge. This will make wrapping the yarn around your doughnut easier.
 Stack the doughnuts one on top of the other, and make sure that the slits are aligned. You will be treating these as one doughnut until the very end.
 The easiest way to do this would be to start at one edge of the slit, going all the way around your doughnut, and finishing at the other edge of the slit.
 Try to wrap as evenly as you can, and not so tightly that the cardboard starts to twist and warp.If you'd like, you can switch yarn colors to create a more interesting-looking pompom.
 Snip off the excess yarn first, then slid your scissors between the yarn and the cardboard. Pull your scissors towards the edge of your doughnut, and start cutting through the yarn. Hold your yarn together, and don't let it come apart.
 Separate your two cardboard doughnuts enough so that you can slide your yarn in between them. Tie the ends of your yarn into a tight knot. Wrap them back in the opposite direction, then tie them into a tight, double knot.








You can choose to snip off the excess pieces of yarn, or you can tie the ends into a loop so that you can hang it.
 If you need to, you can tear them to make things easier, but keep in mind that if you do that, you won't be able to reuse them.
 You can do this by gently going through it with your fingers. You can also roll it between your palms instead. Don't worry if a few pieces of yarn come out.
 Your pompom might still have some scraggly bits coming off of it, especially after all that fluffing. Rotate the pompom between your fingers, and snip off any long pieces of yarn that stick out.








