 Making eye contact with another person is a great way to convey confidence.It also shows you are friendly and approachable. People will treat you with more respect if you are able to look them in the eyes.


You don’t need to stare at them intensely. That can be unnerving to the other person. It’s okay to look away every once in a while.
Keep practicing. It may feel weird at first to look at people’s faces (instead of your shoes), but keep at it. It will begin to feel more natural after some time.
Practice making eye contact with people you are most comfortable with, like your siblings or your friends, and move on to more challenging targets (your teacher or your crush).;
, Resist the urge to hide behind your hair or curl up in a ball. Confident people have body language that indicates they deserve to be there, that they are strong and in control.Keep your hair off your face. Tuck it behind your ears or pull it back if you need to.
Don’t slouch. Not only is it bad for your posture, but it makes you appear unapproachable and insecure.Stand up straight with your head up and shoulders back.
Sit tall. Don’t hunch forward or lean back in your chair. Put your hands in your lap or on your desk, don’t cross your arms in front of you.
 A genuine smile makes you look better and friendlier, but did you know it also helps you feel better? Studies have found that even forcing yourself to smile can boost your mood.And if you are feeling happier, you will most likely feel more confident, too.


Smiling makes you look more approachable, more comfortable, and can even make you more memorable., Sometimes the secret to being confident is to pretend to be confident. Eventually your acting will begin to feel less like acting and more like real confidence. Pretend you’ve got confidence and eventually you may realize you do, and in fact have had it all along!For example, you may feel intimidated in a class because you feel surrounded by smart people and struggle with the material. What if you pretended to be one of those smart people? Sit up straight, raise your hand with confidence and contribute to the conversation. As you begin to act differently, you will find that your teacher and classmates treat you differently.

