 Near the beginning of your synopsis, you should include all the essentials about your nonfiction book, including the title, genre, and length.


You can either list these elements at the top of your synopsis, separate from the body of the synopsis itself, or you can weave them into a brief introductory paragraph at the start of your formal synopsis.
Note that the length does not need to be exact. If your book comes to a total of 62,843 words, you can round the number off to 62,000 or 60,000.
If you are offering a synopsis of a proposed book idea instead of a completed manuscript, estimate how many words you plan to write for your completed book.
The length of the book can also be disclosed in the final paragraph of the synopsis instead of the first.
 You should also explain why the book is important enough to be written and published.


A good way to think about your concept is to recall what your initial thoughts on the subject matter were. Ask yourself what type of book you wanted to write when you set out, and arrange your reflections into a few sentences. Also ask yourself why you wanted to write the book in the first place, and form those reflections into a few more sentences.
 This is, in some ways, a full summary of your book. Expand on the concept of the book, filling in the details to address how you plan to or have already covered the topic of your book.


You can either address the content of your book as a block of prose, with each paragraph corresponding to a different chapter, or as a list of proposed or written chapters. The latter method is usually preferred.
Each paragraph or chapter outline in your synopsis should address a different subtopic or portion of your overall topic. Introduce the main idea of the chapter and a few supporting points or questions covered in the chapter.
 After discussing what your book is about, you need to sell to the publisher your own ability. The best way to do this is to mention any past credentials in the field you are writing about or within the field of writing.


Regarding your credentials with the topic, you should mention any formal education you have had in the field as well as any professional and personal experience with the topic.
Regarding writing credentials, you need to state any professional writing training you have received and any past, published books or articles, especially those related to the topic of your current book.
 Mention a few other works that address a similar or related topic and explain, in a few sentences, how yours varies from all of them.


The main purpose of this portion is to show why your book, specifically, should be added to a collection of books already on the same general topic.
Doing this also serves a secondary purpose. By mentioning other books in the field, you can demonstrate that you are realistic and knowledgeable about your competition.
 A publisher will want to accept a book that can sell. You need to indicate that you know of an audience who will be interested in your book and that you have plans of your own to help market it.


List both general and specific readerships. A general readership would be something like an age group, gender group, religious group, or ethnicity. A specific readership would be something like a specific profession or organization.
Regarding ways to market or promote your book, you should list any professional connections you have that can help or any audiences you already have, such as an active blog.
 Describe how much of your book is already written. If your book is not yet finished, explain how long you expect to take in finishing it.

