 The worst thing you could do is resist arrest. If the police come to arrest you, then surrender peacefully. When you resist arrest, you give the police permission to escalate the amount of force that they use. You could also be charged with a felony.By surrendering peacefully, you will also protect your reputation. You might have been charged with a violent crime, such as assault or murder. If you resist arrest violently, then the public will probably assume the charges are true.
No matter how upset you must be at being accused of a crime, you need to remain calm. Remember that you will always get an opportunity to tell your side of the story. You have to remain patient.;
, Booking will involve fingerprinting and having your picture taken. You will also answer basic questions about yourself, e.g., your birth date., You do not have to talk to the police, ever. Instead, you have the right to remain silent.If the police reach out to you to talk about an incident, you can refer them to your attorney.


You might feel pressure to talk to the police. For example, they might visit your home and say, “Hey, you have nothing to worry about, we just want to ask some questions.” Or they may tell you that if you just talk to them then no charges will be brought. Do not be persuaded to talk.
Anything you say at any time can be used against you later in court, whether you were a suspect when you made the statement or not.
You should also remain silent if you are taken into custody. Simply tell the police you want to talk to your attorney.
 Although you should otherwise remain silent, you need to request an attorney. Make sure that your request is clear: “I want to talk to my lawyer.” Don’t simply nod when someone tells you that you have the right to a lawyer.


If the police are not prompt at letting you contact an attorney, then make the request again at the next opportunity.
Once you request a lawyer, the police are supposed to stop all questioning.If they don’t, then you can prevent them from introducing any statements you make after you requested your lawyer.
Once you request an attorney, don’t start chatting with the police again. They might think you are inviting them to re-initiate the interrogation. You can request to go to the bathroom or to have a drink of water, but don’t say anything else.
 You definitely need a lawyer to help you handle off-field criminal conduct charges. A lawyer can make sure that you get the best deal possible. Just as important, the lawyer can help get you out of prison if you have been arrested


You might already have a lawyer. For example, a lawyer might look over your contracts. If so, contact him or her and say you need a criminal defense lawyer. Your current attorney should know of a qualified criminal defense lawyer who can represent you.
If you are arrested, then you will probably be able to make a phone call after you have been booked.Call your lawyer or a family member who can get in touch with a criminal defense attorney.
 You will eventually be taken before a judge. This could happen the next day (if you were arrested during the week) or it could happen after the weekend is over. At the arraignment, the judge will read the charges against you. You may enter your plea at that time or later.Don’t enter a guilty plea. These are very difficult to withdraw at a later date. Instead say that you are not guilty.
If you haven’t been able to get in touch with your lawyer by the day of your arraignment, tell the judge.
 You might be able to get out of jail as you await your trial. In order to do so, you need to post “bail,” which is money you pay to ensure your attendance at trial. If you attend trial, the money is refunded.Bail will be set at a bail hearing.


The amount of bail will vary by court. In some states, judges don’t have any discretion: the amount of bail is set by state statute.
Your lawyer should help you arrange bail. Generally, you pay your bail with cash. In some situations, you can also post a “bail bond.” For example, bail might be set at $50,000. You can then post a bond by paying a certain percentage, say 10% ($5,000).
If you have to arrange bail for yourself, then see Arrange for Bail While in Jail for tips.
 Most criminal defendants are offered plea bargains in exchange for admitting guilt. You will probably be offered a plea deal as well. Plea bargains are a great deal for prosecutors: they get a guaranteed conviction without having to go through a trial. There can be benefits for you as well:You can often reduce the charge. Plea bargains are compromises, and in exchange for a guilty plea the prosecutor has to give something up. Sometimes, the prosecutor will reduce the charge. For example, you might have been charged with a felony. However, you could get the charge reduced to a misdemeanor by agreeing to plead guilty.
You might get a charge dismissed. For example, you could be charged with three counts of assault. In exchange for the plea, the state might dismiss one or two charges. You then plead guilty to the remaining charge.
You could also get a more lenient sentence. If the state’s evidence is strong, the prosecutor might not reduce your charge. However, the prosecutor might promise to seek a lighter sentence. Instead of 10 years in prison, the prosecutor might recommend only two or three.
You also might be able to plead “nolo contendere.” This plea means “no contest.” In short, you neither deny nor accept responsibility.This plea could be ideal because it would allow you to deny to the media that you are guilty.
 Your lawyer should take the lead negotiating with the prosecutor. Your lawyer should be experienced negotiating plea bargains. Negotiations can happen through the mail, over the phone, or in-person at the prosecutor’s office.


Your lawyer should have a good sense of what kind of deal he or she can get you. For example, your lawyer will go into negotiations with a solid understanding of the evidence the state has against you. If your lawyer believes the evidence is weak, then he or she can be more aggressive and try to reduce the charge to a misdemeanor.
Your lawyer cannot accept the plea offer without your approval.The prosecuting attorney should then draft a plea agreement for you to sign.
 A judge must accept the plea bargain. A judge is under no obligation to accept the plea bargain, though in practice the judge almost always does. You will need to attend court along with your attorney in order to complete the plea bargain process.At the hearing, you can expect the judge to ask you whether you knowingly and voluntarily enter the plea bargain. The judge will not accept the plea bargain unless you admit that you do.
 As part of the plea bargain, you might agree to perform a certain amount of community service or to pay the victim money.You need to follow through on these promises. If you fail to, then the judge could revoke the plea bargain.


Make sure that you fully understand your responsibilities under the plea bargain. Talk to your lawyer if you have any questions.
 You need a coherent theory that you present to the jury at trial. There are many different theories available, depending on the circumstances. Some of the more common are:The state hasn’t proved its case. The state always has the burden of proving you guilty “beyond a reasonable doubt.” In theory, this means that you don’t have to submit any evidence. If the state fails to prove your guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, you would win automatically.
You acted in self-defense or in defense of others. If you are charged with assault, then you could argue that you were defending yourself from someone attacking you. You can also use reasonable force to defend someone else.
You thought the victim consented. If you are charged with sexual assault, then you might argue that you reasonably believed the victim consented to the contact.
 Although you don’t have to prove your innocence, your case will be stronger if you have evidence supporting your theory of the case. You should look for the following evidence, which could help prove your innocence:


Videotape evidence. Many businesses now have video surveillance. Perhaps the incident occurred in a restaurant, store, or building lobby. Check to see if you can get a copy of the surveillance video for the day and time of the alleged incident.
Eyewitness testimony. You can find the names of witnesses on the police report. Have your lawyer contact them and ask to come in for an interview. Your lawyer can then find out what the person knows. Some witnesses might have favorable evidence. For example, a witness might have seen the victim swing at you first.
Your own testimony. As soon as possible, you should sit down and write out your own memories of the event. Be as detailed as possible and explain what the other person said and did. Also write down your own responses.
The victim’s recantation. If you are accused of assaulting someone, that person could take back his or her story. This is called “recantation.” Your lawyer could reach out to the victim’s lawyer and discuss the possibility of recanting.
 The state can only present evidence at your trial if it gathered it properly. For example, the state must get a search warrant before it combs through your house looking for evidence. If the police do not get a search warrant, then your lawyer can bring a “motion to suppress” before trial.


In the motion to suppress, you argue that the police violated the Constitution when it gathered the evidence. The judge will then hold a hearing and decide whether to keep the evidence out.You can suppress evidence for illegal searches and seizures, as well as for violations of your right to remain silent and your right to have counsel. For example, if the police failed to warn you of your right to remain silent, then you can move to suppress the statements you gave.
 You have a constitutional right not to testify. You should talk with your lawyer about whether or not you would benefit from testifying. Although your lawyer can give you advice, ultimately the decision is yours. To help you decide whether to testify, consider the following:How effective you are as a witness. If you stutter, stammer, or come across as nervous, then you might do more harm to your case than good if you testify.
Whether there are other witnesses. If you have witnesses who can offer favorable testimony, then you might not need to testify. However, if you were the only witness other than the victim, then you might have no choice but to testify.
 If you choose to testify, then you should prepare extensively with your lawyer. Try to do practice sessions where your lawyer plays the roles of both prosecutor and defense attorney. You can review your answers with your lawyer. The day of your testimony, remember the following tips for being an effective witness:


Look at the jury when you testify.You don’t need to stare at them, but look at them normally. You want to avoid intimidating them or coming across as embarrassed. Imagine that the jurors are people you know and you are explaining to them what happened.
Always tell the truth. Lying under oath is perjury, which is also a crime.
Speak clearly. You want the jury to be able to understand you. Accordingly, you should answer using words, not “uh huh” or other noises.Always stay calm. If you are charged with a violent crime, then reacting in an explosive manner practically guarantees your conviction. You need to stay as calm as possible, even if the prosecutor is trying to rattle you. Remember to take your time answering questions.
 Your lawyer will handle the criminal trial for you. He or she will get witnesses lined up and prepare documents as exhibits. Your lawyer will also cross-examine the state’s witnesses and make opening and closing statements. Although you won’t be doing anything but possibly testifying, you should stay engaged in your defense.


Look professional. Wear a suit (in a conservative, dark color) and cover any tattoos that you have. Be sure to cut your hair and look clean and neat.Don’t wear flashy jewelry or anything that draws attention to you. If you are a man and you have earrings, you might want to removed them.
Sit attentively beside your lawyer. Trials can be very long and boring. Your lawyer should give you a pen and a notepad. You can write down notes to pass the time.
 If you are acquitted, you go free. The state cannot appeal an acquittal. However, if you are convicted, then you can appeal. Nevertheless, if you are sentenced to jail, then you usually will have to start serving your time as your appeal works its way through the courts. An appeal can take a year or longer to resolve.


Talk with your lawyer about whether an appeal is worthwhile. You might want to bring the appeal if the judge made an obvious error. For example, the judge might have admitted evidence seized without a search warrant. You could get the conviction tossed and a new trial ordered.
You can also appeal if the weight of the evidence is against the verdict. This is harder to prove.Essentially, you must show that no rational juror could have decided the case against you, even after looking at the evidence in the light most favorable to the guilty verdict.