 Planning out where to place a sign or deliver a note may take some planning, but you’ll most likely enjoy yourself and your date will have a cute memento after prom is over.Keep in mind that asking with a note or sign means that you most likely won’t be there when your prospective date gets your invitation. You will have to wait to find out what his/her answer is when asking with a note or sign, so be prepared for a bit of anticipation.
 Make a sign that says “-Name of the person you are asking-, Will you go to prom with me?” and then below the words, make three check boxes with Yes, No, and Maybe written next to each box. Have him/her check which box represents the answer.


To make this option more elaborate, make a small version of the above sign on a piece of paper and put it in an envelope. On the envelope, write To:-his/her name- and From:-your name-. Have a friend hand deliver it to your prospective date and wait until he/she opens it and marks one of the boxes. Then send him/her send it back to you via your “mail carrier.”







, Puns, while cheesy, are often a cute way to ask someone to prom. Everything about prom is a little cheesy anyway right? So do it up and get down with the puns.


Candy puns: Leave a trail of some kind of candy that ends in a sign with a clever candy-pun on it. Example: Leave a trail of Hershey’s Kisses for your prospective date to find (somewhere like at his/her house or yard might be good so that random people don’t pick them up and eat them. Not that most people eat candy off the ground, but still, it could happen.) Place a sign at the end of the trail that says something like "Now that I've kissed the ground you walk on, will you go to Prom with me?"
Food puns: Fruit can be good for more than just an addition to your parfait. Example: Place a cantaloupe and a honeydew melon on your prospective date’s doorstep. On the cantaloupe, write (either with permanent marker or by taping a sign on) “I know we cantaloupe…” On the honeydew, write or tape a sign that says “...But honeydew you want to go to prom with me?” Example 2: If you’re more a veggie person, buy 9 large peas (sugar or snap peas are best.) Using permanent marker write one word on each pea from the following sentence: “Pretty peas will you go to prom with me?”
Crime scene pun: If you are both really into CSI, try out this prom pun. Lie down in front of the person's house. Have a friend trace the outline of your body with chalk. In your chalk outline, write (with chalk) "I'd DIE to go to prom with you" or "My attraction to you is FATAL. Will you come to prom with me?" and then write From: -your name- underneath your chalk outline. With this method, make sure you get his/her parents' permission, or else even a "yes" from your date might get overridden by a "no" from a parent who doesn't appreciate chalk graffiti on their property.
 Purchase a plain white cotton t-shirt and write prom on the top of the t-shirt in permanent marker. Write your name on it in permanent marker somewhere on the t-shirt. Then write 10 other names on it (of your gender) with washable marker. Wrap the t-shirt up, (or put it on a giant teddy bear!) and leave it on your prospective date’s doorstep. Leave it with a note that says to wash the shirt to find out who is asking him/her to prom. Make sure to tell them not to wash the shirt with any other clothes, as the whole point of this is that the washable marker names will wash away, but they could seriously stain other clothes.


To find out your date’s answer you can either write your phone number on the back of the t-shirt in permanent marker and tell them to call you, OR you can add in the note that he/she should wear the shirt to school tomorrow if the answer is yes.
 Everyone likes balloons--they’re bright, cheerful and easy to write on. Buy five balloons and write a P R O M ? on each balloon. If you have a class with your date, go into class early and ask your teacher if you can leave the balloons are your prospective date’s seat. When your date comes in and sees the balloons, wave at him/her or walk up with a rose and ask something like, “well what do you think?”


Alternatively, if you don’t have class with your prospective date, buy a sixth balloon and write “From, -your name-” You can also do this even if you do have class with him/her just to make sure he/she knows who is doing the asking.

