 With your finger on the note, pick the string. Then push the string up with your finger still on the fret, causing the string to bend and the pitch of the note to rise. Use any available fingers that are hanging around doing nothing to help you bend the string -- many guitarists use their ring finger to bend, with their index and middle on the string to provide strength.
 Don't just bend it to any old random pitch, bend it so that the note you produce is the same as the one either 1, 2 or 3 frets above the fret you're on. Bending in between frets creates an off-key tone, which can be good for blues songs (see "Southern Man"), but should be used sparingly.









Bending to the note 1 fret up is called a half "bend."
Bending to the note 2 frets up is a whole "bend."
And a bend that hits the note 3 or more frets up is an "overbend."

, Skipping a string and moving on creates tension in the audience, who expect the next note in the scale. This sort of surprise and suspense is key to a great lead player -- always keeping the audience on their toes.









You can skip as many strings as you heart desires, but be warned that skipping too many tends to make the scale sound kind of bizarre.
Skipping multiple strings, like going from the top of scale rapidly to the bottom, is a cool way to get "two" tones out of your guitar -- deep and low and high and bright.
 Basically, instead of picking the next note in the scale, you just slide your finger up from the note you're on to the one you want. You can go either direction, helping you get all around the guitar without a moment of silence. When sliding, work on landing as close to the fret you want as possible for the best tone.
 Hammer-ons are a way to sound out notes without your strumming hand, which can make you amazingly fast. To do it, simply land your finger down on the string at the fret you want hard enough that you hear it "picked." Work on landing this finger just hard enough to hear the note -- too hard can make it go sharp.









Aim to make your hammer-ons sound as loud as a normally picked note.
Hammer-ons can be played anywhere, but are most common with the ring finger. You pick a normal note, fretted with the index finger (for example, the 3rd fret) and then quickly hammer on the ring finger (for example, the 5th fret) to get two back-to-back notes.
 Again, pull-offs use your fretting hand to "pick" notes, making your scales much faster. To pull-off, put your index finger on a fret and your ring finger on a fret, same string, two frets down. Then, as you remove the ring finger, snap slightly down to pluck the string. Keep your index finger down to play this note.









Combining hammer-ons and pull-offs so that you can quickly play three notes with one pick is an essential skill. Pick one note, hammer on two frets down, then pull off to get to the original note again. How long can you string these three notes together without picking again?

, Vibrato is a shaken, or "vibrated" note. It is a small way to put some emphasis and emotion into a single note. You can have a deep vibrato, pulling back and forth with half bends, or something more subtle, just shaking the string back and forth for a little extra flavor. The vibrato should come from the wrist, and it should cause the pitch of the note to waver or flutter rapidly.
 Chromaticism is the art of adding "passing notes," notes that aren't actually in the scale but serve to get you from one note to another with a little more spice or flash. Oftentimes it involves trying out a middle finger or a pinky in the middle of your scale to see how a new note sounds. While they can make unique, tasty licks, never hold on these notes for long -- they are technically off-key and should just be used for light coloring and detail in the solo.
 To create them, all you do is let the flesh of your thumb briefly brush against the string while you pick it, as if you were picking it twice rapidly -- once with a pick, once with your thumb.









Doing this at different places on the string gives different harmonics -- effectively doubling the types of notes you can play.
 Harmonics are most easily created at the 5th, 7th, 12th, and 19th frets by resting your finger very lightly directly over the metal fret without pressing the string down to the fingerboard. Then pick and very quickly lift your finger off the string.








