 This version can be played with three or more people, but works best with fewer than six. It requires one standard 52 card deck. Remove the jokers from the deck.
 It's okay if it's not exact, but the players' hands shouldn't differ by more than one card. Players may look at their hands, but must keep them private. The cards should be kept visible at all times.
 This player must place a single card in the middle of the circle, face down. He/she should announce the rank of the card, whether it's a queen, or a 2, etc. If he/she chooses, he/she can play a card that doesn't match the rank announced.
 Play goes clockwise. The next player has two choices. He/she can pass the turn without playing a card, or play a single card facedown on the pile. By playing a card, he/she is claiming that it is of the same rank as the first card, but it may or may not be.


Passing is the safer option if a player doesn't have any cards that match the round's rank, but bluffing will get rid of his/her cards faster.
You can bluff even if you have a card of the round's rank. This could be a risky but effective strategy if, for instance, you have multiple cards of the round's rank. The other players will have no reason to suspect you don't, especially early in the round, and they will be less likely to call bluff. You can then on later turns use the actual cards that match the rank, which players will be more likely to incorrectly call bluff on.
 If at any point in the game a player thinks another is bluffing, he/she can say "Bluff!" right after the card is set down. The challenged player now turns over the challenged card. If it is the wrong card, the player who bluffed must take all the cards from the pile. However, if he/she didn't bluff, the challenger must take all of the cards from the pile.
 The round continues until either all players pass, thereby stating that there are no more cards of that rank left, or someone's bluff is called.


If everyone passes, the pile is discarded without revealing the cards, and the player who passed last starts a new round.
If a player is challenged, the player who wins the challenge starts the next round.
 The game ends when it is a player's turn, that player has one card left, and the card either matches the current rank of the round, or they are starting a new round.