 Move from side to side, strafe around and fire short 1-3 shot bursts at the enemy's head when you stop shortly between moves. It's never a good idea to stay in one place for a long time during fights, it will make you an easy target.;
, Crouch, dance back and forth, jump on top of them, even switch to your pistol to increase your movement speed temporarily, do whatever it takes to avoid the gunfire.
 It allows you the ability to run around them quicker. Why circle strafe 5 yards (4.6 m) when you can strafe 1?

, Know how to counter their tactics. Consider utilising your knife when they are reloading, or even when they are shooting at you - a single "stab in the back" can take tens of points off their health.
 Use cover during fights over long distance, move back and forth between cover and burst shooting. Just make sure to change up your pattern so they can't figure you out.
 When they start kicking in the front door after they flash you, you don't want to be out where they can pick you off. Make sure your retreat point isn't too obvious either. When you can't find any retreat points to go to, it comes down to keeping mobile. Dodge back and forth, run and crouch when you stop, even bunny hopping will be of use sometimes.
 It's easier to take on a threat when you've got people watching your back. Just make sure you're going with the right group. You can't count on a squad of n00bs to watch your back, make sure to stick with the more experienced players.
 It's okay to run away from certain situations, but if you run away from everything, it's going to come down to either you vs. the entire other team, or you vs. that grenade bouncing your way.
 Your team will last longer this way, and hence keep you alive too as a benefit. Plus, if you cheap out on your team, there will likely be quite a few team kills aimed at you in the coming rounds.
, If you keep alert and think of the enemy's movements and tactics, you'll be less likely to be surprised by somebody jumping out at you with an AK spraying or a flash bouncing your way.
 It's incredibly accurate like that and can dodge the bullets of your opponent.

