 If it is outdoors, you probably won't have to worry much about lighting unless it is at night. If indoors, you may wish to turn on a light, or turn off lights as the case permits.;
, The best way to learn how to film is by doing it! film everything, even if you just erase it after you see how it looked. Practice indoors and outdoors so that you can adjust the camera accordingly for best picture, clarity, and to make the film look as good as it can.
 This element is true in both still photography and film. zooming in so that the entire face of your subject fills the frame isn't as pleasing to the eye as backing off a little and getting some of the background as well.
 It's a little dull to watch a half hour film taken with absolutely no zooming at all. Zooming in on points of interest makes the film seem more professional and more legitimate.
 Try to position the camera so that it films from a good point of view. (Example; to film a child blowing out birthday candles, instead of getting down and looking at the child at table height looking through the candles and fire, zoom out a little and get the film from a slightly higher height. Bend down, and try to get the same view through the camera that someone sitting at the table at the birthday party would get.)

, There are more home films that were filmed by someone standing straight up holding the camera at eye level. Try something different. If it's several kids, lower the camera to see things from their height.
 In the modern era of color television and photographs, the subtle tones of black and white add a charming effect, and can completely change the way the film presents itself. Sepia offers hues that many have come to associate with old photographs, and can add the charming touch to a film. If your camera doesn't have these features, it's not the end of the world, you can still make great home movies without all the bells and whistles.
 So many home movies are not very good because the person operating the camera moved the camera too much. If any way possible, try to film from a tripod, or if one isn't suitable, maybe you could brace your hands against something that will be outside the frame. The camera doesn't have to be 100% static, but it helps if you can watch the film without having to 'chase' the subject with your eyes.
 Many great films have captured the serenity of a slow moving stream or the activity of a hummingbird drinking at a feeder.
 15 minutes of good quality film with a good subject and clearly defined plot line (Kevin's 6th birthday party, opening gifts and blowing out candles) is much better than 4 hours of film with 15 minutes of good viewing hidden among the other 3 hours and 45 minutes!

