 For people living in a high rise apartment in a metropolitan area, a simple indoor antenna that can be placed discreetly on the top of a television cabinet will often pull in all the local channels and sub-channels with ease. People living in 1-story houses located in that same area may find that an outdoor antenna that can be mounted on the roof or at least on the upper casing of a window may be necessary in order to receive those same channels. Renters will need something that is relatively small in scale and can be mounted and removed with ease, while homeowners can go with one that is larger and more permanent.;
, Most antenna producers make certain assumptions when identifying the average range of an antenna, such as the level of the general terrain and the antenna being suspended a certain level above the ground. Take the average range and gain with a grain of salt if you live in hilly country or a low-lying area of the city.
 For an indoor antenna, all that is usually required is plugging the unit into a digital converter box attached to an analog TV set or directly into a newer high definition set, and then positioning the antenna for the best reception possible. Outdoor antennas may require running additional cable as well as mounting brackets that can be used to keep the antenna in position.
 Many outdoor antennas are equipped with remote controls that make swiveling the antenna a simple task. This is in contrast to the antennas of decades past that had to be turned manually in order to bring in different channels.
 The TV antennas of today are often compact, with some indoor and outdoor models being as small as the average magazine. Cost does not necessarily mean greater range or gain, although you will pay a little more for an antenna that is omni-directional or capable of picking up signals coming from multiple directions. If you live east of all the broadcast towers in town, going with a less expensive antenna that picks up signals from one direction will work just as well as the more expensive models,

