 Taking advantage of this free service can help you reduce the number of unwanted telemarketing phone calls you receive on both your landline and your cell phone. You can sign up for the service online at donotcall.gov, or by calling the Federal Trade Commission.Telemarketers are supposed to stop calling your number within 31 days of your registration.
This service will not prevent all unwanted calls. For example, charities, companies that conduct surveys or polls, and companies with whom you have previously done business are exempt from the list.
Be aware that this service is available for home phones and cell phones, but not for business phone numbers.
If you ever get a call from someone offering to sign you up for the registry, it is a scam! The service is completely free and the FTC will not call you to solicit your registration.;
, If you want double the protection from telemarketing calls, get your number added to both the National Do Not Call Registry and your state's list. Some states have imposed laws regarding telemarketing calls that are stricter than the federal laws enforced by the FTC.Not all states have imposed their own laws regarding telemarketing or created their own Do Not Call lists. The Direct Marketing Association maintains a complete list of resources for each state.
 If you receive a call from a live telemarketer, it is your right to request to be removed from the company's calling list. Even if the company is exempt from the National Do Not Call list, they are legally obligated to comply with your request.Telemarketers are also legally required to provide you with a call back number for the company they represent upon request. If you have already asked the caller to remove you from the list but you continue to receive calls, request the number and call the company directly to be removed from the list.If you receive a robocall, which is a prerecorded message instead of a live person, be cautious about following any prompts to be removed from their calling lists. Doing so may simply verify that your phone was answered by a real person instead of an answering machine.
 Telemarketers can get your number from a wide variety of sources. While it's nearly impossible to completely prevent them from getting their hands on it, you can reduce the chances that they will find your number by being a little more mindful about how you share it.If you have a landline, request that your number not be listed in the phone book.
Avoid entering your phone number in online forms whenever possible.
Don't have your phone number printed on your bank checks.
Be cautious about calling toll-free or 900 numbers, as doing so might automatically add your number to the company's calling list. Many companies have both toll-free and local phone numbers, so opt for the local numbers when you can, especially if you have an unlimited calling plan.
There are also a huge variety of "data brokers" out there who will distribute your phone number. Many of these services offer the option for consumers to opt out, although it may be very time-consuming to do this individually for each service. If you are determined to do so, perform an internet search to find a complete list of known data brokers.

