 Lay the paper horizontally and cut vertical strips, about two inches wide. If you want, you can use a ruler to measure out and draw lines to cut on, but this isn't necessary - it doesn't have to be precise.


Make one strip for each goal you have picked.;
, Use pens or colored markers, and write on only one side of the paper.
 If you want, you can draw on the paper, add stickers, stamps, or glitter, or create fancy designs. Make your decorations appropriate to the task you wrote on the paper. For example, if your task is "Cook dinner," draw pots and pans, food, or whatever you want to cook. If your task is "do math homework," add math symbols and notebooks or pens. Get creative: decorations like these are what separate your Accomplishment Chain from the average To Do list, so go crazy and have some fun.


Leave about an inch of blank space on one end of each strip of paper. When you form the strips into rings, you'll need to cover one end with the other in order to connect them, and you won't want to have to cover your beautiful decorations.
 Lay them out on a table with the first task that you want to complete on your left and the last task on your right, and fill in the middle with the rest of the goals, in order.
 With the written goal and decorations on the outside and being careful not to cover up any of your decorations, bring one end to the other and tape or staple them together. This will form a ring of paper - a link in your Accomplishment Chain - with the goal still legible on the outside.
 With the second goal, pass one end through the ring formed by the first goal, so that when you connect the ends to make a circle, the first ring is connected. Then tape or staple the second strip into a ring, again being careful not to cover up any of your decorations, so that it forms the second link of the chain.
 Form each goal into a link that passes through the previous one. With each goal you add, the chain will grow longer until it forms the complete Accomplishment Chain with all the things you hope to accomplish added on.
 As you finish a task on the list, cut or rip the link that represents that task - if you've ordered them correctly, it should be the first one on the chain. Simply remove that link and throw it away, or keep it somewhere else as a record of all the things you've accomplished. Then turn your attention to the new first link on the chain, which is the next task you have to do.


This is equivalent to crossing items off a To Do list, but it's much more satisfying.
 If you come up with something else you want to do, simply write it down on a strip of paper and loop that paper around the last link in the chain, taping or stapling it to form a ring.
