 It's chemistry- basic 101 of attraction, even when you find yourself seeing a guy more attractive as a result of his personality- the truth is is that there are physical qualities that your brain admires of his- and likewise x20 for him- because guys depend more on attraction and chemistry to determine his interest in you. Luckily chemistry breaks down into two parts- the physical magnetism and the flow energy, "that spark", between two people- AND I HAVE STEPS AND TIPS TO HELP YOU WITH BOTH!!!;
, CUTE is definitely something you want to come across as- guys instinctively want to think of girls as smaller... cuter... in need of protection... hold you in my arms- soft, gentle appeal of females. (That's why some girls naturally try to raise their vocals and use a baby voice- it is an instinctive tactic. Although truth is its more attractive when girls use their actual voice so AVOID this. A raspy voice is actually sexier and guys generally are always more apt to unique charm)

, Conversation is the best way to grab hold of a guys attention and allow mutual energy flow. But if just starting up a long get to know you conversation is too difficult- which often it can be- Sometimes just talking to him can be hard enough- bump into him. Yep, the ONLY way for chemistry and vibes to truly flow is to be in a room with him. So, find out where he's going to be- sounds stalkerish, but you are not the only girl doing this- I PROMISE!!! Once you know where he'll be- GO THERE! If simply being there and running into him isn't enough to get his attention and start up a conversation- literally bump into him- walk past and gently brush him or back up into him- GENTLY... GENTLY! Seriously, spilling his drink or stepping on him or making him bump into someone else is gonna make him think "watch where you're going!" or "what a linebacker!"- just a gentle brush by, where you can flash a smile and say "ooo eh sorry (laugh a little then if you know him: "hey, ________. How's it going" if you don't know him like that, just "Hey (hold a staring smile and break it) sorry I thought I knew you from somewhere for a sec). Either way brush his arm for sec. DO NOT BREAK YOUR TOOTHY SMILE.
 Love and connection and chemistry should be seamless. Attraction- especially with guys is decided quickly and instinctively!

