 Having your anti-virus and security software up to date is one of the easiest and most critical steps you can take to keep your site safe, especially if your website contains a CMS or forum. Hackers take advantage of outdated security, and can locate vulnerable sites very quickly.


Another simple preventative measure you can take is to set URL parameters to prevent hackers from accessing and manipulating your server or system.
Thirdly, you can avoid cross site scripting, which is when hackers try to install and activate malicious codes into your site, by checking content for all forms that you create, and by eliminating HTML.;
, Use generic messages that do not give details as to why logins failed. Doing so will simply make it easier for hackers to identify the weak spot in your server or system, and take advantage of the opportunity to cause harm.


When performing the validation process, be sure to validate both the browser and server. The browser is often overlooked, but can find simple gaps and failures that are critical to your site’s safety.
 When your company’s site is up and running, you probably want to give your employees access to various areas of the site. These areas should be password-protected, and employees should know how to choose strong passwords.


Having passwords that are difficult to guess can go a long way in protecting your company’s online accounts and other critical information stored electronically.
 This is becoming particularly problematic in the days of social media and other sites advocating file uploads. Despite appearing harmless, files may carry devastating viruses and malware. Installing firewalls, limiting physical access to your server, and creating separate systems for your server and database are all good ways to mitigate your risk of cyber attacks from infected files.
 You can ensure that communications between you, your clients, and other businesses are secure by using SSL certificates. These certificates are particularly valuable if you send and receive personal information and financial data over the web.
 This is a great option if you do not have a technology-savvy team onsite, or if you are pressed for time. The good news is that there are a number of security services available for website content protection. Additionally, as with cars and many electronics, the more complex features and functions your site has, the more difficult it is to protect.
, This process, called penetration testing, can be performed manually or by a third-party service, and can be done with several different products. These programs run the gamut from plain and basic software that is user friendly and can be downloaded for free or purchased for a low cost, which is ideal for simpler websites, to complex and state-of-the art software that usually requires a skilled technician to reap all of its benefits.

