 The worst thing is undoing all the straps and buckles only to find that you have run out of leather ointment or saddle soap and having to wait until you get some more. The best products are beeswax products, they help to keep the moisture in while making the leather clean and waterproof. There are many other good cleaning products available for use, such as Neats Foot Oil, Theather Dressing, Saddle Soap etc. There are also products made by saddle and bridle companies to be used with their gear, such as Wintec's Saddle Cleaner. As this is a synthetic saddle, the cleaner should be a non-water mix, and be a wipe on wipe off product. You also need to make sure you have some equipment to help you while cleaning. These include:


A Hoof Pick -Often bridles have buckles and holes that require some tempting. You can use a hoof pick as it is easy to hold and isn't going to mark your leather.
Tooth Picks -Use these to get dirt and muck out of holes as well as pushing cleaning products through holes on throat latch and nose band, as they may become clogged with wax.
Towels or Cloths -It's best to have a separate towel for the first cleaning, to remove dirt and grass build-up, a second one for the oiling, a third for wiping the oil and wax off, and a fourth for polishing and shining the leather. You don't need to have 4 but it is recommended you have more than one or two.
Newspaper -If you're inside newspaper is essential so you don't get oil and wax on the kitchen table, or on the floor, as they can become slippery and may stain the furniture. It is best to clean outside as the smells may cause asthma and breathing difficulties.
A Bucket and Warm Water - To clean and rinse bits and chains.;
, For the purpose of this article, a bridle will be used.
 Once undone, you can't go back. A good idea is to draw a picture of what it looks like, or even better, take some photos, so it's easier to remember where each piece should go. You can also use another bridle as an example. Remember though, straps and buckles leave an indent, so this is a good way to put the bridle back to the right size.
, Don't add any detergent, as they contain products that are not good for horses. We will come back to the bit after the oiling is finished. This time is available for soaking.
, If the bridle has stains or marks, keep these in mind and you can fix these later. You can also use some saddle soap to clean the leather.
 It is beneficial to use the oil generously so it will soak in. You can oil each piece and let sit while you begin on other pieces. Then when you get back to the first piece, it will have soaked in enough. Make sure you apply liberal amounts of oil and wax to any parts that are prone to wearing such as loops, buckles and holes.
 Make sure you get inside any holes and loops.
 The friction will help make it shiny.
 And place all pieces in a logical order in preparation for putting it back together.
 Toothpaste is non-corrosive and doesn't harm your horse, while giving a nice shine to your bit. You don't want to remove the taste, however, as after years of riding, a bit will feel natural in a horse's mouth due to the taste and smoothness. Clean the bit all over, making sure you scrub around grooves and joints.
 You can also rub it down to hurry up the process.
 Assistance may be required if you get stuck, so refer back to pictures and diagrams. If back together and it doesn't look right, undo and try again. When it's on the horse you will be able to get a better picture. Don't forget the bit, too.
 To fix these, get a permanent marker the same colour as your leather. If you have a tan or brown bridle, you can get coloured beeswax which is used for cleaning sandshoes. Use the permanent marker by dabbing with the point until the mark is black. Because the leather is oiled, the mark will be less noticeable. Use a small amount of oil in your fingertips to rub over the marks, (when dried of course), to keep the colour from rubbing off.

