 One of the simplest ways in which to remove hair from your stomach is by shaving it. Shaving will quickly remove hair from your stomach, though it may require more frequent upkeep than other methods, depending on the texture and amount of hair.Only shave your stomach hair when your skin is wet, which can help soften the follicles, making removal easier.Only shave your stomach hair in the direction in which the hair grows. This can lessen irritation and the likelihood of cutting yourself.Use a clean razor with sharp blade to help prevent infection and likelihood of cutting yourself.Consider using an electric razor or clipper if your stomach hair is especially thick and copious.;
, If you don’t have a large amount of hair on your stomach, you can simply pluck it either with tweezers or have someone pluck the hair by threading. These methods pluck the hair below the surface at the follicle and thus only require upkeep whenever new hair grows.You can pluck stomach hairs with tweezers or make an appointment at a local salon or spa that offers hair removal services.Threading, which is an ancient form of hair removal, rotates a looped piece of thread across the skin to pluck hairs.Inquire with local salon or spa if they offer threading services. Depending on where you live, it may be difficult to find a trained threader.
Be aware that plucking and threading can be painful and irritate skin, though threading may be a better option for sensitive skin., Like plucking, waxing and sugaring remove hair at the follicle, which can hinder hair growth for longer than shaving. Waxing and sugaring can be very effective if a large portion of your stomach has hair and may also reduce overall growth if done over a longer period of time.Waxing involves applying a thin layer of warm, melted or cold wax to your skin and then pulling it off in the opposite direction of the hair growth. This uproots hair at the follicle.Like waxing, sugaring entails the application of a thin layer of heated sugar mixture that is then lifted off your skin to remove the hair.Sugaring may be a better option for more sensitive skin.
Choose to wax or sugar yourself or have a professional remove stomach hair using these methods.Trim long or thick stomach hair before waxing or sugaring for better results and less pain.
You can purchase home waxing and sugaring kits at many pharmacies. Most salons and spas will offer waxing and sugaring services, which can be expensive, but effective.
Be aware that waxing and sugaring can be very painful, especially during initial treatments and on very sensitive stomach skin. In most cases, you’ll need to undergo treatments every 4-6 weeks to remove your stomach hair.
Do or have a small skin test with a wax or sugar mixture to ensure that you don’t have an allergic reaction to it. In addition, you should never use wax or sugar on broken or inflamed skin because it can exacerbate irritation., Depilatories are chemical formulations that break down the protein structure of hair and dissolve it into a jellylike mass.This can be a quick and painless way to remove stomach hair, especially if it is thick and spread across a wide area.Depilatories come in various forms including gels, creams, lotions, aerosols, and roll-ons.Because you are putting a chemical on your skin, it is important to first do a patch test to see if your skin reacts.You also shouldn’t use a depilatory on broken or inflamed skin.Apply the depilatory to the stomach hair you want to remove. Leave on the product for the length of time the packaging recommends and then wipe or rinse it off, along with the hair mass.If your skin burns at any time, remove the product immediately.
Depilatory creams keep hair growth at bay for anywhere from 1 day to 10 days.