 If your team members are as confused as you are, how will they know what to do? As the leader, you must do the research first, have the most information on a project, and know who to assign tasks to.


Do outside research on a topic or project so that when it’s time to lead your team you have all of the knowledge you need to answer questions and discuss ideas.
Pay attention to your team. Listen to each member and pay attention to everyone’s individual strengths and skills. When doling out tasks and roles, you need to be able to give the right task to the right person.
By learning everything you can about your team and the projects you are working on you can provide an authority and give your team the tools to be the most efficient.
 Even though leaders have to take things seriously, there is no reason you can't have fun. Just don't get too carried away. Balance the serious business at hand with regard for the morale and spirits of the team.


Sometimes, you might have a bad day. The same is true for everyone on your team. If a member is lost in a task or frustrated, this is your time to shine. Use your great personality and sense of humor to help your team member. Discuss what it is that’s causing stress and help your colleague with finding a solution.
Helping your team is the fun part of the job. All the planning, handing out tasks, and making sure that everything is completed on time and to standards can get overwhelming. Enjoy the moments when you get to help someone with something.
 A demoralized team won't function. You must set the positive spirit, make the goals clear, show how the job is feasible and possible. No one will work for an impossible goal.


If morale is low, encourage an open conversation about why. It may be a larger within the company as a whole that you can’t quickly fix. At the very least you can come up with some creative ideas to help your team, even on a small level.
Take walking meetings. No one likes sitting in a stuffy room discussing the nuts and bolts of a project. Being in motion gets the blood flowing and facilitates clarity resulting in great ideas. If you can, take your team on a walking meeting out of the office, or even just through it.Play games as a reward or as a way to brainstorm. Or throw a ball around while you have a meeting to discuss goals.
Set fun team goals and reward those goals. You may have certain project goals and department-wide goals that your team has to hit, but you can come up with your own too. Perhaps you set a goal that your team has to complete a portion of a project by a certain date. If the team succeeds you go get drinks after work on your dime, or you plan a field trip day somewhere that is fun but can also help the project. This won’t always be the case, but if you work in a more creative environment you may be able to take your team on an outing to foster bonding or research something that is relevant to your work.
Address frustrations immediately. If you know someone is unhappy or upset, don’t wait until the situation escalates. Talk to that person and work on a solution together. This not only shows that you are paying attention, but that you care.

