 If you want to request a birth certificate that is over 100 years old, you only have to be 18 to request it. If the birth certificate is less than 100 years old and does not belong to you, you have to fall under one of the following categories:


Immediate family, which includes parent, guardian, grandparents, or spouse. This also includes the child or grandchild over the age of 18.
Attorney representing the registrant or someone eligible to request the registrant's birth certificate.
Member of incorporated genealogical society authorized to conduct business in Connecticut.
Government worker who has authorization from the registrant who is 18 years or older, Director of Health of the town or city of birth, or chief elected official of town or city of birth.Government workers must request in writing on the government agency's letterhead and include the authorization and a copy of their photo ID.;
, To receive a birth certificate for someone other than yourself in Connecticut, you need to verify that you are eligible to receive the certificate. To do this, provide documentation that proves your relationship to the person or your employment at the government agency.


To obtain a birth certificate of a parent, you have to submit a copy of your own birth certificate.
You have to submit a copy of the court order of a legal name change if your birth certificate is different than your new legal name.
The Office of Vital Records holds the right to ask you for additional documents if they doubt your relationship., To obtain a birth certificate, you must provide a copy of your identification. If you provide a copy of a photo ID with date of birth, signature, and expiration, that's all you need to submit. If you don't have have a photo ID, you can submit two of the following forms of identification:


Social security card, or an SS card with an employment ID card, paycheck stub, or W-2.
Car registration
Utility bill with name and current address
Bank account deposit slips or statements with name and current address
Voter registration card
Birth certificate of requester
Current school or college photo ID
Military discharge papers
For a complete list, visit the Connecticut Department of Public Health website., Connecticut offers a full size birth certificate and a wallet size. The wallet size is smaller and contains less information than the regular birth certificate. The wallet size does not work as an eligible document for a passport.


The wallet size birth certificate costs $15.
The full size birth certificate costs $30 if ordered from the state. It is $20 if ordered from the town or city.
 You can mail in an application for a birth certificate via the state or the town of birth. You will need the basic information for the registrant, such as full legal name, date of birth, place of birth, and parents' names.


You will have to include basic information about yourself, like full name, address, reason for the request, and a signature.
Include a photocopy of your photo ID and verification of relationship.
Only send a money order. The Offices of Vital Records do not accept cash or personal checks. Make the money order out to "Treasurer, State of CT" if requesting a state copy. The fee is $30.If requesting a copy from the town or city, make the money order out to the city or town. The fee is $20.It can take 6-8 weeks to request a certificate from the state; requesting from the town or city can take less time.
 If you want to request a form in person, go to the town or city's Vital Records Office. You will fill out the request form while waiting in the office. Then, you will need to show a photo ID or two identification documents and eligibility documentation.


Some town or city records offices accept cash, checks, and money orders when you request in person.You can find a listing of the towns listed with the Office of Vital Records on the Connecticut Department of Public Health website., Birth certificates from the state of Connecticut can be ordered online through VitalChek. VitalChek is the only third party site approved by the Connecticut Department of Public Health. The online application asks you a series of questions, such as the full legal name, city and state of birth, date of birth, parents' names, and reason.


You have to fax a photocopy of your ID to them due to state laws.
VitalChek charges an additional $12.95 fee after the initial fee of $30 for the certificate. You also have to pay shipping charges.
This usually takes 2-4 days.