 Crush or cut the frame into small pieces, and fry in a non stick pan with just a little oil.  When browned, add 1 cup of water and if desired some diced carrot and onion and some chopped herbs. Simmer until reduced to 50% or half a cup of stock.


You may do other parts of the recipe while the stock cooks.;
, Use minimal oil as fat will come from the chicken skin. Brown each piece evenly, then put aside.
 They should be lightly golden brown, but the bacon should not be crisp. Pour out most of the fat and return the chicken to the pan. Add the brandy to the pan to deglaze.


If you use gas and do not wish to flame the brandy, turn off the flame before adding the brandy and cover immediately with a lid. Flaming the brandy should only be done by experienced cooks with adequate ventilation. If you use electric and wish to flame the brandy, pour in the liquid into the hot pan and use a long lighter such as a barbecue lighter, or a long match taking all safety precautions.
 Cover with the stock and red wine, ensure all pieces are coated and ideally submerged. Add the bouquet garni, garlic and cover with a lid. Simmer for at least 1 hour.
 After this time, heat up a new pan with 1 tablespoon of the reserved fat. If you don't have a large pan, cook in small batches so the mushrooms will not stew. Briskly fry the mushrooms and add these to the chicken. Stir well and cover again.


For more flavour, add some chopped red shallots to the mushrooms.
 Ideally use 1 tablespoon of the remaining chicken and bacon fat if available or use butter. Cream the two together to a paste and stir into the chicken. Simmer 10 minutes more or until thickened and there is no floury texture. You may also use cornflour which cooks out much quicker, but does add a different texture to the sauce.


Some purists will not add any thickening agent other than cockerel or chicken blood (which is both hard to get and expensive), so if you do not wish to use any thickening agent, transfer some of the sauce to another pan and boil briskly until reduced, then add back to the chicken. This can however make the end result more stronger tasting and salty.
 Ideally with pasta or potatoes, as well as fresh peas and spring vegetables.

