 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out an 8 or 9-inch (20 or 23-cm) baking pan and spray it with baking spray. Cut a large piece of parchment paper and place it in the greased pan. You could also use a cast-iron skillet. You won't need to use parchment paper or baking spray, if you use the skillet. Just butter it generously.Cut slits in the corners of the parchment paper to help it fit snugly into the pan.
 Get out a large mixing bowl. Place 1/2 cup (115 g) of softened unsalted butter or softened virgin coconut oil in the bowl. Add 1/3 cup (100 ml) of date or maple syrup. Use a hand or stand mixer to beat the mixture until it's thick and combined.If you don't have date or maple syrup, you can use 2/3 of a cup (133 g) of brown sugar.
 Crack 2 medium eggs into the sweetened butter mixture and add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. Turn the mixer on low and beat the batter until the eggs are completely combined and fluffy. This should take about 3 minutes.Avoid turning the mixer on to high speed or the eggs could fly out of the bowl.
 In a separate mixing bowl, measure out and place all of your dry ingredients. Whisk the dry ingredients for about 30 seconds so the baking powder is evenly distributed. This will help the blondies rise properly. You'll need to whisk together:2 cups (140 g) of fine almond meal
1 teaspoon of baking powder
1/8 teaspoon of fine salt
1 ½ teaspoons of organic matcha green tea powder

, Add the dry ingredients to the wet mixture in the large mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients well so the dry ingredients are incorporated. You'll also need to stir in 1/4 teaspoon of fresh lemon juice and 1 cup (100 g) of dark chocolate chips.Consider setting aside some of the dark chocolate chips to sprinkle over the top of the blondies.
 Spread the matcha batter in the prepared pan or skillet so the top is even. If you like, you can sprinkle extra chocolate chips over the top. Bake the blondies for 20 to 23 minutes. Let the blondies cool for about 5 minutes before you cut it them. You can cut a skillet of blondies into 10 slices or a pan into 12 to 16 squares.The edges of the blondies will darken a little and the center of the blondies shouldn't jiggle once they've finished baking.

