 Whether the person is an ex, a friend, or a relative you need to take some time to remember your relationship. Remember the good parts as well as the bad parts. Make an effort to see the person as a whole and look past the one incident that has hurt you. Doing so will help you empathize with the person and forgive them.For example, if your friend said something that hurt you, acknowledge that the same friend has said things that made you happy before, too. You don’t have remain friends, but you will retain a level of respect for them as a person. Assess if only one or two things have been said, or if there has been a repetitive pattern over time.
One good way to remember the person is to write them a letter. You do not need to send the letter to them, just writing it will allow you to think back on the good times and the bad times, and often you may release some of the pain you having been dealing with in the process.
 Think back to a time before you were hurt by this person. Remember the person you were before you met that person. Imagine the person that you would like to be without that person in your life. Having a clear picture of what you want in life can make it easier to let go of a painful relationship.Friends are difficult to let go. Still, partners and family can often be even harder relationships to move past. Motivate yourself to move past the relationship by having a clear picture of the life you want to live.
 Let go of the things or people that have hurt you in the past. Holding onto this hurt only hurts you, not the person. This hurt can also be carried over to new relationships, friendships, and even careers. Learn a lesson from this pain, but forgive the person and move on, and remember that forgiving does not mean that you return to having the same degree of connection or intimacy. It has more to do with freeing yourself up.Forgive an old partner for hurting you in a relationship.
Forgive a friend that did something wrong.
Forgive your family members for things that happened in your childhood.
 Avoid venturing down the road of asking “What if?” Thinking emotionally about the past instead of factually about the present will leave you in pain. Put up pictures and other adornments that reflect your life now, not your old life.For example, take down pictures of you and your old lover and put up pictures of you with your friends.
You can also use quotes or mantras to inspire yourself to focus on the present. For example, when you feel like dwelling on the past, you could repeat something like “To be happy now, I have to think about now.”

