 Use a tape measure and a pencil to mark the height you want your barre to be at on the wall. Make the mark for your first bracket, whether that will be in the middle of your barre or one end. Buy brackets meant either for stairway handrails or closet rods.


The ideal height of the barre is at the dancer’s waist level, or approximately 32-46” from the floor.Remember that the barre itself will sit on top of your brackets, so the actual height of the barre could be a few inches above your mark for where the bracket will go.
You may want to check first to find the placement of studs in your wall by using an electronic stud finder or finding studs based on wall outlets, nails in existing trim, or measuring in 16” increments from the wall.;
, Measure and mark where you want your brackets to attach to the wall. Use a level to make sure each one is at the same height. Adjust the number of brackets and their spacing according to the length of your barre:


4’ barre: 2 brackets spaced 32" apart (8" overhang)
6’ barre: 2 brackets spaced 48" apart (12" overhang)
8’ barre: 2 brackets spaced 64" apart (16" overhang)
10’ barre: 2 brackets spaced 80" apart (20" overhang)
14’ barre: 3 brackets, 1 centered with 64" space on each side (20" overhang)
16’ barre: 3 brackets, 1 centered with 80" space on each side (16" overhang), Use your power drill to attach brackets to the wall where you made pencil marks.


The number of screws will depend on the type and size of your brackets, but you will need enough to attach each one to the wall as well as another for each bracket to attach the dowel.
 Use the same distance between brackets that you marked on the wall to measure and mark where the brackets will attach to your wooden dowel. Then pre-drill holes into the dowel at these spots to make it easier to attach to the brackets.You can also mark where to pre-drill holes by laying the dowel on the brackets and marking where you will need to screw through them and into the dowel. Do this by looking up at the underside of the barre.
 Get underneath your barre and have a helper hold the dowel in place against the brackets so you can attach it with a screw through each bracket into the dowel.


You can also choose to attach the dowel to the brackets first, then mount the whole apparatus onto the wall. Just make sure you have helpers to hold the whole thing level and in place.