 Audacity is an open source audio editing program that is available to download for free directly from the developers. You will be using it to isolate the segment of the song that you want to turn into a ringtone. It's a powerful program, and chances are you'll find lots more uses for it beyond creating ringtones.
 While it may sound like a bummer, this software actually allows Audacity to export files in the MP3 format. LAME is available for free from the developer.
 In order to edit it in Audacity, it will need to be in MP3 format. If it is not MP3 format, you can convert it using a variety of free online music converters. Simply upload the file and select MP3 as the output format.
 When the MP3 loads, you will see the waveform graph of the audio. You can press the Play button to listen to the song, and the marker will show where in the song you are.
 Use your mouse to highlight the segment that you want to convert. You can press the Play button to ensure that the start and end sound good and don’t cut off too abruptly.






Keep your segment under 30 seconds, or certain phones may not support it.
 Once you are satisfied with your selection, click File and then click “Export Selection”. Choose MP3 as the format and give the file a name. You will need to load the LAME file that you downloaded earlier.
 For Android, connect the phone to your computer via USB and place the ringtone in the /media/audio/ringtones/ folder. For iPhones, adding the file is a multi-step process:


First, add the clip to your iTunes library. Right-click on it and select “Create AAC version”. This is will create a new file with the M4A extension.
Right-click on the new file and select View in Finder or Show in Windows Explorer. This will open the folder that contains the file. Rename the file so that it has the M4R extension instead of M4A.
Drag the newly-renamed file back into iTunes, this time into your Ringtones library. The file will be added to your iPhone the next time that you sync.

