 If you find yourself, thinking about that special person more than you think about anything else, you most likely have a crush.


Perhaps you are at dinner with your family but you aren’t paying attention to the conversation because you are wondering what your crush is doing.
Maybe you’re hanging out with your friends but secretly you wish that you were hanging out with your crush.
When you are going to sleep at night, do you think about what it would be like to kiss your crush goodnight?

, Do you find yourself bringing that person up in conversation with your friends all the time? A major sign that you have a crush is when your friends tell you that you talk about that specific person all the time. If you feel comfortable doing so, it would be a good idea to talk to your best friends about thinking that you might have a crush on someone. They can help you figure your feelings out and might have some ideas about how to get to know your crush better.


Be careful who you talk to about having a crush. Don’t just go blabbing to any random friend about your crush. If you do that, someone might tell your crush and then you might get embarrassed. Only tell your best friends--the friends you can trust the most.
 Do you have any habits or patterns you have gotten rid of or changed in the hopes of getting your crush’s attention?


Do you walk by their locker a million times in the hopes of seeing your crush?
Have you changed the path you take to class because you know he/she walks that way?
You have taken a new and deep interest in a subject that you know your crush is interested in, like photography or rock climbing.
 Often, when you have a crush, you will feel excited when your crush gets brought up in conversation. If someone mentions your crush in passing do you:


Feel excited? Suddenly get that feeling like a bunch of butterflies are flying around your stomach? Feel like your heart might leap out of your chest? Blush and giggle? Get tongue-tied and flustered? If any of these things happen, you have a crush on someone.
 There is a difference between thinking about someone and daydreaming about someone. Thinking about someone means you wonder what that person is doing, or how he/she is feeling. Daydreaming is when you fantasize about things that you want to happen. People who have crushes on other people tend to daydream about their crushes a lot.


If you daydream about that certain someone and imagine you two going on adventures together, holding hands, kissing, or anything romantic like that, you most likely have a crush on that person.
 Being reminded of that special someone when listing to a song, watching a movie, or reading book is a definite sign that you have a crush.If you listen to a romantic song and think, ‘Hey, that’s how I feel!’ you have a crush.
If you watch a movie like Titanic and envision you and your special someone as Jack and Rose, you have a crush.
If you read Romeo and Juliet and immediately identify with the hopelessly deep love of the main characters, you have a crush.
 While reading this, has there been one specific person on your mind while reading this article? If you answer yes, it means you have a crush on that person.

