 Prior switching to a new provider, make sure your current number is eligible for transfer. Check eligibility online with your old provider by entering your phone number and submitting a request.


If you are switching to AT&T, navigate to its “Transfer Your Number to AT&T” web page.
If you are switching to Sprint, navigate to its “WLNP: Check Eligibility” webpage.
If you are switching to Verizon, navigate to its "Switch to Verizon and Keep Your Current Number” webpage.;
, There are two primary reasons why your phone number may be ineligible for porting: you are part of a family plan or your phone number was issued through work.


If you are part of a family plan, you must leave the family plan, establish your own plan with your current provider, and then port your mobile number.
If you have a work issued phone, you will not be able to port a number that is under your company's plan., Once you have decided to switch networks, do not cancel your old plan. Your number (and therefore your current plan) must remain active until the porting process is complete.
 When you switch providers, you may incur fees.


If you are terminating your plan early, you may have to pay a cancellation fee.
You will continue to pay for your current plan until your number is ported and the service is officially cancelled.
While AT&T, Sprint and Verizon do not charge a porting fee, other networks, such as Google Voice, do charge for this service. Aside from the fee, the porting process is not different.
 Do not cancel your current plan.


If you are not the primary account holder of your old account, you will need the primary account holder standing by.
 Whether you are starting the porting process in store or online, you will need to provide the following information:


Your phone number.
Your account number for your account with the old provider
Your account password or pin for your account with the old provider
Your Social Security number or Tax ID
Your billing name and addressInformation about your old account should be on any bill from your old provider. If you are starting this process in-store, bring the bill with you., After you provide the details about your old account, your new provider will take over the porting process. If the information you provided is incomplete or incorrect, a representative of new provider will contact you.
 Number transfer requests can take between 1 to 10 business days to process. While you await confirmation, your old phone will continue to receive calls and messages. Once you receive confirmation (via text message) that the porting process is complete, your old account will be terminated and your old phone will stop receiving messages and phone calls.