 If you have an elastic sock (or even a stocking) that you don't mind cutting up, it's not hard to make your own bun doughnut. Follow these steps:


Find a (clean!) sock that has a good amount of elastic in the ankle. Ideally, it should be close to your hair color so it's hard to see.
Cut the toe off of the sock.
Roll from the new toe hole towards the ankle. You should get a small, bunched-up, doughnut-like piece of elastic.
 This is exactly how you'd normally make a ponytail, with no special changes. Gather your hair behind or on top of your head and smooth it into a single dense rope, pulling the rest of your hair tight. Secure it with an elastic.


If you just washed your hair or it's naturally a little slippery, it can be hard to get this bun to stay in place. Try using a texturizing spray to give it some hold., Now, hold your ponytail so it's pointing straight up. Use your free hand to spread the doughnut open and pop it onto the ponytail an inch or two from the tip. Don't roll it to the base yet.


If the sock doesn't quite stay on your ponytail, don't worry. It will get tighter as you roll it down.
 This part is a little tough. You want to take the hair at the end of your ponytail and spread it out equally in all directions. Roll the hair around the top of the sock and tuck them in underneath the roll. Move the doughnut down slightly to catch the hair.


If you have hair that isn't naturally very stiff, you can hold your ponytail up and let the hair fall around the doughnut. Then, just run your hand downward over the doughnut to gather the hair and tuck it in.
 As you roll the doughnut down, it should catch the hair and start rolling it up, making a doughnut-shaped bun that gets thicker as it gets nearer to the bottom.It can take a little practice to get this right, so don't get discouraged if you have to start over.


It should get easier to roll near the bottom of the ponytail.
 Once the doughnut has been rolled up to the bottom of your hair, you can hold it in place with an elastic band or scrunchie. You can also use bobby pins to hold particularly troublesome sections of hair down.


It can also help to use a little hairspray to give the bun a stiffer, stronger form.You can even make your own, if necessary.

