 Unless you have a really good explanation as to why you can't go (not just that you aren't courageous yet to show off your cool blanket sleeper to your friends), consider going to that party! Write a response to the host. Whether directly on a sheet of paper sent via postal mail (snail mail) or on an electronic communication (email) or even a message left over an answering machine or voicemail mailbox, communicate with the host that you'll be attending their party.;
, People who reflect poorly on you during their day, may end up being an lifesaver at night (should something happen)! Go with the flow!

, Though many superstores like Walmart and Target tend to sell blanket sleepers often, you will often need to turn to shopping in the non-peak months for the sleeper or shopping online for one instead.
 You'll need at least the one sleeper as you enter through the host family's door, but two are highly encouraged (in the case of accidents). One sleeper is always the bare minimum amount you'll need when you attend a party like this themed one is.


Allow the blanket sleeper to be brought home, whether through mail (for online purchases) or via a transportation mode for other offline purchases.
 Whether these gifts are in the form of food for your friends and you, or are of other miscellaneous themes, make each one of these gifts unique in their own way.
 Blanket sleepers are warm enough to wear during the winter, and assuming modifications can be met can be cool enough for summer-use too. Bringing an additional blanket isn't recommended.
 It'll take a bit more courage to wear something you aren't fully courageous enough to wear publicly, but once you get to know and accept these facts, you'll want to wear them everywhere you go! Sometimes, you'll never want to take them off (not even for a second).
 Let these family members know that at least one of their uninvited members must also wear a blanket sleeper of some sort, though wearing a blanket sleeper for the adult isn't required but is suggested to keep with the same theme of the party.


Members between the ages of 5 months to 6 or 7 years, must wear some sort of disposable pant (whether that be a disposable diaper, a disposable potty training pant (regardless of whether or not they are potty trained or not), or a disposable bedwetting diaper), accidents do occur. Before things show up in the laundry, it's best to protect and cover up with one or two during the night either way.A disposable pant must be worn by all children who attend.
Also realize, that if uninvited children can attend, they must be supervised by an additional parent at all times! (However, the parent doesn't have to wear a blanket sleeper, but is highly encouraged to wear one!)


You the invitee, and anyone else over the minimum age for the party children, are not exempt from not wearing a blanket sleeper (as that is the theme of this slumber party).


Contact the host's family to ensure that this party has been planned and accepted by the host's parents. Some of the parents of the party may not even realize that it is standard fare to allow these others into the host's house.
 Don't be late, as late-comers will need to still comply with the other rules and possible little chance to find a good parking space.
 Even if you as much as suspect an unintended animal may be nearby that you are allergic to, it's best to tell the family of your allergies.
 Every host house should have some sort of plan, though few are ever in written form.
 Keep the locations of your friends in mind, but be careful as not to step on anyone as you move around the floor.


Keep the route to the restrooms in mind, if you tend to warrant stress not too well or have stomach symptoms caused by stress.
 While you can wear it when you walk up to the host's door, you don't have to. Just make sure that a few minutes can be used shortly after to change into it after arriving inside the door to their house/apartment.
 Although some may criticize you for dressing differently, once they become less churlish and see how they themselves feel when they too wear ones, they'll see why you have began to re-enjoy them after a period of non-use. They will stopbothering you and accept your appearance that night, should they too feel the need to get up and use the facilities (or other issues).

