 For example, if you are selling makeup, recruit others to sell the same products. Teach them to recruit distributors also. As distributors under you sell more makeup, you will earn commissions from their sales. The bigger your network, the more money you will make.
 Talk with top earners in your network about their recruitment strategies. Read literature, listen to podcasts and participate in webinars to learn from people outside of your network. Choose different methods to try. See if they fit your personality and schedule. If so, use them every day., This is known as your warm market. Create a list of everyone you know or knew, and contact them to tell them about your business. Since these people already know and trust you, they may be more likely to invest in a business opportunity with you. However, since they won’t want to disappoint you, it can be awkward if they have no interest in your MLM business. Don’t alienate people you know by pursuing them too aggressively.Use a strategy called FORM, which stands for family, occupation, recreation and money. Engage your prospect in a conversation about these things, and note problems they discuss. Mention to them that you might have a possible solution to a problem area, and make your sales pitch.Understand the risk of pitching an MLM business idea to friends and family. The failure rate for distributors is enormously high. Recognize that you risk damaging important relationships in your life if the business fails. Carefully weigh the chance of losing the trust of friends and family with the promise of making money.
 This can be intimidating for some people, but the same principles apply as with your warm market. Build a relationship by finding commonalities and creating trust. Resist the temptation to give a long spiel about your business. Rather, listen more and talk less. Ask questions and let them talk about themselves. Find things you have in common to begin building a bond., Place ads in newspapers, business magazines or online job boards. Promote the benefits of working for yourself in the ad. Direct respondents to visit a website to learn more about your business. Write content for your website that generates interest. Put your contact information on the website., Write relevant, SEO optimized content. Share your content on social media platforms. This attracts visitors to the site who are already interested in your business. Include a call to action in your posts that encourages visitors to take the next step in joining your network. Visit other blogs in your industry and comment, like and retweet their content. This will redirect traffic back to your site., They do the advertising and prequalification to find qualified leads. Some companies give you a script that you can use when contacting leads. Many also offer training.Be aware that this can be risky and expensive. Some list brokers are not honest and just sell lists of names scrubbed from the internet., Leads will seek you out rather than the other way around. This is called attraction marketing. One effective way to do this is with a funded proposal. This is a marketing plan where you sell inexpensive information products to attract high-quality leads. For example, sell webinars or e-books that give valuable information to prospects. This can be expensive and time-consuming, but it is a proven strategy for building your network., Spend at least 30 days training them. Give them plenty of support during training so they can learn what they need to do to work independently. Build long-term relationships with the people you bring into the company. Teach them how to develop relationships so they can bring others in.Failure rates for MLM distributors is almost 99 percent. The support and training you offer your recruits can make the difference between success and failure.

