;
,


Ask the patient to expand on the chief complaint or complaints. In particular, ask about anything that the patient was unclear about or that you don't understand.
Get specific numbers for things like how long the patient has had the symptoms or how much pain, on a scale of 0 to 10, the patient is experiencing.
Record, as accurately as you can, what the patient tells you. Don't add your interpretation to what you hear.
 This is where you ask about any symptoms the patient is experiencing that are related to the chief complaint. Associated symptoms are often the key to making a correct diagnosis.


The patient may not recognize that associated symptoms are related to the chief complaint and may not even view them as symptoms. You will have to interpret what you hear to complete this section of the medical history.
 This is anything in the patient's past medical history that may have something to do with the current chief complaint. By this point, you may already be fairly certain about the diagnosis, so you can home in on specific problems or events that support it.
 This is simply a list, by area of the body, of anything that the patient feels might not be normal. It's best to have the list of body areas in mind as you question the patient so you don't forget to ask about each one. Question the patient about these areas:


General constitution
Skin and breasts
Eyes, ears, nose, throat and mouth
Cardiovascular system
Respiratory system
Gastrointestinal system
Genitals and urinary system
Musculoskeletal system
Neurological or psychological symptoms
Immunologic, lymphatic and endocrine system

, This is background information on anything having to do with the patient's health, not just the current chief complaint. At a minimum it should include the following, but be prepared to take down any information the patient gives you that might be relevant:


Allergies and drug reactions
Current medications, including over-the-counter drugs
Current and past medical or psychiatric illnesses or conditions
Past hospitalizations
Immunization status
Use of tobacco, alcohol or recreational drugs
Reproductive status (if female), including date of last menstrual period, last gynecological exam, pregnancies and contraception method
Information on children
Family status, including whether the patient is married, who the patient lives with and other relationships. Include questions about the patient's current sexual activity and history.
Occupation, particularly if it includes exposure to hazardous materials

