 Present your characters as otherwise ordinary humans that have been inspired by the immense power of their love for another. More to the point, avoid any potential for your story to read too simply. You need more than “Beth meets Sue, they fall madly in love, and happiness blossoms in their life ever-after.”For instance, start by introducing your character in their painfully boring place of work. Up the intrigue by implying that one character simply doesn’t have time to maintain an active romantic relationship, as they must work to pay for an older family member’s medical bills. Unbeknownst to the heavy worker, their love interest has been putting in overtime too, raising an amount of money sufficient to cover a necessary but expensive treatment.
 Love stories derive their appeal in part because they allow both authors and readers to explore particularly emotional content of all sorts.Emphasize the strength of the emotions the lovers in your story feel, by implying, early on, the dramatic efforts they are willing to make on behalf of their love interest or relationship.


For instance, have a character say or do something emotionally significant – such as making a sacrifice –to indicate their interest or commitment to someone they care about, perhaps without the other person even knowing about it.
 Maybe your characters aren’t even sure they’re in love! Such an implication can be as compelling as the most certain love in the history of humankind. Consider quite literally starting your story with the admittance of such uncertainty, with characters reflecting on their love or level of commitment to another., One way to ensure they stick around beyond the start of your story is your inclusion of a scenario in which life presents a character with an opportunity or choice. Make a character even more relatable by emphasizing their struggle in making a decision or responding to a significant development in the story.


For instance, have a character seize an opportunity to get a reader cheering for them, or miss one if you want your readers to sympathize.
 A character should never be exactly who the reader thinks they are when you first introduce them. Even if they maintain incredible consistency, you need to add depth to your characters to develop a solid start into a meaningful and complete love story.Write strong protagonists – both male and female – who are independent and capable of making decisions on their own.
Give every character a reason to be respected by your readers. This rules out the lover simply waiting to be saved, as well as a “villain” without any relatable characteristics.
 For instance, consider making your protagonist’s flaws apparent – at least to some degree – at the very start of your story. Alternatively, include a rather apparent antagonist in the beginning of the story who slowly becomes equally as likable as your protagonists. Stated otherwise, call your reader’s assumptions into question.Set your readers up to feel as though they understand a character or relationship, and then shake things up. Show them that even the characters in your book – whom your reader is living vicariously through – will surprise them. And through it all, show your reader that relationships in stories and reality often lead to the experiences that make human life itself a rather romantic ordeal.

