 Fold out the mandoline's legs and place them on a sturdy, dry cutting board. The mandoline should never wobble or slip during use.


Make sure the cutting board is clean, as it will come into contact with the chopped food.;
, Keep the raised end closest to you. Pushing down and forward gives you the most control. Do not set the mandoline parallel to you, as a side-to-side slice can cause slipping or uneven results., If you're cutting a potato, lemon, or other round fruit or vegetable, cut it in half. The mandoline can only slice a flat surface. Keep the other end round to give you a better grip.You may need to cut it into smaller pieces to fit inside the hand guard.
 If you're cutting potatoes or another dry, starchy food, sprinkle a few drops of water across the cutting surface. This ensures that the food will slide across it smoothly.


Juicy fruits and vegetables usually produce enough moisture on their own.
 Almost all mandolines come with a hand guard, usually shaped like a bell or cylinder. Place the food in the hand guard so the flat side faces the runway, then slot the hand guard over the mandoline. Mandoline blades can easily slice off the tip of your finger. Only professionals should use a mandoline without the hand guard (and they have the scars to prove it).


A cut-resistant glove can provide additional protection. See Tips below for more information.
 Use your non-dominant hand to hold the nearest leg of the mandoline., Grip the food with the hand guard. Push it down the runway, and the blades will cut one slice. Repeat this motion with even pressure to keep all slices the same thickness.


Mandolines with one horizontal blade may require a slow, sawing motion for soft foods like tomatoes.This shouldn't be a problem with V-shaped blades.
 If your mandoline has a knob on the side, it's easy to adjust. Just turn the knob to raise or lower the blade, and the mandoline will slice to a different thickness. Most mandolines can cut anything from French fries to paper-thin gratins and garnishes.


The knob usually has a thickness label. This isn't perfect, since the amount of pressure you use affects thickness, but it doesn't need to be perfect for most recipes.
Some models use a lever instead, but be careful — the lever could enable other features instead, as described below.
 Some models come with several different blade attachments instead of an adjustment knob. To change slice thickness or switch to a special cut (julienne, crinkle, or waffle), you'll need to swap in a new blade. This can be quite dangerous. We strongly recommend you check your owner's manual, since every model has its own safety and handling instructions.


Some mandoline blades are accessible from the underside. Others have a hinge that swings open to reveal the blade underside. You then pop out the blade from its base and insert the new blade into its slot.
Some models have one fixed blade, and multiple plastic runway attachments. These are much easier to switch in and out.
 The most common of these is an extra blade to julienne the food into thin strips, crinkle cut it, or perform another specialty cut. This may be built-in and raised by a lever on the underside of the device. If separate from the body of the mandoline, you typically hold it by the handle and insert it into the mandoline from the side.


Be very careful when looking for this lever. On some models you can cut yourself on the underside of the blade.Julienning is often difficult on a mandoline, especially with hard vegetables. Some chefs prefer to slice the ingredient as usual, then julienne the slices by hand.
 If you used an extra blade feature (such as for julienning), return it to its original hidden position. If your main blade is adjustable, set it to its lowest position.
 Wipe slowly from the base of the blade to the tip, to reduce the chance of cutting yourself. Once any food scraps or stains are gone, rinse off the soap under running water.
 Put it on the rack to air dry, or dry it carefully with a towel. Storing the mandoline while wet can lead to rust.
 Mandolines are significantly more dangerous than knives. Never leave them somewhere a child could reach.


Ideally, keep your mandoline in a labeled container. Never place it loose in a drawer or on a high shelf where someone might put their hand without looking.
 An occasional deep clean is a good idea if you use your mandoline often. Most plastic mandolines and some stainless steel mandolines can be run through the dishwasher, but hand washing is gentler on the blades.When washing by hand, handle with caution and consider wearing cut-resistant gloves.

