 You may not be able to do a good jump but at least try to be flexible. You should do the following stretches twice a day: Pike, straddle (right, left, center), butterfly, lunge, floor lunge, split (right, left, center), split against a wall, bridge, shoulder and arm stretches, etc. You should be able to do an over split and back bend.;
, Just because you can't do the jumps doesn't mean you have to pout about it! Raise your self esteem so you can be a better you.
 One of the purposes of a cheerleader is to be positive and happy and have fun and cheer for your team. The crowd is influenced by your attitude and so are the players! Never frown during tryouts and keep a smile on your face even if the other girls aren't.
 They mainly judge you on your form because they know you can work on the jumps, and don't forget to be sharp on your dances and cheers. Whenever you practice, tense up the muscles in your arms and legs when practicing the moves. Make them snappy and clean.
 The way you dress also shows your personality. If you dress sloppily then they will think you don't take this seriously, but if you dress cleanly then they'll know you want this! For tryouts, wear a club or cheer shirt, dance shorts, white cheer shoes with white ankle socks, your hair in a ponytail with a bow, and a little tattoo on your cheek or hand that has your school name or mascot.
 Let them hear you and you'll stick out. Even when people are being quiet, make sure that you are the loudest. You should be loud and proud. Don't sing the cheers, speak them loudly. Remember, the audience should hear you a football field away.
 If you can't do any jumps, you have to do tumbling. Usually you don't have to do tumbling, but it can count as extra points. So, you should know how to do a back bend, cartwheel, round off, handstand, and possibly walking on your hands and a back handspring. Usually if you are in middle school and you do a back handspring, you have landed a spot on the team if you can also do some other tumbling, a split, cheer well, and jump okay.
 Even if you can't execute the jump, you can at least try. Do straddle leg lifts, squat jumps, toe raises, squats, and splits. If you are slightly overweight, lose the extra flab. Practice on a trampoline, while jumping into your pool, or by using bedposts to help you jump higher in the air. At least be able to do a tuck jump, which is like a squat jump except you tuck your knees into your chest and bring your arms in a semicircle underneath your legs.
 That is the whole propose of cheerleading! Wear your school colors, participate in pep rallies, and love your school!