 If there is a subject at which you excel, volunteer to help classmates who are behind in that subject. By helping someone else understand something, you might get a better grasp of it yourself, and you can show your teacher that not only do you know the material, but you care about the success of your peers, as well.Ask your teacher about campus tutoring programs. Many schools offer open peer tutoring sessions once or twice a week to help struggling students.
Consider volunteering to tutor lower grades at different schools, as well. If, for example, you are a high school student, consider after-school volunteer tutoring at the local middle school.
 It’s easy to forget your teacher when you’re not in class, but if you see them around campus, say hello and have a polite conversation. Don’t just extend this courtesy to your teacher, but to your school administrators, facilities staff, and your peers.


Being kind and courteous to others is not only polite, it shows your teacher you care about others on your campus and that you are dedicated to fostering a positive atmosphere at school.
 Ask your teacher for recommendations for other classes that may be a good fit for you. This will not only help you find good courses, it will put you in touch with other teachers that may appreciate you as a student.


When your teacher gives you a recommendation, reach out to the potential teacher either by meeting with them or emailing them. Introduce yourself and ask about what they envision for the class in the coming semester.
Ask your current teacher to introduce you to potential teachers. This gives them a chance to talk about you in a positive matter and build your reputation with other teachers early on.
 If you are having difficulty in class, set up a time to meet with your teacher outside of class and discuss your concerns. Be open and honest with your teacher about where you struggle, and your concerns for your academic future.


Discussing your personal concerns helps your teacher view you individually from your peer. Let them know what you struggle with, and ask them what solutions you can pursue to remedy your fears.
Ask if you can meet regularly and set up meetings once a week or once a month to review your progress and show your teacher your efforts.
 If possible, get involved in extracurricular student groups and activities. Try something you think you’ll enjoy, whether that’s athletics, drama, debate, school newspaper, yearbook, or an academic club such as mathletes. This shows your teacher that you are interested in school activities, and willing to put in time and effort outside of class.If there isn’t a student group or organization that interests you, create one that fits your interests. Look up your school’s rules regarding student organizations and find other interested peers to participate. You may even ask your teacher to be your faculty advisor.
Run for leadership positions within your organization when they become available. This shows that not only are you participating, but that you are proactive and value responsibility.
 No one, especially a teacher, likes bullies. Avoid not only physical violence but harsh words and language regarding your peers, your teacher, or anyone else. If you see someone being bullied, do what you can to stand up for them or involve an authority figure if necessary. This is not only courteous, it shows your teacher that you have respect for your peers.If there is someone you do not get along with at school, try to find healthy ways to cope with your feelings and simply do not engage with them if provoked. Walking away is often your best option in such cases.
 If you have multiple teachers, don’t just focus on getting one to like you. Teachers talk to each other, even if they're in different departments, so behave well in all your classes. Don't end up in the principal's office every day for breaking the rules repeatedly.


You may not be looking to build a great reputation with all of your teachers, but you should be on positive terms with all of them. Treat each of your teachers kindly inside and outside of class.

