 Fainting is a common malady that many people experience. Its causes can be either harmless or life threatening. Since you’re planning to fake faint, it’s better to learn about the relatively harmless reasons people faint. Fainting is caused by reduced blood flow to the brain.


A harmless fainting spell can be caused by low blood pressure or a nervous system response that reduces blood flow to the brain.Such a nervous system response could be the result of highly stressful or traumatic event, fear, or pain.
For teenagers, fake fainting is a perfect excuse to avoid an event or exam, since it’s common for them to experience real, but harmless, fainting spells. For adults who are older, it’s possible for them to experience a harmless fainting spell once or twice a year; but anything more than that might be considered the result of something life-threatening.;
, A person who faints can experience several symptoms leading up to losing consciousness, including feeling very hot, nauseous, lightheaded or confused, or hyperventilating. A person might also feel dizzy or weak, or have ringing ears or experience a temporary loss of hearing. These symptoms are common for someone who experiences a harmless fainting spell.
 Unless you need to fake a fainting spell for a dramatic play, you’ll need to come up with a reason for your fake fainting spell that won’t compel people to call an ambulance, and that will also allow you to walk away seemingly shaken up, but unharmed. Because low blood pressure and low blood flow to the brain are usually the causes of harmless fainting spells, there are several scenarios that could cause that type of fainting.Not eating breakfast or waiting too long between meals to eat something can cause low blood pressure. Not drinking enough water can cause dehydration and reduce blood flow to the brain.
If you happen to be outside or in a really stuffy room, you could say that you got too hot. You could pretend to experience a stressful or traumatic event. If you’re easily scared by bugs or loud noises, you could pretend your fear caused you to hyperventilate, and then faint.
If you decide to let someone in on your plan to fake faint, you could have them hit or slap you so hard you faint. Now this might be a little dramatic and may have repercussions for the person helping you out, but it is a valid reason for a fainting spell that won’t seem life-threatening.
 In order for your fake fainting spell to have as little blowback as possible, and to achieve the result you’re looking for, you’ll need to have it planned out as best you can. Your reason for wanting to fake faint will determine the location where it happens. You may have a little more control over when it happens. But you need to have extreme control over how it happens, so as not to injure yourself or cause unintended consequences.


What are you trying to avoid? A friend’s wedding? An exam you haven’t studied for? Maybe you’re singing to an auditorium of your peers, and you don’t feel ready.
To minimize the blowback from your fake fainting spell, you may want to fake faint in front of only a few people. Fainting in front of a lot of people might expose you to some who can easily detect a fake fainting spell, and it might also make the moment bigger than you want it to be, hindering a quick exit.
You also don’t want to faint during an important event that might affect other people, such as your friend’s wedding, while someone’s receiving an award, or during the test you’re trying to avoid. Plan for your fake fainting spell to happen before the event you’re trying to avoid.
 Will you be standing or sitting? What symptoms do you think you can effectively mimic? Which way will you fall when pretending to faint? How long will you pretend to be unconscious? Have these questions answered.


It’s important to do a dry run of your fake fainting spell. You don’t want to think you can pull it off, only to realize during the act that you’re afraid of falling and bumping your head or that you can’t hyperventilate without smiling. You also want to ensure that you fall as safely as possible in order to minimize potential injury.
Know exactly what you’re going to do, so that when you fake faint in front of other people, it will go smoothly.
 You should only pretend to be unconscious for a few seconds, and a maximum of 20 seconds. Once a person falls to the floor or reclines enough so that his or her head is parallel to the heart, blood flow is almost immediately restored to the brain, as is consciousness.Once you pretend to awaken from your loss of conscious, don’t jump up immediately and act as if everything is fine. Plan to sit for a few minutes, since it takes about that long for a person to recover from a real fainting spell. Knowing this is important.
You don’t want to faint during a time-sensitive event and expect to run out immediately afterwards. Also prepare to explain away your fainting as no big deal, so that once you should feel fine to stand up and walk away, you can exit the area as quickly as possible.

