 Check for dents, scratches, and sticker residue. It should stay firmly closed even after being a bit joggled. Make sure the velvet-like layer has not started to separate from the hard layer of the case. You can always purchase a new, universal case for you flute if the case if damaged, but that will be an added expense.


Look for a metal or plastic tuning rod, which resembles a foot-long needle, inside the case. This can multi-function as a swab with a piece of cloth, and is an essential tool that should come with the flute.;
,, These are far more detrimental than scratches, and even the smallest one can affect your playing.
 They are usually coloured and spongy. They should cover the hole underneath, and should not be excessively dirty or careworn. (Keep in mind that pads can always be replaced though.)

,,, This is to make sure all the notes are working correctly, and that you like the sound the flute produces. One flute will simply not play the same for two people.
 This a great place to play all the different brands of flutes that are available, as well as to get great flute freebies like key paper. Vendors will have flutes on display, just for people to play as they walk around the convention.
 The quality of the metal will affect the tone a lot. Most beginning flutes are nickel or silver plated nickel. Pure silver (sterling silver) is the next quality up. If you are purchasing an intermediate flute, a pure silver head joint or full flute is ideal. Next, there is the option of rose gold, which can run about the cost of a car, and there are even platinum or titanium flutes!


The most important part of the flute is the head joint, so if you cannot afford the body and foot joint in a pricier metal, buy just the head joint.
Watch out for gold plated lip plates. They don't affect tone at all and are just for looks.However a better quality riser, the short "chimney" that attaches the lip plate to the head joint, does improve tone.
 These things often take experience to gain a preference.



Open hole keys: These are recommended for advanced or intermediate players, and not beginners. Openings in the keys allow the air to go through when uncovered, and this leads to a fuller, more resonant tone. The open holes also create less air resistance, so it is easier to play notes. It will take some adjustment to switch from closed holes because you will have to cover the holes and perfectly with your fingers for the note to sound correctly. Start out with plugs in the keys that are hardest to reach, so you can play normally, and work at playing without the plugs while you practice.

Inline G key: This is a matter of personal preference and won't affect the tone. An inline G key just means that one key will be a bit harder to reach (see the image to the right). If you have small hands or are used to playing with an offset G key, it is fine to stick with that. The main reason an inline G key is preferred is for the pleasing look of the keys.

B foot: You can buy a foot joint with a few extra keys that enables you to play one chromatic step lower than usual (a B). This is a good idea for intermediate or above players because they will probably come across the note their flute literature.

Gizmo key: This key will usually be included in a B foot and makes it easier to play high C or C# (5+ ledger lines).

Split E Mechanism: A split E mechanism divides the action of the upper and lower G keys. Normally the G keys close together; in a split E mechanism, that is still true, but the lower G can close when the third octave E natural is played. This provides ideal tone hole venting for the high E and can improve tuning and tone for a flutist., You will probably want a silver-polishing cloth (or other cloth specific to your metal) to remove fingermarks. A swab or flute snake is fun to have, but you can also use a strip of an old t-shirt and the tuning rod to clean out spit. Pad paper is essential to fix "sticky keys." (They make awful noises.) You can also buy thumb rests for the bottom of the flute to make it more comfortable. Try jazzing up your flute case with fun stickers or key chains. One essential item is to add a name tag to your flute case with contact information in case it gets lost. Enjoy your new flute!

