 Hermione is hardly seen without one or two big books in her hands. Try some non-fiction books, like history about your school or town. For fiction, try the classics, or realistic fiction, Hermione would read the most realistic books (but Harry Potter works, too). You can get an old fashion book bag that's maybe tan or light brown. Sling it over your shoulder when carrying it.;
, Hermione is an avid reader and will read up on all sorts of subjects. When you go to the library, consider perusing the non-fiction section on subjects such as philosophy, history, culture, science, animals, literature. Reading widely will make you a more cultured and refined person.
 Hermione is extremely organized. She does more subjects than anyone else in the grade, yet she seems to have time to read widely, advocate for the welfare of elves and helps friends such as Hagrid in need. Hermione has a homework planner and good work ethic.
 Hermione has an innate curiosity to learn and better her mind. She approaches her studies with interest, which allows her to better immerse herself.


Value education, learning and culture. Hermione values these traits in her education. Try to enjoy them; they might even be fun!

, Hermione takes more challenging and varied subjects than others, however the result is that she comes out with a well-rounded knowledge. However be wary of a heavy workload, while Hermione is very good, even the best of people will suffer under pressure and stress. Hermione takes so many subjects in her third year she becomes stressed, irritated, snappy and upset due to the immense pressure of stress due to her school work. Don't take more than you can handle.
 You can achieve this by doing your homework, studying for tests weeks in advance, doing extra credit, and finishing projects on time. Hermione studies whenever she gets the chance. When a teacher asks a question, stick your hand up as far as it will go (even if it means standing up) and try to get called on. Just remember not be too annoying, otherwise you could be sent out of class, get detention or even worse a bad mark on your report card. Doing this at every question will show your teacher that you are paying attention and are getting good grades. You want your teacher to say, "anyone else besides (your name)?" Hermione would be delighted that the teacher would say that.
 As Hermione once said, extra credit is always nice to have just in case, it shows your immersion in the subject and as an individual you reap the benefits of knowledge and effort. If you finish your schoolwork earlier then everyone else, start on your homework. If you ever feel like you didn't get enough homework, go up to your teacher and ask for extra work. If she doesn't have any, ask her if she can start early on a new project. Your teacher will be shocked.
 Shush them real big and keep your eyes on the teacher. Turn a little so you're not facing them. After class, go up to them and say in a rushed voice, "It's not worth getting in trouble during an important lesson to talk about video games!" and prance away.

