 Depression is unlikely to improve on its own.Sadness is a natural human emotion. It can occur as a response to loss. It can be the result of experiencing something unpleasant or uncomfortable. Sadness or “feeling down” usually lessens on its own over time. It is often not a constant feeling. Sadness may come and go. It is usually triggered by a particular experience or event.Clinical depression is more than sadness. It is not a feeling that people can just “get over.” It rarely lessens over time. It is usually near-constant or constantly present. It may not be triggered by any particular event or experience. It can be so overwhelming that it interferes with daily living., Clinical depression may manifest differently in different individuals. You may not have all of the symptoms of this disorder. Symptoms usually interfere with your daily life activities and may cause significant distress or dysfunction.If you frequently experience five or more of these symptoms, you may have clinical depression:Changes in sleep habits
Changes in eating habits
Inability to focus or concentrate, “feeling fuzzy”
Fatigue or lack of energy
Loss of interest in things you used to enjoy
Irritability or restlessness
Weight loss or weight gain
Feelings of despair, hopelessness, or worthlessness
Physical aches, pains, headaches, cramps, and other physical symptoms that have no clear cause

, Depression has many causes, and researchers are not yet entirely certain how it works. Early trauma may cause changes in how your brain handles fear and stress. Many studies suggest that clinical depression may be partly genetic. Life changes such as losing a loved one or going through a divorce may trigger an episode of major depression.Clinical depression is a complex disorder. It may be partially caused by trouble with neurotransmitters in your brain, such as serotonin and dopamine.Medication may help regulate these chemicals and alleviate depression.
Substance abuse, such as misuse of alcohol and drug use, is strongly linked to depression.Studies suggest that lesbian, gay, and bisexual individuals may suffer from higher rates of depression. This may be because of a lack of social and personal support systems., If you have depressive symptoms that interfere with your daily life, consider talking with your physician. S/he may prescribe you antidepressant medications that can help regulate the hormones in your brain that affect mood.Be sure to describe all of your symptoms honestly to your doctor. There are several types of antidepressant medication. Your symptoms will help your doctor determine which medicine may be most helpful to you.
Your individual body chemistry can respond to medications very differently. You and your doctor may need to try several antidepressants before you find one that works for you. If you feel your medication is not helping after a few months, speak with your doctor.Do not switch or stop taking antidepressant medications without consulting your doctor first. This could cause serious health and mood issues.If you continue to have difficulty with your antidepressant medication, consider seeing a psychiatrist. A psychiatrist is a medical doctor with special training in psychiatric health. They may be able to help refine your medication to find the right treatment for you., Because depression is affected by so many factors, it’s crucial to seek help from a professional. A mental health professional can help you understand and navigate your emotions. Treatment that includes psychotherapy in addition to antidepressant medication is often more effective than medication alone.There are two common myths about depression. One is that you should just “snap out of it.” The other is that seeking help is a sign of weakness. These are not true. Admitting that you need help to manage your health is a sign of strength and self-care.There are many types of mental health professionals. Psychiatrists and Psychiatric Nurse Practitioners are usually the only ones who can prescribe medication. They may also offer therapy.Psychologists have a doctorate degree in a field of psychology (clinical, educational, counseling) and specialized training in therapy. They are usually less expensive than psychiatrists, but more expensive than the other options.
Licensed Clinical Social Workers have master’s degrees in Social Work. They may offer psychotherapy services. They can usually also help you find other resources in your community. LCSWs  often work at community health clinics and university health centers.
Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists have specialized training in handling couples and family issues. They may or may not also provide individual psychotherapy.
Licensed Professional Counselors have a master’s degree in counseling. They usually have supervised training in offering mental health services. LPCs often work at community health clinics.
 If you have health insurance in the United States, it’s important to contact your insurance company to learn which mental health providers in your area are covered by your plan. Some insurance companies may require a physician’s referral. Many companies only cover treatments by certain providers.
 Withdrawal from social relationships is a common symptom of depression. However, you are likely to feel better if you reach out to your loved ones. They can provide support and love.You may not “feel like” seeing or interacting with others. It’s important to encourage yourself to do so anyway. Isolating yourself may worsen your depression., You cannot “cure” depression simply by changing your diet. However, you can choose foods that promote feeling well.


Choose complex carbs. Whole grains, brown rice, beans, and lentils are good sources of complex carbohydrates. These carbs leave you feeling full longer and help manage blood sugar levels.Avoid sugar and simple carbs. These may provide a temporary “high,” but the crash can worsen depressive symptoms.Eat fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables are high in nutrients such as vitamin C and beta-carotene. These antioxidants can help fight free radicals that disturb body functioning. Try to incorporate fresh fruit and veg into most meals.Get enough protein. Several studies have shown that higher protein intake can boost your alertness.It may also help improve your mood.Incorporate Omega-3 fatty acids. These fatty acids are found in many nuts, oils such as flaxseed and soybean oil, and dark green leafy vegetables. They are also found in fatty fish such as tuna, salmon, and sardines. Some research suggests that eating more fatty acids may have a mild protective effect against depression., Depression often interrupts your sleeping habits. It’s important to get about eight hours of sleep a night.Try to establish healthy sleeping habits, like going to bed at a regular time and limiting TV exposure before bed.


Individuals with chronic insomnia are at much higher risk of developing clinical depression.Sleep apnea, a disorder that obstructs your breathing while you sleep, is also linked to clinical depression., If you are depressed, you may well not feel like getting out and exercising. However, many studies have shown that exercise elevates your mood. Try to aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day.Strength-training at least twice a week is also helpful.Some research suggests that you may be less likely to become depressed if you exercise regularly.People who are obese may be more likely to become depressed. Scientists do not fully understand this link, but exercise can help combat obesity and depression.