 There is nothing you can do to affect the outcome of a game, including wearing those lucky socks. Your team didn’t lose because you didn’t cheer loudly enough or sat in the wrong seat. Their failure is not your failure.One way to give yourself a little more control is to play as your team in a video game. Set up the game they just lost, and get the result you wanted to see. If you’re feeling a little down, go ahead and set the difficulty on easy to really give your opponents the pounding you feel they deserve.

Playing fantasy sports is a way to be more active with the sport. Drafting your own lineup and trading players around can give you a small sense of control over events. Additionally, fantasy sports users are more likely to feel the positive emotions after winning matchups than the negative feelings that come with their favorite teams losing., One loss shouldn’t be enough to drive you from supporting your team. Staying loyal after a loss, or even when moving to a different city, can give you a big psychological boost.Plus, sticking it out through the bad times will make it feel even better when your team does win the big one.
 While losses hurt, no team loses all the time. To get over a big defeat, think about your team’s good times. Remember great comebacks, championships, or even just good times with friends and family watching your team. If you’ve watched your team before this game, there will be some moments you can look back on fondly., Taunting, insults, and banter are parts of the sports fan experience, and you’ll almost certainly be a target after losing. Rather than being surprised when it happens, be prepared to handle it appropriately.Ignore it. Like other forms of teasing or bullying, taunts from opposing fans can be ignored. Laugh it off, or just walk away. Don’t give them the satisfaction of knowing they got to you. Those fans didn’t play in the game, so who cares what they think?
Give it right back. Don’t be afraid to respond with a few taunts of your own. You can probably think of a few good insults for the opposing team and their fans. It won’t change the result of the game, but can be another good way to vent your frustrations.
 The great thing about sports is that there will always be another game. Another game means another chance to win. Instead of dwelling on the game your team lost today, think about the game they could win next time out.Depending on where you are in the season, a loss can even be helpful to your team’s future performance. Finishing lower in the standings might mean a better draft pick, or a chance to see underperforming players replaced.
 While being sad after watching your team lose is not unusual, it should not have long-term effects on your emotional health. If you find that a loss is affecting your ability to live in the real world, look for professional help. Just because your depression seems to be coming from the outcome of a sporting event doesn’t mean it isn’t a real concern.