 Since access to the preparation screen isn't available until a few chapters into the game, it's vital to check every enemy on the first turn to see their stats, weapons and skills (if any). You don't want to lose a unit because you didn't know that they had Counter in their skillset. This becomes especially vital on Lunatic+.
 This also applies on lower difficulties but is necessary on Lunatic mode when enemies are extremely strong early in the game. You are also able to put your cursor over an enemy and press A to mark that specific unit's range in red, which overlaps the pink danger zone that you get with X. This can be useful if you're using a flier like Sumia, and want to keep her out of an archer's range but move her in to attack a soldier. It's vital to keep healers and dancers out of enemy range since they are often extremely frail with weak attacks (or can't attack at all, in the healer's case).



 

, Frederick is your Jeigan-type character, meaning he is a pre promoted unit that you get in the beginning of the game. He is the only unit you have in the beginning who can take more than a few hits from any given enemy, so be prepared to use him a lot in order to get through the first chapters without any units dying. However, do not simply throw him into a group of enemies and expect him to live; he, too, can easily be killed on Lunatic mode if you aren't careful.
 While killing every unit in the first chapters with Frederick may seem like a good idea, it's not going to be of much help later in the game when Frederick starts falling off and your other units are extremely under leveled. While Frederick is going to be handling the majority of enemies, take every opportunity that you can to weaken enemies just enough for Chrom or Robin to safely get the kill., Awakening is known for its Pair-Up system being extremely overpowered, and supports will further boost the stats gained from having a Pair-Up. For example, try pairing up Chrom and Robin whenever able to get them to a C support, making the boosts they get in combat increase greatly. This can be vital to survive as you progress in the game, as the enemies get much stronger fast.
 Don't be afraid to use L+R+Start to soft-reset the game in a chapter in order to look at enemy patterns, and how your units stack up. Try, try and try again with different strategies and unit formations to see what works best. For example, Chapter 3 is generally considered to be the toughest chapter in Awakening Lunatic mode for a variety of reasons, and it might take a while to determine the best way to complete the chapter without a unit dying. Ask yourself questions as you go along. Which units can handle certain kinds of enemies the best? Should I split up my army or group them? Are there enemies that I need to take care of immediately? This can help you figure out a plan.