 Wear form-fitting athletic gear, such as t-shirts, shorts, sweatshirts, and sweatpants. Avoid baggy clothing, as well as anything with pockets or belt-loops, to reduce the chances of an opponent grabbing your clothes by mistake when they attempt to snatch your flag. Also avoid wearing clothes that are the same color as the flags that you will wear.Tuck your shirt into your waistband to keep the flags accessible.


Although there is no tackling in flag football, safety gear such as mouthguards and safety straps for glasses are still recommended.
Some leagues may require you to wear flat-soled or molded cleat shoes (meaning the cleats are actually part of the sole). Shoes with spikes or cleats that can be removed may be forbidden.Helmets and padding are not required. In fact, they are usually forbidden in official games.;
, Bring at least one American football to play with. Distribute flag belts to each player for them to wear around their waist. Also hand out three flags per player to attach to their belt.Make sure the flags for each team are one uniform color.If you don’t have belts, tuck the flags under your waistband. Tuck them far enough to keep them in place when you run, but so far in that your opponents can’t reach them or pull them free.
Fixing your flags so that they are harder to remove can result in ten-yard penalties if you’re caught, meaning that your team will lose ten yards at the start of your next down.
 Find an open space with level ground. For a full-sized field, look for a space that measures 53.33 yards wide (48.76 meters) and 120 yards (109.7 meters). However, for younger players (or if wide open spaces are hard to come by in your area), feel free to choose a field that is half or even a third of that size.The game should be played on level ground so no one team has an unfair advantage. Players who need to climb uphill to reach their end zone will face more challenges than opponents running downhill.
If you are able to play on an actual football field where the yards and end zones are already marked, great! If not, use cones or flags to mark your end zones. Trace your goal lines and sidelines with spray paint if possible so they are easier to spot.
End zones should be the last ten yards (9.1 meters) at either end of the playing field.This usually holds true even when playing on a smaller field.Recommended measurements for smaller fields include: 60 yards long by 20 yards wide (54.9 by 18.3 meters); 70 yards long by 25 yards wide (64 by 22.9 meters); 80 yards long by 30 yards wide (73.1 by 27. 4 meters).

