 Being too hot or too cold may also cause your newborn to cry and fuss.Feel your newborn’s hands, feet, head, and back. If any of these areas feel cold or hot to the touch, then you may need to add or remove some clothing to help your newborn fall asleep in the bassinet.


For example, if your newborn’s feet feel cold, put some booties on her feet. If your newborn’s back feels hot, remove a layer of clothing.
 Hunger may cause a baby to cry and act fussy, so doing a feeding near your newborn’s bedtime may help to soothe your baby to sleep. Make sure that you burp your newborn after the feeding as well because gas may also cause her to be fussy., A wet or soiled diaper may also cause a baby to cry and act fussy. Before you lay your newborn down in the bassinet, check your baby’s diaper and change it if necessary., Dim lights help our bodies to understand that it is time to sleep.Try dimming the lights in your baby’s bedroom to help him fall asleep in the bassinet.


Keep in mind that the room does not have to be totally dark. You can leave on a nightlight or a small table lamp to make it easier for you to check on your newborn.
 An ideal room temperature for sleeping is about 65 degrees Fahrenheit.Try to keep your baby’s room at about this temperature to provide an ideal sleep environment.


If you have a thermostat in your house, try setting it for around 65 degrees. You may need to turn on a fan, air conditioner, or heater to achieve this temperature.
 Your newborn may enjoy sleeping in her bassinet more if there is an interesting mobile for her to look at. Try putting up a mobile to give your newborn something to look at as she drifts off to sleep.


Make sure that the mobile is out of your newborn's reach and that it is securely attached to the bassinet. If the mobile is within your baby's reach or if it falls into the bassinet, then this could create a choking hazard., To give your baby's bassinet a soothing scent, try adding a drop or two of lavender essential oil to edge of the mattress. Add a drop of essential oil to the mattress just before you lay your newborn in the bassinet for bedtime or a nap. Some other good essential oil choices include:


Roman chamomile
frankincense
geranium
ginger
neroli
patchouli
rosewood
rose
sandalwood