 Most state legislatures allow members to testify about bills the legislature is considering. However, the process for signing up may differ by state. You can find the process by calling the office of the committee that is holding the hearing. Ask where the hearing is being held. Also ask how you can testify.


You usually have to sign up to testify. The process will differ by legislative committee., If you are going to testify before a legislative committee, then you should probably write out your testimony ahead of time. Some legislative committees actually recommend that you do so, and that you bring multiple copies with you to the hearing. You should bring enough so that each committee member has a copy.Try to keep your written remarks brief. Many other people may be testifying, and you don’t want to take up too much time., You should look professional if you want to be taken seriously. This means dressing in a business manner—preferably suits for men and women. Women can wear either pant suits or skirt suits.


You should avoid “Greenpeace” T-shirts or anything like that. People will assume you care deeply about the environment simply by virtue of your appearing to testify, so there is no need to hammer the point home with your clothing.
 Remember to keep your voice up. Also, try not to read directly from what you have written. Instead, make an outline of your written remarks and refer to the outline as you speak.Look up and make frequent eye contact with the legislators.


Begin by introducing yourself and stating why you are testifying. For example, you could say, “Madame Chair and members of the committee, I am Tanya Smith from Skokie. I am here representing myself in opposition to the bill to renew the license for this power plant because it is already one of our community’s worst polluters….”
If someone speaking before you made the same point, then skip it or try to rephrase it.You don’t want to repeat things other people have said.
 The legislators may have questions that they want to ask you. You should be prepared for them.Listen to the question and don’t talk over the legislator.


Try to keep your answers as brief as possible.
Also be honest. If you don’t know the answer to something, then say so. The legislators do not expect you to be an expert. You can always tell the legislators that you will gladly follow up with a written response after you do more investigation.