


Alternatively, you could lightly coat the baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray instead of using oil.
 Rinse the potatoes under running water while scrubbing the skins with a stiff vegetable brush.


If you wish to keep the skins, you need to scrub off the dirt in this manner.
If you don't wish to keep the skins, peel the potatoes first and rinse them under running water when finished. You should not need to scrub them since the dirty skins are already gone.
 Secure the waffle blade attachment in the mandolin. Using firm, even pressure, pass the end of the potato over the blade, creating the first slice.


The waffle blade should have ridges on it. To prevent the fries from becoming too thin, use a thickness of 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.6 to 1.25 cm).
If you don't have a mandolin, consider using a ridged cheese knife. Chop straight down over the end of the potato using this knife, making slices that are 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.6 to 1.25 cm) thick.
 Turn the potato 90 degrees. The vertical grooves should now run horizontally. Make a second slice from this angle.


Rotating the potato in this manner should create the crisscross waffle pattern. If you don't rotate the potato, you'll get ridged fries instead of waffle fries.
Continue slicing both potatoes in this manner, rotating 90 degrees in between each slice.
 Spread the potato slices onto your prepared baking sheet, arranging them in a single layer. Bake the fries in your preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until they turn golden brown.


The exact amount of time may vary depending on how thick you cut the fries. You may need to check the progress every 5 minutes after the first 15 minutes to prevent the fries from burning.
If you'd prefer evenly browned fries, consider turning the fries with a spatula after the first 15 minutes. Allow the other sides to brown for the duration of the cooking time.
 Remove the hot fries from the oven and sprinkle them with salt according to your own tastes. While these fries shouldn't get soggy, they'll still taste best when eaten hot and fresh from the oven.

