 The three major rock types are igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary. Igneous rocks are made from the rapid or slow cooling of magma/lava.
Metamorphic rocks change form based on the influence of heat, pressure, or chemical activity.
Sedimentary rocks are essentially formed by pieces of smaller rocks, fossils, and sediments.
 The presence and distribution of layering can help you identify the main type of rock you have. If a rock is layered, it will have different sections that are different colors and may or may not contain small crystals or fossils. You will need to look for these under a magnifying glass.
In cross section, layers in a rock will look like different colors stripes on top of one another.
The presence and distribution of layering can help you identify the main type of rock you have.
Igneous rocks are not layered. If your rock has layers it will be either a metamorphic or sedimentary rock.
Sedimentary rocks will have layers that are softy and crumbly, and are comprised of mud, sand or gravel.
Sedimentary rocks can also have crystals. If the layers in your rock are made up of crystals of varying sizes, then your rock is sedimentary.
Metamorphic rocks have layers made up crystals that are the same size.
The layers of metamorphic rocks are also folded and deformed.
 You should use a magnifying glass to do this, as some grains and crystals can be very tiny and you won't be able to see them with the naked eye. If your rock has visible grains, proceed to the next step to classify your rock based on grain type. If there are no visible grains, use the following criteria to classify your rock:Igneous rocks are very dense and hard. They may have a glassy appearance.
Metamorphic rocks may also have a glassy appearance. You can distinguish these from igneous rocks based on the fact that metamorphic rocks tend to be brittle, lightweight, and an opaque black color.
Sedimentary rocks with no grains will resemble dry clay or mud.
Sedimentary rocks with no grains also tend to be soft, as they can usually be scratched easily with a fingernail. These rocks will also react to hydrochloric acid.
 Remember, not all rocks will have visible grains. Grains will appear as small pieces of sand, fossils, or crystals.Only metamorphic and sedimentary rocks will contain fossils. Sedimentary rocks may have visible fossils such as whole or partial leaves, shells, footprints etc. Metamorphic rocks will contain only highly fragmented fossils.
Sedimentary rocks will have grains made up of sand, silt or gravel. These grains may be rounded in shape (clastic), or be made up of other rocks.
If your grains contain crystals, you can use the orientation and size of the crystals to identify the rock.
Igneous rocks have crystals that are randomly oriented. They may have large crystals in ground mass with smaller crystals.
Sedimentary rocks have crystals that are easily broken or scratched.
Metamorphic rocks contain crystals that have a foliated or scaly appearance. These are often long and arranged in a parallel pattern.
 You want to look for any type of metallic appearance or streamlined flow structures.Rocks that have a metallic appearance with a scaly or smooth texture are metamorphic.
Igneous rocks may have a vesicular texture. This is when the rock appears to be very porous with many holes.
Pumice is an example of a rock that has a very porous texture.
Igneous rocks will be very hard. Many types of igneous rocks have rocky streamlined flow structures in them.

