 Exposure therapy is a common treatment for social anxiety. It helps relieve social anxiety by encouraging you to face your fears and reduce your fearful or anxious reaction to them. You start with things that make you feel just a little anxious, and work up to sources of high anxiety.You may feel comfortable trying this on your own, but if not, you can seek out a therapist to help you with this treatment.Experts have several theories on why exposure treatment works, but most agree that it weakens your "conditioned response" to the things that make you anxious. In other words, it retrains your brain to react differently to those things.If your anxiety is severe enough to cause panic attacks or intense fear, you should consider seeking professional treatment first. While exposure therapy is highly successful, it can make fears and anxieties worse if not done correctly., The activities should cause varying levels of anxiety. This means that you will want to balance some activities that cause mild stress with other activities that cause more significant levels of anxiety. This list will help you identify which type of activities make you feel most anxious and help you prioritize which activities you'll want to reduce your anxiety.
 Identify which activity is the least anxiety-provoking for you and mark it as one. Continue to number each activity in increasing severity.


You can determine how anxiety-provoking each activity is to you by rating them on a 100 point scale.Ask yourself, “On a scale of 1-100, how much anxiety does this activity cause me?” The activities that are higher on the scale will be higher on the list.
 Use your imagination to pretend that you are fully engaged in the activity.Visualize each step in the process.


For example, if you’ve been invited to a party where you think you will embarrass yourself, this might be a great activity to rehearse.

You could start by visualizing that you are arriving to the location.
Next you can visualize walking up the driveway and knocking on the door.
Imagine that you are sitting down next to an attractive person.
Visualize yourself talking to the person, laughing, and both of you enjoying the conversation.
See yourself having a drink or eating without soiling your clothing.
Continue to visualize each step of the anxiety-provoking event.


As you mentally rehearse the event, try to imagine the details in your mind’s eye. Pretend that you’ve teleported yourself there so that you can see all of the vivid details of your surroundings. Also, incorporate your other senses during the rehearsal. This will help it to feel more real.
 After you’ve finished mentally rehearsing the activity, it’s time to practice it in real life.Complete each step exactly the way that you imagined it.


You will probably still feel some anxiety even after mentally rehearsing the event, but tell yourself “It’s okay that I’m anxious. I’m going to do this anyway.” Continue to practice this activity until the anxiety that is currently associated with the event subsides.
 Continue to expose yourself to the activities on your list. Be sure to move in order from the least anxiety-provoking activity to the most anxiety-provoking situation. This is important because if you start with activities that cause severe anxiety, it may be too overwhelming for you.


Professional therapists may sometimes recommend a "flooding" approach to exposure therapy, where you immediately face your most anxiety-provoking events. This approach does work, but because it is often extremely uncomfortable for the person, most therapists do not use it. It is not recommended that you use the "flooding" technique at home.