 Because of various issues like ticket availability, price fluctuations, and limited timetables, you will have a much easier time traveling across the U.S. if you plan your trip well in advance.


The first step is choosing the time of year to travel. Peak travel times in the U.S. are in the summer, and more broadly between April and September. Ticket prices will climb during this period; availability will decline; and cabins will be more crowded. The best times of year for getting inexpensive tickets but still enjoying pleasant weather and scenery are autumn and spring.
The next step is choosing your exact train schedule using timetables. Amtrak offers timetables for all of their routes at each station; they can also be downloaded online. Most Amtrak routes run either 1 or 2 trains daily.
There are several online resources where you can read which routes are more scenic as well as other Amtrak travel tips. Amtrak's own "Whistle Stop" web page offers travel tips submitted by customers.;
, After planning a route, you should purchase your tickets as far in advance as possible. Tickets can be purchased in person at each Amtrak station. They can also be ordered online at amtrak.com, or over the phone by calling 1-800-USA-RAIL. This phone service is only available to American and Canadian customers.


Amtrak prices its tickets incrementally. As each train fills up, the remaining seats are raised in price. This makes it advantageous to book your trip well in advance, especially if you intend to travel during the summer or around a holiday.
Discounts are available on Amtrak tickets through membership in certain organizations, such as the American Automobile Association (AAA). Discounts are also available to senior citizens and active military personnel.
 Boarding and traveling on an Amtrak train is a straightforward process.


Begin by arriving at your station early. The Amtrak website can advise you how long before your scheduled departure you should arrive at each station. Have your ticket ready.
Your ticket will be checked as you enter the train. Amtrak tickets do not usually have a specified seat number, so you can choose any available seat. Once seated, remain there until the attendant can place a seat check above your seat. This seat check indicates that your seat is occupied and lets the attendants know when your stop is near.
 Traveling on Amtrak can get you to many major U.S. cities, but traveling within cities or in the regional area must be accomplished using a different service. Before leaving, study the public transit services in your destination cities to determine how to transfer from an Amtrak train to a regional train or bus.

