 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each attraction or show on YouTube, or take a peak at the ride-through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit.


Recognize that there are few other real theme park options in Carlsbad, CA (near San Diego, CA) with the only real exception being SeaWorld of San Diego, but if you are willing to drive for about an hour or so, a wealth of other choices exist in the nearby Los Angeles and Anaheim, CA area.
Recognize the sections of the park that exist here. When you first walk through the gates, you'll enter into several different areas called "The Beginning" and "Explorer Island", DUPLO Village, Fun Town, Pirate Shores, Castle Hill, Land of Adventure, Imagination Zone and this all happens around one final great big land around a final pond in the center in an area many know called Miniland USA.
 The address to this park is located at 1 LEGOLAND Drive, Carlsbad, CA 92008 .The cost to park your car at Legoland will run you about $15 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).
, This area is the primary shopping and guest services area for the park., If you can like, you can make up his own name for your own records as you get there., Although short, the ride operators will send it's guests around this out-and-back coaster track twice before returning to the station.
 Much like a few digging areas of some of the Disney parks, this digging pit will allow your child to dig for dinosaur bones in the sand pit.
 Much like what DUPLO is meant to be for, this DUPLO-based area is designed to work in the age factors of those younger than 4 years old.
 This whimsical ride is fairly slow and is easy to explain to your kids as they ride around in this slow-moving boat.
 This super-slow moving train will bring your children on a ride that will make them thing they've taken a real train ride through the country side - only to find out that the residents of this countryside are DUPLO block residents who don't particularly move a lot.
 This Jeep safari will have your kids laughing at the cute bricked animals made completely of Lego/DUPLO blocks.
 Look at the fine craftsmanship of the area to see just what detail goes into making the famed Lego Movie on such a small size. With the magnifying glasses, you can see anything that is too small to see all of the finer points., With all the water games happening here, it'll be hard to steer your children away from all this fun.
, Much like that of the Tommorrowland Speedway in Walt Disney World(Florida) or Autopia at Disneyland nearby, this will have you and your kids driving these LEGOLAND cars around like a pro.


If your kids aren't up to driving cars yet, walk up to the Junior Driving School instead. There, they don't even have to worry about driving, and can be left up to sit in the car and watch it move around a circular track by themselves, looking at all the other LEGO stuff nearby.
 Being similar to the Dumbo ride at Disneyland but styled to portray an airplane, this will have you and your kids exploring the rest of the park's outside attractions in a real-fun way for a few minutes.
 This fun attraction, although a minimum height is set, can be ridden by many and can be fun to teach your children what happens during a freefall event. This colorful ride towers are attractive to many kids and can easily make most children's eyes spot them quickly.
,, However, arrive early (at rope drop time) to this attraction, or come later in the day when lines have significantly cooled down.
 This motorized vehicle is much similar to PeopleMover in Walt Disney World. However, due to the transportation of this vehicle being by footpower (and by the same method as a bicycle), guests should be in shape enough and have some knowledge of bicycle riding to ride this attraction.
 To get an idea of what it takes for this ride, watch it once or twice. As the helicopter spins around in a circle, you can change it's direction via the steering wheel in front of you. However, these helicopters move around super-slowly that this really isn't a great place to go if you are psyched for faster-action items to try.
 Most of these attractions in this area/land are only open during a certain season, due to the fact that most of this area is devoted to water attractions that squirt water and sometimes soak the visitor.
 This attraction is open all-year long.
 Not only is the attraction out in the outside during the time, but the drops aren't that high or powerful. This attraction is the only other ride in this area that is open year-round.
 All of these attractions feature water-attractions. And if that's not enough, they even have a piece that can come pouring down on you at all times of the year. The bad thing is: it's a seasonal attraction.
 This ride has larger drops and even has a bridge near the drop-zone when people pass under it. This ride is more popular than Treasure Falls in terms of intensity, but even those LEGO enthusiasts will love it for it's LEGO creations near the border of the track.
 This attraction is a seasonal attraction.
 This is a seasonal attraction.
, With all the catwalks and rope ladders, and play areas and what, there's no telling when the kids will want to stop. This attraction has one area where there are much larger-than-life LEGO blocks that your kids can play with. However, with all the energy-busting of this attraction, keep an eye on your kids for when they tend to lose strength and break free for becoming cranky for the remainder of the day. Don't over psych your kids on this attraction otherwise you may lag behind the rest of the day.
 This robotic arm will spin you around, upside down and close to inside out (with safety barriers in place). And with a selection of intensities to choose from, there's no telling how wild your particular ride can be until you choose one of the predetermined levels.
 This attraction can be amusing to the parents, but it is especially meant for the children.
 This part roller coaster, part LEGO looking attraction will leave you baffled before you even realize it's over. Although this ride features several corkscrew turns at a moderate intensity level, it doesn't get much beyond that. However, out of the starting gate, this attraction doesn't accelerate much to show you all the LEGO items that have been constructed to show you.
 This attraction, though not wild in the least, will leave your kids jumpy for a few minutes and want to make them become more like the beetle that all kids think they are. This ride raises them about 15 feet in the air, then bounces them back to earth rather gently.
 On the suspended fixed track, you and your kids can soar round and round for a few minutes to make your children think they've taken flight in the airplane-themed ride vehicle, which will raise them no higher than 6 feet above the ground.
 Although featured to be a LEGO-styled wave slide, it is just that: a slide. It might have a few pairs of double-helix corkscrews, but it won't rock your roller-coaster mind when you get up to the top, and later end up at the bottom there for many enthusiasts.
 Although not fast, most people find it rather interesting to see all the LEGO creations here. Each room tells it's own story, so explore each room as the ride unfurls.
 Styled much like Hideaways (as you learned about earlier), this area will keep your kids thrilled that they've enticed some Pharaohs. The only LEGO creations you'll see are in the queue for the attraction on the outside.
 Ride a power ski around a small moat as you dodge water blasts from water blasters positioned on the outside of the moat looking in. Be careful though, as on this ride, you'll be standing on the wave runner the entire time.
 Shaped like BIONICLE creations, these ride vehicles will keep your mind spinning for several minutes after the ride actually stops.
 However, careful; as this attraction isn't open long to suit school hours nearby. It is open from 10am til 2pm Pacific Time.
, For many, you'll need to make special reservations at the building inside the Imagination Zone area. Also, again, this attraction also tries to suit school hours nearby (10am til 2pm Pacific Time).
 This attraction, though themed as being in the LEGO Technic style, is actually nothing like a LEGO Technic complexity and is full-blown metal on metal!

,, It is located around the lake near the front of the park. If you were looking at your map, it would be on your right hand side, near the bridge that crosses from Fun Town/DUPLO Village.
 It is this famous, thanks to the creations that are created here...they are so notable and all.


Look at all the minute details of each LEGO block item that has been constructed. Each item has so much detail - and it was all made to be so...realistic.
 This section houses not only George Washington, but other famous people as well.
,,,, Whether it's the Empire State building or its Freedom Tower or it's one of many other skyrises in LEGOs, the New York section should have it all.
 You'll get to see the Golden Gate Bridge in LEGOs along with other things that make San Francisco stand out from all the other cities in the country.
 Whether it's the Griffith Park Observatory or it's Greumann's Chinese Theater, the intricate details is intense and what makes this section stand out.
 The designers even tried to portray the election outcomes of each of the last few presidents we've had since the park opened in 1999. The Washington DC section houses such sights as the Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol and Washington Monument.
, Sometimes classics are great, and this classic is no different than the mainstream phrase.
