 Write down all of the dog’s symptoms as they occur. Not only should you record what symptoms the dog is having but also note when they are occurring and what you think might be causing them. For example, if the dog vomits after eating food, there may be a problem with what you are feeding them. Some symptoms you should look out for include:Vomiting
Gas
Diarrhea
Constipation
Regurgitation
Blood or mucus in their feces
Weakness or lethargy;
, If the dog has only been home with you for a few days, call the shelter, and ask them if the dog has had the same problems in the past. Explain the dog’s symptoms to them. They may be able to check the dog’s record to see if the problems are chronic or not. You can ask:


”Do you know if the dog has had vaccinations in the past? If so, which vaccinations did they receive?”
“Are there any issues with parasites at your kennel?”
“Have you noticed these symptoms in the past with this dog? How about with other dogs in the shelter?”
“Is this a common problem when dogs return home?”
“What did you feed the dog while they were in your shelter? Can you tell me the brand and type of food? Is there somewhere nearby I can find this food?”

, One common digestive issue that affects recently adopted dogs is a sudden change in diet. When a dog switches to a new type or brand of food, their stomachs may need a few days to adjust. Furthermore, dogs in a new home may be curious, and they may eat things that they shouldn’t.


Changing a dog’s diet too suddenly can cause them to have an upset stomach with diarrhea or gas. Normally, you should transition their diet by mixing their old shelter food with their new food. If you did not do this, revert to the dog's old diet. Feed them whatever food they were fed in the shelter, and watch to see if symptoms disappear.Dogs who are fed “people food” or table scraps may have problems with the high fat content found in these foods. Furthermore, some foods that are safe for humans to eat, such as chocolate or garlic, are not safe for dogs to consume., When the dog eliminates, take a careful look at their feces. Normal dog stool should be brown and shaped like a log (although if the dog is on a raw food diet, the feces may be white and crumbly). You should be able to pick it up without it crumbling, falling apart, or running through your fingers.If the dog’s stool is liquid, runny, or loose, they may have diarrhea or a related problem. If their stool is small, crumbly, and dry, they may have constipation.


If the dog has blood or discolored mucus in their feces, take them to a vet immediately.
If the dog’s feces are yellow, green, black, or orange, tell your vet.
 If the dog’s symptoms last longer than 24 hours, take the dog to the vet to be tested. Or, if the dog is vomiting for more than four hours or can't keep fluids down, then take them to the vet right away. There are a number of problems that could cause digestive issues in a dog, including parasites, bacterial or viral infection, inflammation, or allergies. The vet can do a number of tests, including fecal tests, blood tests, electrolyte tests, x-rays, and endoscopies.Be sure to tell the vet:


Any symptoms you have recorded
How long the symptoms have lasted
When the symptoms typically appear
What the dog has been eating recently
If the dog has swallowed an inedible or poisonous object

