 There's no need to go extreme and give up electricity but you can if you like. You can research corsetry, research infamous Victorian lunatic asylums, find out about the importance of tea in Victorian times and, if they appeal, start loving rats.;
, You don't have to listen to just strictly industrial music. If anything themes are more important. Try Emilie Autumn, Hannah Fury, Rasputina, Rammstein, Abney park, Skinny Puppy, Nine Inch Nails, Oomph, and the Dresden Dolls. Try Victorian classic composers too if you want such as Edward Elgar.
 Charles Dickens stories are very readable and portray the lives of both rich and poor Victorians. The works of George Eliot illustrate Victorian ideas about love and romance. Gothic fantasy novels include the works of Anne Rice and Bram Stoker, among many, many others. You shouldn't struggle to find books you enjoy that have a Victoriandustrial aspect in this category. There are books which are considered by many to define Steampunk, such as Morlock Night and Homunculus. Read these and others like them if you wish.
 Corsets are recommended by many. Most respectable Victorian women and girls wore corsets or stays but they are not compulsory for anyone wanting to be Victoriandustrial. If you like, try out wearing bustle skirts, crinolines, shorter deconstructed skirts, kilts, bloomers, ribbon decorated clothes, clothing decorated with realistic floral trimmings and small hats worn at the front of the head. You can also wear older than Victorian style dresses and frocks if you like since lots of poor Victorians would of had hand-me-downs from when William IV and George IV ruled.
 You can buy things that you feel are Victoriandustrial, or get ideas for things you can make yourself or adapt from other clothes. Remember, you can incorporate industrial elements too, such as metal cuffs, heavy leather jackets, trench coats and heavy, Dr Marten type boots.
 Choose black, deep red, purple, light pink, white, gray, navy blue and any other colours you like. Experiment with lots of colours, or base your look on one main colour.
 Wear crosses on necklaces, dresses, or bracelets. Try wearing velvet belts, pendants, lace trims, pearls, lockets, chokers, skulls, patches, brooches, fingerless gloves and garters.
 Choose striped or fishnet, lacy effect, or wollen, and wear with stumpy goth boots, stiletto boots or Mary-Jane heels or other footwear.
 You can wear a dark eyeliner or eyeshadow, or a dark lipstick like plum, deep red or deep red with gold undertones. Remember, less is more, and it's best when you don't overdo the makeup. Victorians were generally modest, but Victoriandustrial artists are quite bold with their make-up so you can pretty much what you like.

