 Put on sunscreen 15 minutes before you go outside, paying particular attention to your nose, which sticks out from your face and is more prone to sunburn. Choose a broad-spectrum sunscreen with 30 SPF or higher, and apply it every two hours and after swimming or sweating.If you have trouble remembering to put on sunscreen before you go out, use a moisturizer with SPF in it as part of your daily routine. Many foundations, BB creams, and powder makeup also include some SPF for additional protection.
If you’re prone to breakouts or problems with excess oil on the nose, opt for a sunscreen meant for faces, as they are often formulated without oils.
 Opt for a hat and shade from an umbrella in addition to wearing sunscreen to protect the nose. Choose a wide-brimmed hat that creates full shade for your face.


Seek shade particularly at times of the day when your shadow is shorter than you are, i.e. 12:00-2:00 PM.Remember that even full shade from a hat or umbrella does not block all UV rays, nor do clouds on an overcast day. For best results, take all skin protection measures possible, applying sunscreen regularly or wearing full-coverage clothing even when under shade or clouds.
 Apply aloe vera fresh from the plant or from a 100% aloe vera product to soothe sunburn on the nose. Continue to apply aloe and other hydrating moisturizers regularly until a sunburn heals.


Keep aloe vera in the fridge or freezer for an extra cooling effect.
You can also take aloe vera internally by drinking a 100% aloe vera juice product. This may have some benefit to your body’s overall anti-inflammatory response.
 Be sure to drink water before, during, and particularly after sun exposure. This keeps the body and skin hydrated, and will lessen the irritation and dryness of a sunburn on the nose or anywhere else on the body.


If you have trouble remembering to drink water, keep a large bottle with you and commit to drinking it all by the end of the day. Bring a whole gallon jug with you if know you’ll be outside for an extended period of time.
Jazz up your water if you need or want to with fresh lemon slices or drops that add flavor and electrolytes. Just stay away from high-sugar drink mixes, and don’t substitute soda or alcohol for water when you’re thirsty, as these will actually make you more dehydrated, which does not help the skin.

