 As a rule of thumb, it takes five positive interactions with your partner to make up for every negative interaction. If you and your partner frequently squabble or criticize each other, change the tone of the relationship by expressing more affection, gratitude, care, and humor.Even small positive interactions can have a big impact on people’s happiness in a relationship. Try giving your partner a hug when they come home, texting them just to say hi, or thanking them when they do a chore you dislike.
 Old mistakes and hurts are in the past, so commit to leaving them behind you. Instead, focus on enjoying the present moment with your partner. Appreciate your partner’s good qualities, and don’t let yourself waste time thinking about things that are over and done., If you are patient and reflective, then you can use conflicts as a way to learn and grow. Try to be aware of your history and any baggage you might be carrying when you enter into a relationship. Also, be aware that your partner likely has some of their own baggage.

Try to let down your guard and be willing to open yourself up to this new relationship. Remember that it is an opportunity to learn new things, experience more intense joy, love, and peace, and to grow and heal together.
 Instead of waiting for your partner to impress you, practice noticing when their positive traits really shine. If you start to feel negative towards your partner, remind yourself of all the good things they’ve done lately. Give your partner positive feedback. Say something like, “I love how caring you are. You always make me feel better when I’ve had a bad day.”

, It’s normal to need to vent a little sometimes, but complaining too much just brings you down – as well as everyone else around you. If you’re prone to complaining, it can grate on your partner, so make an effort to see the bright side of life instead. Look for solutions instead of focusing only on your problems.If your partner is a chronic complainer and it bothers you, talk to them. Tell them how their complaining makes you feel, and help them come up with alternatives.
For instance, say something like, “I want to help you fix your problems, but when you complain so much, it wears me out. Maybe we could set aside ten minutes every evening just for venting, and then move on.”

, Talk with your partner daily, even if you can only spend a few minutes together. What you talk about isn’t actually that important – it’s fine to make small talk, as long as you’re not ignoring bigger issues in your relationship that need attention. Just focus on connecting with each other in a consistent, positive way.For instance, you could chat over coffee in the mornings, talk on the phone during your break at work, or catch up while cooking dinner together.
 When you do things with your partner, you’ll stay close and have more to talk about. A few simple ways to share experiences include going for an evening drive, arranging your schedules so you can have meals together, and watching a TV show or movie when you both have an evening free., When your partner talks to you, give them your full attention, even if you’re not discussing something important. Pay attention to their tone of voice and body language, not just their words. Make sure you’re understanding their message and their emotions, instead of just waiting for your turn to talk., Technology can help you communicate with your partner, but it can also drive a wedge between you. Reflect on how you can best use technology to stay connected, and avoid letting your phone and other electronics become a replacement for face-to-face time with your partner.For instance, if your partner has to travel for work, talking to each other over Skype might help you feel connected while you’re apart.

