 Writing about your characters at the start, too, can be helpful down the road.
 If you want to be a successful writer, think twice about taking creative writing as a course in college (unless you've already done so); instead, take English Literature. You have to know how to read with discernment and a critical eye before you write anything. Sentence structure, character distinction, plot formation, and character personality development all fall into place if you know how to read critically before you write.



Setting. The setting of a book is the time, place, and circumstances in which a story takes place. You don't need state this outright, of course. Like a painter might do, you create a picture in the mind of your reader by painting around the subject.






For example: Maria walked down the steep slope surrounding the castle. Before she could get very far, one of her father's maids stopped her and said, "King Ferdinand would like to see you." This suggests that Maria, possibly a young girl, lives on castle grounds. This would give the reader clues that the book might take place in medieval times. Maria is also a Latin name, which could suggest where she lives, and "King Ferdinand" is a giant clue! In fact, the wife of King Ferdinand—Isabel of Castile—approved and funded Christopher Columbus's voyage to the New World in about A.D. 1492, so this story probably takes place around that time.



Characters. Every story has major and minor characters. It's important that you make yours interesting and introduce them properly. Introducing the setting, and maybe even the characters, is called the exposition.






There are several types of characters that many books have. The protagonist is usually a main character and one that the book follows. For every protagonist, there is usually an antagonist, the character who provides the friction a story needs to proceed. The villains in books are generally antagonists, but not always.
Keep this in mind: very often, one man's villain is another man's hero. Regardless of the roles they play, these character types are important to make your story successful.



The conflict. A conflict is a large problem that a character faces, usually the reason for the story to exist in the first place.






Maybe Maria, the King's daughter, has been asked to make the decision whether to let Columbus use Spanish ships and sailors for his adventures. She may continue to face this problem for most of the story.



The climax. The climax is the point of highest tension in the book, the point where the reader is really holding their breath.






Perhaps Maria has just decided against letting Columbus use Spain's money to explore when he shows up, begging her to let him go and saying he'll do anything to have this chance. This is the point where Maria has a big choice to make, one that determines the whole outcome of the story.



The resolution. The climax is over, the problem has been solved, and any loose ends have been tied up. Note: if you intend to make a sequel, leave at least one or two loose ends unresolved.






For the example here, Maria decides to honor Columbus's wishes, lets him go, and convinces her father to let her go with Columbus on his journey. It's often interesting for the reader if there is an ending you weren't expecting, so don't always make the ending of your book predictable.



Details are some of the most important things to write in a book. Instead of just saying. "The sky was blue", say what kind of shade of blue it is, such as "The sky was a light shade of indigo." It can really boost the interest level of your story. But don't go overboard. A bad example would be: "The sky was a light shade of indigo, which set off the deep burnt onyx of the sands, flecked with effervescent spittles of foam from the lime-tinged aquamarine breakers."






Over-the-top embellishment can make you look like you're trying too hard (and likely you are). Be descriptive and light on your feet, and maybe add a poetic tone to your story.
 This will give you a starting point to anchor your story. Nothing fancy, just a general idea of what goes on. Halfway through the book, look over the original plot you wrote down. It'll be amazing how your perception of your book may have changed. You can change your book to match the original plot or scrap the plot and go with what you've written. You could even integrate and mix the two––whatever you want. Remember this is your book!

, This is the best part. If you're having trouble starting, skip to the conflict of the story, and go from there. Once you feel comfortable with your writing, you can add the setting. You'll probably change loads of things in the story, because the great thing about writing a book is you can let your imagination run wild. The only thing you have to remember is that you have to enjoy the process, or your book will probably end up in a cylindrical metal container flecked with deep brick-colored oxidation and peeling shards of turquoise latex pigment (namely, a rusty old trash bin).
 It is best to type up your story so you can create multiple copies of it, easily remove mistakes, and pitch it to publishers.

