 Over the years, diet pills have been made with everything from ephedrine to dinitrophenol. These substances can be lethal even when they are ingested in small quantities.Even diet pills made with herbs, plants or other "natural" ingredients can cause health problems or death. Before you take any type of pill, make sure you know exactly what it contains.


Never buy diet pills online. You have no way of knowing what they contain. The regulations regarding diet pills are loose. It's easy for manufacturers to omit information about what pills contain.
Even diet pills available in drug stores or by prescription can have dangerous ingredients. In the past, many diet pills have been taken off of the market due to safety issues.No matter what type of pill you opt to take, do your research first.;
, There are two different types of diet pills legally available. These include prescription drugs and over-the-counter diet pills or supplements. Within these categories you'll find dozens of different options. Each of them work in different ways.


Prescription weight loss drugs include appetite suppressants, lipase inhibitors, and drugs that increase metabolism.These drugs have been evaluated by the FDA. However, there is no indication that they actually work. Even though they are prescribed by your doctor, they can have negative side effects. Drugs containing stimulants can even become addictive.
Over-the-counter drugs and supplements are made with ingredients derived from natural substances. They are thought to speed metabolism, decrease appetite or block fat cells from expanding. Examples include hoodia, chitosan and green tea extract. These have not been evaluated by the FDA. Their safety and effectiveness is unknown.Never use diet pills containing ephedrine, dinitrophenol or any type of stimulant. These have been pulled from the market due to severe health implications. They may still be available online or on the black market., This is a good way to find out more about both the safety and effectiveness of a type of diet pill. If you're interested in a certain pill, do online research to find out whether it has been tested in at least one trial. If the trial conducted was inconclusive, find another option.


Make sure the sample size of the trial was sufficiently large. For example, you wouldn't want to trust the results of a trial conducted on just twenty people.Look for one that was conducted with a large sample size and a diverse group of people.
If you're having trouble finding any research on a certain type of pill, skip it. That probably means it's too new for scientists to know whether it's safe to take.
 Even if a pill is considered safe to take, it may have unpleasant side effects. It's a good idea to check the side effects when you're deciding what pill to take. If you're getting a prescription from your doctor, ask about the side effects before you begin taking it. The side effects depend entirely on the type of pill you take.Side effects of prescription stimulants can include increase pulse and heart rate, dizziness, restlessness, insomnia, dry mouth, constipation, hypertension, and elevated blood pressure.
Other common diet pill side effects include diarrhea, oily stools, gas, insomnia, and runny nose., Find out if the diet pills you want to take are effective. Most doctors will tell you that taking diet pills won't help you lose weight and keep it off. Some may in the short term. However, the weight will come back once you get off the pills. Find out which type of pill seems to produce good results without causing unhealthy side effects.Prescription weight loss drugs are normally indicated only for people with a body mass index (BMI) over 30. This indicates a weight problem that could lead to further health issues.Prescription stimulants cause people to lose weight. However, since they cause addiction and severe side effects they are only recommended for short-term use.
There is no scientific proof that any over-the-counter diet pills are effective. Anecdotal evidence shows that some may help more than others. Check out clinical trials to determine which supplements may be most effective.
 Whether you want a prescription or you're planning to take over-the-counter supplements, it's important to talk to your doctor first. Your doctor will examine your health history and determine whether it's safe to start taking the drug or supplement.Discuss your weight loss plan with your doctor. Use the time to ask questions about the safety and effectiveness of the drugs or supplements you're considering.
If your doctor writes you a prescription, remember to ask about the side effects.
 Diet pills contain powerful ingredients that affect the body's natural systems. It is very important not to take too much. Whether you're taking prescription weight loss drugs or an over-the-counter supplement, don't exceed the recommended dosage.


If you're taking prescription drugs that contain stimulants, exceeding the dosage could cause a dependence or addiction to occur.Exceeding the dosage of any type of drug could increase the likelihood that you'll experience side effects.
 Drinking plenty of water while you're taking diet pills may help to promote weight loss. It can also ease certain side effects such as constipation and dry mouth. Drinking water also prevents dehydration, which can occur if you're taking a stimulant. Caffeine, on the other hand, can make symptoms worse.


Sometimes caffeine is included as an ingredients in diet pills. If this is the case, it is even more imperative that you avoid it. You'll already be getting a full dose of caffeine, and more could cause problems.Mixing caffeine with a stimulant can cause heart problems. Avoid using caffeine if you are on a prescribed stimulant. It is also dangerous to use alcohol when you are also using a stimulant., Weight loss pills are not going to produce magical results. Eat a healthy diet and exercise while you're on the pills. The diet pills may help speed your weight loss so it takes less time to get the results you want.Avoid processed foods, foods high in sugar, and foods high in hydrogenated oils. Focus on eating lean meats, whole grains, fruits, vegetables and healthy fats.
Try adding half an hour of exercise to your daily routing. Walking, jogging or swimming are all good choices.
 Monitor how you're feeling when you start taking diet pills. Watch especially carefully for the side effects that commonly occur with the pill you're taking. If you experience any major side effects, you should stop taking the pills. It's not worth the health risk. If any of the following conditions occur, see your doctor right away:Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Depression
Heart palpitations
Increased blood pressure
Dizziness
Chest pain
Tremors

