 You will need a prescription from within the last year in order to order contacts, so always ask your eye doctor for a copy after an exam.If you are considering trying to order contacts without an up-to-date prescription, know that online sellers are required to contact your doctor to verify your prescription.;
, If they will, this offers the best of both worlds. You can purchase your contacts from your doctor and often pick them up the same day, while saving the same amount of money you would shopping online., Your eye doctor will usually be able to give you at least a pair of free contacts. Be sure to look online before your appointment, as you can sometimes find coupons online that are redeemable at your eye doctor for an entire box of contacts.
 Comfort and quality of vision are of first concern when buying contacts, but it is worth asking your eye doctor if there is a comparable, less expensive brand that you can try.
 Stores like Costco, Walmart, and Sam’s Club have vision centers that can perform exams and sell contacts, often for less than your eye doctor. They also carry many contacts in stock, meaning you won’t have to wait on shipping, as you would for an online provider.
 Online coupon sites offer up to 70% off on certain brands, and big-box stores and national eye care chains also frequently accept coupons. Vision insurance companies like VSP also regularly offer discounts and rebates on top brands, so be sure to check with your insurance before purchasing contacts.And don’t forget to look for coupons for saline solution. Saving two or three dollars every time you buy a bottle can really add up by the end of the year.
 There are many websites that sell contacts for less than your doctor might, particularly if you buy in bulk.But you will want to make sure you are not only saving money, but also buying from a reputable company that can offer customer service or returns, if necessary.
 You want to be sure that the online seller you choose is capable of shipping your prescription quickly, and of handling returns if necessary. Before ordering, make sure:Customer service is available. This means you can get in contact with a live person if you need help or want to inquire about returns or shipping delays. Try their number before ordering. If you get an answering machine, you are likely dealing with a back-room operation.
You know how quickly your order will ship. Smaller companies may take longer to deliver because they only stock the most common prescriptions.
They offer returns. If you buy a year’s supply of contacts and your prescription changes or your eye doctor recommends a different brand, you’ll want to be able to return unopened boxes for credit.
The ordering process is secure. The URL at the top of your browser should begin with https:// rather than http:// on any page that you enter personal information.
 The bureau can inform you of any complaints against a company and how they were resolved., There are many online sites that will compare prices from multiple seller, including Google Shopping, BizRate, PriceGrabber, Shopping.com and Yahoo! Shopping. When considering the price, be sure to:Include shipping and handling fees.
Try entering large quantities in order to reduce shipping costs, but be sure to check the expiration date. Make sure you will be able to use all of your contacts before they expire.
 They may cost more than you think, due to exchange rates and possible import duties. Also, you will have fewer consumer rights if something goes wrong., The major factors of cost are initial price and how long you use each contact. Taking proper care of your contacts can help you save money.
 Doing so will ensure that you get maximum life out of weekly, monthly, or long term contacts. Make sure you employ proper cleaning to prevent the buildup of bacteria and protein deposits, thereby reducing the risk of eye infection and keeping your contacts comfortable for a longer period of time.


Wash your hands before handling your contacts.Though most cleaning solutions are now advertised as no-rub, rubbing your contacts while cleaning them is much more effective at removing deposits.Be sure to rinse your lens storage case and let it air dry between uses.Use fresh solution each time you store your lenses to maximize its effectiveness.Know that wearing your contacts overnight increases your risk of an eye infection eightfold and can cause them to wear out faster., While you may be tempted to wear your disposable contacts longer than recommended, doing so can increase your risk of eye infection. Even a single misuse might be enough to cause a serious, sight-threatening infection., Adding vision insurance to health insurance offered by your employer is usually inexpensive — often only and additional $3 to $7 a month. Purchasing your own is more expensive, but may still be worth it.Be sure to consider:


The total cost of the premium and copays, minus the amount your insurance will pay towards new glasses and contacts equals the cost of the insurance.
Compare the cost of insurance to the cost of an exam and contacts without the insurance.
 You can check with the insurer before purchasing insurance to be certain that the doctor you prefer accepts their insurance.
 An FSA lets your employer deposit up to $2,550 of pretax money into an account that you can use to pay for eye exams, glasses, contacts, and contact lens solution. The income used for these purchases is tax-free.Be sure to save your receipts if using an FSA. They may be necessary to claim the money from your account.
 Look at past expenditures to estimate how much money you will be spending. It is better to underestimate your expenses than to overestimate them, because any money in your FSA account that you do not use in a calendar year will be lost, with two exceptions:Your employer can provide a grace period of up to 2.5 months to use the money.
Or, your employer can allow you to carry over up to $500 per year to use in the next year.

