 One of the most obvious signs of diabetes is excessive drinking. As high glucose levels lead to dehydration, your dog will need to drink more and more water. A dog with diabetes will drink a lot more water than usual.As a result, your dog will start urinating more. Often times, pet owners will notice that their dog starts urinating in the house or in its own bed.

Do not limit the dog's water intake. Your dog needs the amount of water it is drinking to keep itself hydrated.
 A key sign of diabetes is increased lethargy. The dog is tired because the sugar doesn't get taken up into the cells, so the dog runs low on fuel. The resulting sleepiness is known as "diabetes fatigue."

, Long term, diabetic dogs can develop cataracts. In addition, diabetic dogs run the risk of sudden blindness from diabetic retinopathy (a disease affecting the retina at the back of the eye)., Diabetes that isn't treated can lead to further health complications. The vet will want to perform blood tests to see how high the levels of glucose are in your dog's bloodstream and to make sure no other organs have been affected by the diabetes.
 There are multiple tests (blood and urine) that your veterinarian will perform to diagnose your dog. Taken alone, any one of these tests cold indicate a wide range of conditions and illnesses, but taken together, they'll let your vet know if your dog suffers from diabetes mellitus.


A urinalysis is a chemical examination of your dog's urine. In the first instance the vet will ask for a urine sample for a dipstick test. If there's no sugar in the urine then diabetes isn't likely. If sugar is present then blood tests are necessary.A blood glucose test will be performed next. This can be done on a single pin prick of blood. Again, if levels are normal then diabetes is ruled out. If the levels are high then a full blood panel is warranted.
A CBC evaluates the level of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets in your dog's blood stream. If the vet finds higher levels of white blood cells, this could indicate a urinary tract infection — common in diabetic dogs. Low red blood count could indicate dehydration. It could also mean that your dog is suffering from ruptured red blood cells.
A serum biochemistry profile is taken from a separate blood sample. This test focuses on monitoring sugar levels and other materials in your dog's blood like enzymes, lipids (fats), proteins, and cellular waste. While abnormalities of any kind may indicate diabetes, vets primarily look at the serum glucose (sugar). Normally taken after the dog has fasted, any elevated glucose level likely indicates diabetes.
In addition, the vet may order a blood fructosamine test. This gives an overview of blood sugar levels for the preceding two to three weeks. This is significant because a single high blood glucose result is not conclusive for diabetes, as stress can cause temporary elevations. Thus either a blood glucose curve (tracking the sugar levels over the course of 24 hours) or a fructosamine, is advisable in order to confirm the diagnosis.

