 Begin by using a measuring tape to measure the diameter of your wrist.,


This should be just a few inches before the bend of your elbow.
 This measurement will determine the length of your vambrace.
 Using tailor's chalk, draw a straight line on the inside of your leather, synthetic leather, or suede.The length of the line should match the measurement that you took in step one. This line will be the wrist edge of your vambrace.


Real leather can be expensive if purchased in large quantities. It can, however, be purchased as sample sheets and scraps for significantly reduced prices.
Ostrich and alligator leather can also be purchased in samples and have very unique texture surfaces. Perfect for making your vambrace stand out.
 Starting in the exact center point of the line that you just made, draw a perpendicular line that matches the measurement that you took in step three. This is the centerline.


If the measurement you took in step three was nine-inches, then you want to make your perpendicular line nine-inches long as well.
You should have a "T" that appears to be on its side.
 This line should be drawn so that it matches the measurement that you took in step two; and so that it forms another sideways "T" intersection.


The distance between the two parallel lines should match the measurement that you took in step three. These will be the wrist and elbow edges of your vambrace.
 Do this by making small ticks or hashmarks that are a half-inch from the endpoints of the parallel lines. Each line has two endpoints, so you should make four ticks or hashmark.
 Draw a straight line to connect the dots that you made on each of the parallel lines. Once you are done, you should have a trapezoid shape that has been sized to the dimensions of your arm.
 Leather shears will work, but are not necessary for working with synthetics.
 Using a straight edge, draw a line that parallels the edge of your vambrace. Leave at least a quarter-inch gap between the edge of the vambrace and the guiding line. Do this on both edges, on both vambraces.
 Begin a half-inch from the wrist-edge of your vambrace and continue working your way up to the forearm, leaving approximately an inch between each eyelet.


The exact amount of eyelets in your vambrace and their spacing is entirely up to you.
Leather punch tools can be purchased relatively inexpensive online. Or, you can use a drill.
Avoid "cutting" the eyelets. Straight cuts will eventually tear, so be sure to use a leather punch to create circular openings in the leather., Just as you would a shoe, begin lacing up your vambrace with a leather shoestring. Begin at the wrist and work your way toward the forearm.


If the tip of the shoestring has been frayed, wrap it with some masking tape. This will make it easier to insert into the eyelets.
 Since vambraces and "hidden blades" are unique to each assassin, the exact number of studs and their placement is entirely up to you.


Brass studs come in a variety of shapes and sizes and can be purchased at your local craft store.
Some studs will need to be pushed into the leather, while others will need to be glued. Follow the instructions that come with your studs to be sure that they are properly installed.
 Depending on the type of leather you choose, you may want to decorate your vambrace to make it stand out. This means you can decorate your vambrace to represent any time period or civilization that you choose.Remember, each assassin is unique.


Try embossing or stamping patterns and designs into the leather.
Try adding a leather strap and buckle to your vambrace.

