 You may only choose to have the service tackle particularly tough spots in your home, such as the kitchen and main bathroom. Some families will want the house cleaned from top to bottom. You’ll also need to decide whether you expect services that may go beyond standard cleanings, such as wiping down the baseboards or washing the windows.Many services will not clean windows, as they don’t want to create streaks or damage. You may need to turn to a professional for this.;
, Most cleaning services will ask you how big your house is, how many bedrooms and bathrooms it contains, and what kind of routine cleaning you usually do. One bedroom and one bathroom usually takes about two and a half hours to clean, and kitchens take another 1-2 hours. If you haven’t cleaned in a while, these numbers may go up. Preparing this information for the service will help you both decide what you can afford., Depending on your family’s needs, you may only need the service to come once or twice a month. If you have a bigger budget and a busier schedule, you might opt for more frequent visits. You can also create an alternating weekly schedule that directs the cleaners to clean different rooms every other time they visit., Because they’re more expensive, most cleaners will not clean with natural cleaning solutions. If you don’t want chemical cleaners used in your home, or if you have special cleaners you prefer, you’ll likely need to provide these to the service.You may be able to negotiate a lower fee with the service if you provide your own cleaners. Ask potential services if they’d be willing to have this conversation with you.
 Before you start calling potential cleaning services, examine your finances. Make sure you know exactly how much you’re able and willing to pay companies. This will help you say no to companies that are out of your price range while also allowing you to make informed decisions about which services you can afford.
 When you hire a cleaning company rather than an individual, the company takes responsibility for running background checks on its employees, providing worker’s compensation, and dealing with insurance issues. This option is generally better for families who may not have the time and legal knowledge to protect themselves from conflicts with individual employees.It’s a good idea to ask potential cleaning services whether they’ve performed background checks on their employees. Reputable companies will certainly have performed these checks on any new hires.
Cleaning companies may charge more than individuals, but the legal peace of mind they provide will likely be worth the extra cost.
 Reputable services will have a policy that covers damage to your home incurred during the cleaning process, as well as missing or broken items. This can allow both you and the company to feel protected while cleaners are in your home. It is, however, a good idea to inform cleaners of items that may be more delicate or need special care., People who are close to you will know what you need, and they’ll be ready to provide you with honest advice about their past experience with various cleaners. Be sure to tell those who you ask for advice that you plan to hire a reputable service with an insurance policy, as this may affect the options they give you., Most cleaning services will have many reviews online for you to view, particularly if the company is large and has been in business for several years. Read a wide range of reviews. Some companies may receive just a few scathing reports from one disgruntled customer, but will otherwise have a series of five-star ratings., If a company is new to your area or smaller in scale, they may not yet have an online presence. You can ask these companies for a list of referrals from their previous clients. When you call these clients, be sure to ask what kind of cleaning the company performs for them, and whether the client still employs the service., Most companies will have a list of the typical types of cleaning they perform. They’ll also inform you whether they charge a flat rate for each cleaning, an hourly fee, or a room-by-room charge. Be sure you understand what’s included in the company’s base cleaning rate, and what’s not. Ask questions about any cleaning activities the company doesn’t explicitly mention.If your company charges an hourly fee, you can put a cap on the amount of hours the service is allowed to clean to ensure that your cost doesn’t get out of control. Note that this may prevent your house from receiving a complete cleaning, especially on the first visit.
 Once you understand the company’s list of what it typically cleans, ask if they ever perform cleaning services not on that list. Be sure to then ask how much these extra services cost. If there’s something you want cleaned in your home that the service hasn’t mentioned, ask how much it would add to their overall fee., You’ll want to be aware of which cleaning solutions the service is using in your home. This is especially important if you have pets or children, and you’re concerned about minimizing their exposure to certain chemicals. If you have a special countertop or sensitive surface in your home, you should also ask the company if they have the appropriate solutions for those materials., See if the company would be willing to see if the relationship works by having a trial session. They may be willing to provide a satisfaction guarantee that waives the fee if you don’t approve of the cleaning your home receives. Once you’ve completed this trial, you’ll likely be able to feel more confident about spending your money on the cleaning service.
 It’s a good idea to sign a document stating the company’s fees, both of your expectations for what will be cleaned along with any added services, and what’s defined as damage caused by the cleaners. Having a record of this agreement should help avoid future confusion or disagreement over how much the company is owed., Some companies may ask you to remain in the house while your cleaners are present. This policy may be used as a method of protecting the company if something goes missing from your home. Other companies may not have a preference, and you may want to use the time to do something outside the house., Some companies may ask that you either take your pet out of the house or confine them to a specific area. Others may ask that you introduce the cleaners to the pet to ensure that they’re familiar with each other before you leave them alone with the animals. If your pet doesn’t generally like strangers, you may want to stay in the house with them the first few times the cleaner visits., If you aren’t going to be at home when the cleaner visits, you may need to provide them with a key, code, or garage door opener to let them into the home. You can include a clause in your written agreement with the company about safely providing these items to your cleaners without worrying that they’ll be copied or shared., This meeting will let you familiarize the cleaner with the space. You should point out broken appliances or damage in your home that they might need to avoid. This is also a good time to show them any areas that will need special attention or extra cleaning.You can show them children’s rooms that get especially untidy. Or if, for example, you have a china cabinet filled with breakable items that you’d like to dust on your own, be sure the cleaner is aware of this.
 Be sure that the cleaner the service sends is aware of your expectations. This will ensure that you, the company, and the employee are all on the same page. Especially if you have a specialized agreement with the company, this will avoid any frustration over areas that go uncleaned or unexplained charges for areas that you planned to clean yourself., It’s a good idea to deal with general clutter on your own before the cleaners arrive. While cleaners will pick up and fold clothes left on the floor or put toys back in their designated area, this will take up their time and energy. This could mean that your house won’t receive the deep clean it needs.If you’re paying an hourly fee, it’s especially important that you pick up your own clutter.
 You may have questions or suggestions after the first few times your cleaner comes. Discuss any areas of the home you’d like cleaned slightly differently. Be sure to treat your cleaner as a professional who deserves both kindness and respect from you.If you’re unsatisfied with the service, call the company directly. You can explain in detail exactly why you feel something isn’t meeting your expectations. You’ll likely be able to work out a more clear agreement with the company, which will be easier than starting over the process of finding a new service.
 As with most service-based industries, cleaners depend on tips. Check on your company’s policy, as they may roll tips into their overall fee and disperse them individually in paychecks. If not, it’s expected that you’ll show your appreciation of the service by tipping the cleaner directly.