 A veggie jim is like a jerky stick, but without the meat. They make a great snack. To get started, blend 12 ounces (340 grams) of raw sunflower seeds until they resemble a fine dust. Scoop the blended seeds out and into a bowl., Wipe the food processor out and add eight ounces (230 grams) raw pumpkin seeds, four minced garlic cloves, two red bell peppers, one cup of water, six tablespoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon raw grated beet, two teaspoons onion powder, and a generous pinch of cayenne pepper (add more if you like your veggie jim spicy). Blend on high until smooth.Add the sunflower seed paste back to the mix and blend again. Your mix should become a mushy paste.
You may need to add slightly more water (one spoonful at a time) in order to get the mixture to achieve the proper consistency.
Fill a resealable plastic bag with the mixture. Snip one corner off so that you can squeeze the paste from the bag as you would through a piping bag.
 Lay a strip of nori, shiny side down, on some parchment paper. The strip should be about two inches (four centimeters) wide and six inches (15 centimeters) long. Use a spray bottle to spray the nori with a light mist of water., Push the paste out of the bag and lengthwise down the center of the nori. Guide the tip extruding the paste from the top to the bottom of the sheet, squeezing continuously so as to allow an even strip of paste to exit the bag. The paste strip should be no wider than about ¼ or ½ inch (about 3/4 centimeter)., Roll the sides of the nori strip over the paste into a tight tube. You can roll the right side over to the left or the left side over to the right. Do not squeeze the tubes as your roll them or the contents will be ejected from either end.If the tubes are not sealing properly when rolled, spray the edges lightly with your spray bottle again.
Set the tubes in your dehydrator overnight. Check them in the morning. Take a bite. They are ready when dried out. You can store the veggie jims in an airtight container.

