 Viral hepatitis can trigger the occurrence of autoimmune hepatitis. The process by which these hepatitis viruses are able to induce autoimmune hepatitis is not yet fully understood.There is no specific medication yet for hepatitis B and C. The treatment targets the viruses which cause hepatitis B and C, so antiviral drugs such as lamivudine (Epivir-HBV®) are given for hepatitis B virus and sofosbuvir (Sovaldi) with ribavirin for hepatitis C virus.Seek medical advice regarding drug details and administration procedure.
 Some drugs are thought to be associated with the prevalence of autoimmune hepatitis. These drugs are: minocycline, hydralazine, methyldopa, statins, azathioprine, diclofenac, pemoline, and interferon.


Though it is not clear how these drugs initiate the autoimmune response, research shows that hepatocytes (cells of the liver) can form drug-protein antigens (a substance that stimulates the body to produce immune response) which in turn initiates the body’s immune system. Additionally, these drugs tend to interact with the body’s natural killers cells such as T-cells and B-cells, which in turn initiate a heightened immune response.
If your doctor suspects you to have drug-induced autoimmune hepatitis, he or she will slowly reduce your prescription for the medication. He or she will not immediately cut back the medication, as this could cause negative side effects.
 A definite association between other autoimmune disorders and autoimmune hepatitis is not clearly established and understood. Having said that, it is still important to manage these other conditions if you are dealing with autoimmune hepatitis.Talk to your doctor about methods for controlling these conditions that will work well with the management plan you have already created for autoimmune hepatitis.
 A possible connection between autoimmune hepatitis and rheumatoid arthritis (a chronic inflammatory disorder that affects the small joints of the hands and feet) is not very clear, but some research shows that there may be a connection.Inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis (an inflammatory bowel disease that affects the colon and the rectum) and primary sclerosing cholangitis (a chronic liver disease characterized by inflammation and hardening of bile ducts) has a non-definitive link to having autoimmune hepatitis.
 Wilson’s disease may also have a connection to autoimmune hepatitis. Wilson disease is a genetic disorder that causes defective copper excretion that greatly affects the liver.

