 If you have been given a certificate to a pet store or dog supplies with the promise of an actual dog from a local shelter, you should be able to avoid getting the dog. You can simply avoid using the certificate or visiting the shelter to find a dog.


If it is a certificate, you could phone the pet store and see if the certificate can be used for other items, re-gifted or reimbursed.
If you have been given dog supplies and the promise of a new dog, you could tell the person who gave you the dog that you actually don’t want the dog.
If you have been promised a visit to a local shelter to adopt a dog, you could tell the person who promised you the visit that you would prefer to not adopt a dog.
 If you have received a dog that you do not want or are otherwise unable to care for, you should consider telling the person who gave you the dog. You could express your gratitude and then kindly tell them that it was a thoughtful gift but you do not have the time, money, or ability to care for a new dog.


Tell them: “Thanks so much for this heartfelt gift. It is such a beautiful dog. I wish I had the time for a new pet in my life right now but, unfortunately, this is not the case. I am just too busy to handle a new dog. Do you think you can bring it back to the shelter or the pet store still? If not, I will find it a new home.”
If you feel bad about telling them, you could simply express your gratitude and then focus on finding a new home for the animal.
 You should see if you can get a friend or a family member to adopt the dog. You may need to take care of the dog while you search for an adopter. While waiting for a suitable family to adopt the dog, you can take the following steps to speed up the adoption process:Advertise the dog through your personal network. Talk to friends, family, neighbors, veterinarians and other people in your personal network about your situation. Tell them you are looking for somebody to adopt the dog and to tell you if they know anyone.
Share your story on social media. Post a photo of the dog and your story of being unable to receive it as a gift. If the person who gave you is on social media, you may want to avoid this step.
Share the story of the dog with potential adopters. Tell them how you received the dog as a gift and any information you may have about its background, ancestry or medical history.
Ask for help from animal shelters. Shelters and rescue organizations can help you find a suitable family.
 You could try giving the dog to an animal shelter or rescue organization in your neighborhood. Remember that giving your dog to an animal shelter is a last resort, since they may or may not be able to find the dog a permanent home. Many dogs live out their lives in animal shelters, so it is better to find someone to adopt through your personal network.

