 Many owners find their dog becomes suspicious when you trail behind to collect the sample. The dog will then either hold on and not urinate, or else run off, leaving behind. To minimize the chances of this, try collecting the sample when your dog has a full bladder, such as first thing in the morning. This way she will be so keen to relieve herself that she won't take as much notice of what you are doing.


Other times to try collecting urine are immediately after she has had a meal, or on your normal walk when there are interesting smells to sniff and tempt your dog to scent mark as a distraction.
Another option is to enlist the help of a second person. Keep the dog on a lead held by the accomplice who walks ahead with the dog and distracts her. If you loiter a little way behind, when the dog squats down to urinate, approach quietly and slide the collecting container underneath her rear end to catch the sample.
 Put on a pair of rubber gloves if you have them. Take your collecting container in your hand, and the secure bottle in your pocket, and go outside. Let the dog sniff around at the end of the lead.


Most dogs have a sniff around to find a choice spot in which to void their bladder. She will sniff first and then shuffle around and prepare to squat.
 Don't make sudden movements or you may alarm her and she'll stop. As she urinates, slide the container under her back end such that you catch some of the stream of urine.
 Around 25 ml of urine is ideal, so you don't need to fill the container entirely.Once you have a sufficient sample, place the container on a flat surface where it won't get knocked over and return the dog to the house.
 This takes a steady hand, but if you do it outside over grass, spillage doesn't matter. When the jar is full, or you think you have gather 25 mL, securely fasten the lid.


Remove your gloves and throw them away along with the collection container.
 When it comes to analysis, the fresher the sample, the better. Where possible, collect the urine at a time when you can get the sample straight to the vet’s office for analysis. Try to take the sample to your vet within the hour.


Put the specimen jar into a waterproof bag labelled with your pet's name, and take it to the vet without delay.

