 One of the challenges of Second Life is learning to get around, and dancing is no different. Often you'll find yourself at a club, but don’t know how to animate your avatar. There are several ways to show your style and this will explain how you can dance alone, with a group or as a couple.;
, Every club has what’s called an Intan. An Intan is an object that contains dance animations that will activate your avatar. They’re usually hanging above the dance floor and are often shaped like a ball or heart. They often rotate, and might be a rainbow of colors. They can also be alongside the dance floor on a poll. If you’re alone, you will look for a single ball, either pink for girls or blue for boys. If you’re a couple, you might look for two balls (or hearts) joined together. Please feel free to ask a hostess if you can’t find the Intan, or you can ask in local chat, “Where is the Intan, please?”

, Soon a pink or blue (depending on what you selected) ball, or heart, will appear. If the lag is bad, it could take longer. Right click object and sit, or dance, depending on the menu. Next a drop down menu will appear and ask if you can be animated. You will say, yes, and your avatar will begin to dance. Next you will get another drop down menu that will offer different dances. Every club is different, but after time you will recognize some of the names. This will help you to dance along with the music.
, Many do this because they like their own style. Some dance hubs will include a few dances. Most do not hold dances, but require you to have your own. You can activate individual dances from your inventory without a hud, but it’s not optimal. To do this, double click the dance and a menu will appear on your screen with instructions. It’s highly recommended you use a hud. Your dances will be organized, easy to find and you can keep the hud attached to your desktop for quick access.
 Dances are very expensive. Don’t be surprised at the cost. Animations are the most expensive item in Second Life besides land. They run from 200-350 Lindens per dance. You should try dances out before purchase. Animation shops have test dances. You can also buy dance packs on Second Life Marketplace. However you get your dances, you need to put them into the hud.
 To load a dance hud, or any animation hud in second life, you take the hud out of inventory and place it on the ground in a location that allows you to build, usually at home or a public sandbox. Huds are often very small, so watch where you place it. Once you have the hud on the ground, you right click and open it. Now you see what’s inside. Go to your inventory and locate your dances. You can search by name or if you recently bought them and did not log out, you can find them in your recent folder. If you bought them on Marketplace, they are in your Marketplace folder. Right click each dance and drag it to the open hud. Some huds will ask you what kind of an animation this is, and you would pick dance from a menu of, sit, stand, walk, etc. If the hud recognizes the animation, it will not ask you anything. Pick the hud up when you’re done loading, locate it again in your inventory (look in recent), and wear the hud. It will reside on your desktop, meaning you will see a box of some kind with menu buttons. You can move the hud by hovering your mouse over the hud, right clicking to edit, then grabbing the arrows and moving the it around the desk top. Or, you can detach it from the desk top and attach it to a new location on the desktop. Rest assured the hud designers select the best location.
 You can select the dance you want from your hud menu. Another feature is you can offer other people a chance to dance in sync alongside you. This is not the same as couple dancing, but more like line dancing. This is great fun! Your hud will have a menu for sharing dances. Generally you can ask as many people as you want to dance on your hud. You should ask them in private chat if they want to share a dance. It’s rude to just send a request without asking.
 The same is true if you’re the one with the chin; you will be animating someone’s avatar. It’s not nice, for example, to offer a chin and then pick a belly dance if that person’s a man. There is some responsibly when sharing dance animations. Be considerate, and remove them at once if they ask. Try to use dances that match the music. Learn your dances so you can change dances effortlessly.
 If this happens to you, stopping animations on your avatar depends on your viewer. Most have this option on the top of the screen in one of the drop down menus. It might be called “Avatar Health.”

, Couple dancing is different. You will not be using your hud. If you’re asked to dance by someone else, follow them out to the dance floor, let them retrieve the dance balls. Once you are on your ball/heart (pink or blue), you will get a menu asking if you can animate your avatar, and say, yes. Then allow them to pick the dance because they asked you. But, if you're not comfortable with their selection, tell them to change the dance. If you're not in sync together, Second Life will sync you automatically in a few minutes, or you can ask your dance partner to sync you. Sometimes you will be out of sync, but your partner might see you from his computer as in sync. Ask your partner to sync you. He will know what this means.
 And pay attention to the music. Don’t have your partner on the same dance for each song! Please tell your partner you’re going to stand when you’re ready to disengage.

