 Check your baby's temperature to see if she has a fever or is experiencing diarrhea or vomiting — other signs of a viral infection. If you are unsure of whether or not your baby has a viral infection, consult with your pediatrician, who will determine if it is a virus and give you advice.Always seek medical attention if a baby under 3 months old has a fever of 100.4 °F or 38.0 °C.
 Maintaining your baby's hydration is crucial to help him recover from a viral infection. Vomiting and diarrhea can dehydrate your baby, and you need to combat this by allowing your baby to drink plenty of breastmilk or formula, or water if he is old enough.An oral electrolyte solution, like Pedialyte or Enfalyte, can be offered as well.
 If your baby is old enough for food, soup is an excellent way to replenish electrolytes and other nutrients that have been lost through diarrhea and vomit.


Feed the soup a little bit at a time, not all at once.
Try offering one teaspoon of soup every five minutes.
 If your baby is dehydrated, lethargic or very tired, and irritable, take him to the doctor to receive medical attention.You can identify severe dehydration if your baby has a dry mouth, dry and hot skin, a cold sweat, a sunken fontanel (soft spot), no tears when crying, and is not urinating enough. A baby should urinate at least three times in 24 hours or at least once in eight hours.
Your doctor will prescribe a means for rapid rehydration or will give him an infusion of fluids through an IV.
You may have to pick up a prescription rehydration solution at the pharmacy, before administering it at home.
 With the approval of your pediatrician, you can give your baby medication to relieve indigestion and stomach pain. Some medicines you can try are:


Mylicon or Tummy Calm drops. Drops such as Mylicon and Tummy Calm are sometimes effective in reducing gas trapped in the digestive system. You can also try a dose of children's acetaminophen if your baby seems to be in pain. Make sure to follow the directions in the product’s packaging, or consult your physician for the correct dosage., If the symptoms of stomach upset resurface regularly or persist despite your attempts at home remedy, you should seek medical attention for your baby. Watch out also for the following symptoms and call your doctor immediately if your baby shows signs of them:Presence of pus or blood in stool.
Black stool.
Persistently green stool.
Diarrhea and serious abdominal pain.
Swollen or hard belly.
Dry mouth, lack of tears, dark urine or decreased urine, or lethargy — these are all signs of dehydration.
Vomiting that persists for more than 12–24 hours, or diarrhea that persists for more than seven days or is very frequent.
Vomiting forcefully, or vomit that is green or has blood in it.
High fever. This, when combined with an upset stomach, could be a symptom of several things, which could range from food poisoning to an infection. It is best to bring your baby to a doctor immediately for proper diagnosis and treatment.
These symptoms could be indicating something more dangerous than trapped gas, such as food allergies, infection, intestinal blockage, or poisoning.
If you think your baby has swallowed something toxic, such as a drug, plant or chemical, and is showing symptoms of poisoning through vomiting and diarrhea, call your national emergency hotline immediately (at 1-800-222-1222 in the United States).