 Among other things, one thing many food scientists (or sensory analysts) do is help develop new food products, or make existing food products better. In order to make sure the food meets consumer expectations, they spend time organizing taste tests with consumers and analyzing the results of those tests. Food scientists also get to taste test their own food, before it is tested by consumers.At a minimum, food scientists require a Bachelor’s of Science degree from a post-secondary school, normally in a food science-related major.
Many food scientists go onto pursue graduate degrees as well, especially if they’re interested in academic research.
Food scientists earn approximately $58,000 per year., If you decided to pursue a career in food science or sensory analysis, and you don’t already have the appropriate education, you will need to enroll in a Bachelors of Science program at a university. All major universities have a science faculty where you can earn a Bachelors of Science in a general area like biology or chemistry. But some schools have special food science departments where they teach you more specific skills pertaining to food production. Examples of some North American options are as follows:


The University of Nebraska-Lincoln has an undergraduate degree in Food Science and Technology.North Carolina State University has undergraduate programs in Food Science, Bioprocessing Science, Nutrition Science, and Applied Nutrition.The Culinary Institute of America has undergraduate programs in Culinary Arts, Applied Food Studies, and Culinary Science.The University of Florida has undergraduate programs in Dietetics, Food Science and Nutritional Sciences.
The University of Alberta has undergraduate programs in Nutrition, Food Science, and Dietetics.
 Some universities, in addition to degree programs, also offer after-degree or certificate programs in more specific subjects associated with sensory analysis. If you already have a Bachelors of Science, but did not major in food sciences or something related, consider taking a certificate program to increase your skills in sensory sciences. Some options to consider are as follows:


The University of California-Davis offers an Applied Sensory and Consumer Science certificate program, which can be completed online.The Culinary Institute of America offers a Wine and Beverage graduate certificate program at their Napa Valley, California campus.The University of Nebraska-Lincoln offers a Food Safety and Defence graduate certificate, which can be completed online., Like any major industry, food scientists have professional associations for members of that industry to join. Members of the association are able to keep up-to-date on industry news and events, and research developments. Food scientists, or sensory analysts, have a couple options for associations::


The Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) has several membership levels to choose from, including “regular” member, professional and student.The Food Institute, which is part of a non-profit organization called the American Institution of Food Distribution, offers memberships for anyone. Memberships offer access to a large variety of information pertaining to the American food industry., University career centres, the Institute of Food Technologists and other career websites will post jobs associated with the food industry. You can also review the career websites of food manufacturers or governments if you know of a specific organization where you’d like to work.


Search for “food scientist,” “sensory scientist,”“sensory analyst,” or “sensory technologist" in order to find these specific positions.
 While a specific educational background is required, chances are most, if not all, applicants will have the same degree as you. To make yourself stand out, consider enhancing the following skills via further education and practice:critical thinking and problem solving
active listening and learning
technical and scientific writing
knowledge of industry standards and regulations
data and quality control analysis
cooperative and collaboration within a team environment

