 Not everyone needs medical treatment to deal with acne scars, but visiting your dermatologist is a good first step in deciding on treatment. See your dermatologist for an exam to be sure you have acne scars and not another skin condition.Your doctor can then discuss your different treatment options with you, including the risks, possible side effects, and benefits of each, and if at-home remedies may suffice to deal with your scars.;
, Needling and rolling are non-invasive procedures that may minimize acne scarring. Your doctor will roll a needled device over your scars to stimulate the tissue underneath them. You will probably need multiple treatments to see results, but it’s a safe and effective scar treatment.Another small surgical procedure called subcision may help improve scar appearance. This is when your doctor loosens the fibers under your scar by inserting needles. This is a more invasive process than rolling, so talk to your doctor about what’s best for you.
 Dermabrasion is a minor medical process in which your skin is basically “sanded” with an abrasive, rotating brush. This allows newer, fresher skin beneath to shine through, appearing smoother and minimizing the uneven appearance of mild to moderate acne scars.Dermabrasion may cause some bleeding, and it takes about a week to heal; then some redness may occur for another 1-3 months. You’ll be required to follow some procedures afterwards such as avoiding certain products and direct sunlight. The outcome is usually quite good.
Microdermabrasion requires less downtime and may improve mild acne scars, but is not as effective as dermabrasion for reaching deeper layers of skin.
Dermaplaning is similar to dermabrasion, except that outer layers of skin are removed in small slices with a blade.
 Many body acne scars are raised, red, and lumpy – sometimes called keloid scars. Talk to your doctor about trying a series of injections of corticosteroids, which may decrease inflammation and minimize scars over time.Depending on how severe your scars are, you may need 2-4 rounds of treatment spaced several weeks apart.
 Your doctor will apply a potent acid to your skin to burn away the top layers, which lessens the depth or height of scars.This treatment works better on your face and hands than it does on your body, but deep peels can improve the appearance of shallow scars.A dermatological surgeon should do a good evaluation of your skin before you get a chemical peel. You should expect tenderness and peelings for up to 3 weeks, depending on the depth of the peel.


Chemical peels make your skin more sensitive to light for a while, so be sure to protect yourself from the sun.
You cannot get a chemical peel if you’re pregnant or nursing, have taken the medication Accutane within the last 6 months, or have an underlying skin condition such as eczema, psoriasis, or rosacea. You have to abstain from using retinoid products and bleaches for at least 48 hours before a chemical peel.
 Most acne scars on the chest are raised, but they can also be indentations in your skin. In this case, a filler injection can help improve the look and contour of your skin.Your doctor can inject collagen or fat beneath your dimpled scar to fill the skin and minimize the appearance of scarring.


The effects are temporary, so treatments need to be repeated periodically.
 Some scars can pull on the surrounding skin and cause dimpling or puckering. If this is a problem, your doctor may suggest getting botox injections in the surrounding skin to smooth it out. These treatments need to be repeated periodically., If you only have a few acne scars here and there, you can have them surgically removed. Your doctor can perform punch excision to remove scar tissue and then sew the wound or use a skin graft.Like any surgery, there is a risk of infection and other complications. This is not a good option for widely dispersed scarring.
 Laser- and light-based skin treatments can improve the look and contour of your skin, though it works best on fine lines and has questionable response with raised, lumpy body acne scars.However, laser therapy like Fraxel may soften scars over time, making them less visible.There are several devices that can be used, and healing time varies between them. Discuss this option with your dermatologist.Laser treatment goes by many names, including facial laser resurfacing, laser skin treatment, lasabrasion, laser peel, and laser vaporization.
A V beam vascular laser may decrease redness in scars by targeting the blood vessels within scars.