 Now that we’ve addressed the challenge of spotting an officially-elected politician, let’s swing over to the other type of “politician”, often characterized by quote marks, because they’re not a true politician who has been elected, but rather an individual who could be labeled a politician simply by the types of communication devices and leadership choices they embrace, to achieve whatever agenda they may have.


In this case, the label “politician” connotes any person (in elected office or not) who uses charm, emotional appeal and/or convincing dialogue to manipulate a certain outcome, especially when it involves the need to persuade a group of individuals who may otherwise be doubtful of the trickster’s views or priorities, and especially when such outcome directly or indirectly serves the claimant's own well-being more than that of the group or population at large.
 The person who habitually advances their own political agenda in a workplace or community at the expense of others will find it difficult to piece together a verifiable storyline of successful relationships and achievements, because their destructive habits result in burnt bridges, failed friendships and breach of trust. A simple vetting of their past and corroboration of their claims against those of others will shed light on this characteristic.
 Talk is cheap, but paper is expensive in the sense that it’s hard to contradict what’s documented by others. Compare notes – emails, public filings, official documents, articles, internet posts – anything related to any claim being made. If a person says they did or said this or that or that they believe thus and so, but the hard-coded documentation tells a different story, stick another red flag in this guy’s cake.
 The problem with the politician façade is you have to keep it painted fresh on a daily basis, or it starts to stink. Politicians are notorious for verbal miscues, because nobody can remember every nuance of every misrepresentation he or she ever made, much less piece together a narrative that satisfies all scenarios, both the fabricated and the legitimate. A simple comparison of claims made over time will yield a clear answer to the question of veracity, which is an attribute entirely lost on the real politician.
 Politician-speak is hard work, because at every turn, they have to find a way to say what you want to hear without saying what you need to hear. For example, if somebody says “rich people need to pay their fair share”, notice they didn’t say what that is. No percentage, no number, no ceiling. Once they toss out the word “fair”, the less-guarded among us are hooked into the class envy track. So filtering this hot air takes equal work, for example, by just asking the question, “what is fair”? If the answer doesn’t come, the silence is deafeningly letting you know it’s time for another red flag.
 Here is likely one of the most efficient tests of Politician’s Disease. Equipped with all the above tool sets to ferret out the masked politician through inquiry, if you can so much as request a face meeting with the suspected individual, if indeed they are guilty of the title, chances are they will avoid such a confrontation at any cost.


Politicians are not comfortable being challenged straight up. Their world is one of sleight-of-hand and charlatanism. Unwillingness to hold press conferences, to field questions, to stop and talk to reporters — we’ve all seen this odd behavior in elected politicians whose oathed responsibility is to deliver ongoing, transparent messages of leadership, vision and intentionality to their constituents, and their perennial avoidance of this is no different with our non-elected “friends” of similar persuasion.
 The politician is a master at personal warmth – but only on their own terms, and only skin-deep. Want to test your candidate’s heat level? Pour out your heart about something personal, be long-winded and dramatic, and gauge their response. A true friend will go there with you, feel your pain, relate to your struggle. This is impossible for the closet politician — they’re so fixated on their own agenda, they won’t have the tolerance to engage your emotional challenge, no matter how genuine or heartfelt.
 Everybody is human. But corner a supposed team leader or champion of a cause on his or her own past mistake, and if you get a slippery dismissal, it’s time to whip out the permanent marker again. Only you may need some help holding the guy down, because the politician’s own hubris will prevent him from wanting to be known for what he is.

