 Different butterflies have different needs. Some butterflies do not eat at all as adults. These butterflies only eat as caterpillars. However, most do eat some type of food, usually nectar that you can substitute a sugary solution for.Try using a butterfly book or an online database of butterflies to find your butterfly, which will have more information about what the butterfly eats.
In addition, if you find the specific butterfly you have in captivity, you can learn what kind of flowers they usually visit. That way, you can provide them with those flowers instead of a sugar solution.
Monarchs, for instance, often visit milkweed flowers, among others.
 Since your butterfly had a damaged wing, it hasn't been able to get to food very well. Therefore, it may be pretty weak once you finish. Providing a food source gives the butterfly the energy it needs to move onward.One solution is to find flowers that your butterfly normally eats. Use your research to find wildflowers in your area for your butterfly.
Set them near your butterfly, then set the butterfly on the flower so it can drink the nectar.
 You can create a nectar substitute for your butterfly with things you have in your pantry. This solution will be enough to get the butterfly going again, letting it find it's own food source.In a small cup, add about half a cup of room temperature water. Add a tablespoon of sugar. Stir until the sugar dissolves. If it doesn't dissolve, you can heat up the water to help it dissolve. Just make sure it cools before you give it to your butterfly.Add paper towel wicks. Roll up a 5-inch-by-7-inch piece of paper towel. Put one end in the water, and drape the other end over the edge of a the cup. This wick will bring the solution up to the edge of the cup, making it easier for your butter fly to drink.
Set your butterfly on the edge of the cup at the wick so it can drink.
Some butterflies, especially male butterflies, can eat fresh fruit such as peaches, plums, cherries, or oranges. Break the fruit open so that the butterfly can get to the flesh., Hold out your hand so the butterfly crawls onto your finger. If it won't crawl up, grasp it with the wings closed just above the body. You can let the butterfly loose as soon as it has regained its strength with some sugar water or nectar. You don't need to wait for it to "heal."Let the butterfly sit on your finger for a minute. Take it outside.
Let it sit on your finger until it is ready to fly away. The butterfly will gather warmth from your body before moving on, which is important if you chilled it. It needs to be at least 55 degrees Fahrenheit outside for the butterfly to survive.

