 You can also get a longer dowel and cut it down using a hacksaw.


You can also use a stick that you found outside. Make sure that it is no thicker than your finger, close to the length you want it, and fairly straight.;
, This will make the tip.You can even sand the wand so that it tapers slightly, just like the wands in the movies. Start with a coarse-grit sandpaper and finish off with a finer grit.


If you are using a stick, you'll wand to sand down any sharp, pointy, or jagged ends. You can leave the bark and knobs on the stick, or you can cut/sand them off.
 The handle part is usually about the length of your finger. Use the hot glue to cover the entire handle of your wand. Let the glue harden, and add 2 to 3 more layers, if desired.Not all wands have to have a handle. For example, Hermione's wand did not have a handle on it.
Once the hot glue hardens, you can "carve" designs into it with the hot nozzle of the glue gun.
 Some wands have a knob at the end of the handle. You can make one by hot gluing a fancy button or bead to the end. Pick something that is about the same width as the base of your wand; you don't want it to be too big.Don't worry about the color; you'll be painting it later.
 This is ideal for creating swirly designs on the wand, like Hermione Granger's. You can do this by twirling the wand between your fingers while drawing with the hot glue gun. Also, if you don't have hot glue you can use tape wrapped around it to make a handle or use clay to make a nice handle without a glue gun.
 Most wands will be some shade of brown, but you can also make your wand black or white. To give it some extra texture, paint it several shades of the same color. For example, you can make your wand brown with light brown and dark brown streaks.


Consider using watered-down acrylic paint so that the wood's original texture shows through.
 Take a darker shade of your base color, and use it to fill in any nooks and crannies on your wand. Then, take a lighter shade of your base color, and use it to highlight any raised areas on your wand. Use a small, pointed brush to do this.
 Take your wand outside and set it down on a sheet of newspaper. Spray it with a clear, acrylic sealer and let it dry. Then, flip the wand over and spray the other side. Let the sealer dry and repeat if needed.


Sealing the wand is not absolutely necessary, but it will make the paint job last longer! You can use a glossy, satin, or matte finish.

