 Divide them by what you’d like to keep using and what you’d rather never be seen with again.Ask yourself exactly what you like and dislike about each item. Don’t judge them by looks alone. Consider how well each item works in general, so you can replace the ugly stuff with supplies that work just as well, if not better. For instance:


Does your bookbag have enough space for all your books? When you buy a replacement, is it safe to go smaller, or will you need the same size or even larger?
What type of pen do you prefer writing with? Ballpoint? Rollerball? Fountain?
How advanced does your calculator need to be? Do you only need a basic one that could be found in a variety of styles, or will you have to limit your search to more advanced ones that are capable of doing what your classes require?

, Think of school supplies as accessories. Lay your clothes out and evaluate them. Ask yourself what colors, textiles, and patterns would match your outfits and which ones would clash. Know what you’re looking for ahead of time so you don’t make any impulse buys, only to find out later that they don’t go with your overall look at all!If you like to switch styles from one outfit to the next, but can only afford to buy a single bookbag, lunch bag, or whatever, figure out what colors and such are neutral enough to complement each outfit., Like any piece of fashion, school supplies can make a statement, so consider what you want them to say about you. Ask yourself what impressions you hope to make on other people. Do you want to be regarded as a serious student? Do you want your classmates to think of you as being oh so mature and elegant? Or do you love being you and don’t care what other people think? Consider which you’d rather do and shop accordingly:Advertise your interests: Make a list of your hobbies and passions. Search online with keywords based on your list, as well as the supplies you need (like “musical notes” plus “backpacks,” or “Batman” plus “notebooks”). Find eye-catching supplies that incorporate images of things you love.Maintain an air of mystery: If you want to avoid being pigeonholed as, say, “Soccer Girl” or “That Guy Who Really Loves the Beatles,” shop for supplies that appeal to your sense of style without broadcasting your private joys. For example, instead of notebooks with soccer balls or the Fab Four on the cover, shop for ones whose covers are made of unique materials and/or patterns. Use designs and colors to express your tastes while leaving a little bit of mystery about you.

Be taken seriously: If you want your teachers and schoolmates to know you mean business, adopt a more professional, elegant style. For instance, buy a leather-bound journal instead of a hot pink notebook. Or invest in a quality refillable pen with a case instead of using the same old disposable ones.