 It needs to be at least twice the height and width you want your final planter to be. For a large planter, try something around 24 inches (60 centimeters) long and wide.For a smaller planter, try an 8 by 12-inch (20 by 32-centimeter) rectangle instead.If you can't find any packaging paper, you can also use plain, solid-colored wrapping paper, "kraft" paper, or butcher paper.;
, Peel away a few inches of contact paper from the backing, and align it with the edge of the packaging paper. Working a little bit at a time, start peeling away the backing and pressing the contact paper down onto the packaging paper.You can use clear contact paper or colored contact paper for some contrast.
If you paper is very wide, you may need to add more rows of contact paper. Overlap every row by about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) to prevent leaks.
 You don't have to do this, but it will give the planter some texture. It will also make the paper softer and easier to work with.Once the paper is textured to your liking, smooth it out on a flat surface., Set the paper down, contact-side-up. Orient the paper horizontally, then fold the side edges towards the middle. Overlap them by about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters).

Don't worry about creasing the edges of the paper.
Don't worry if your paper looks too tall at this point. The next few steps will fix that.
 Lift the top flap up. Run some glue or double-sided tape along the edge of the bottom flap. Press the top flap back down and run your finger along the seam.

Avoid getting any glue inside the planter. A glue stick might work best for this as it won't leak out.
 How far up you fold depends on how wide you want the planter to be. The higher you fold, the wider the planter will be.Plan on folding the bottom edge up at least to the halfway point., When you folded the bottom edge up, you will have ended up with a two-layer pocket. Pull the two layers apart and flatten them, turning the pocket into a diamond-shape with a slit down the middle.You can gently crease the edges of the diamond, but you don't have to.
 Make sure that the corners overlap each other by ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters). Secure them to the bottom of the bag with glue.

You can also place a strip of sturdy tape (ie: packaging tape or duct tape) over the corners instead., Place your hand into the planter and gently push out the bottom until it is flat. Set the planter down on a flat surface. Don't worry if it wobbles around too much., This will add some thickness and dimension to the top band. For a smaller planter, fold it down by only 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters). For a larger planter, try 3 to 4 inches (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters).

For a softer touch, roll the top down instead., You can always leave you planter plain if you'd prefer, but a simple word, phase, or image would look quite charming. Choose a spot for the stencil, then flatten the bag. Place a stencil over the bag, then apply some acrylic paint over it. Use a foam brush and a dabbing/tapping motion. Lift the stencil away, then let the paint dry.

If you have neat handwriting, you can write the word using a paint pen instead.
If you used colored contact paper, try to match the paint to it.
 Even though the planter is waterproof, you still should avoid getting it wet, so avoid placing it outdoors. If your plant drains a lot, it might be a good idea to place a little dish or saucer under it in the planter as well.

If you don't have a potted plant, you can try filling the planter with soil, and then adding a plant to it. Keep in mind that this is not recommended due to the lack of proper drainage.

