 If you have a binder that fastens shut, such as with a zipper or Velcro, close the fastenings before putting it in the wash, to ensure nothing is damaged., You'll want to turn your binder inside-out when you wash it, since the inside is the part that touches your skin the most and is more likely to get sweaty.

Since you'll be hand-washing your binder, you'll have more control over what spots get washed, so while you do want to wash the inside, it's important to get the outside as well.
 Fill a sink - or even a plastic tub or bucket - with cool water and place your binder into the water. Some binders can be soaked, but don't soak it for too long to avoid a risk of damaging the fabric.


Check the temperature before washing! It's a bad idea to throw a binder into hot water - it can damage the material and cause it to shrink (as well as hurt your hands). If you don't know the temperature recommendations for your specific binder, opt for cool water.
 You don't need to do any harsh scrubbing or squeezing - just put some detergent into the water and use your hands to swirl and lightly knead your binder in the water.If you don't have access to any detergent, bar soap will work in a pinch.If you notice any stains on your binder, you can gently scrub the stain with your hands or with soap, but be careful not to be too rough.
Don't use a strong detergent, bleaches, or softeners when washing your binder, as these can damage the material., After your binder has been cleaned well, fully rinse it with clean water, until there are no traces of bubbles or soap on the fabric., Once you've finished washing your binder, gently squeeze the extra water out, then place your binder on a hanger and hang it up somewhere to dry, such as near a window or on the door of your shower. It's also possible to dry your binder on a clothesline outside.

It's best to dry your binder in a well-ventilated area.However, if you need to hide your binder and can't dry it out in the open, find an option that isn't so visible, such as hanging it in your closet.Do not put your binder in a dryer - this can damage the binder, cause it to shrink, and will shorten its lifespan.