 If one of your health insurance plans is a group plan that doesn't include a coordination of benefits provision, that plan will almost always be your primary plan.While this is rare, there are a few union plans that have not yet added a coordination of benefits provision.
This rule only applies where regular coordination of benefits rules would apply. If you are a minor, other rules such as the birthday rule will be used to determine your primary health insurance.
 Coordination of benefits laws only apply to group health plans. If either of your health insurance plans is an individual plan, it typically will be considered your primary plan.Group health plans typically are those provided by an employer or a union to employees or union members.
Anything else typically is considered an individual plan.
 If one of your health insurance plans is an HMO, there typically isn't any need to conduct a coordination-of-benefits evaluation.Different rules apply to HMOs because if your healthcare treatment is out-of-network, your HMO won't cover anything at all.
Therefore, for out-of-network treatment, you would submit your claim to your other health insurance provider.
On the other hand, if your treatment is in-network, consider your HMO your primary health insurance and submit your claim.
Your copay typically will be low enough that you aren't going to be worried about any secondary coverage.
 If you're listed as a benefit on a Medicaid plan, it will always be your secondary plan. This is because Medicaid is considered the insurer of last resort.If you're listed as a dependent on a Medicare plan, whether it is your primary or secondary plan involves a coordinated calculus that can change depending on your health care provider, the treatment you're receiving, or even the condition that is being treated.
Medicare publishes a booklet with a complete explanation of all the rules regarding who pays first. You can download a PDF copy of the booklet from the Medicare website at Medicare.gov.

