 To make a basic hoe, you'll need two sticks and two wooden planks. On your crafting table, place the two sticks on the center and bottom-center tiles, and place the planks on the top-center and top-left tiles. Try replacing the wooden planks with iron ingots for a more durable hoe. All Minecraft hoes are equal in speed., You can run a successful garden above ground or below ground, as long as you have enough light. The important thing is that your garden is near where you are sleeping and working, so that it will be easy to maintain and harvest. Clear a spot of flat land near your base of operations.


Consider finding a place that will be hard or impossible for monsters to reach. This way, you won't have to worry about fighting off spiders or rebuilding your garden after a creeper has blown it up.
If you do most of your work and exploring underground, it might be worth building your garden down there. Light the area completely with torches, and make sure to find or build a space with a dirt floor.
 You can build your garden along a natural water source, like a river or pond, or you can irrigate a dry area yourself. Your crops will grow whether or not there is water nearby, but most Minecraft plants grow more quickly when they are irrigated. Farmland will be automatically irrigated if it is within 4 blocks of water.To create an inexhaustible water source, build a bucket using three iron ingots, then use that bucket to draw water from an existing water block. Dig a hole in the ground one square deep and at least three squares long. Then, right-click to pour the water into the hole. Repeat until you fill at least three adjacent squares with water. Now, when you draw water from the center, the space will immediately refill.
If you're going for water efficiency, know that one block of water will technically irrigate the 80 surrounding blocks., Your plants will only grow when the area is well-lit. If you are planting your garden outside, place a torch next to your crops. This way, they'll keep growing overnight, and they'll be ready much sooner.This has the added benefit of preventing monsters from spawning in your garden.
 Start with wheat: it is the basic piece of a successful Minecraft garden. You can also grow pumpkins, melons, carrots, and potatoes, but not until you've happened across their seeds in the wild.You can use wheat to bake bread, attract animals, and grow more wheat.


Pick up wheat seeds when you break blocks of long wild grass. The seeds only pop out occasionally, so it might take a few minutes of grass-cutting to collect enough seeds. You will also get seeds each time that you harvest your garden-planted wheat, so you don't need to collect more than a few seeds to begin with.
Look for pumpkin and melon seeds in your travels. You can craft melon seeds out of melons and pumpkin seeds out of collected pumpkins.You can also find these seeds in chest minecarts in 45.2% of chest minecarts in abandoned mineshafts.Look for carrots and potatoes in NPC villages. They are also occasionally dropped by slain zombies. There are no seeds – you'll plant the vegetables directly into the ground as you would a seed.