 Getting out of a text fight with your friend will likely include working past the point where you have stopped texting each other. To ensure that the text fight does not reoccur or continue, talk with them about it.Hopefully, you were able to schedule a time to meet with your friend. Pick a place and a time that is convenient for the both of you.Thank them for meeting with you. Even if you didn't start the fight it sets a good tone for the rest of the talk. Try, “Thanks for meeting with me to talk about this.”
Open the conversation by asking about what happened. “What is going on?” or “What had you so upset the other day?”
Explain your side of the situation including your feelings and your actions. “Here's how I feel about it and why I did what I did.”, It is possible that you will be frustrated with your friend, or annoyed at having to take extra time to work on resolving a fight. Try and listen to your friend and view things from their perspective.Allow your friend the time and space to express how they feel, and validate those feelings for them.While you are listening to their side, try the following to communicate to them that you are listening.


Make eye contact.
Put away all distractions including your phone.
Don't interrupt them.
Lean slightly towards them.
 Once you have discussed what the conflict is with your friend, try and come to a solution by compromising. Compromise means that you and your friend come to an agreement where you “meet in the middle.”Offer up suggestions for things you think might help, and be open to suggestions your friend makes.


If it is a big fight, consider taking some breaks or some time apart to think things through. Offer to come back at a specific date and time to try talking about it and compromising again.
 Strong emotions and reactions often stem from feelings of being hurt.If some action you took upset your friend, apologize. Even if it was nothing you specifically did, you can always apologize for the fact that you are fighting.While you are talking with them acknowledge that you heard and understood what they said to you. Apologize by saying the following.


”I did not realize the effect this was having on you. I'm sorry.”
”I apologize, I did not mean to hurt you.”
”I hear you. Thank you for talking to me about it. I'm sorry this happened.”
”I'm sorry we're fighting.”

, It may be helpful, while talking to your friend about this fight, to make a plan for the future.You don't want to plan on a future fight with your friend, but friendships have ups and downs. It may help to talk about your friendship going forward and how you'd like to approach disagreements or fights.Mention that you don't want to fight over text and prefer to face things head on. Try saying the following.


”I'm glad we had this talk. Let's always try and talk things out face to face.”
”Thanks for working through this stuff with me. It's so much better this way than over text.”
”I really hate fighting over text. Next time, just pull me aside or as to talk to me face-to-face, okay?”

