 Fiber is a non-digestible complex carbohydrate that makes you feel full while consuming few calories. Fiber foods like oatmeal are excellent for diets because not only do they help you decrease your appetite they also provide sustained energy by regulating the release of insulin and blood sugar.It is recommended to eat 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 caloric intake or about 28 grams for a woman and 38 grams for men.
If your goal is fat loss, then include large amounts of vegetables, legumes, and fruits that are high in fiber.
Eat oatmeal for breakfast and you will survive until lunch without snacking. Oatmeal is slow-digesting and will keep you feeling full.;
, A couple cups of Joe in the morning may boost your metabolism and suppress your appetite.However, for some people, coffee has the opposite effect. Learn how coffee affects your body and act accordingly.


Coffee beans are packed full of caffeine and antioxidants that are easily absorbed by the body. It is estimated the impact begins within one hour after drinking a cup of coffee.
 Chocolate lovers rejoice. Get the dark chocolate bars that contain at least 70 percent cocoa because it has just enough bitterness to decrease your appetite.Cocoa contains stearic acid which has proven to slow down digestion and make you feel full for a longer period of time.
Mix your bitter dark chocolate with a cup of coffee to double the impact.
 Protein needs energy from calories to digest, which promotes hormones that suppress hunger. Proteins and fat provide the most appetite suppression due to prolonged blood sugar regulation. A diet high in protein and healthy fats creates a blood sugar environment which is stable and controlled. This will also impact future appetite and cravings. Consuming fats in moderation, although lower in its thermic effect, has the ability to make you feel full during dieting.


Replacing carbohydrates with lean protein by 15–30 percent, improved weight loss and reducing hunger.
Casein protein, often found in protein powder supplements, is a slow-release protein that makes you feel fuller and, therefore, reduces appetite.
Diets that are very low in fats have the opposite intended effect; they increase hunger. Fat is not bad for you in moderate doses and has many health benefits. It also makes your food taste better.
 Sugars and starches are an important source of energy for running your metabolism. Carbohydrates constructed from starch are full of nutrients and make you feel fuller.Starches are digested slowly, satisfying your hunger and reducing your appetite.
Fiber can also be found in starch, which helps contribute to satiety.
 Water takes up space. Since the body is primarily composed of water, it craves water on a routine basis. Whether water is an appetite suppressant or not, it is a vital substance for the body and it contains zero calories.The eight glasses of water per day is no longer supported by most studies. Instead, take your weight and divide it in half. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds, you should drink 100 ounces of water or 12.5 glasses per day.Add a drop or two of lemon or lime to your water to give it flavor.
Water is a far better alternative to soda or alcohol, both of which will dehydrate you.
If you ever get hungry between meals and you already had a healthy snack, drink a glass of water to fill you up and quench your hunger.

