 Unscrew the face-cap or tail-cap, depending on which type of flashlight you have. Remove any o-rings or lenses from the face-cap area. Remove the bulb and springs. Take the reflector - the bowled shaped piece - out of the upper part. The reflector is what you'll be using to light the match.


Most flashlights have a piece of glass or clear plastic inside the face-cap, which is just in front of the versatile concave reflective surface.
Keep track of the order in which the pieces fit together. You may even want to draw a quick diagram or make notes about how to put it back together.;
, Using more than one match will not be easy since the heat needs to be focused in one location, and the neck of the reflector is narrow. If you use multiple matches it may be difficult to put through the neck area, and will take longer to heat. Take out a single match from the box/pack of matches.


Ensure nothing is obstructing the pathway to insert a match into the flashlight. The springs, heads, and other pieces attached to the reflector should be removed as well. You should be holding the backside of the reflector without the rest of the flashlight.
 Stick the match through the hole in the reflective part you took from the flashlight. It's in the spot where the bulb would normally have been.


Make sure the head of the match is in the right way, with the head pointing outward towards the flashlight's end.
 Use your thumb and pointer-finger to hold the end of the match, the side with the wood. Hold it up directly facing the sun with it being held as far as possible away from you.


You'll need to angle it correctly to maximize exposure to the sun.
Hold it in this position long enough for it to be dried and to light.
Be patient. It could take several minutes for the drying process to work.
 Once the fire starts you'll need to remove the match. Be very careful doing this, so as to not burn yourself or brush it against the inside of the flashlight. You don't want to apply the heat to the inside of the reflector too long, especially if the face-cap has a piece of plastic inside. You also don't want the match to go out once it's on fire.


Be sure to have your kindling or fire-starting material close enough to quickly start your fire.
Put your flashlight back together after your fire has been started.

