 Microsoft released several OTA updates in order to fix the touchscreen bug in Lumia 535. Many users reported that an update combining a software and a firmware update finally, fixed the issue. On the other hand, many users reported that the touchscreen issue still persisted. Hence it is necessary to ensure that the bug is still present in the device or not!;
, The MultiTouch Test is an app developed by Seikou Studio in order to test the touch functionality of Windows Phones. The app can be downloaded by heading over to this link.
 After downloading the app through the Windows Phone Store, open the app and follow the following procedures for testing the touchscreen functionality.


Do the one finger test when the app instructs you:

Place one finger on the screen and glide it through all possible direction so as covering the entire screen.
Remove the finger finally.
If your finger count changes during your test, then there is an issue with the touchscreen.


Do the two finger test when the app instructs you:

Place two fingers on the screen and glide it through all possible direction so as covering the entire screen.
Remove the fingers finally.
If your fingers count changes or flickers during this test, then there is definitely an issue with the touchscreen.


Test the multi-finger functionality. You can also use multi fingers to test the touch screen functionality. The MultiTouch test app supports up to five fingers at the same time.
Apparently you can also go to Setting and turn on the Trace Line and cross line to cross check the result that is displayed.
 Having the latest software does fix bugs in select models. Hence update your Windows Phone software.
 Certain bugs are temporary and disappear on a hard reset. You can also try the hard reset method to fix the touchscreen bug.


Go to Settings > about.
Tap the Reset your phone button to hard reset your phone.
Warning: Hard Resetting your phone erases all content on your phone.



Locate the nearest Microsoft Authorized Device Care.
Request for a Lumia Phone Test Application Report.
The report will contain the reports of many tests such as Charger test, self test, SIM card, Audio test, Proximity sensor test, Touch test, Buttons test, Vibra Test, Ambient light sensor test, Microphone test, Camera flash test, Display test.
If the report of the Touch test is passed, then you have no issues with the touchscreen panel as far as Microsoft is concerned.
 If your still unsatisfied or experiencing the touchscreen bug in your Lumia 535, you can always give your phone to the Authorized Device Care and replace your touch panel.

