 Have a conversation with your crush before you ask them out. Depending on how your crush communicates for the most part, and whether or not you know sign language, talk to your crush either by speaking, writing down what you want to say, signing if you know sign language, or speaking through your crush's interpreter. You want to get comfortable talking to your crush before you ask them out.Introduce yourself if you’ve never talked to your crush before. Either say, sign or write something like “Hi, I’ve seen you around a lot but I’ve never said hello. My name is Heather.”
If you have met your crush before, ask them how they have been or how their weekend was.
Make sure that if you are speaking to them, you are facing them so they can clearly see your lips. If you are writing, write clearly and legibly.
 Before you ask them out, get a conversation going. This will make both of you more comfortable, and make it more likely that they will say yes to going on the date.For instance, if you are taking a class together, ask them about how they like the class.
If you work together, ask them what they do at the company.
Even if you are nervous, remember to smile! Your crush won’t be able to hear the tone of your voice, so you want to be sure to smile to show that you’re friendly and interested.
 The way you ask them out may depend on how friendly you already are with each other. If you only just met them, acknowledge that you don’t know each other very well, but say that you would like to get to know them. If you already know each other, ask your crush out to do something you know that they like.


If you have only just met them, say or write something like, “I know that that I only just met you, but you seem really cool and I was wondering if you wanted to get coffee sometime.”
If you already know them, suggest something you know they might like. Say something like, “I know the other day you were talking about how you like old films. There’s actually a new movie theatre that shows films with subtitles that opened up downtown, do you want to go check it out?”
You don’t need to use the words “go on a date with me”, but you should make it clear that it will just be the two of you.
 If your crush does not want to go on a date with you, know that it probably isn’t a personal thing. A lot of deaf folks only want to date other deaf people because they are part of the same culture and have may be coming from a more similar place. Additionally, your crush may have experienced a lot of ignorance and discrimination from hearing people about their deafness, and want to be with someone that they don't have to explain deaf etiquette and culture to.These reasons on top of communication barriers make many people who are deaf want to only date other deaf people.

