 You don't want the milk to bubble or scald, so simply warm it up slightly before adding the rest of the ingredients.
 Mix in 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of sugar, 6 of your shortening/butter, and 1 teaspoon of sugar with the milk. You want one smooth, consistent liquid. Once there are no chunks of shortening left, take it off the heat.

You can melt the shortening faster if you chop the butter/shortening into small pieces before adding it.
 You want it to be warm to the touch, but not hot. It should be roughly 110℉. This promotes yeast growth without killing it. When in doubt, remember that if it is too hot for you, it is too hot for the yeast. Similarly, if you wouldn't enjoy a nice warm bath in it, neither will the yeast., The top will be foaming and frothing as the yeast grow and produce carbon dioxide. If you have no bubbles or frothing than your yeast has died, and you'll have to start over., A cup at a time, add the flour and mix the batter with a dough hook, wooden spoon, or your hands until it is a nice, firm dough ball., Kneading may seem complex, but it is simply a way of mixing the ingredients and toughening up the dough for cooking. Take the dough ball and pull one side up, folding it onto the top of the dough ball, and then push down into the fold with the heel of your hand. Turn the dough a quarter turn either direction, pull up another side, press with your hand, and repeat. You should knead for 2-3 minutes.

When done, your dough should be spongy but consistent, holding its shape without being too tough to press., Put the dough in a metal, nonstick bowl. Use a damp cloth or a piece of plastic wrap to cover the top and put the dough in a warm, dry place for 30 minutes. This allows the yeast to do their job. When you are done, the dough should be roughly twice as big as normal.

If you cannot cook the dough in 30 minutes, you can place it in the refrigerator to rise instead, where it will take roughly 2 hours.
 The bigger you want your ears, the bigger the dough will have to be. Start with four equal parts, using a sharp knife to cut your dough into 4 even pieces in the middle., You want quarter inch thick "ears" so that they fry quickly and evenly. You can use your hands to stretch them into elephant ear shapes if you like, but try and keep them at an equal thickness the whole way through. The flour will keep the ears from sticking, so add a pinch to the pin and the countertop before you begin.

If it is hot or humid out, chill the dough for 15-20 minutes before working with it, as it will be easier to maneuver when cold.
 The oil has to be hot enough to cook the outsides of the ear quickly, but not so hot that the outsides burn before the insides are cooked. If you do not have a high-heat thermometer, heat the oil on medium-high for 3-5 minutes and drop a small 1x1" test piece into the oil. It should cook in 1-2 minutes on each side., The outside should be a gentle golden brown and the inside lightly flaky. When in doubt, try out a smaller test ear before frying the whole thing., It is easiest to have a small plate next to the oven already covered with paper towels. Drop the ear onto the plate to drain any excess oil, then flip it when it is cool enough to touch., If you don't have cinnamon sugar, whisk together 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) powdered cinnamon with 6 tablespoons (88.7 ml) sugar to make your own. Other fun toppings include:

Jelly or jam
Powdered sugar
Nutella
Chocolate sauce
Fresh fruit

