 In order to achieve Ariana’s signature look, you must begin with a fresh, moisturized canvas. Wash away any oil and grime from your face with a gentle cleanser and pat your face. Instead of a traditional moisturizer, rub a small amount of natural oil, such as argan oil, onto your face.


When you apply makeup to properly cleansed and hydrated skin, the products look more natural as opposed to cakey and heavy.;
, Primer is the key to long lasting, smooth makeup. After moisturizing your skin, apply a light coat of liquid primer over your face. In order to prevent creases in your eyeshadow, apply a dab of eyeshadow primer to each lid., Prior to applying Ariana’s foundation and concealer, her makeup artist always coats her lids with a gorgeous application of eyeshadow. This prevents the eyeshadow from falling onto her cheeks and creating dark spots under her eyes.


Select a neutral eyeshadow palette with colors ranging from bone to dark brown.
Coat each eyelid with a warm, bronze color.
Blend a soft brown tone into the crease of each eyelid.
Directly under each brow, apply a light bone white color.
In preparation for Ariana’s signature cat eye, apply a rich, dark brown hue to the outer bottom corner of each eye., To achieve a flawless complexion, use foundation to minimize your imperfections and concealer to illuminate your eyes.


Use a dampened blending sponge to apply your liquid foundation. This handy tool makes it impossible for your makeup to look streaky by effortlessly blending the product into your skin.
Select a silicone-based concealer that is one to two shades lighter than your skin tone. Apply this product directly under your eyes to hide dark circles and brighten up eyes., After applying foundation and concealer it is important to set your base. When foundation and concealer are not set, they have a tendency to smudge and rub off. Setting powder, however, transforms these liquid products in a long lasting solid. Dip a flat powder brush into a loose setting powder. Instead of wiping the brush across your face, apply the powder in a stippling, or dotting, motion. This method allows you to place the powder directly where you want it., Select a pencil or crayon eyeliner. Place the eyeliner in the center of your eyelid as close to the lash line as possible. Move the eyeliner in short strokes across your eyelid. Stop once you reach the outer corner of your eye. Repeat the process on the other eyelid., Place the pencil in the outer corner of your eye. To create the wing, move the pencil from the outer corner up towards the bottom of your eyebrow. Repeat on the other eye.Create a hollow triangle by drawing a line from the tip of the wing back to the eyeliner on your lid., Select a black liquid liner pencil. Slowly trace over the lines you created. Fill in the triangle with the liquid liner., Set down your black liquid liner and pick up your pencil or crayon liner. Place the pencil on the lower inner corner of your eye. Draw a line around the lower rim of your lashes to the outer corner of your eye. Repeat on the other eye., Retrieve your mascara. To apply mascara to your lashes, pull and wiggle the wand from the roots to the ends of your lashes. Apply several coats of mascara to each set of lashes., Apply bronzer, blush, and highlighter to your cheeks to slowly build up a luminous glow.


Create a subtle contour by applying a small amount of bronzer directly below each cheekbone.
For a pop of color, apply a small amount of blush to the apples of your cheeks. The blush should cover and blend with the bronzer.
Brush on a small amount of highlighter directly to your cheeks., Ariana Grande has thick, natural looking brows. If your eyebrows are thin, consider using a brow pencil to fill in your sparse brows. Select a pencil or powder that matches the shade of your brows. Lightly draw in your brows with short, quick strokes that look like hairs. Trace the edges of your brows with an angled brush dipped in brow powder. Soften the effects by brushing through your eyebrows with a spoolie.If you have thicker eyebrows, fill in any gaps with a brow powder. Define the contours of your brows with an angled brush dipped in brow powder. Work from the end of the brow towards the start of the brow. Brush through your brows with a spoolie to soften the effects of the powder., The lips should be left simple, clean, and fresh. Apply a nude colored lipstick to your lips.


Consider selecting a lipstick or gloss with just a hint of color.