 The figure four on the floor is also called the eye of the needle pose, because you thread your arm through your legs as though you are threading a needle. This pose is restful and also provides a good stretch for your outer hips and thighs.Lie on your back on the floor. Make sure your shoulders are rolled back so that your shoulder blades are tucked along your spine, and your lower back is flat against the floor.
Lift your legs and bend your knees at right angles so that your shins are parallel to the floor and your thighs are perpendicular.
Cross one leg over the other so that your ankle is resting on your thigh just above your knee. Essentially, you're recreating the seated figure four position, except that you're lying on your back.
Grasp your lower thigh with your hands, threading one of your arms through the space between your legs. Breathe deeply. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then release and switch to the other side.
 The standing figure four is a balancing pose that is a little more challenging than the figure four you do either sitting or lying down. If you don't have a strong sense of balance, it may take you some time to work up to it.Do this pose next to a wall if you have trouble balancing, so you have something to support you.
Bend your knees slightly and lift one foot, bending your knee to rest your ankle on the thigh of your standing leg. Press your ankle into your thigh and find your balance.
Lock the pose by resting your elbows on your knee and ankle, pressing your palms together. You can also press one palm against the sole of your foot. Hold for three to five deep breath cycles, then release and repeat with the other foot.
 After you've mastered the standing figure four, you can deepen the stretch by lowering your hips into chair pose. This tough balancing pose mimics the same position your body is in when you're doing a seated figure four.Instead of leaning forward over your crossed leg, keep your torso up straight, shoulders back. Press your palms together in front of your chest and hold the pose for three to five breath cycles. Release and repeat on the other side.
 Of all the "pigeon" or "figure four" variations, the double pigeon pose may be the most intense. Take it slow, and don't attempt this pose if it causes you any pain or discomfort.Sit on the floor and stack your shins one on top of the other in a modified cross-legged position. You may want a rolled blanket behind your hips if you have a hard time maintaining a straight back in this position.
Hinge forward from the hips, extending your arms out in front of you. Only fold forward as far as you can go without any pain or discomfort. As you continue to practice this pose, you'll be able to fold forward more deeply.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breath cycles, then release and switch your legs so that the one that was stacked on the bottom is now stacked on top, and repeat your fold.
 You can increase the intensity of any of the figure four variations by working in a spinal twist from the figure four position. Make sure you are twisting at the waist, and that your hips remain squared forward.If you're including a twist with any of the figure four variations, make sure you twist in both directions with both your right and left legs.

