 Legally changing your name is a serious decision, so you should make sure that you choose a name that you like enough to keep. Before beginning the process of changing your name, practice signing it, and have a few people close to you call you by that name to make sure you like it.;
, You will not be able to change your name if your new name would imply "fraudulent intent" (i.e. that you are not trying to gain some benefit by misleading others about your identity).There are, however, several other reasons why you might be denied a name change, including any of the following:You are avoiding bankruptcy by pretending to be someone else.
Your new name violates a trademark (e.g. changing your name to "Chuck E. Cheese" or "Adidas Batman").
The name uses numbers or symbols (except Roman numerals).
The name includes obscene words.
If you are having trouble determining if your name change is legal, or need legal assistance with this process, hire an attorney. Legal self-help centers may also available to help with name changes, and legal fees may be waived if you demonstrate sufficient financial need. Search online to see what legal aid resources are available in your community.
 To get a court order officially changing your name, you must fill out a "Petition for Change of Name," numbered NHJB-2175-P. You can download the form here. The form is also available at the district court clerk's office. Do not sign the form before it is notarized.


Leave the case number blank. You will not be issued a case number until you file your forms with the court clerk.
To complete the court and county information, enter the name of the court and the county where you will file the Petition. You can find court locations and contact information here.

Parts 2, 4, 7, and 8 of the form is only applicable if you are filing on behalf of a minor child to change the child's name.
Part 9 requires you to verify that you had the sheriff's department serve a copy of the Petition on a certain agency. This is only necessary if you are in prison, on probation, on parole, or required to register as a sexual offender or offender against children. If you meet any of these criteria, contact your local sheriff's office and request that they serve your Petition on the proper agency.
 You will have both copies notarized, and will take both to the court clerk for filing.
 Take both copies of your unsigned Petition to a notary public. The notary will notarize your paperwork, verifying that you signed the documents in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory.

You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Bring both copies of the notarized Petition to the court clerk's office at the courthouse. Use this directory to locate your local courthouse. The clerk will stamp the Petition and issue a case number.


The clerk will require you to pay a filing fee. The fee in New Hampshire is $110 as of 2015.The clerk may instruct you to complete additional county-specific forms, such as a criminal background check.
Present a valid photographic identification.
 The judge has discretion to grant a name change petition without a hearing. If the clerk notifies you that you need to attend a hearing before a judge, you will need to appear in court at a later date. The judge will ask you about your reasons for changing your name to make sure that your new name is not fraudulent or misleading.Answer the judge's questions clearly and honestly.


If your petition is denied, get a copy of the denial order and try again.
If the judge approves your request, you will be granted a name change court order.
 Once you have received a court order changing your name, your next step will be to obtain a new Social Security card, which will require you to fill out a form and either deliver it to a Social Security Administration office or mail it in with the required documents.Download and complete the application for a new Social Security card, available online.

Gather your paperwork together. You will need your court order, birth certificate, photo ID (driver's license, passport, or state ID card) and a completed application for a new Social Security card.Submit your documents to the Social Security Administration. You can make an appointment to change your name in person, or you can mail in the appropriate documents. All original copies will be mailed back to you with a receipt.You can find the address for the Social Security office nearest you via a locator on the Social Security Administration website.Your new card should arrive within 10 business days from the date on your receipt., Visit your local DMV with your new Social Security card and your old driver's license or ID card to receive a new ID card.You are required to notify the DMV of your name change within 10 days of the date of the court order changing you name.You may be required to pay a fee, give a thumbprint, and/or surrender your old ID.
 Here is a short list of what you might consider:Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases or mortgages
Car title
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes
Passport

