 To go through this mindfulness meditation exercise, you should get in a comfortable position. You can sit down and lie down somewhere comfortable, like a bed, comfortable chair, or a mat on the floor.Let your hands rest loosely by your side with the palms facing up or rest them on your torso. Remember, you should be comfortable.
Your body should not be tense. Make sure to soften any tense places on your body, like your shoulders or jaw.
 Mindfulness meditation focuses on the moment you are in. Settle onto the floor, letting your body relax. Feel all the places where your body connects with the surface beneath you.Be aware of the physical sensations of your body. Think about the temperature of your body and the air that touches your skin. Think about where your body touches the surface beneath you and the clothes you’re wearing.
 Focus only on the moment you are in. Do not focus on your stress or anxiety, forget about what you have to do for your classes. Don’t think about the past or the future. Focus only on this specific moment.Focus your mind on any thoughts or feelings you have in this moment. Try to keep your thoughts about this particular moment, not the past or present.
Don’t judge your feelings, thoughts, or physical sensations. One of the points of meditation is to become aware without being judgmental. Eliminate all criticism and negativity in your mind. Replace it with positivity. Be kind to yourself.
 Next, focus on your breathing. Breathe normally without trying to breathe some way you think you should. Let the breaths come naturally. Pay attention to how you breathe. Listen to the sounds your each inhale and exhale. Notice how the inhales and exhales feel physically.Think about how your chest and abdomen moves because of your breathing.
Remember not to judge. You are only observing. You are just breathing and being in the moment.
 Stay in this focused condition where you are thinking about the present and your breath for a few moments.Expand your sensations broader than yourself. Try to focus on any pleasant sensations, smells, sounds, or experiences around you.This expanded awareness can include the way your arms rest on the floor, the sound of your breath, the material of your shirt, or the sound of the music.
 After you have focused on your breath as long as you want, end the meditation. To do this, expand your mind to your body, then the room around you. Slowly, become aware of your surroundings. Slowly, open your eyes. Slowly move your body as you return to awareness.