 One way you can use Amazon to make running your online business easier and more user friendly is to offer checkout and payment through Amazon.com. You can make “Checkout by Amazon” a payment option for your customers by signing up for the hosted payment option through Amazon. This is a good option if you have a lot of customers who buy from you on Amazon.com or who search for the items you sell through retailers like Amazon.To set up the "Checkout by Amazon", you should follow the steps on the Amazon Help page. You may need to enter in HTML characters onto your site to then link to the Amazon checkout page. The option will then appear as a small clickable button on your site that will take customers to the Amazon checkout page.Keep in mind this payment option may be confusing for customers who are Amazon-savvy users. You may need to include instructions on how to use checkout through Amazon for users.
When you sign up for the hosted payment platform through Amazon, you are giving Amazon access to your customers’ payment information. You will also need to make sure the Amazon payment process is integrated into your current process.
 Another way you can utilize Amazon’s services to make running your online business easier is to use their shipping services. This service is called Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA). When you sign up for this service, Amazon will handle the shipping process for you, including customer service and returns. Your orders can also be packed and shipped 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and any day of the year.To use FBA, you will need to send your items in one big shipment to Amazon’s fulfillment centers. From there, Amazon will ship and fulfill your customer orders for you.
Using an FBA can also be a good cost saving measure, as you will not need to spend time and energy shipping the items yourself or hire staff to do this for you.
 Amazon.com gets a lot of traffic on a daily basis and is seen as a good source for customer research on products and businesses. You can capitalize on this by asking your customers to post reviews of your products on Amazon.com. Having good reviews from customers on Amazon can encourage other consumers to buy from you and improve your sales.Encourage your customers to rate and review your products by including a note in their shipment requesting a review. You could also send out an email to buyers asking them to review your products on Amazon.
To give your customers an incentive to review your products, you may include a discount code for future purchases from your online business. Or you may run a contest where each person who writes a review is entered into the draw to win a big prize.

