 You can change your surname, forename, middle names, or all of the above. If you're under 16, you'll need to get a parent or guardian to change your name for you. You must have at least two names, and they must be pronounceable and not offensive or blasphemous, and you can't pick a first name that makes it look like you have a title that you don't actually have (e.g. Princess, Doctor).;
, You can get a deed poll in one of the following ways:

Download and fill in the appropriate form from the Ministry of Justice website (note that that this form is for when you intend to enroll your deed poll in the Central Office of the Senior Courts of England and Wales)






Search online for 'deed poll' and find a specialist agency - there are a range of DIY and professional services online.






Find a solicitor






Write out your own deed poll. At its simplest, this is just a document in which you promise to only use your new name (and not your old name) from now on.






The following wording is sufficient:Change of name deed by of I have given up my name and have adopted for all purposes the name .
Signed as a deed on as and in the presence of .


Print your deed poll onto nice, heavy paper or parchment. Government bodies will reject deed polls that have been written on the back of napkins. Make a few copies - this way you will have multiple "originals" which will help with a later step.
Sign your deed poll using your new and old names, and get two witnesses to countersign. The witnesses should be people who know you well, but who aren't related to you.
 Some organisations (such as the Identity & Passport Service, the DVLA, and the Inland Revenue) will need to see the original document, so make sure you have multiple "originals".
 Make a list of everybody who needs to know your new name; start with government bodies like the Identity & Passport Service and DVLA, because these will give you photographic ID in your new name, which will be useful for proving your identity to others.

