 Air purifiers are devices that remove pollutants from the air. They typically use a replaceable filter to catch contaminants in the air and trap them. There are four basic types of air purifier commonly available for purchase:



Charcoal filter air purifiers use a thick layer of carbon to force-filter pollutants from the air. Charcoal carbon filters are commonly used to purify water for public water systems as well, because they're cheap, long-lasting, and reasonably effective.

Electrostatic filter purifiers use static electricity to pull particles from the air in much the same way that a plastic pocket comb carrying a static charge attracts flakes of black pepper. Because these filters use an electric field to charge and attract pollutants, there's no need to pull the air through a thick filter, which makes them quieter and economical.

HEPA filter purifiers are a very popular type of filter with a reputation for being the most effective of all home filtration methods. HEPA stands for “high efficiency particulate air.” HEPA filters can only be certified as such if they're proven to filter out 99.7% or more of all airborne particulates larger than 0.3 micrometers across.

Ionization filter purifiers use a high-powered electric charge to ionize pollutants and compel them to stick to a surface rather than continue to float in the air. Ionization filters are at least somewhat effective, but their effectiveness compared to other types of filter has been called into question by reputable entities (such as Consumer Reports), and as such this guide doesn't recommend using one.;
, Expect to pay between $60 and $300 U.S. for a home purifier. Filters on these devices will need to be replaced occasionally, but the devices themselves should last for many years.


Be sure to read the instructions for your purifier and replace the filter according to the suggested timetable. A purifier with a used up filter won't be effective.
 Much of the pollution in your home is likely the result of less-than-optimal ventilation practices on your part. Some pollution from outside will get in no matter what you do (that's what the purifier is for). It's up to you to keep things from getting worse by properly ventilating your home.


Have filters installed. If your home has heating or air conditioning that depends on forcing air through an internal ventilation system, call your HVAC technician and speak to him or her about installing or updating air filters in that system. Updating old filters carries a fairly modest price tag, all things considered. If more work would have to be done to allow filters to be installed in the first place, consult with your technician and get a price estimate for the work.
Open windows. It might seem counterintuitive, but one of the best ways to minimize pollution at home is to allow air – even polluted air – to flow through the home, especially if you don't have a filtered internal ventilation system. Open windows whenever the weather permits and allow your house to “air out,” reducing dust and pet dander.
Clean your fireplace. If you have a fireplace or wood-burning stove, it requires regular maintenance to ensure optimal performance. A poorly maintained chimney or flue can drive harmful smoke back into your home. Cleaning a fireplace isn't too hard, but cleaning the chimney can be a pain. If you have the money, call a cleaning service and schedule a yearly appointment for them to take care of it for you.
 A lot of the pollution in any city is generated by the mass consumption of electric power. By doing your part to use less energy, you can help curb the problem for everyone in your city.


Plant trees near the windows of your house. If you plant deciduous trees, they'll provide thick, cooling shade in the summer, but let in plenty of light during the winter, both of which keep you from having to use as much electricity on air conditioning and lighting.
Be mindful of your appliance usage. Turn lights, electronics, and other things that consume electricity off as soon as you're done using them. For purifiers and other things that you might prefer to leave on at all times, try plugging them into a cheap outlet timer instead. Set the timer for 10 or 15-minute cycles. Your device will turn on for every other cycle, maintaining most of its effectiveness while cutting power usage in half.

