 Earplugs are great to cancel outside noises and cheap to buy.Noise-cancelling headphones are more expensive, but may be useful as a substitute or in addition to your earplugs.


If you are in an office, social or studying environment, you may want to explain why you are using earplugs or headphones. Assure people that they can still talk to you and encourage them to tap you on the shoulder, step next to you, or otherwise get your attention. Of course, make sure that your boss has agreed to this arrangement beforehand.
There are different types of earplugs, headphone, and noise-cancelling devices. Experiment on what feel good to you; everyone has a different preference.;
, Identify when the noise is the loudest and reserve the easiest tasks for that moment. If you are at work, see if you can move to the library, a different cubicle or a conference room if you require greater concentration.


It might not always be possible to move from your desk. If there is really nothing you can do about the noise, acceptance and adaptation is sometimes the best solution.
 If you are able to think, concentrate, and study when listening to music, this technique can be an excellent way to cancel background noises. Lyrics-free music, such as classical, trance, or ambient music, is often the best choice for concentration. Think about the volume. If the music is too loud, you won’t be able to concentrate and you might bother your colleagues.






As an alternative, use white noise. White noise is a static sound used to block background noise. It is commonly used with babies. If white noise doesn't suit you, try pink noise, grey noise, or brown noise. You can easily find these on the internet or download an application for your phone.
Put on headphones, but do not listen to anything. For some individuals, simply putting on headphones muffles sound enough to concentrate without any enhancement.
 Background noises can be extremely stressful and detrimental to your health. A good way to regain your concentration is to take a short break and go for a walk or to the toilets. You can also try different techniques to calm yourself:


Sit comfortably, breathe deeply and slowly. Once your body get used to this, close your eyes and focus on something relaxing. Do this for at least ten minutes.






You can also try to relax the muscles of your body. Sit comfortably and stretch the muscles of your face. Gently rotate your head and move your shoulders. Stretch your arms and your legs and rotate your wrists and hands.