


A scale retailer is usually the only one who can guarantee this and they can be purchased online from a wide variety of retailers, but it is best to make sure they have the facilities to calibrate and service them.
Personal & medical scales should never be assumed as accurate at point of purchase as they invariably change in shipping from the factory and the stores.;
, If you have budget restrictions (as medical scales are more expensive due to their quality standards) and are not too worried about the accuracy, cheaper houseware types could be fine. If you are on a strict diet or need the scale for health control, medical quality may be essential. Your physician should advise you.



Do not put your scale in the bathroom, unlevel tiles gives false readings and humidity will affect the lifespan by corroding its hardware. Use your bedroom, home gym or wardrobe to keep your scales.
Slippery, smooth or highly polished surfaces may also be a slip hazard.
Thick carpet will absorb some of the mass unevenly so the scale can give inaccurate readings.



Mechanical naturally does not need turning on. Check regularly to ensure the batteries are still viable for digital scales as low power or fluctuating readings can affect the sensors and consequently the readings.



It is recommended to weigh yourself at the same time of day and to remove things that can affect your readings (shoes and excess clothing, wallets, car keys, cell phones, heavy jewellery etc all add to your weight). Your weight will also vary before and after meals and bowel movements and can vary as much as 2kg or 4.5lb a day.
 Some scale companies have a free for use scale you can check your weight on and then compare with your own. You can also check at your local clinic or hospital providing their scales are regularly calibrated.
 This is often when something is jammed inside, or the sensors have been damaged.
Linearity error - you notice your reading is OK, but your children or your heavier partner's weight is not OK. This is most common in low quality devices, but high quality ones can develop this over a long period without maintenance.
Repeatability error - no matter who steps on, they never get the same reading twice, but in the past it was reliable.
 Be aware that scale companies can fix certain medical types, but not houseware ones you buy at department stores. Some brands also have only specific service agents which should be taken into account at the point of purchase. Most errors are caused by shock, age, transport or rough handling.

