 Being "cool" with your friends by skipping classes or hanging out at the mall when you could be at home doing school work is not worth it. In exchange for pulling average grades, aiming for popularity won't help you in the long run. Remember that popularity is seemingly nonexistent once you graduate high school, while an education is important in almost every field of work.
 To keep track of things that are assigned to you by your teacher(s), try organizing them all in a school work folder. It's important to figure out an organization system that works for you. For example, you might organize it with sections for new assignments, in-progress projects, and completed work, or organize it by subject.

Make it colorful so it catches your eye and you'll be less likely to forget it.
If you use a backpack, don't keep it in there when you get home. Try sticking it out of your bag so it reminds you of your homework/assignments.
If you use something else (like a locker) don't keep it in there. Take it home so your papers aren't sitting at school overnight.
 It doesn't matter if you prefer to use technology like your iPhone or simply a sticky note on your bedroom desk, but reminders are key.

Have multiple reminders set up so you don't forget. You could have both a mixture of cell phone reminders and sticky notes posted in places you'll see them.
 Life gets busy, particularly if you participate in a lot of after-school activities as well as your classes. In order to make sure you devote enough time to studying and working on assignments, write them into your schedule. Don't just assume you'll find free time at the end of the day to tackle your work; make time for it., Not all assignments are all "homework", but if you don't use your in-class time well, even in-class assignments can accidentally become homework. Don't put off for later what you can do now, instead. Use your time well, particularly if you have unstructured class time to collaborate with classmates or work on group projects. Don't slack off but get it done now, rather than later., Procrastination can occur when you have too many things going on at once. You might use procrastination to avoid certain responsibilities. Try staying calm about your school work by keeping on top of in-class tasks and keeping an open channel of communication between you and your school teachers.

Learning how to meditate can help you focus and stay relaxed when you have stressful school work to do.

Take deep breaths. Breathing slows down the heart rate and re-calibrates racing thoughts to be much more calm.
Don't think of school work as a pile of stress; think of it as a learning opportunity.
 Try setting up your study area to exclude all forms of social media where a notification could vie for your attention.

If you're like most people, you might find yourself checking your phone pretty often. Try putting your phone away in another room or up on a distant shelf or in a drawer.
Switch your ringer to silent when studying to avoid its tempting "pings" and "dings".
Pets can also be a distraction. Try keeping your furry friends out of the room; you'll see them later.
Keep your focus on what's most important, your learning.
 Studies prove that healthy eating and regular exercise can improve one's managing of stress.Keep your health habits in sight as you navigate your high-school journey.

Try saying positive things to yourself throughout the day like "I'm capable" or "I am an achiever".
Exercise for at least 30 minutes a day.
Eat a healthy breakfast.
Go to bed at a reasonable time.
 It might not be that you're procrastinating from doing your work; you might be forgetting to turn it in. Hand in work when you've done it or store it in your school work folder under "completed".

If work is online, turn it in immediately after you proof-read it.
Have your homework folder by your side when doing assignments so you don't forget to turn it in the next time you have that class.
Put your folder in your backpack before bed so you will be ready to turn it it the next day (or whenever you have to).

