 Darken your room as much as possible, and turn on some quiet music or a CD with calming nature sounds. This will help tell your brain that it is nighttime, and it's time to go to sleep.


If total darkness bothers you, get a night light, so that you can see if you wake up in the middle of the night.
 Some autistic people have trouble sleeping due to sensory processing issues. Here are ways you can minimize noise:


Play white noise. You can find an app for your phone or computer for free.
Wear earplugs to bed. Within a few days, you should be used to having earplugs in your ears.
Stuff a piece of cloth underneath the door. Try a rug, blanket, or towel.
If noise comes from the other side of a wall, place a body pillow between the wall and your head. This will block some sound.
As a last resort, wear earmuffs to bed. These will make you sweaty, but will block sound.
 Wear comfy pajamas,use sheets that don't feel bumpy or stiff, and place soft pillows on your bed.


If you dislike the feeling of pajama legs shifting up your leg, try wearing thick socks to bed. During winter, many general stores sell fuzzy socks.
Cut the tags off of your pajamas and stuffed animals.
 If your mind wanders to worries or creative thoughts, you can use the notebook to record them. Write down any important thoughts, so that you can stop worrying about them and relax.


When worrying, ask yourself: "What can I do about this tonight?" Answer honestly. Your answer may be "stop worrying about it and get a good sleep." If this is the case, then stop ruminating on it and focus on something else.
Imagine relaxing things: nature, your favorite location, or your loved ones. Think about all the aspects of them that you love.
 If you tend to lie awake for a while, you may get the urge to stim.


For wandering hands, try placing a textured thing on your bed. For example, wrap a rubber snake around the railing and feel its mouth and tail when you want to touch things.
If you rock or shake in bed, try buying a stuffed animal that vibrates. Holding it will allow you to feel input, without requiring movement, so it won't hinder your ability to fall asleep.
 Instead, keep books at your bedside. Try peaceful stories or nonfiction that will help you fall asleep faster.

