 Pairing your graphic tee with a jacket that commands attention tones down the informal vibe a graphic tee can give off. For example, try a suit jacket with a micro-pattern, or go even bolder with a long, leopard-print trench coat.A loose-fitting, belted top coat can give your graphic tee a pick-me-up.
Try pairing a graphic tee featuring a band’s name or logo with a nice leather jacket.
A shirt with printed text goes well with a houndstooth jacket.
Mix up bold colors! For example, if you’re wearing a tee with a red, white and blue graphic, add a sunflower-colored cardigan jacket to add interest and contrast.;
, A shirt with a Peter Pan collar looks great underneath a graphic tee, especially if the tee is long-sleeved. However, any well-fitted collared shirt will do.For instance, wear a red collared tee underneath a black shirt with red graphics to dress up your outfit with a pop of color.
Try a shirt with a pointed black collar under a black-and-gray graphic tee. Or, look sharp in a white collared shirt underneath a black-and-white graphic tee. If the tee and collared shirt are long-sleeved, arrange it so that both your cuffs and collar show, to mix casual with prim and proper.
Make sure that the collared shirt is tight enough so that it doesn’t look or feel bulky underneath your tee.
 The combination of a casual graphic tee and a semi-formal jacket creates a vibe that is dressed-up without looking overdone. Go for a color or shade that is classy, but not too formal – avoid pure black.A dinner jacket is an evening suit jacket, often with ribbed and/or satin lapels. Sleek shades for this look are charcoal gray, navy blue, and silver.
You can pull from colors in your t-shirt for the hue of your jacket. For example, try pairing a navy blue dinner jacket with a lighter blue tee. Go monochromatic with a black and gray tee underneath a white jacket.
Try using complementary colors, which are across from each other on the color wheel. For instance, pair a blue jacket with a tee that has orange in it, or wear a purple jacket over a graphic tee with yellow details.
 Look for one with fancy buttons or hardware, in a calm shade like khaki.For a look that isn’t super-fancy, wear a black blazer with 3/4-length sleeves and strategically placed details like zippers and/or blocks of leather.For a clean, elegant look, a soft version of any earth tone will do. For example, try a moss-colored blazer, or a pale spring green. Wear it over a rust-colored graphic tee, or a printed tee with black, white and gray.
 Because it’s a dress, this piece will automatically dress up your look, even if the dress’ material is denim. Unbutton a few of the top buttons if you want to show more of your tee. Pair this look with strappy sandals, such as lace-up espadrilles, or gladiator sandals.This look can be worn with or without a belt.

