 The way to a man's heart is through his stomach...and the way to a man's abs is through the kitchen. If you're not eating right (man or woman notwithstanding), your abs will (or won't, rather) show it.


Not all carbs are evil. It's the simple, white carbs that you want to avoid. Whole grains (aka "slow carbs") are rich in fiber and go through your system much more slowly (hence the name) than simple, refined carbs (the white ones). So don't shy away from the browns -- brown rice, quinoa, whole wheat and oats.;
, Because straight up, you'll eat less (and it's the building blocks you need to build muscle tissue). One study of 20 obese female participants, showed that those who got 35 grams of protein at breakfast were less hungry throughout the day and saw favorable changes in the hormones and brain signals that control appetite.Getting six pack abs isn't necessarily about counting calories. But you do need to get rid of the fat on top of your abs to expose the muscles underneath them -- and eating a bit less will get you on track.
Eating any breakfast was associated with increased feelings of fullness, a reduced desire to eat, and lower levels of ghrelin (a hunger-stimulating hormone) throughout the morning. But a protein-packed breakfast was associated with these benefits over the course of the entire day.

This doesn't mean go for the ham and steak. To keep your calorie and fat levels in check, opt for Greek yogurt, whole eggs, and Canadian bacon.What's more, your body burns more calories breaking down protein than it does carbs and fats. Every little bit counts, right?



, Consuming most of your calories from processed and fast foods is going to produce an unhealthy body lacking in nutrients. Foods that have been through some sort of preservation have lost their nutrients and are really just empty, unhealthy calories. Definitely a no-go for a trim waistline.


To make matters worse, processing then adds in unhealthy fats, a ton of sugar or sugar substitute and synthetic vitamins and minerals. These ingredients include artificial sweeteners, artificial colors, hydrogenated oils, and high fructose corn syrup. These non-food ingredients, some of which are considered toxins, may end up languishing in your system, often stored with fat.Anything that's packaged is a processed good. That includes your "health" foods, too. Look for the top super foods (nutrient-dense, low-calorie fruits and vegetables, like broccoli). These give the most vitamins and minerals to energize your body.
 Research shows that people who drink and drink and drink water lose more weight and keep it off long term. What's more, it'll up your metabolism to boot.In a recent study, a 30% increase (albeit temporary) was seen within 10 minutes of participants drinking 17 ounces of water. And it's best to drink it cold -- your body takes energy to warm it up.And you'll naturally cut out those sugary, empty calorie drinks like sodas and processed juices. That's killing two birds with one stone.
 Dietary fat that comes from primarily monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats such as olive oils, fish oils, a mix of nuts, natural peanut butter and avocado is actually good for you. While it's true that eating fat ups your caloric intake like none other, as long as you keep it between 20-30%, it can help you get results fast. That's because it helps stabilize your insulin levels which, if they get too high, can cause fat retention.


In addition, consuming fat will keep you sated for a longer period of time; eating just protein or carbs leaves you traveling back to the fridge. So as long as they're the good fats, and they are consumed in moderation, you're good to go.
 When you starve yourself your body goes hungry, it likes to cling onto fat and tell you to chow down on that pizza. If you're never hungry, your metabolism is always up and you're never left wanting.


Eat three standard meals and three snacks, equaling six times a day. Concerned about overeating? Don't be. Because the foods you'll be piling on are high in fiber, protein, and nutrition, you'll be sated with smaller amounts., Once the fat on top of your abs is gone, you'll need washboard abs to be underneath. In the comfort of your home, you can exercise your core muscles -- it helps posture, too!



The plank: You can't just focus on what's on top -- it's what's behind your abs too -- your back! And doing the plank works both. With your forearms on the floor and your toes into the ground, lift up your core and thighs off the floor. Make sure your elbows are in line with your shoulders. To do it right, keep your butt and abs flexed.

The reverse crunch: Upper abs are easy; it's the lower ones that are hard. This exercise is much like a crunch, but with your feet in the air. To start, put your arms at your side, keeping your palms down. Place your knees over your hips, using your abs to place your body. Instead of moving your head toward your knees, move your knees toward your head. Hold your knees briefly as close to head as possible and then lower them back towards the mat.

The Bicycle: This exercise targets your sides, in addition to your upper and lower abs. Lie on a soft surface like a yoga mat and make a pedaling motion in the air. Alternate raising shoulders toward the opposite knee. Make sure to work both sides evenly. 2 sets of 12 reps is a good place to start., If you're going for a six pack, you'll need strong pecs, shoulders, and back too. Your entire body needs to be on track, not just your abs.



Wood Chop: Using a free weight or medicine ball, kneel down on one knee. Lift the weight up, with both hands, over the shoulder of your leading foot. Lower the weight to the other hip, hold, and bring back up. Always make sure your entire body is facing forward. Aim to use a weight that fatigues the muscle in 12 reps.

Trunk Rotations: Working with a dumbbell or medicine ball, get into a sitting position, knees bent and feet flat on the floor. Lean back slightly to engage your abs. Bending at the elbows, hold the weight close to your core and twist from side to side. Pause at the end of each rotation.

Dumbbell fly: Grab some free weights and sit on a stability ball. Walk it forward until it's your head and upper back that are balancing on the ball. Push the dumbbells up and out, directly above your elbows. Swing out and back in, slowly. Keep your abs flexed at all times and your arms loose, not locked. , The absolute quickest way to get rid of fat is cardio.While it's important to do cardio and it's important to work with weights, it's most important to do both in tandem. You need to burn and blast away the fat to see the results you want.


This doesn't necessarily mean running. Swimming, boxing, cycling, and tennis are also great alternatives (amongst many) if you don't feel like hitting the concrete.
Consider high intensity interval training. Most studies have shown that the benefits of cardio are amplified when done in intervals.Work out as hard as you can for 30 seconds, relax for a minute, and repeat 9 more times. And you'll get your workout in super quick.
 You don't want your body to get used to your workouts. Once something becomes easy, step it up a notch. Constantly challenging yourself is the only way you'll see results you've never seen before.


Each time you exercise, make sure to target different muscle groups. Do somewhere between four and eight moves and don't repeat the same moves the next day. Keep your muscles guessing by changing up your routine every few weeks. But, as always, check with your doctor if you're 45 or older.,