 Like a baby, your puppy can get into things he shouldn’t. It’s ineffective to reprimand him once he does. Manage his environment and give supervision.


Pay close attention to him when you take him out, he doesn't know about dangerous things. Make sure he doesn't eat plants, some of them are poisonous.;
, Even if he has a tag, it could get lost. Soon after micro-chipping take him to your local shelter to be scanned. Sometimes the chip can move or the shelter doesn't have the right scanner for your pups chip. If they don't have the right scanner, they will get one. Micro-chip companies provide these free of charge to shelters. Don't bring him inside, they prefer to scan outside because he's not fully vaccinated at his young age and there could be a sick dog inside.
 If you don’t want your full grown dog to do something, then don’t allow him to do it when he is a puppy. For example, don’t sit on furniture with your puppy if you don’t want him to do it when he's grown.


The puppy stage lasts about two years. He will be chewing, digging, and so on. His training may need to be practiced over and over again. Teaching a puppy requires patience while he learns new behaviors, some of which may go against his doggie nature.
 Puppies are naturally curious. New toys, new places, and new people are good. Going for a walk is great for this, when walking allow him to stop and explore if it’s safe but make sure he keeps good manners.


Puppies will jump up on people at this age. This is a normal behavior but it can turn into a problem as the puppy grows up. Begin teaching your puppy not to jump on people.
 Make sure your puppy has as many positive experiences with as many people of different ages, different places, new environments, and other things as possible.


A good breeder starts socializing puppies right after birth by handling, exposure to different smells, and toys. The first sense a newborn puppy develops is touch. At three to five weeks puppies can see and hear, so a good breeder will take the puppies to safe places to let them meet new people and expose them to new sights and sounds.
 Adult dogs do not hurt or attack puppies.


If the puppy goes too far, the adult may sometimes let out a small grr, a tiny nip, or a similar correction to let him know his behavior is unacceptable in doggie society. A small nip is NOT the same as a bite; an adult dog will never bite a puppy. This is normal dog behavior and is always acceptable. The puppy gets the message and learns. Learning dog behavior from an adult dog can actually benefit your pup when he’s older.
Between the ages of 8 and 12 weeks is a critical time for socialization. Everything your puppy experiences during this time will be forever imprinted in him. For example, if a man with a beard does something to frighten your puppy this is not a positive experience. You will need to expose him to bearded men who provide a positive experience so he doesn’t grow into a dog who is fearful of, or aggressive toward, men with beards.
 At 8 weeks your pup has been weaned and should be given solid food.


Active pups burn more calories and require a higher caloric food intake than adult dogs, based on weight. Different brands of food provide different nutrients, calories, and feeding recommendations.
There is no set amount when deciding how much to feed a puppy. Consider your pup's age, weight, and activity level when deciding how much to feed. As your puppy matures and his size increases, he will need more food.
 He should not beg or be overly excited.


If your puppy lies or sits without staring at you, he is being respectful. If your pup turns its back on you or walks away while you’re getting his food ready, this is the highest respect as he is giving you your turn to eat first, showing he knows you’re above him in the pack hierarchy.



If your pup is not behaving respectfully don’t give him his food, just put it on the counter until he calms down. This teaches your puppy how to behave properly.
 Your puppy should let you reach down and touch or move his food without getting upset.


If you try this and the puppy dog growls, snaps, or tries to push you away he is telling you to leave him alone while he’s eating because he’s the alpha. It’s a bad idea to allow your dog to believe he is the alpha, because an alpha dog may resort to biting to show his disapproval of your actions.



Puppies at 8 weeks still have their baby teeth. As they lose these and grow their adult teeth they’ll need to chew. Make sure your puppy always has plenty of simple toys and size appropriate rawhide bones. Have some in every room he’s allowed to be in.
If your puppy chews the wrong thing, pick up his toy or bone, go to him and take away what he has with a stern “No” and give him his toy or bone. When he starts chewing it, give him praise.
If you don’t give your puppy something to chew, he’ll find something on his own. Likely, you will not be happy with what he’s chewing, but he’s in pain and he needs to chew. If he has nothing of his own to chew, and takes it upon himself to find something, don’t scold him. This is your fault, not his.
 At eight weeks, your puppy is physically unable to hold his potty in for more than three hours.


If you wait longer than three hours, the puppy will have accidents but it won’t be his fault. Don’t scold him if he goes in the house because you waited too long to take him out. This will only confuse him, and make it harder to house train. If he does potty in the house, never let him see you clean it up. Put him in another room or outside. Don't teach him that it's your job to clean up his mess. His mom cleaned his mess, but you do not.
 When you bring your puppy home for the first time, before bringing him in the house, take him to the place where you want him to eliminate. Have water for him to speed this up, then praise him, take him in the house to meet everyone and have play time. He’ll quickly learn that eliminating outside gets him what he wants.
 Your puppy can learn at this age but like a small child, he will have a short attention span. Shorter training sessions a couple times a day work best.


Use positive reinforcement. In the beginning you will need small treats, then, as he learns, you can move on to alternating treats and praise. Keep the treats small so they don't interrupt the training session. You can cut up a hotdog, or cut up some leftover meat from last night's dinner.
Use consistent commands when training. If you’re teaching your puppy to come, don’t say “come” sometimes and “here boy” other times.
 At 8 weeks your puppy’s hair will be fine like a baby’s and he won’t shed. Although he won’t need grooming, you need to use this time to get your puppy used to brushing and bathing, always praising him as you do it. Touch the bottom of his paws so he's comfortable with getting his nails trimmed when he's older. Groom for short sessions and keep it positive. When he gets bored let the grooming session be over. Never hold your puppy down to be brushed if he doesn’t want it. Doing so will only make grooming more difficult when he's grown.
 At eight weeks most puppies are "clumsy". Your puppy just learned to walk at 3 weeks and then run at 5 weeks so all of this is new to him. He’s still developing his motor skills to run, play, and do other things. Puppies are also used to rough and tumble play with their litter-mates, so your pup will be enthusiastic when it comes to playing.


Teach your puppy not to bite hands when playing. When playing with his litter-mates this was acceptable, but even it it’s cute now, it won’t be cute with he grows up. If he bites, just let out a sharp yelp and pull your hand away. He’ll learn.
 He will love to explore, crawl under things, climb, jump, and run; all traits of a good agility dog, but it’s too soon to teach agility to your clumsy little puppy.
 An 8 week old puppy sleeps around 14 to 16 hours each day. He's a baby, try not to wake him when he’s sleeping.
 This is the first time he’s been alone. Most puppies will be scared and cry at night because they miss their mother and litter-mates.


It helps if you bring a small stuffed toy to your breeder when the puppy is young. When you bring him and his toy home, his toy will be familiar and carry the scents of his mom and litter-mates. This will comfort him.
Bring the puppy’s crate into the bedroom so he sleeps in it but he's not alone. This will teach him that the crate is a safe place and he needn’t be scared.
 An 8 week old puppy should have been given their first set of shots before you bring them home. Typically puppy vaccination protects against distemper, hepatitis, parainfluenza, and parvovirus (commonly abbreviated DHPP). Depending on environmental factors, a Lyme disease vaccination may be wise

, Good breeders begin vaccinations very early, before the pup is ready to come home with you. Ask your breeder for his puppy vaccination records so you can give it to your vet. Your puppy should have boosters every three to four weeks until your pup is 6 months old.
 Puppies are often born with worms and may need to be dewormed by your vet. A good breeder will have already done this, again, ask your breeder.
 Heartworm prevention is important to puppies and dogs of all ages and should be started when they are young; check with your vet. Dogs of any age can get heartworm from a mosquito bite, and heartworm kills.


Heartworm can be treated, but treatment is very expensive and the treatment itself kills the dog in about half the cases. A vet will typically have to poison your dog with arsenic while treating him for the poisoning. Killing the heart worm while keeping the dog alive requires a delicate balance and it is not easily managed. This requires a hospital stay as well, and you’ll pay for that too. Your dog will still be sick for a week or two when he comes home. Recovery from arsenic poisoning is a hard and long process for your dog. Prevent it so you never have to treat it.
 But humans can send mixed signals that confuse the dog. You need to avoid making those mistakes. Here are some common mistakes to avoid.


Your puppy begs for food when you’re eating, you give him a bit of food. You’ve just told him “good boy” for begging. And you just taught him it’s okay to eat from the table. Don’t be surprised if he steals the family dinner from the table when your back is turned. You have taught him that it’s okay to eat from the table, that he’s equal to you in the pack hierarchy, and he doesn't have to wait until you've finished eating before he gets his food.
Your puppy is barking when he shouldn’t be, you tell him “NO” but you’re also petting him to calm him down. You’re telling him “good puppy" for barking.
Don’t correct your puppy after the deed is done and he’s already moved on to something else. Your puppy will think you’re correcting him for what he’s doing “Now” not what he did before. Consider this scenario: puppy gets into the trash, then goes into another room and starts chewing his toy. You yell at him, he thinks it’s because he’s chewing his toy. Later, the puppy gets into the bathroom and discovers how much fun it is to bite the toilet paper and run around the house. Then he goes in another room and chews his rawhide. You yell at him and he thinks it’s because he’s chewing his rawhide. You’ve taught your puppy that you don’t want him to chew his toys or rawhide, so he goes off and chews the corner of your couch, or one of your shoes. He’s doing what he thinks you want him to do, and he’s teething, so what choice did he have? This is your fault, not his.
Maybe you’re only correcting your puppy sometimes, but not consistently. Perhaps you don’t want him on the furniture, you tell him “No” but only follow through by making him get down sometimes. You have taught your dog that sometimes he’s allowed on the furniture.
Dogs have social signals. When correcting he’s likely to look down or turn his head. Don’t force your puppy to look at you, turning away is how a dog lets you know he doesn’t want to challenge you. In the doggie world making eye contact is taken as a challenge.
Maybe the puppy wanders too far off. You call him back and he comes. When he’s back at your side you yell at him and tell him not to go out of the yard. You’ve just told your dog he was bad for coming back.

