 People generally do 21s biceps curls with an EZ bar. This bar looks wavy and may be shorter than its straight counterpart. Use an EZ bar if you are able. This can minimize the risk of wrist or forearm pain.Recognize that you can use a straight bar or dumbbells if you don’t have an EZ bar.
Grab the EZ or straight bar using an underhand grip. Stand with your feet about hip width apart.
Allow your arms to hang towards the floor and keep your elbows tucked in as you go through each set of seven reps.;
, The point of 21s is to make sure you build arm strength along the short and long head of your biceps. You’ll do a total of three rounds of seven reps of each progression for a total of 21s. Your first round of 7s targets the longer head of your biceps. You’ll go from the bottom of your movement to the halfway point for seven reps.Begin holding your choice of weight with your arms extended downward. Engage your biceps and go from the bottom of the movement to the halfway point. You should end with your arms at a 90-degree angle at the elbow level.
Repeat this movement for six more reps for a total of seven.
 The second progression of the 21s targets the short head of your biceps. This time you’ll start at the halfway point and curl to the top of your bicep.Start with your arms holding your chosen weight at a 90-degree angle. Your hands should be at elbow level. Engage your arm muscles and curl your arms to the top of your biceps. Your hands should be at shoulder level.
Repeat for six more reps for a total of seven.
 The final progression of 21s target both heads. It goes through your entire range of motion to help build your arm strength. Start at the bottom of the movement with your arms extended downward. Then engage your arm muscles and curl your arms through 90-degrees to the top of your biceps. Lower the weight back to starting position and repeat for six more reps., The 21s exercise is not easy, especially if you perform it properly. It will tire you out and make your arms burn. Because of the strain 21s can cause, it’s advisable to decrease the amount you’re lifting by 25%. For example, if you normally do bicep curls at 20 pounds, reduce the weight to 15 pounds.Recognize that decreasing weight doesn’t mean you’ll lose strength. In fact, you may find you get stronger faster with 21s.
 You may be tempted to use 21s every day to build maximum strength. This can actually hinder your results in the long run. Giving yourself time to rest allows your muscles to grow stronger. Take a couple rest days per week for maximum benefit from 21s.Focus on triceps or the bigger muscle groups in your back, chest, buttocks and legs, and don’t forget to include cardio on days you don’t do 21s.

