 History is ripe with characters that faced incredible odds and emerged victorious as a result. Seek out stories that motivate you and allow them to shift your perception of adversity. None of those stories end with “when the going got tough,” that’s always when the story is just beginning.Helen Keller accomplished a great deal despite being deaf and blind. She went on to stand up for women’s rights as a shining example of what a woman can accomplish in the face adversity.
Winston Churchill’s focus on overcoming his stutter led him to becoming one of the most eloquent and successful public speakers and politicians of the twentieth century.
Use the inspiration you gain from others’ stories to begin your own. The adversity you experience today could be what leads you to your greatest successes tomorrow.
 While it’s important to identify and improve upon your weaknesses during times of adversity, don’t lose sight of your strengths. When you identify the handful of issues you need to resolve, take a moment to think of all the things you don’t have to work on because you’ve already learned how to handle them.Although it may be easy to focus on the negative sides of adversity, place some focus on the things you’ve already accomplished and the skills you have that got you here.
Remind yourself that you are really good at things, and that others value you for those abilities.
 When you experience adversity, the frustration can be stifling. Don’t allow yourself to crumble under the pressure, and instead envision the cloud of adversity as an opponent that’s struggling to see you fail. Embrace the challenge and go after your opponent.Take on a competitive mindset and look at the adversity you are experiencing as a challenge meant to be overcome.
Look at what you’re going through like a sporting event. Adversity rears its head halfway through the game, but you’ve still got a lot of time left to overcome it.
 You may find that adversity is hardest to overcome when addressing it directly. Just thinking about it may stress you out and make it more difficult to be productive. Instead of focusing on the challenges ahead, just keep plugging away at what you need to do right now and give yourself something to look forward to in the mean time.Make plans for the weekend that you’ll enjoy doing. Keep working through your problems today while you look forward to getting to your plans at the end of the week.
Try giving yourself things to look forward to in the shorter term as well. Plan to have a delicious lunch, or to watch a movie you love after school or work.
Soon, you may find that you’ve already worked through most of your problems in short intervals.

