 Excessive vomiting, diarrhea, and frequent urination may all be symptoms of poisoning in cats. Watch closely when your cat goes to the bathroom and listen for sounds of heaving.A cat may not experience all of these symptoms, depending upon what sort of toxic substance your cat ingested.
Do not wait for multiple symptoms to appear. If you notice any of these symptoms and have reason to believe your cat ate a toxic substance, call your vet immediately.;
, Drooling and pale or yellow gums may indicate that your cat has consumed a toxic substance. Gently check the gums by lifting up the cat’s cheeks with your finger or thumb and examining the top of the teeth for a yellowed color.If your cat drools regularly, this alone may not be a symptom. Look for excessive amounts of drool as an indicator of a problem.
 Some toxic substances can impact the functionality of your cat’s brain, and may cause seizures, incoordination, or a coma. If you notice any neurological symptoms, it is imperative to get your cat to an animal hospital as soon as possible to avoid sustained damage.Neurological symptoms can also include changes in personality such as sudden bursts of excitement or severe lethargy and depression.
 Heavy breathing, difficulty inhaling, coughing, and sneezing could all be indicators that your cat has ingested something bad for its health. Closely monitor the rise and fall of your cat’s chest, and listen for coughing, hacking, wheezing, and sneezing.Respiratory problems can become fatal quickly. If your cat struggles to breathe, get it to an animal hospital immediately.
 While one person calls for help, have another person check the area for potentially toxic substances, if possible. Many common human foods are toxic to cats. Check areas where you store food for signs that your cat may have eaten something they were not supposed to, including:Any alcohols
Products with caffeine including food and beverages
Chocolate
Vegetables from the onion family including common onions, garlic, and chives
Grapes or raisins
Xylitol, an artificial sweetener found in candies, diet foods, and toothpaste
Unbaked bread dough

, Both plants and pest control ingestibles found in gardens can be toxic to cats. Check to make sure that no rat, gopher, insect, or other pest control poison has been disturbed, and look for bite or chew marks on plants like:Aloe
Amaryllis
Azaleas
Caladium
Lilies
Ivy
Mistletoe
Philodendron
Poinsettia

, Medications and household chemicals are some of the most common offenders when it comes to accidental poisoning for household pets. Check the areas where you store medications, cleaning supplies, and other chemicals and check for chew or tamper marks on items like:Antifreeze and motor oil
Fertilizers
Any household cleaning agent
Insecticides, including flea and tick treatment
Painkillers such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, naproxen, and aspirin
Cold, Flu, or cough medication
Moth balls
Batteries
Zinc

, If you know or can reasonably guess what your cat got into, take the container or a sample of the product to provide for your vet. If no container or sample remains, let the vet know in as much detail as possible what you think your cat consumed.If they eat a small aloe plant, for example, let your vet know, “My cat ate an aloe plant that was about two inches tall and had just been recently planted in a pot with potting soil.”

, If your cat is experiencing life-threatening symptoms, such as struggling to breathe or losing consciousness, immediately take them to an animal hospital. If symptoms are not imminently life-threatening, call your vet or an animal hospital right away for further advice.Let your vet know what you think your cat consumed, as well as what symptoms it is exhibiting. Be exhaustive in your descriptions.
Follow your vet’s advice carefully. They may recommend taking your cat in for an emergency visit, or they may advise a home treatment such as inducing vomiting.
Only perform home treatments such as inducing vomiting with your vet’s permission and using their careful instructions.
 If your cat is exhibiting life-threatening symptoms such as difficulty breathing, loss of consciousness, tremors, seizures, or other critical problems, take them to a 24 hour small pet hospital immediately. Check online or call your local Information Services to locate the nearest facility.Symptoms of neurological trauma often require hospitalization to stop. Skip the vet visit and go straight to the hospital if your cat is exhibiting signs of neurological problems.
 Once you and your cat return home, move those things that you don’t want your cat getting into to locked areas or closed-off spaces. Place child safety locks on cabinets where you keep chemicals, and move all food behind a closed door.If your cat got into a plant that made it sick, consider moving houseplants outside to a yard or patio. If your cat is allowed outside, you may want to put fencing and a cover over the planted areas.

