 The first step in avoiding a bad monologue is to select a monologue that is appropriate for the audition. You should consider your strengths and weaknesses. Now is not the time to try something different. Make sure that the monologue that you select is relevant to the part that you are auditioning for.Select a monologue that shows off your diverse acting skills.
Select an age appropriate monologue. Avoid using something that you used several years ago.
Know your audition time limits. Select a monologue that fits well within those time limits so that you do not run out of time during your audition.
Avoid a monologue that includes excessive swearing, violence, or sex.;
, It is hard to stand out to the director if you are auditioning on something that they have seen performed several times. They will compare your performance to the performances that they have seen before. In this case, blending in is not a good thing.Avoid common Shakespeare plays such as Hamlet and Romeo and Juliet.
 Your resume will inform the director of any other skills that you have such as gymnastics, singing, or dancing. Stick to something that you know you are good at. Highlight the skills that you most often receive compliments.Make sure that your monologue actual requires acting instead of just telling a story.
Your monologue should show the director why your are unique.
 Begin rehearsing your monologue by breaking it up into smaller pieces. Monologues are often overwhelming because they are not naturally broken up with lines from different actors. Break up the monologue by paragraphs or natural changes in the character’s emotions. Think about the staging, gestures, and tonalities that need to occur within each section., Work on memorizing the monologue quickly. The faster you memorize the material, the more you will get to rehearse and perfect the monologue off book. This will give you more confidence walking into the audition.Try memorizing the material by writing or typing it out. This will help you commit it to memory.
Record yourself speaking the monologue and listen to it while you are doing other things, such as cooking or driving.
Make use of rehearsal apps, such as Rehearsal 2, to rehearse the monologue. This app helps you memorize your lines and develop your character.
 Once you feel more confident with your monologue, you should perform it in front of friends or family. Request them to give you feedback at the end of your monologue to help improve it. Try to mimic the audition as much as possible so that you feel comfortable and prepared the day of the audition.
 Don’t wait until you are onstage to get into character. Consider getting into character as soon as you wake up that morning. Turning your character “on” right before stepping on stage can be difficult. Consider your character’s emotions and lifestyle.
 It is completely normal to be nervous before your audition. Take a few minutes before your audition to try to relax. Take several deep breaths. Breathe deeply through your nose and fill your lungs with air. Release that air through your mouth slowly., Don’t walk on stage questioning yourself or your ability to perform your monologue well. Walk onstage with your head held high and introduce yourself to the people that you are auditioning for. If you have the chance to shake their hands, do so firmly.Being overly confident can come off as cocky or conceited. Remember to stay humble as well.
 Making eye contact with your audience can make them feel uncomfortable, especially in an audition. Instead of looking people in the eye, aim to look just above their heads. This will look and feel normal to the audience.
 Most people do not overuse gestures when they talk. Therefore, you should generally not overuse gestures when you act. You can also have a very moving monologue by simply being still.There are monologues that may require more grandiose gestures.
 It is normal to fly through your monologue when you are nervous during an audition. Be sure to speak slowly and clearly. Speaking too quickly will make it difficult for the audience to understand what you are saying., During most auditions you will receive feedback and then get a chance to perform your monologue again. Do not be so married to the rehearsed version of your monologue that you cannot apply the direction and feedback that was given to you. The director wants to know that you are flexible and open to feedback.