 Determine how much space you have, keeping in mind space limitations for a TV, video devices, speakers, cables, and the furniture that will hold them. Also keep in mind the locations of power outlets and existing television cables and network access for applicable devices.;
, The TV should be at a comfortable eye level for the viewers, so a stand to keep it off the floor is advisable. The stand will need to be strong enough to hold the TV and wide enough to prevent people walking by from bumping into it. Other devices should be kept off the floor with adequate ventilation to prevent excessive exposure to dust and dirt. If floor space is a problem, consider wall-mounting a flat-panel TV. Before making any permanent placement decisions, remember to plan for cabling changes.
 Make sure the power outlets you want to use are properly grounded. In some homes, power outlets in one room can be unexpectedly connected to another room on the same circuit. If your home theater shares a circuit with major electrical appliances, it can cause unexpected problems. For example, when everything is turned on and someone decides to do their ironing while watching a blu-ray movie and someone turns on the vacuum in the next room, the power surge could damage the sensitive electronics of the home theater system even before the circuit's fuse or breaker shuts down.
 Taking some string and measuring approximately how much cable you need between each device can prevent an awkward pause when you go to pick out your cables and see five different length options and their alternatives.
 Many surge protectors offer warranty protection from power surge related damage and are worth the investment. Power surges can also come from the coaxial television, phone and network cables, so make sure your devices are protected completely.
 Most new TVs have at least one of each type of video/audio cable input. High definition devices will primarily use HDMI cable, but without a specialized video/audio receiver, hooking up multiple HDMI devices can be problematic. An inexpensive alternative to HDMI, though not quite as good, is to use component video cable with a separate audio cable. If the devices support it, you can get high definition audio with optical or coaxial audio cables. Most video devices come with standard quality composite cables (formerly called RCA cables,) but some TVs may only have one place for these. If you're using a laptop or computer with your TV, you may need VGA or S-video cable as well for the video, with a stereo Y cable for audio.
 Pick out the sizes and features that will work best for your space and budget. Any set of video and audio equipment in the personal entertainment market with the same connectors will work together, but some devices may have advanced features that work better as a bundle using HDMI cables. Most TVs will have built-in speakers with varying quality, but none will give the same experience as a 5.1 home theater speaker system. Most new TVs are considered "Hi-Def" now, but there are different levels of high definition with some differences that are more noticeable in certain situations.
 Especially if you pay in cash, the original receipt may be the only way to recover your funds should your products fail from normal usage (or disappointment.) Even if you purchase an extended warranty package, and if it's not registered with your personal information at the point of sale or over the phone, you will need the receipt to receive warranty coverage from the manufacturer.
 If you accidentally damage a device while positioning them, at least you won't electrocute yourself. (Or worse, the house...) Make sure there is adequate ventilation for each device wherever they have air holes in their casing. Audio systems in particular generate a lot of heat compared to video players, so consider placing them in a separate section of your home theater fixture.
 Make sure that the plugs are leading from OUTs to INs and that the cables are in the right place. If using component cables with stereo cables, don't mix up the red video component with the red audio cable. Place circular plugs in firmly until they are snug. Optical audio cables come with small protectors that must be removed before inserting, and have notched corners that fit in a specific way and click into place. HDMI cables should slide in easily with a light click and not fall out. Coaxial television cable has a single pin that goes in to the screw-like plug, so be careful not to bend it. With the coaxial cable ping in the plug, hold the cable while twisting the head of the plug so that the plug doesn't pull off. Some coaxial cables provided with digital tuners do not have a screw head and can simply be pushed on and pulled off. Audio systems that include speakers frequently have unique wiring plugs, so consult the manual for the system if necessary.
 Some power bars and similar devices have indicators for when the home's wiring system is faulty or unsafe for sensitive electronics. If such an indicator stays lit when it is in use, you may not be eligible for power surge related warranty coverage.
 Make sure high definition players are using the best type of signal for your television. Try selecting each device and testing their video and audio quality. The sooner you find any flaws or incompatible devices in your system, the sooner you can return them to the store for something that works! Don't get stuck with a device you have no use for because you were too busy enjoying the rest of your theater system.

