 You can either make a costume, or simply order one online.


For Gaara's shoes, you can simply buy some cheap black sandals or cover your own sandals with black duct tape.;
, You are either going to have to cut your hair, or get a wig. You probably already know that his hair is short, reddish brown, and spiky. If you want to get a wig, you definitely will be able to find one in any good cosplay website. If your hair is already short, you can put in some temporary hair dye and spike it up with some hair gel.


If you dye your hair red for cosplay, just be careful. Some schools don't allow dyed hair or the hair might not be appropriate for work. Use temporary dye where possible.
 Gaara's gourd is a difficult object to find. Many people have trouble with this. Again, you can make one, or buy one. You will probably want to make one, because all the one's online will be low-quality and not the right size.


Try carrying a bit of sand. Obviously, you're not going to walk around in front of your friends and family with that enormous gourd, so just carry a little bag of sand instead.
 Gaara is known to have very dark circles around his eyes due to insomnia, so you will have to put dark, thick eyeliner around your eyes. Finish it off with a red kanji symbol for love on your upper left forehead. This can be put on with paint, or just red eyeliner.


Make a tattoo like the one Gaara has on his forehead. The meaning of that is "Love" or "Ai" (which is "love in Japanese"; it is written as: 愛 or あい. Ga-a-ra: があら or 我愛羅. (I love Asura, the self loving/narcissistic Asura). 羅 (ら) Ra is the Asian language adaptation of the Indian word Asura, the deity of warfare and bloodshed. Use a temporary tattoo or just draw it in with a sharpie.
 Gaara has a mean but soft voice. His voice is sort of like when you have a sore throat, so try pretending you have a sore throat and practice talking like him.
 Gaara is always calm. Be clever always. Thinking about your answers before you say them may make you seem smarter, if you know what you're saying.
 If you need to laugh about something, just smirk. Gaara doesn't laugh, as that is showing too much emotion, so a tiny smirk will do the trick. It may be hard, but it'll ruin your toughness if you smile!


Never show your emotions too much. Gaara in the series never shows emotion, except for when he remembers his mother. So try not to show any emotion.
 Gaara is cold and indifferent towards people. Try to reply to people with short one word answers. Reveal very little.

