 Put yourself in your friend’s shoes, and imagine what they’re thinking about. Instead of just getting mad, it’s better to think of why they hold these beliefs. Most people ultimately want the same thing: personal safety, economic prosperity, and social stability. Different political perspectives simply have different ways of stating this.Remember that your friends don’t have to have the same point of view as you do. Don’t take it personally if they have different political views.
It’s easy to allow something you feel strongly about to dominate your attention, but try to focus instead on the qualities that originally drew you to this friendship.
 If avoiding political conversation is jeopardizing your friendship, try to schedule a time to have a respectful conversation. Be prepared to listen with an open mind and with curiosity.Remember that you’re likely to learn something new if you’re able to keep your own opinions to a minimum.
However, if your friend expresses interest in learning more about your own point of view, share your thoughts with her in a way that shows you’ve been listening to what she’s said.
 If your friend respects a politician that you dislike, find the aspects of this politician that you respect. When you attribute (or misattribute) negative motives to politicians your friend likes, you’ll damage your friendship.Even if there is very little you respect about a particular politician, there will be something that you can find that you like. Perhaps he has a dog, and you like dogs. Maybe he went to the same college you did.
The point is to diligently seek out the best in the opposing political perspective, so you can maintain your friendship.
 Talking about politics can quickly derail a conversation that you’re having, even if it started in an entirely different place. Are you trying to change the mind of your friend by having this conversation? Are you trying to impress her with your knowledge? Or maybe just venting frustration?Think about the setting as well. It might be one thing to engage in a political conversation while you’re watching political debates on television, but they should probably be avoided in the workplace or most social setting.
If you find yourself turning to political conversations to vent your frustration over current affairs, you might want to save this talk for a like-minded friend who shares your concerns.

