 As you begin you may need to sync your charting with your medications to help you remember. Over time, charting will become a natural and productive part of your day. See the example below for how your chart might look.October 18th:
Sleep: 7 hrs
8:00am:
Mood: 3
Medications: 200 mg Tegretol; 100 mg Wellbutrin
2:00pm:
Mood: 4
Medications: None
8:00pm:
Mood: 4
Medications: 200 mg Tegretol; 100 mg Wellbutrin
Notes: Worked. Ate 3 meals. Walked 2 miles. Day got better as it went on. Decent focus and attention. Had negative thoughts "I screwed up that presentation; I'm a failure." "My girlfriend didn't call; No one cares about me." Was able to pull myself out of them and challenge their truth. No alcohol or non-prescribed drugs today.
 The only way you and your doctor can learn anything useful from your mood chart is by doing it daily. Missing one day can cause you to forget or minimize a new change in your mood, anxiety or sleep. Even good habits like charting can be hard to follow at first. To ensure that you regularly chart, and to build motivation, follow the 3 R's of habit change:Reminder: Cement this new behavior by notifying yourself of when you should be doing it. It may be simpler to set a firm rule that each day you will chart your mood right before breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Routine: Follow the same procedure for charting each day so that you physically and mentally become accustomed to incorporating this new behavior into your day.
Reward: In addition, to learning new and interesting facts about yourself through charting, you should also create some other regular reward for sticking to this behavior. Maybe you could tell yourself that if you chart 3 times a day for a week, you will reward yourself with a treat over the weekend.
 Charting your moods is especially helpful when you are switching to a new medication, noticing repeating cycles in your mood states; wanting to verify that your medication is working; and to show your doctor your progress. Look over your journal each week and at the end of each month to note patterns in mood changes or repetitive stressors that influence your mood and behaviors.