 House training your Maltipoo is one of the most important and also the most difficult things that you will need to do when you first get her. House training involves developing a regular toileting schedule for your dog, cleaning up when your dog has an accident, and praising your dog when she goes to the bathroom outside.


Try placing some puppy pads or newspaper in a few places around the house in case your Maltipoo has an emergency and you are not around.
Make sure that you take your dog out after he eats as well as a few more times in between. If you are often gone for long periods, then consider having a neighbor or friend stop by to let your dog out.
Never yell at your dog, hit your dog, or rub your dog’s face in urine or feces. These methods of house training do not work and they will only frighten and confuse your dog.You may also want to consider crate training your Maltipoo. Crate training can help with housetraining and it is also a good way to teach your Maltipoo not to chew on furniture, shoes, and other off-limits items.
 Training your dog is an excellent way to make sure that he is well-behaved and that he listens to you. Training is also a great way to provide some mental stimulation for your dog and it can even serve as a bonding activity. Some good basic commands to teach your Maltipoo include:


Sit
Stay
Speak
Down
Heel

, It is important to socialize your Maltipoo so that she will be calm in all sorts of different situations. After your Maltipoo’s first round of vaccinations at about eight weeks old, you can start to socialize her.


Be sure to expose your Maltipoo to people of all ages genders, races, and sizes, other dogs, cats, people dressed in unusual attire (hats, raincoats, boots, etc.), loud noises, crowds, and vehicles.
Always keep your Maltipoo on a leash when you take her out in public.
Give your Maltipoo lots of praise and petting for being curious and calm around new people and situations.
If your Maltipoo gets scared, try to reassure her as much as you can or remove her from the situation if she becomes too nervous (trembling, barking, hiding, etc.)

, Your Maltipoo needs lots of love, attention, and affection. You can provide her with these things by remembering to take time to play with your Maltipoo every day. Try heading out in the back yard for a game of fetch each day or take your Maltipoo with you on a walk around the neighborhood.


Provide fun toys. Maltipoos are smart dogs, so they enjoy toys that will challenge their problem solving skills. Try giving your Maltipoo a variety of interesting toys including puzzle toys, balls, and rope toys.
Pet your Maltipoo. Sometimes your Maltipoo may just want some affection. Make sure that you pet your Maltipoo every day.

