;
, You can do this by clicking Resources > Buttons on the Twitter homepage or simply by clicking here.
 You can choose from 4 different options. It is possible to have all 4 buttons on your page, but you must add the buttons separately, as they each require a different code.



Share a link lets users easily send a tweet to their followers with a link to your Tumblr.

Follow lets visitors to your Tumblr page easily follow your Twitter.

Hashtag prompts users to compose a tweet that includes the hashtag of your choosing.

Mention prompts users to tweet at you.
 After you choose what type of button you want to embed on your Tumblr, you have a number of different options for customizing your button. You can change both the appearance of the button and the content of the tweet that will be created when someone clicks on your button.
 When you edit the options that change the appearance of your button, the changes will automatically be previewed under "Preview and code". In order to see the results of your edits to the content options, click on the sample button. A tweet box will appear showing what users will see when they click your button.
 This unique HTML code appears in the box under the sample button and changes every time you edit one of the options. So copy this only after you are finished customizing.
 There is an icon of a wrench next to it. If you cannot find the button, this is a direct link.
 In the sidebar, you will now see the HTML text for your Tumblr page.
 This may be several hundred lines down. You can press Ctrl+f or Cmnd+f to find it quickly.
 You must paste the code between "<body>" and "</body>" in order for the button to show up on your page. If you want the button to appear at the top of your page, paste the code right after "<body>". If you want it near the bottom, paste the code near the bottom, close to "</body>".
, This will take you back to the "Theme" sidebar. Click "Save" and then "Close". Go to your blog to see your buttons in action.

