 Sprint drills are an easy way to accomplish this.


Run at top speed for 20-30 meters.
Make sure that your arm action is smooth and relaxed during the exercise. Keep your arms close to your body.Focus on making smooth, even strides, with your knees high.
Keep your head relaxed and in a natural position.
Slow jog or walk back to your starting point when finished with the sprint.
Do 2-4 repetitions of this drill.;
, Acceleration drills will make you build up to and come down from high speeds more efficiently. This type of exercise also helps you work high speeds into other routines. To do a simple acceleration drill:


Jog for 10 yards.
Sprint for 10 yards.
Shift back to jogging for 10 more yards.
Shift back to sprinting for 10 more yards.
Breakdown in 5 yards.
Walk back to your starting point.
 This horizontal tool requires you to alternate your feet across successive rungs as you run. To improve your speed, train with the ladder while using a stopwatch, and work on improving your best time.


Speed ladders are available at many athletic supply stores.
 To accomplish this, do 30 minutes of interval training. Alternate light jogging (5-10 min) with short bursts of more powerful exercises, such as:


Sprints
Running stairs or hills
Ladder drills
Using a ball in combination with any of the above

, To improve your reaction speed, practice while a coach or friend calls (or better, uses a visual signal) for you to change your exercise. Respond as quickly as possible. Try incorporating a combination of exercises like:


Changing direction rapidly when running
Sprinting on command
Playing “Red Light Green Light”


, To accelerate, you will have to extend and use your hip, knees, and ankles.When running or doing other exercises, focus on making long, even strides that stretch out. Increasing your stride length and muscle output in this way will boost your speed.
 While training to increase your speed at moving across the field, do not neglect your control of the ball. Remember that soccer is primarily a sport where the player’s lower body moves in contact with the ground and ball. To be not only fast, but fast and in control of the ball, you must work on your agility.


Dribble at every opportunity, using all parts of your foot (outside, inside, top, and bottom).Do speed dribbling exercises by kicking the ball slightly forward and running after it.
Practice changing direction quickly while dribbling and doing speed dribbling exercises. You can also do this while attempting to evade another player in order to practice using quick dribbles as a way to beat opponents.
Do lateral ball drop exercises. Have a coach or partner hold a ball at shoulder height, 5 meters away from you. When your coach/partner drops the ball, attempt to reach and control the ball before it bounces a second time.
 Always do stretches and short exercises to warm up before beginning a speed training session.This will prepare your mind and body. If you do not properly warm up, you risk injuring yourself.
 Since it utilizes great power and force, you should do speed exercises while you are still fresh. Otherwise, you might not be able to reach and push your speed potential.
 In addition to exercises that aim to improve your time, try doing plyometric (explosive) exercises and weight training, such as:


Jumps
Squats
Burpees
Bench press
Lifts
Leg curls

, It is very important that you take a day to rest between practice sessions. If you try to train for speed while you are sore or fatigued, you will be unsuccessful and risk injuring yourself.
 Make sure that you have a fundamental knowledge of and good practice with soccer skills before attempting to increase your speed. Focus on doing things the right way, then on becoming faster at them.

