 Ask questions about their life, like their school/college/work. If they got new friends or even if they fell into a relationship, without sounding clingy or rude, try to always support them and help them by giving advice and talking out their problems.;
, Ask them about the circumstances, and listen to them when they complain about a problem, a friend, a teacher, or a crush. Help them with their work or studies, try to link them to websites that might help them in their daily work. For instance, if your best friend is a medical aspirant, remember to notify them about a new website which helps in preparations. Such actions will show them that you care for them.
 Do a handshake you guys did together or make a joke that'll make your friend laugh, seeing them laugh makes you happy because they are happy. Skype is also a well-known platform available on Windows and Android smartphones.In a while have a meal or snack together during the video call as if you are sitting side by side.


If you're both gamers, buy the same games and make sure to play at least once a week, especially multiplayer games that can be played together as a party.
 Writing a letter can be a lot more meaningful than a simple text. Don't you just love opening the mailbox and seeing a letter from your BFF? Of course, this can be done more effectively if your friend stays in your state or country.
, It's always fun to receive a gift from a friend, and sending someone a something special shows the person that you care about them. A present is usually something personal. It's especially important to remember celebrations and birthdays.
 Even if it's only one time a year, the time you spend together will be very special and cherished.
 Try to show interest in each other's hobbies, for example: You can show and see each others' hobbies like drawing, painting, singing, dance, poems, origami, collecting things, etc.; by sending photos or videos to each other (for we're talking about maintaining a long distance friendship)

, Whether it's an event in your life, your friend's life, or something in the news, recent events are usually good to talk about, as it feels personal.
 Offering help when necessary can be much appreciated.
 Talk about things you could do together. This will keep you both positive and looking forward to the future.
 Just because you're apart doesn't mean you can't still experience something together. Find a book, TV show, movie, new type of exercise, anything that you can both partake in in your respective places. It will give you something to discuss that doesn't have to do with how separate your lives can seem at times.
 Although some have, how you talk/treat each other shouldn't change at all! You are both the same people, however you are probably not in the same place. But, it's up to you to keep your friendship as strong, or to make it even stronger than it used to be!

