 A helmet won't prevent accidents and won't offer you much protection if you are hit by another vehicle. It can and will save you from serious head injuries if you are in an accident. Don't make the mistake of riding as though you are indestructible as you're not and taking the advice on road sense below will probably go a long way to making your journey safer. The wearing of helmets is mandatory in some countries.;
, The majority of accidents happen when drivers haven't noticed a cyclist in their way, so always have lights if it is not very bright out, and if cycling near dusk reflective clothing is a great idea. The more obvious you are to drivers the less likely they are to hit you.
 Make sure you are wearing shoes, pants and tops that are comfortable and suit the bicycle. You will be uncomfortable trying to wear a clothing that gets caught in the wheels or reveals too much once you begin riding. The right shoes are flat shoes without slippery soles.
 This means reassuring yourself that you are capable of all the basic operations, such as accelerating, changing gear, braking, looking over your shoulder, and riding while giving a signal. Adjusting things like the seat-height and the brakes can make a big difference.
 If you're an inexperienced cyclist, it is not a good idea to throw yourself in the deep end by trying heavy traffic before you are used to traffic altogether. Start off on quiet back streets and get used to being around cars and other road traffic. Gradually build up your stamina on larger roads by practicing on them on quiet days or at quiet times. This will allow you to familiarise yourself with the streets and any obstacles. Finally, build up the density of traffic that you feel comfortable with.
 Always ride with the traffic. Stay off sidewalks, stop for red lights, stop at stop signs, and obey all other traffic signs. Even if it seems like there's no compelling reason for you to stop, motorists will give you more respect if they see you obeying the rules. DON'T run red lights no matter how many other cyclists you see doing it !

, Ideally, stay at least three to five feet from the edge of parked cars, even if this means riding in the driving lane. Avoid weaving back and forth from the curb around parked cars, as this creates many "merging" maneuvers with traffic behind you. If you must pass a parked car at close clearance, look through the rear windows as you come up to the car, and if you see a driver, there is a good possibility that they might not see you and swing the door open straight into your path. Check for traffic beside and behind you, and move further out if necessary.
 If you need to talk on your cellphone, stop and pull over. Don't listen to an mp3 player or radio. These will greatly impair your ability to hear cars coming up behind you, considering a bike doesn't have mirrors, and you're very likely to not check behind you often, this is best avoided no matter what. You should be able to judge the speed, relative location, and type of vehicle, as it approaches you from behind without looking. At night you should also look out for signs of a passing vehicles headlights to give you an early warning that a vehicle is approaching. Most rear engine vehicles and hybrid cars are very difficult to hear, so you need to pay careful attention to not get run over by a bus.
 NEVER go down the street the wrong way. It's asking for trouble. The closing speed is greater between you and the other vehicle should you collide. Use a sidewalk if you can't go around.
 As you ride, always keep alert for others on the road. Be aware that many drivers fail to see cyclists. As such, you should always be aware of them. Look over your shoulder, or better still, get a rear-view mirror to attach to your helmet or your handlebars. You have to be aware of your surroundings at all times.
 Don't ride too close to parked cars. Parked cars can present an obstacle to a rider if a person suddenly opens a door or pulls out quickly. Always keep a door's length out no matter how much room you think motorists need to get past you. Your safety is more important than their time.
 If cars are wanting to turn, watch their direction to avoid any potential for collision. Parked cars close the the corner curb may obscure a driver's vision of your bicycle; be aware of this possibility and be prepared to give way. Don't block the right turn line, and pay attention for any cars coming up behind you that will be turning. Making sure they known you're there and that you're out of their way. When crossing an intersection watch out for any vehicles that are making a left turn, as they are the most likely not to see you, and could T-Bone you.
 As much as you hate cars that don't signal, cars hate you when you don't signal. Throw your arm out whenever you need to merge with traffic or take a turn. Having cars know what you are doing makes them much more predictable and reduces the chance of them having dumb assumptions about what your next move will be. If you need to take a turn on the other side of the road, wait for an appropriate gap then signal, then check, then move. The biggest danger for cyclists is drivers not paying attention, so always be on the look out and make sure they know exactly where you are.

