 Going into a date feeling negative or too stressed won’t make for a good date. To help combat this negativity, try to get yourself into a positive mood before going on the date. Do something before your date that makes you happy and boosts your mood.For example, you can put on your favorite music that makes you feel attractive or happy, dance around your house, or put on your favorite outfit.
Focus on your positive qualities. Look in the mirror and give yourself a few compliments. List a few positive qualities about yourself.;
, Everyone gets nervous on a first date. It’s completely normal. That means you shouldn’t obsess about your anxiety. You’re not going to ruin the date, and you can’t know if the date is going to be a disaster or not. Think about how often you feel anxiety and everything turns out perfectly fine.Instead of the anxiety, think about how it’s exciting to be going out on a date and meeting someone new, even if it doesn’t turn into a love connection.
 Going on a date is a mutual decision, which means the other person wants to go on a date with you. This should give you a bit of confidence to help combat your nerves. Try to find ways to boost your confidence as you prepare for your date so you can be your best self.

You can work on looking confident. Keep your head held high, have good posture, make eye contact, and smile. By acting confident, you'll actually feel more confident.
Focus on your good qualities. It may be a physical attribute or a character trait. Remember, the person wanted to go out with you for a reason, so don't doubt that you deserve to enjoy your date.
 If every date went perfectly, people wouldn’t need to date multiple people or feel anxiety. The reality is that some first dates are awkward, bad, or boring. That’s normal. Don’t let everything ride on this one date, and it may help lessen your anxiety.Just because your first date isn’t perfect doesn’t mean there isn’t a chance for a second date. Sometimes, it takes a few dates to start connecting well. Don’t get upset if the date isn’t going perfectly. Very few first dates do.

