 Not all Craigslist postings are created equal; some will have less information than others and that is okay. However, it is important to take a look at the information that is there and check for red flags that could mean the posting a scam. These red flags would be if the posting:


Consists of only a few words. For example, “Need writer”. A reputable company would put more effort into specifying the type of writer they need and what you would be writing about.
Has grammatical errors. Numerous errors shows a lack of effort that should make you consider whether or not this posting is from a reputable company.
Provides no contact information. Your only option will then be to reply to the job posting through Craigslist. It is still okay to apply, but if you are concerned, you can choose to exclude certain personal information (like your home address).
Leaves you with many questions. If you find yourself looking for basic information like company, location, title, job duties, etc. it may be a fictitious posting.;
, If the company’s name is listed, research it. Doing your homework and checking out the company will help you to get an idea of what the company is like and whether or not it seems legitimate. Keep in mind, it is not necessarily a scam if the company wishes to remain confidential at first. However, this information must be provided if you are asked to do an interview.


Read or click through their website. Does the website look professional? Is the job listed on a “careers page”? Do you have an understanding of what the company does after looking at their site?
Call a general number provided and, if possible, speak to someone. If someone answered the phone, did they use a professional greeting such as “Company B, how may I help you?” If someone did not answer the phone, was there a professional sounding voice mail?

, If you are looking at a Craigslist posting and can’t find any contact information, or the information seems odd, go to the company’s website and verify their contact information. Be cautious if asked to contact someone’s cell phone or personal email, as this could indicate that it is not a legitimate company.


Search the company website to verify the number in the posting.
Use a phone directory that will provide details about the number.
Take caution when emailing an address that does not seem professional. For example, “kitty345@mail.com” should most likely not be considered a professional email address, until you are emailing Kitty Magazine in the 345 area code (which is very unlikely).
 Only necessary information should be submitted. This generally means a cover letter and resume. A writing sample might also be requested, but beware of providing any lengthy or detailed work without talks of compensation.


If you have the option to choose your writing sample, provide a sample that is already published so that you do not have to worry about the sample being published without your permission (because you can call in backup from the company or organization that already published the work).
If you do not have a sample or you are required to write something specific, ask for payment and put the terms in writing.
 It is not necessary to provide SSN, credit card, bank account, other financial and/or medical information when applying to a job. A legitimate company will not ask you for this information in the application process.Even after the interview process, personal financial and credit card information should not be shared. If a company requires bank account information for direct deposit or SSN, it will be asked of you after you are hired.
 There are some things you should never do when applying for a job on Craigslist or through other job engines. While many posts are legitimate, there are still scams and people wanting to exploit you out there that you need to be aware of. To protect yourself and your assets, it is really important that you remember these Do Nots:


DO NOT provide detailed personal information that is not necessary to do the job.
DO NOT provide SSN and/or bank account information prior to being hired.
DO NOT accept wired money or rare forms of payment.
DO NOT provide more than 1 sample of your work without being compensated.
DO NOT continue to work or provide lengthier “samples” if not paid as scheduled.

