 Oil on the skin is produced by the sebaceous glands. These are more numerous in the areas of the face, neck, chest, and back, which is why these areas are where you most commonly experience oily skin., These include:


Genetics — If your mother and father have or had oily skin at some point in their lives, it is more likely that you will too.
Age — Oily skin is more common for teenagers and young adults (people in their twenties) than it is for older adults.Hormones — Oily skin can be provoked for some women around the time of their period, during pregnancy, while taking birth control pills, or for older women around the time of menopause; hormones play less of a role for men as they do not have the same fluctuating patterns as they do for women., Some of these are modifiable, which in turn can improve the condition of your skin. Exacerbating factors for oily skin include:


Stress — The oiliness of your skin may increase during stressful times in your life.
Diet — Greasy and fatty foods, as well as dairy products, can increase oily skin. After using makeup — Makeup such as foundation can contribute to clogging pores and make your skin even more oily.
The weather — This can be a trigger for some people.
Vigorous scrubbing and washing — This irritates the skin and can actually worsen oiliness.
 Vigorous scrubbing can actually exacerbate oiliness, so it is important to be gentle; however, washing is important as it unclogs pores and diminishes overall oiliness.Choose a gentle soap product or mild cleansing agent, and lightly dab your face dry with a towel afterwards (again being aware to not be too vigorous with the skin on your face)., Some foods that have been shown to help with oily skin include eggs, lemon juice, yogurt, tomatoes, apple cider vinegar, apples, cucumbers, and honey. Foods to avoid include greasy and fatty foods, as well as an excess of dairy products, which can exacerbate skin troubles.
 These ingredients are particularly helpful for people with oily skin.Check the label at your local pharmacy to look for these ingredients.
 These labels indicate that the product does not block your pores and is much better for oily skin.Also choose water-based cosmetics as opposed to oil-based cosmetics, and powders are better for your skin than creams whenever possible.
 Carry a small pack of cosmetic blotting paper with you to soak up oil on your skin when you are on the go. Don't scrub your face with the blotting paper — press it to your chin, forehead, nose, or whichever area of your face is oily. Hold it to your skin for about 10 to 15 seconds.Blotting papers are an excellent choice because they won't dry out your skin.
 If you put on your makeup right after you wash it,your makeup is more likely to clog your opened pores, which can cause irritation and increase oil production.
 Gently cleansing your skin with a mild cleanser (not regular soap, as this is too harsh on the skin) after makeup removal will help to maintain healthy skin and to prevent excess oil production., This may seem counterintuitive for people with oily skin, but all skin types need proper hydration.Choose a light, oil-free moisturizer; this actually maintains the health of your skin, and therefore decreases oil production by increasing the overall health of your skin. Apply once a day.


Select an oil-free sunscreen for the summertime that may also serve as a moisturizing cream.
 There are products available at the pharmacy or via your physician that can help in cases of severely oily skin to dry the skin; however, always consult your doctor prior to using these. As previously mentioned, the number one priority is to maintain the health of your skin and to avoid irritation, so skin-drying products (or "shine reducing products" designed for people with oily skin) are a last resort.

