 Though you can moonwalk in anything, even hiking boots, you should have as little traction as possible as a beginner. Wearing socks will make it much easier for you to practice your moves and to glide across the floor.









When you become a pro, you can even master this move with sneakers! That may seem impossible at first.;
, Once again, smoothness is key, and while you can try it anywhere, it helps to be on a smooth, flat, non-stick surface, such as a hardwood floor or a smooth-tiled floor. Most dance floors will work, of course, but so will most kitchen floors. Stay away from rough or uneven surfaces or carpeted areas.









If you don't have any smooth surfaces in your home, then you're better off using shoes on a rough surface than socks.
When you're an expert, you'll even be able to practice on a carpet.
 Then, lift your right leg and place the toes of your right foot facing the floor, approximately a foot behind your left leg. Keep your arms at your sides -- you can worry about them later. Keep your left foot flat on the ground.
 You can do this by increasing the width between your legs and feet until you feel stable. A good rule of thumb is to have them about 3-6 inches (the width of one of your feet) apart. As you get more comfortable with this move, you can do the moonwalk with your legs closer together. You can lift your arms a bit if that helps you keep your balance as you move backward.
 Do this as you lean back on your right leg so that your left foot finishes behind the right leg. During this, the heel of your right foot should still remain in the air, with the toes pointed down on the floor. Put all of the weight into your lifted leg, so the leg that is flat on the floor feels weightless.
 Now you are in the same position you started with, only your feet have changed positions. Your right foot should now be in front of your left leg instead of the other way around. To do the moonwalk correctly, only one of your feet should be in the air at any given time. Always one; never two, and never zero.
 The moonwalk can really be mastered by perfecting these movements over and over, until it looks like you're really walking on the moon and when your feet are really moving back and back smoothly, without any kinks.
 Add a head movement to help create the illusion of "moonwalking." As you slide your leg back, move your head forward as if it's being left behind in the movement. Then pull it back to the body as you switch to the other foot.









You can also swing your arms with every step, or hunch over your shoulders and grab your hat (if you're wearing one) like Michael Jackson did.
You can use your whole body to show that you're walking on the moon, not just your feet.

