 Gmail uses a system of labels which act like folders, but allow emails to have more than one label. You can only manage your labels using the Gmail website; the Gmail app does not allow you to create new labels.


If you are taken to the Inbox website instead of the Gmail website, click the "Gmail" button in the menu on the left side of the screen.
Unlike the Gmail app, the Inbox app allows you to manage your labels and filters. See the Inbox section below for details.;
, You can apply labels to any of your messages. Return to your inbox and find a message that you want to apply your new label to.


You can also select multiple messages by checking the box next to each one in your inbox or search results.
 This button has an icon of a tag. Clicking the button will display all of the labels you already have, including system labels.
 You can create a new label directly from this menu by typing it in at the top and then clicking the "(create new)" button that appears next to it.


Alternatively, you can check the boxes next to any existing labels and click "Apply" to add the selected labels to a message.
 When you create a new label, you'll be prompted to select whether it should be nested inside of another label. You can think of this like a folder within a folder.
 You'll receive a notification that the label as been applied to your message(s).
 After adding labels to messages, you can find them by selecting the various labels in the left menu. You can view all of your labels by clicking the "More" button at the bottom of the list. Clicking a label will display all of the messages with that label, in the order that they were received.
 You can set incoming messages to automatically have labels applied to them as they arrive. This can help you sort your inbox so that you can easily find exactly what you need to.
 Click the Gear button and open the Gmail Settings menu.
 This will display a list of filters that are currently in use.
 This can be found at the bottom of the list of filters.
 You can search by sender address, recipient address, subject, keywords, attachment, and size. As you enter criteria, matching messages will be displayed in the main window. You can enter multiple criteria to create very specific filters.
 This will allow you to select what happens when a new message arrives that matches the search criteria. Select "Apply the label:" and then choose the label you want to set. You can also choose to have the messages skip your inbox or be automatically marked as Read.


Check the "Also apply filter to matching conversations" box to retroactively apply the filter to messages you've received.
 If you use the Inbox website or mobile app, you can use it to create and manage your labels. The process is virtually identical for both the website and the app, as the website's design is meant to mimic the mobile app.


Inbox is a new email service from Google. It works in conjunction with Gmail to help manage your daily email.
 You can swipe in from the left side of the screen to open the menu. It is open by default on the website. The "Create new" button can be found by scrolling to the bottom of your list of labels.
 When you select to create a new label, you'll be prompted to enter a name for it.
 You'll be able to select from most of the rules available in Gmail, including sender address, subject line, keywords, and exclusions. Tap or click the "From" menu to select different criteria.


You can use the "And" menu to add additional rules to the label. Messages will need to meet all the criteria in order to be added.
As you enter criteria, matching existing messages will be displayed below.
 You'll be taken back to the label settings and your new rule will appear at the top.
 When you bundle messages in Inbox, all messages that have the same label will be collected together in one place. This can make it easier to find and manage multiple emails in a certain label. If you choose not to bundle a label, each message will show up in your inbox as normal. If you do bundle, you can select when to push the bundle to the top of your inbox (every time a new message arrives, once a day, or once a week).
 You can browse all of your different labels in the Inbox menu. Selecting a label will display all of the messages in it. Bundled labels will also appear in your inbox if you have unread messages in them.
 If you receive a new message and want to quickly add it to an existing label, you can do so directly from the message.


Tap or click the ⋮ button at the top of the message.
Select the label you want to add it to. You can also choose to create a new label from this menu.
Choose whether all future messages from that address should be added to the label as well. This is optional, but can help automate your sorting process.

