 Think about things you like that are related to your channel. If you're a gamer, what games have you been playing? Have you learned anything unique or acquired nifty gear? If you're a fashion star, teach people your trendy tips!! Ask yourself:


"How do the things I like connect to my audience?"
"How can relate this to my own experience?"
"What would I want to see?"

, Can you open a can of tomatoes faster than anyone in your country? Turn that into a video! Many people have unique ways of doing things, but little tricks you've learned along the way can make your audience appreciate you even more.
 Keep a diary of daily events. What was funny? What happened that you can relate to your YouTube audience? Many great comedians use events from their everyday lives for their comedy routines. Put your unique spin on daily events and intrigue your viewers with your perspective.


Some creative individuals make brainstorming part of their routine.Try to include half an hour of time in your daily schedule so that you have some time to brainstorm and jot down ideas.
 Even if you like your YouTube videos to be more relaxed and laid back, writing a script can also be a form of brainstorming. Come up with several complete ideas. They might not be Hollywood ready, but you can use these as a starting point for your video projects.
 Social awareness is important, and you can contribute to a cause near and dear to your heart by raising awareness on your YouTube channel. Always remember to be respectful of the opinions of others. Some social causes you might be interested speaking about:


Animal rights
Environmental protection
School issues
Community improvement

, Try to do a challenge with an added limitation to see if you can still complete it. If you want to make and recite a poem, for example, try to rhyme words that end only in vowels. It might be maddening at first, but your self-imposed restrictions might pay off when you wow your audience with your ability., You might have some unique tips for beating nerves at graduation, or maybe something hilarious happened at your sister's wedding. Your audience might want to know! Think about:


Weddings
Family parties
Births
Major birthdays
Wedding anniversaries
Graduations

, Many artists develop a theme that fascinates them, and explore it thoroughly. What topic do you find yourself returning to time and again? This might not only give you a video idea, it can also attract viewers who want to hear your message.

