 Saying, “I love you,” is a common expression of appreciation and caring. There are plenty of other ways to express appreciation that are more direct and specific. This is important because everyone expresses and accepts love and compassion in different ways. The more ways you communicate your appreciation, the better chance that the person will see it as genuine. Some examples include:”I enjoy spending time with you.”
”I really appreciate all that you do for me.”
”You are one of my best friends.”;
, Showing someone your appreciation for them sometimes comes in the form of trusting them. Be open with the other person and tell them things that you wouldn’t tell just anyone. Allow them to be close to you, and they will know that you appreciate them.For example, you might tell someone that you really appreciate a story from your childhood that you typically keep private.
 The people you appreciate should also be able to confide in you. Make an effort to show that you care about their life and strive to make a genuine emotional connection. Never ridicule or make fun of someone that opens up to you emotionally, as this can cause them feel embarrassed and close back up. Showing someone that you are there for them time and time again will prove that you appreciate them, and will make them appreciate you in return.For example, if someone close to you is going through a breakup or divorce, they may need to lean on you for support. Never belittle their situation or make jokes about it by saying things like, “Don’t come crying to me. Get out there and find someone else.” Instead, be supporting by saying things like, “I know you are going through a rough time. What can I do to cheer you up?”

, If you truly appreciate someone, you have to appreciate them as they are. You can not force someone to change just because you want them to. Trying to force that will make them feel unappreciated and rejected. If you disagree with something they do, think, or say, agree to disagree rather than pushing them to see it your way. This kind of respect will show the person that you appreciate them even when you disagree with them on a particular issue.For example, if you have a friend that disagrees with you politically, you are no more likely to change their mind than they are to change yours. That said, constantly trying can damage the relationship. Instead, agree to disagree and avoid that topic.
 Sometimes we’re so busy and wrapped up in life that we forget to express gratitude to our friends and loved ones. We take things in life – and people – for granted, though it’s usually not on purpose. Think about things you can do to express your gratitude.

Try thanking loved ones for what they do, for example, even the little stuff. Say, “Thanks for washing the dishes. I really appreciate your help.”
You can also try keeping a gratitude journal. Write down specific things you’re grateful for and share them with friends and family.
Say “I love you,” or leave a note to someone saying how much they mean to you, make you smile, or add to your life.
 Acknowledging a person’s best qualities shows that you notice and appreciate those qualities. Be sure to hand out compliments frequently. Some common compliments are things like:”You are brilliant.”
”I think you’re beautiful.”
”You are so kind and caring.”

