 Bending your knees slightly gives you a lower center of gravity. A lower center of gravity gives you a sturdier foundation and a better sense of balance.;
, Squeeze your muscles, but not so much that you cannot move. Make an effort to keep your (abdominal muscles) tight. If you are "loose," you will lose your balance much more often.


Avoid doing the "booty-tooch". This is when you arch your back with bent knees. This posture sets you off-balance, as well as giving you, perhaps, a deduction.
Stay hollow. Being hollow in gymnastics means maintaining a completely straight back. Many gymnasts naturally arch, but you want to avoid this. To have good form, build your abdominal muscles. Assume a "dish shape" on the ground (also known as hollow holds).
 Avoid twisting your hips to the sides. Keep your hips perpendicular to the beam (when standing facing along the beam). Make sure you line up your hips with your shoulders.]

, Place them about halfway between your hips and your knees. Your hands should be on your legs just as you come down, with your arms straight, but not locked.
 Holding your arms back can help you stay balanced. Press them back as far as they will go and make sure you hold them up and back; not back and down. Hold this position when standing upright (for instance after you have landed a skill solidly) or in relevé (keep your arms above your head).
 When you look at something, it is easier for you to balance. Pick two spots (one at each end of the beam) and focus on those two spots throughout the entire routine. Some good spots to focus on are:


The end of the beam
The dismount mat
Any apparatus that is directly in front of the beam
Posters (encouragement!)
Avoid looking at people, as they can move.
 If you do a salto dismount, fully rotate before landing. Bend your legs to absorb the impact and avoid bouncing. Pause a moment to make sure you are completely balanced, then salute the judges.
 When you do beam, your feet and hands get sweaty. Chalk absorbs sweat, reducing the amount of sweat that can cause you to slip. If possible, step into a chalk bucket. If not, simply rub it on the balls and heels of your feet. There is no need to rub it on the arch, as your arch rarely touches the beam. Avoid too much, as it can make the beam more slippery.
 The easiest way to stick a routine is to a good base of have muscle memory.


Make sure to concentrate on completing each and every move to perfection, though, because if you ingrain a poor technique, it can be very hard for your muscles to 'forget' the bad habits. Ask a coach or spotter for feedback every now and then to help you stay on track.

