 Instead of receptive readings of it to "memorize" it, ingrain it in your memory by taking it apart and developing a deeper understanding of the piece itself. Then, recite it as best as you can anywhere you can. Grocery shopping? Time to recite Titania's speech in Act 1. Taking a walk? Perfect time to recite a piece from Circle Mirror Transformation. You get the point. The only thing is, make sure you know it. If you mess up while practicing, CORRECT YOURSELF, and start from the beginning. Avoid forming habits by saying the wrong words!;
, To perform well, you need to understand the characters motives, who they're talking to, where they are, and what they are emotionally experiencing. Although it may not be written in the speech itself, it will help you unconsciously develop a persona for your character. This means that without knowing it, you will develop that character in your head and feel the same emotions that they do. So, in short, read the play, and find out exactly what's going on in THEIR head before attempting to put it in yours.
 Performing a monologue should not be reciting words. It should be a vibrant display and representation of the character! So get really into the character, and practice body language they might use.


ARM MOVEMENT: This type of body language should come naturally into your performance without you even realizing it. If not, find out why. Do you really know this monologue, or are you just repeating words without finding meaning?
WALKING/PACING: There may be an 'X' in duct tape to mark where to stand. It's like in a board game the spot that marks, 'START'. This is where you slate your name and begin. But don't stay there, make, what I call, "Motion with Motives". Don't aimlessly pace around in a circle. If you're going left, there is a reason. If you're pacing, there is a reason. It all encircles what's going through the characters mind.
EYE CONTACT: Do. Not. Stare. Down. That. Wall! Naturally, when people talk to another, 90% of the time they look around, imagining what they are describing. They also, 10% of the time, make eye contact with the listener to see if their paying attention, their reactions, etc. This is not a solid rule, this can EASILY change based on the monologue, so use your smarts and decide how you are going to use this vital skill.
FACIAL EXPRESSIONS: This, like Arm Movement, comes with natural emotion. If you feel something, really feel an emotion, it will show on your face.
 The auditors may ask you to say other things like your age/grade, union/nonunion, etc. You're probably thinking it's not a big deal. But it is. First of all, the auditors will judge. Your eye contact, body posture, appearance, body language, way of slating... you name it, they will judge it. Just remember: Be different, Be confident, and Be happy. Be different, and instead of saying the typical, "Hello, My name is... I will be doing...." Say, "Hey, Everyone! How are you! My name is...and I will be performing for you ....." They've seen tons already, so make yours stand out. Be confident & Be happy: If you're not confident in your own shoes, how do they expect you to be confident in someone else's? Relax. You have total control over them, not the other way around.
 Everybody has it. Even if they say, "Ah, I've gotten over that years ago!" It's just to make you feel intimidated, usually. Stage fright is something interwoven in human DNA. A rush of adrenaline and other chemicals cause you to shake, be more aware, have cramps, tense muscles, and other reactions. This is fear, and you're body is preparing you to do something life endangering. Unfortunately, this will not help your performance, and will make your memory unreliable. Jog or stretch to relax your muscles, and unless absolutely necessary, don't run over your lines. This will only feed the fear. Do some vocal warm ups, and drink some hot tea. Feel-good carbs, like pasta, is easy to digest so it will make cramps and stomach aches unlikely. Most of all, be confident and smile!

, Stay confident, and remember, you are not at the mercy of the auditors! You are not pleading for food from the Royals or begging for money. They are, in a way, at the mercy of you. During your two minute run, you can do anything to captivate their emotions and revive their spirit. You are simply selling your acting ability, and they are buying which ever they choose. Ultimately, you have more control over it than they do. So have fun with it, and be what you aspire to be!

