 If you are someone wanting to check your own employment eligibility, you can do so using the Self Check service of E-Verify. This is a free service available to anyone over the age of 16. To check your own employment eligibility status, visit the DHS E-Verify website., Once on the DHS website, you will see a "E-Verify Self Check" link on the left hand side of the webpage about 2/3 down the page. Click on that link and you will be taken to the Self Check website.There you will find information about creating an account, completing the self check process, and getting results., You need an account to use the Self Check system. From the Self Check homepage, click on the "Create an Account" link at the top of the page.From there you will be prompted to agree to certain terms of use. You can then choose to move forward in English or Spanish., Once you move forward in English or Spanish, you will be prompted to enter your identification data. This will include your name, date of birth, and Social Security number. When you have completed all of the information on this page, click "Continue.", After you enter your information the website will verify it using multiple government sources. The website will then generate a series of personal questions that only you would know the answers to. These questions will pop up on your computer screen where you can answer them. Once you answer the quiz questions, click "Continue.", If you successfully establish your identity (i.e., you answer the quiz questions correctly), you will move forward to confirm your work eligibility. At this point you will need to provide certain documentation confirming your eligibility to work. This might include a Social Security number, citizenship status, and details about any immigration documentation (e.g., a green card).Enter the information from this documentation and then click "Continue."

, As soon as you submit your information, it will be compared to government records to determine your eligibility to work. The response will be almost immediate. The result that pops up will take one of the two following forms:First, the Self Check system might deem you eligible to work. If you get this response, any employer who uses E-Verify would also get this response when you are hired.
Second, the Self Check system might find you ineligible to work. If this happens it is because there is a mismatch in the information you provided and the information the government has. If you get this message, the website will provide you with information about how you can correct your records in order to become eligible to work.

