 Bleach, alcohol, and ammonium based disinfectants are most common. Use a bleach-based product rather than alcohol or ammonium. There are, however, natural options too, like hydrogen peroxide and vinegar. Most solutions need to be mixed with water.Mix ½ cup of Clorox bleach per gallon of water, or mix a tablespoon in a quart of water for a cleaning solution.To use hydrogen peroxide, mix one cup of 35% peroxide with a gallon of hot water.Add one cup of vinegar to three cups of water for a natural solution.This solution works best on most items, except toys like stuffed animals.
 You should use a bucket or very large bowel to make the cleaning solution. It is easier to make the cleaning solution in the same container you will be using to clean. A plastic bucket is the best choice for the cleaning solution. Only use the container for cleaning purposes if possible., You should choose something that will only be used for cleaning purposes. Either pick a new item to be used for cleaning, or pick an old cleaning item that will no longer be used for anything else. If using an old rag or sponge, make sure it’s still useable and not too dirty., Make sure the rag, washcloth, or sponge is saturated. Wring it out to get rid of excess cleaning solution. You may need to dip the cleaning item in the bucket more than once while cleaning, depending on the size of the toy., Take the cleaning item of your choice and begin wiping down the toy. Wipe every part of the toy. Make sure not to miss any cranny, hole, or part that is not normally easily accessible wash. If you are using a rag or washcloth, put it around your finger, and use your finer to use the smaller parts of the toy., Put the toy out on a drying rack or surface once you are done wiping it down. Make sure the toy is out of reach from children. It needs to dry completely before it can be played with again. Wait about an hour for the toy to dry., Wipe down the bucket and any surface that has come in contact with the cleaner with water. Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly after you are done handling the cleaning solution, especially if you are dealing with bleach. Quickly rinse the toy with water after the cleaning solution has dried.