 The problem lies within the individual, not within the game. No attempt at beating 'addiction' can succeed until the individual accepts its existence. The problem is not the existence of video games, nor the content of games, but the person who chooses to play them.
 How many hours a day do you spend playing games? Do you normally go out on the weekend? When was the last time you read a book? Identifying the negative impacts of the addiction will help you focus on positive improvements and getting back the things that you really are missing.
 Blaming others for problems that you alone must face does not solve the problems. The 'gaming industry' or manufacturers are not the cause of this problem, and blaming them does not make the problem better. The vast, extreme majority of 'gamers' are healthy individuals, accepting responsibility is the first step.
 While it is important to identify the negative aspects of the problem, it is also important to focus on the goal and progress that you have made.
 If you decide that you have one hour per day to spend playing games, stick to that. Choose your games correctly! If you are playing a game that requires many hours of gameplay between saves or which is an open-ended game like many MMOs, you likely should consider a different game or different genre of games.
 You are the parent, and thus you are in control. If your children do not listen to you, removal of the game console or setting of administrative control on the computer may allow you to better handle the problem.
 Are there more than 5 games that you have played in the last two months? Are these games open-ended (like Civilization, World of Warcraft, or Evil Genius)? This could be a warning sign.
 This includes time spent reading walkthroughs and watching videos and discussing games in real life. Always round up! If this number is over 25, then there may be a problem.
 There are freeware programs available for download that can help with this. Playing hide-and-go-seek with your parents (hiding your games) is an effective way to minimize gaming overall.
 You know the statement "my anti-drug..." This statement is better phrased "my anti-addiction..." or "my anti-bad habit..." The best way to do this is to develop a variety of other things to do, with others.
;
,, If you can't, ask a teacher or a parent. If there isn't one available, do it on your own.
 Play with your friends.
 Read together.
 Have contests with your friends.
