 Commercial-grade bounce houses are generally heavier than the ones you may buy in the store. On concrete, a commercial bounce house should be weighted with at least 100-pound weights on each corner. When the bounce house is set up on grass, it should be secured with heavy-duty metal stakes.The metal stakes used to secure the bounce house should be 30 to 40-inch steel stakes. This secures the bounce house and keeps it in the ground. Bounce houses shouldn’t be secured with short plastic stakes.For example, a commercial bounce house may weigh over 200 pounds while one purchased from a box may weight 30.
 Wind can be very dangerous to bounce houses. Multiple incidents have reported that strong winds have blown bounce houses away. When using a bounce house, you should tell your children to get out of the bounce house if the winds range from 20 to 25 miles per hour or higher.You may also consider deflating the bounce house in high wind conditions.
Before putting up the bounce house, check the wind conditions. You can do this via your local TV weather report or an online weather app.
 If it starts to rain while children are in a bounce house, they should be removed immediately. Children should not be allowed back inside the bounce house until it has stopped raining.Dry the floor of the bounce house before children are allowed back in. Jumping in wet conditions can cause more slipping and lead to injuries.
Children should not be allowed inside bounce houses when it is storming. This increases the risk of injury due to wind, rain, or lightning.
 There are no national guidelines for bounce houses. Different states approach the safety and regulation of bounce houses differently. However, some company inspect their bounce houses, or offer warranties or insurance policies. When renting a bounce house, talk to the company about the inspection of their bounce houses, the training of their operators, and any warranties or insurance policies they have.Many reputable companies may also be licensed and have certified operators.Research the company to find out the kind of reputation they have. Make sure you are renting from a reputable, safe company. Verify that the company is a real company instead of someone who is just renting out a bounce house with no experience, insurance, licensing, or even office.If you sign a contract, make sure to read all the fine print. The contract might outline warranty, insurance, or other important information.

