 With nearly 3.5 billion women on this planet, there are a whole bunch of options needed to accommodate all our different needs. Here's the general rundown on your choices:



Thickness. The lighter your period, the thinner your pad can be; however, absorbency of pads has improved dramatically, even in recent years. Some thinner pads can be quite absorbent. They're often more comfortable to sit on and you can even forget they're there!

Absorbency. Look at the rating (light, average, or super) and length, and try a few different brands and styles before settling on one you like. Sometimes absorbency means different things to different companies and/or people.

Shape. There are different shapes of undies out there, so naturally there are different shapes of pads! But your three main ones will be those for regular undies, those for thongs and night-time pads. Night-time pads are pretty self-explanatory (longer, made for lying down), but the other two? Well, wearing a pad while you're wearing a thong is sort of asking for trouble. You can try it, but if you're just starting off, stick with the regular ones.

Style. Again, two things here: with wings and without. "Wings" are those sticky little pieces that adhere to your underwear. They keep your pad from lodging to the side and feeling like a diaper. In short, unless they irritate your skin or something, they're your friend!

In general, stay away from scented pads, especially if your skin is sensitive. They can be irritating in areas you definitely don't want irritated.
There are also panty-liners, but those are kind of a different animal. Stick to those bad boys when you think your period is starting or when it's ending -- that is, when it's really, really light.

;
, Most girls change their pads when they need to hit the girls' room, but sometimes the desire strikes you at empty-bladder times, too. Whatever it is, find the nearest bathroom, wash your hands, and drop trou. The pad won't magically transport itself through your bottoms, unfortunately. Science is still working on that one.


It'll be easiest if you're sitting down and your undies are around your knees. Standing is fine, too; you just want everything in an arm's reach.
 You could discard them, but it's a good idea to use them to dispose of the used pad you are replacing. No one wants to look at a used pad in the trash, you know? And never, ever, throw it in the toilet, it could flood!

, Expose the adhesive on the wings too, disposing these parts in the trash (you won't need them for wrapping).


In some brands of pads nowadays, the wrapper doubles as the backing. It's more eco-friendly and simpler -- if this is the case, one less step for you!

, You want the pad to be directly beneath your vagina -- not creeping up your front or climbing up your rear! If you're going to do a bit of lying down, you may want to align it a little further back, but you probably have a good idea of where it would be the most effective. You'll get better with practice at centering the pad front to back very soon!


Got wings? Make sure to fold those around the outside of your panties so that they stick. They'll keep the pad from moving around as you move, which will be way more comfortable and feel a lot more natural.
 Done! If your pad is itchy or irritating your skin at all, remove it and use a different kind. Wearing a pad should not be a problem. You can check when you go to the bathroom if the pad needs changing or if there are any issues brewing. Change the pad every few hours as needed to avoid odors.


Let's say this one more time: change your pad every few hours. Obviously, part of this depends on how heavy your flow is. But not only will changing often give you peace of mind, but odors won't start worsening either. Win win!

, Although it may feel strange at first, the pad will generally not be visible. It will follow the curve of your body and be well hidden. However, you may feel better wearing loose pants or a skirt. It's all about peace of mind! If you're worried, pick out your wardrobe carefully.


A good rule of thumb is to bust out the granny panties when you're on your period. Save your cute thongs for the other 25 days of the month.
 You'll shortly find that you know how often you'll need to take care of business, how long a pad lasts you on what days, and the second you start getting uncomfortable you'll know exactly why. But at least at the beginning, do routine checks, especially if your flow is heavy. A little time invested now could easily prevent an awkward situation from arising.


No need to run to the bathroom every half hour, by the way. But checking in on your new buddy every 1-2 hours will be just fine. If anyone asks, you drank a lot of water today!

, Some women wear pads all the time because they think it keeps them "fresh." Nope. Don't do it. Your vagina needs to breathe! Shoving a wad of sticky cotton in between your legs allows bacteria to breed in the heat. So if you're not on your period, stick to light, cotton panties. There's nothing fresher than that -- if they're clean, of course! Well, except maybe for the Prince of Bel Air. He was pretty fresh.
 Pads are not a girl's best friend, for the record. That being said, technology has come a long, long way, and thankfully we are not stuck in the diaper-belts that our mothers had (Seriously. Ask yours). Pads aren't pathetically terrible anymore. So if you're super uncomfortable, change it! It's possible it needs recentering, it's saturated, it smells, or that specific kind/size/shape isn't right for you.
 And process repeated! Even if your pad hasn't fulfilled its purpose, change it anyway. It won't get existential on you. But it will smell better and you'll feel fresher. So grab another one, hit up the bathroom, and get fresh.
 When you're changing your pad, wrap up your old one in the wrapper of your new one. If your period is over or a wrapper is unavailable, wrap the used pad in toilet paper. Place it discreetly in the trash, leaving barely a trace. No eyesore in your bathroom!


Never dispose anything that isn't toilet paper into the toilet. The sewer systems of the world aren't some magic pipeline where everything you put down it gets vaporized into oblivion; it all goes somewhere. So be kind to the world and don't flush your pads or tampons (or anything else for that matter).
 Periods aren't the cleanest of female habits, so it's important to stay hygienic. Always wash your hands doubly well when you're changing pads, and clean yourself up down there, too (unscented sanitary wipes can come in handy for this part). The less mess, the fewer germs, the healthier you.


While we're sort of on the topic, don't be grossed out. This is a marker of your femininity -- a perfectly normal, monthly, annoying habit. You're staying hygienic because you want to be clean, not because it (or you) is gross.
 Always. You never know when disaster could strike, your period is heavier than normal, or it comes when you don't expect it. Or when a friend will be in need! When you use your emergency pad, replace it immediately. Like a good Girl Scout, always be prepared!


If you find yourself in the bathroom up the red river without a pad(dle), never hesitate to ask another girl. Seriously. You do not need to be cute and sparkly about it. We all know what you're going through. It sucks. We all love helping a sister out!
While we're at it, you may want to carry some Midol, too!

