 Arrange for someone else to take you home after the test and take the rest of the day off work and other responsibilities.


Your doctor will probably advise you to avoid standing for long periods of time, exerting yourself with physical exercise or engaging in sexual activity during the initial 24 to 48 hours of amniocentesis recovery. It is also a good idea to avoid stressful situations that could place undue strain on you and your baby during this time.;
, Call your doctor if any symptoms occur.


While mild cramping is completely normal for the first day or 2 after amniocentesis, pain or cramping in the lower back or abdomen that does not subside should be checked out by your doctor. Contractions, where the abdomen tightens and then relaxes, can also accompany cramping and may signify premature labor has begun. This symptom also requires an immediate call to your doctor, to ensure labor does not progress if you are not full term yet.
A small amount of spotting from the cervix can also occur during amniocentesis recovery, but if the bleeding becomes heavy or is accompanied by a loss of clear fluid, emergency medical attention is required. Bleeding or discharge from the site of the amniocentesis is also cause for concern.
A patient recovering from amniocentesis should also be on the lookout for signs of a developing infection, such as a fever, chills or discharge from the vagina or amniocentesis site. Antibiotics may be needed to keep the infection in check so it does not harm the mother or unborn baby.
 If the baby is moving more or less than what was typical before the amniocentesis, check with your doctor to see if an evaluation of the baby (such as an ultrasound) is warranted.
 Because this test is often used to screen for potentially serious issues with the baby, the wait for results can be a stressful time.


Spend time with your spouse, family members or close friends who can offer you the support you need during this difficult time of waiting. Remember that the large majority of amniocentesis results come back completely normal, so the odds of serious problem are usually slim. Professional counseling may also be helpful, particularly if the results of the amniocentesis are not positive and the baby has a genetic or developmental problem.

