 Wear long sleeves to prevent your cat from breaking through your skin. Thicker fabrics like a hoodie, sweatshirt, or flannel will protect you better.Even with long sleeves you may still get bites or scratches.
Bites and scratches may hurt even if they don’t break the skin.;
, Start by closing the doors to empty rooms so that your cat has fewer options for escape. It’s best to be as calm as possible as you close the doors so that the cat doesn’t pick up on what you are doing.Try to corral your cat into a room with less furniture or items that are easy to move.
If your cat is currently calm but will become upset as you try to administer its medicine, see if the cat will let you pick it up and carry it into a small room with few places to hide. You can shut the door and use that room as a secured location.
This method should only be used with cats that know you and are uninjured., Put smaller items like chairs and side tables out in the hall or in a closet. Close the closet door, and block off the space leading under larger furniture to the best of your ability.You may not be able to block off a bed, but you should be able to prevent your cat from getting under dressers, nightstands, or entertainment centers.
 Your towel should be long enough to fully encase the cat but not so long that you may fumble with it as you try to wrap it around the cat. A large bath towel is a great option. Using a heavier towel will help you control the cat better because it weighs the cat down when you put the towel over it, plus the towel’s thickness will prevent scratching.
 Before you try to catch it, sit near your cat and speak in a calm voice to show your cat that you aren’t a threat. Try to minimize the stress in the situation, which should help calm your kitty., Once your cat calms down or walks into an open position, cover it with the blanket and scoop it into your arms. Move quickly because cats have fast reflexes and can easily out-maneuver a slow human., Make a cat burrito by sliding one end of your towel or blanket under the cat and then securing with the other end. Your cat will likely squirm and cry, but don’t let it go. This is a normal reaction, and letting go will only make it harder for you to capture your cat a second time., The cat will calm down more quickly if it’s pressed against the warmth of your body, plus you will be able to maintain a better grasp as it tries to wiggle free.
 Your cat needs to be able to breathe, and keeping it’s head free will also lower its anxiety.


If you need to give it medicine, you will need access to its mouth and throat. Put the medicine in the cat’s mouth, hold the mouth shut, and rub the cat’s throat to help the medicine go down.
 If you get your hands on the cat, it’s better to hold on even if the cat has the upper hand. If it gets away, catching it again will be nearly impossible because it knows what you’re trying to do.Release the cat from the blanket as soon as possible.
 If you are trying to catch the cat so that you can give it an oral medication, you might try hiding the pill in food, such as a cat of tuna. If this does not work, contact your vet. Let them know how difficult it is to give the medicine to your cat. Depending on your cat's prescription, they may be able to inject the medication at their office or give you a topical gel.

