 To zoom, click the right thumb stick. You have two zoom levels, 5X and 10X. Click once for 5X, twice for 10X. Click a third time, and you go back to the ordinary HUD.;
, Start out with a low speed. As you get better, you can turn it up. You can change the look speed in settings.
 Doing so will either zoom you in too far, or zoom out, giving your target plenty of time to get away while you attempt to get a bead on them again.
 This will make it easier to stop on a target. Jerky movements will only make you less accurate.
,,, They don't move, and are often times more effective than a shot to the chest.
 Then you can pick them off as they try to run away. Even if you do manage to hit them once, you probably won't hit them again to finish them off.
 "Walk" your screen over until your target is in the reticule. This will simultaneously help to avoid their shots and help you aim.
, You don't lose any ammo when reloading, and you will regret it if you don't.
 You won't hit them while zoomed out if they are at range, so you should just switch to another weapon.
 Other snipers will be wanting to get up high for a vantage point. If you're playing CTF, look around their flag; someone will probably be covering it. Also, talk to allies. They can tell you if they see someone. This can be very helpful

, While certain places are nice to snipe from, They will be the first places others look when trying to pick off snipers. If you are in ascension and you immediately head for the sniper tower, you won't be there long. Try sniping from the shotgun stairs or from the banshee spawn.
 Choose a darker primary color, and stick to the shadows. A yellow spartan is not very stealthy.
 An empty sniper rifle is not very helpful, and they are hard to come by on most maps, unless you are playing snipers.
 It makes you harder to find.
 As you know, snipers are not good for close range.
 Your motion detector is off when you're zoomed, as is your peripheral vision. Assassinating a sniper is easy if they're concentrating on something else.
 If you kill some one, move to a different spot, they will most likely look to kill you in that spot. Try to move around the battlefield so that your enemies will not be wary of your new sniping spot. Boom Headshot.
 Headshot.

