 The agent conducting the interview will want to verify that you are in good health. You will need to describe your physical and mental health, and if you have had any health troubles in the past or currently have any at present, you should describe your overall prognosis and any treatments you are taking to manage the condition.


You will need to be absolutely honest about your medical history, since you can get into serious legal trouble if you lie.
 The interviewer will also want to verify that you can afford to take care of a child. You do not need to be especially wealthy, but you do need to demonstrate fiscal responsibility. Prepare banks statements, credit card statements, and loan statements to demonstrate that you are not behind on any payments and that you have a steady history of financial responsibility.
 Adoption interviews are often done as part of a home study, which means that the interviewer will come to talk to you at your home. Make sure that your house looks clean and organized.


Clear away any clutter and fix any problems that could be potentially hazardous to a child.
It also helps to have a specific place set aside for an adopted child to live in, since it demonstrates to your interviewer that you are serious and prepared for a new addition to your family.
 The interviewer will ask a variety of questions. Some will touch on your qualifications and ability, such as medical or financial questions. You can also expect to be asked about whether or not you have a criminal history.


The interviewer may also ask you more personal questions to gauge your fitness as a potential parent. These questions could cover topics like your views on education, discipline, or overall child rearing.
You may also be asked to describe your own character, in which case, you should be honest about your faults while emphasizing that your strengths are more than enough to compensate.
 You do not need to dress in business attire, but you should great the interviewer in your "Sunday best." Prepare an outfit that makes you look well put-together. Make sure that both you and your clothes are cleaned, and make sure that any family members present are also equally cleaned and prepped.

