 Sit at a table. Lay your wrists on the table with your palms facing down. Now rotate your wrists so that you palms face upward toward the ceiling. Then rotate back to the palms-down position.Repeat this entire sequence 10 times.
Perform this and other stretches at least once daily. You can do them more often during the day, if you’d like to. Cut back on how often you do them if you get fatigued.
 Lay your wrists on a table or countertop with your hands hanging loose over the edge. Move your wrists in a full circle in the clockwise direction 5 times. Then reverse the circle, moving your wrists counterclockwise 5 times.Do this with both wrists.
 Sit at a table and place your hands, palms down, on the table in front of you. Without moving your forearms, swivel your wrists like windshield wipers – as far left as you can, then as far right as you can. Go back and forth 10 times., Hold your right arm straight out in front of you with your palm facing the floor. Use your left hand to gently press down on your right hand so that your fingers point downward. Press until you feel a stretch in your arm and the back of your wrist.Hold the stretch for several seconds, release the stretch, and repeat the stretch 10 times.
Repeat this on your other wrist.
 Like the previous stretch, start with your right arm straight out with your palm facing the floor. Use your left hand to gently pull back on your fingers so that your fingers point toward the ceiling. Pull until you feel a stretch in the front/underside of your wrist (the same side as the palm of your hand). Hold, release, and repeat the stretch 10 times. Repeat on the other side.

You can also do front and back wrist stretches without the added pressure. Hold your arms in front of you with your palms facing away from you and your fingers pointing up, then bend your wrists down so your fingers point to the floor. Repeat this 10 times., Tai chi combines movement, stretching, and breathing. It may help alleviate stress and improve pain – a few small studies have shown that tai chi may be effective in improving pain from RA.Find a tai chi class near you that is led by a knowledgeable instructor.

Discuss your needs with the instructor before class starts – they may be able to suggest specific techniques to alleviate wrist pain.
Yoga may also improve RA pain.Be mindful, however, that some postures put a lot of pressure on your wrists. Talk to your doctor or a knowledgeable yoga instructor about your needs, and be aware of how your wrists feel before and after yoga.

