 AT&T will unlock your phone for free if you meet the criteria for unlocking. If you don’t meet the criteria, you will have to resort to a paid unlock from a third party.


Your phone iPhone must be completely paid off.
Your contract must be completed. If it is not, you may be charged an early termination fee.
Your iPhone wasn’t reported lost or stolen
Your account is in good standing.;
, You can access this number by dialing *#06#. You do not need to call the number; your IMEI number will be automatically displayed. Write this number down.
 This is an online form provided by AT&T that allows you to request an unlock for your iPhone. You will need to enter the following information:


Indicated if you are a current or past customer.
Your wireless number
Your iPhone’s IMEI number
Your first and last name.
A valid email address.
The last four digits of your Social Security Number.
Your AT&T account passcode if you have one.
 Once you have filled out all of the fields, submit your request for processing. Unlocks can happen as quickly as a few hours after you submit, but may take up to five business days. You can check the status of your request by clicking the Check Status link at the top of the Device Unlock Portal page.


Although the site claims it can take up to five business days, users have reported receiving codes within half an hour.
 Your unlock code will be sent to you via email. Check your spam folder in case the email was misidentified as spam.
 To complete the unlock process, you will need to restore your iPhone to factory settings. This means that all of your data and settings will be erased. To preserve this so that you can load it back on later, perform a backup of your iPhone using the Backup function in iTunes.
 Insert a SIM card from a carrier other than AT&T. To do this you will need to remove your old SIM card and insert the new one in its place.
 After you’ve backed up your phone and inserted the new card, restore your iPhone to its factory settings. You will be prompted to enter in the unlock code that you received from AT&T. Once you’re phone has been unlocked, you can restore your backup from iTunes to restore all of your data and settings.