 Extreme heat or extreme cold can potentially kill dogs left outdoors. Some dog breeds, like pugs, are particularly sensitive to extremes in temperature. You should never leave a dog unattended outdoors for prolonged periods of time, especially if the weather is going to be very hot or very cold. Humidity and wind chill can also endanger a pet. All dogs are sensitive to humidity because they pant to cool themselves, and if the air is very humid their bodies will overheat very quickly.Check the weather and the humidity/wind chill levels before leaving your dog outside.Add the air temperature (in Fahrenheit) plus the humidity level, and if that number is higher than 150 your dog is at risk of heat stroke. For example, if it's 77 degrees Fahrenheit with 80 percent humidity, the total (157) is high enough that your dog should stay indoors.If the temperature is below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius), you should keep your dog indoors.Wind chill can quickly kill dogs left outdoors, regardless of what the air temperature is.Bring your dog indoors if the air temperature or the wind chill drops below freezing in your area.Short-haired dog breeds are generally more uncomfortable in cold weather, while long-haired dog breeds are generally more uncomfortable in hot weather.
As a general rule, if you're too warm or cold while exposed to the elements outdoors, your dog will be too.;
, Dogs need constant access to fresh, clean drinking water. In hot weather, dogs will need to drink even more water. You can help keep your dog cooler in hot weather by adding ice to the water bowl., Dogs need relief from the elements, and if you don't let your dog indoors that relief will have to be provided outside. Your dog will also need a place to retreat to if it starts to rain or snow, or if your pet simply wants to feel safe and protected.Dog houses don't protect dogs on hot days. If anything, the confining space actually makes your dog even hotter.
Shade from overhead trees is ideal. If you don't have trees in your yard, you can hang tarps across part of the yard to give your dog a breezy, shaded spot.
Your dog should also have a covered area to retreat to if it rains. A small dog house or some other type of shelter would be ideal for this situation.
Make sure your dog's shelter blocks out the wind if you plan on leaving your dog outdoors during the winter.Your dog should have a raised bed so it is not lying on the ground, whether it's hot out or cold. You may want to consider an insulated doghouse as well to protect against heat and cold., Dogs need exercise every day in order to stay physically and mentally fit. If your dog is not getting enough exercise, leaving it outdoors in the yard will lead to bored, restless behavior. That behavior is often destructive and undesirable.You may assume that being outside in the yard is its own form of exercise, but to your dog, it may feel like abandonment.Never leave your dog in the yard without first giving it some type of exercise.
Make sure your dog gets at least two long walks each day that leave your pet tired and panting. This will help ensure that your dog isn't bored or restless in the yard.
 In addition to exercise, dogs need time to play. It's good for their minds and bodies, as the physical exhaustion of play is usually mixed with solving puzzles, hunting, or chasing.Try leaving chew toys in the yard, as well as toys that can be filled with food. Kong toys, for example, will keep your dog occupied and make your pet feel like it's working to earn its food.
 Leaving a dog unattended in the yard is generally considered safe if it's for brief periods of time. However, every dog is different, and some dogs may have intense anxiety about being left alone. This can lead to undesirable behavior issues like digging, chewing, fighting the fence, and incessant barking.Remember that dogs are pack animals. They need companionship, and if you leave them alone outside all the time they may experience psychological trauma.If your dog is alone for prolonged periods of time, it will get bored and create destructive "jobs" to relieve that boredom.
To ensure your dog is safe and is not engaging in any behavioral problems, keep unsupervised outdoor time to a minimum.
 The safest way to keep a dog on your property is by having a fenced-in yard. Even if your yard is currently fenced-in, there's always a risk that your dog could potentially jump over the fence or dig underneath it to escape.Make sure your fence is tall enough that your dog won't be able to jump over it. Ask your vet or a qualified dog trainer how high your dog (based on breed, body size, etc.) can realistically jump.
Check your fence for weaknesses. A strong dog could easily break through a weak fence or squeeze through a small gap.
If you don't want to fence in your whole yard, consider building a dog run. You can buy and connect chain link fence sections, then put a roof over the run so your dog will have shade and won't be able to jump out.
 Though a tethered line may seem ideal for outdoor time, especially for dogs that dig or jump, it's actually quite dangerous. Dogs can easily injure themselves by getting tangled up in a rope, leash, or chain, which is why it's so important to supervise your dog at all times.Accidental strangulation is a significant risk when dogs are left tied up alone for prolonged periods of time.
Dog left tied up or chained in the yard frequently have built-up energy and aggression. These dogs may take out that aggression on people, including family members.
Some states, counties, and cities actually have laws against tethering dogs.Keeping your dog tied or chained could result in fines and may end with your dog being taken from your home.
 Many people falsely assume that a dog can be safely left outdoors with an electronic fence in place. However, electronic fences are actually quite unsafe for dogs. Dogs often run through the fence barrier to chase animals or flee from fireworks and are reluctant to cross back into the yard, leaving them wandering the streets aimlessly.The shock from an electronic fence can be quite painful. It can lead to burns and even cardiac problems.
Just because your dog is confined to the yard, that doesn't mean your dog is safe. Other aggressive dogs can easily cross into your yard and attack your dog, while dog thieves can easily steal your pet right out of your yard.
 Barking is a common problem when dogs are left alone in the yard. Some dogs bark out of fear, some bark to get attention, some think they're protecting the home, and others bark compulsively. When dogs are left alone outdoors they often become confused or bored and develop new tasks (like barking incessantly) to release their energy and pass the time.Sometimes dogs bark in the yard to "defend" their territory. If your dog is engaging in territorial barking, you may need to put up a plastic film or a spray-based glass coating so your dog can't see passersby on the street.Training can help break your dog out of some barking habits. It's generally recommended that you avoid using anti-bark collars, as these essentially punish the dog.
Some dogs will simply bark incessantly if left alone in the yard. If this is the case, your dog is likely unhappy being alone in the yard, and the best solution is to keep your pet indoors., Dogs may escape a yard out of fear and anxiety or simply out of boredom. However, to your dog, escaping the yard isn't bad behavior; most dogs just see it as a fun, compelling thing to do. Electronic fences and tethering are common solutions for escape tactics, but these options are actually very dangerous (and potentially fatal) for dogs. If your dog compulsively escapes your yard, you may need to keep it indoors.Check the height of your fence to see if your dog could jump over it. You should also check the bottom of the fence for any gaps your dog may be able to squeeze under.
Repair broken fences or gaps in the fence. An ideal fence would be a 6-foot privacy fence, but you can also build a securely-fenced dog run anywhere in your yard.If your dog tends to dig, line the fence with rocks or dig a trench and fill it with cement. This can help prevent your dog from getting under the fence.
Have your dog spayed or neutered. Dogs that have been spayed/neutered are less likely to run away during heat cycles and less likely to chase or fight other animals.The best way to prevent your dog from escaping out of your yard is to keep your pet indoors as much as possible. This will make it feel like part of the family and will ensure that your dog has limited chances to escape and wander.
 Some dogs try to escape when left alone because they are afraid of abandonment.Other dogs flee because they're afraid of something in your neighborhood. In the case of fear, you'll need to determine what your dog is afraid of and gradually expose your pet to that thing. If your dog has separation anxiety, you'll need to work with a trainer or veterinarian to address your pet's behavior.Keep your dog indoors if you can't avoid whatever frightening stimulus is making your dog fearful. You can also provide a relaxing "safe place" where your dog can retreat and hide from unpleasant stimuli.
Leaving articles of clothing that smell like you may help calm an anxious dog. Try leaving a shirt or blanket that you've worn/used but have not yet washed and see if it soothes your dog.
Anti-anxiety medications are available for dogs. Talk to your vet if you think your dog has severe separation anxiety.
The best way to prevent running away out of fear and anxiety is to keep your dog supervised at all times. If you can't be there, leave your dog with a trusted friend or at a doggie daycare facility while you're gone.

