 One of the hallmarks of happy people is their tendency to see the positive in almost all things. By emphasizing the good in things, you’ll train yourself to think positively.


Focus on the good or enjoyable aspects of any activity you must complete on a given day. For instance, if you must train a new employee at work, instead of seeing it as a chore, view it as an opportunity to help someone else and to share your experience.
When talking about others, emphasize their positive qualities. For example, when you’re talking with a friend about an acquaintance you just met, instead of saying “I think Johnny isn’t that bright,” say “Johnny seems like a nice guy and is very hard working.”
Approach stressful situations or negative events as opportunities to grow or to help others. For instance, if you suffer a death in the family, try to see it as an opportunity to console your loved ones who might be taking the loss a lot harder.;
, Humor is one of the greatest sources of happiness in many people’s lives. By incorporating humor into your daily life, you’ll create an indispensable and impactful happiness habit.


Try to laugh at things that could annoy or anger you. For instance, instead of cursing when you drop something on your foot, try to laugh it off.
Make it a point to laugh whenever you can. Laughing has been shown to increase happiness.
Tell a joke or make light of tense or uncomfortable situations. For instance, if you’re in a conversation that has stalled with an awkward silence, tell a situation-appropriate joke. You’ll make people laugh and save the conversation., By enjoying the moment and being thankful for what you have, you’ll build a happiness habit. Ultimately, this will help you rethink the way you think about things. It will also increase your satisfaction and personal fulfillment level.


Avoid stressing out over uncertainty in the future that you can’t do anything about. For instance, if you’re about to graduate college and don’t have a job yet, don’t stress about it. Enjoy the moment and apply to jobs.
Live in the moment. For instance, if you’re at a baseball game, enjoy the game instead of worrying about how you’re going to get out of the parking lot in an efficient manner.
Tell yourself how lucky you are to have what you have. For instance, instead of dwelling over how you don’t have a new SUV like your friends, think about how lucky you are to have a car that runs and can get you to and from work. Or instead, think about how lucky you are to be healthy and to have a loving family., Studies have shown that you can increase your happiness by simply smiling. Ultimately, smiling not only reflects happiness but is one of the best happiness habits you can adopt. Smiling has a number of benefits, including:


It can decrease stress.
It can help lower your heart rate. A study has shown that people who smile recover from stressful activities faster than those who don't.
It can help you feel better overall., Writing regularly about things that make you happy will keep you positive. As a result, you'll create a more upbeat mindset.


Pick a time of the day you feel comfortable writing.
Spend a few minutes, no more than five (unless you want), and write about things that you're grateful for. For instance, if you had a good time with your family that day, write about your family and how much you appreciate the time you spent with them.
Focus on being positive. For instance, don't dwell on the negative, such as a fight with your brother., Without regular time for fun every week, you’ll likely have a hard time being happy regularly. Thus, you need to make having fun a habit. This is important as fun will help reduce stress and make you happy.


Plan regular outings with friends or family at the end of the work week. For instance, go see a movie, go to dinner, or attend a sporting event.
Put aside small moments to have fun. For example, if you enjoy playing a game on your mobile device, find 20 minutes every day to do so.
Squeeze fun into times that could be stressful. For instance, make your hectic commute into a fun time by singing along to your favorite songs., By surrounding yourself with loving and positive people, you’ll create a regular source of happiness in your life. This is because your friends and family will reinforce happiness whenever you interact with them. Happy people also feel a sense of connection to others in general. This could be a community connection, a connection with family at home, with your neighbors and friends, or at work. Fostering this connection will help you to feel that you are a part of something bigger than yourself, providing you with a sense of purpose and meaning in your own life.


Befriend people who are kind, lighthearted, and friendly. For instance, if you have a new coworker who seems to have a positive attitude, have lunch with them.
Volunteer some of your time at a church, community center, or other agency of your preference.
Compliment friends and family and try to be a source of happiness and inspiration for them. Chances are, they’ll reciprocate.
Be your authentic self by speaking your truth without fear of judgment from others. Feel free to say yes or no when you want to without fear of upsetting others. As you practice this daily, you will become more comfortable with expressing who you truly are, and the happier you will be.
Distance yourself from friends or family who are abusive or bring you down. For instance, if you have a friend or sibling who insult you, try to spend less time with them., One of the biggest reasons that many people are unhappy is that they work too much. By working too much, you use time that you could otherwise devote to things that make you happy.


If you’re stuck in a job in which you’re unhappy, overworked, and underpaid, spend a little time each week looking for a new source of employment.
Don’t take on extra jobs for a marginal amount of money. Ultimately, a little more money might not counteract the unhappiness and stress you experience getting it.
If you must work long hours, try to create an enjoyable environment., For many people, spirituality is one of the most fulfilling aspects of life. As a result, you may want to consider exploring your own spirituality. You might find that you not only develop an important happiness habit, but that you've discovered something about yourself and place in the world.


Consider organized religions such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, or Buddhism. Attend a place of worship in your community and talk to a religious leader.
Learn about philosophies like Transcendentalism that will help you gather a greater appreciation for your connection with the rest of the universe. For instance, read the writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson or Henry David Thoreau.
Simply ponder the meaning of life and your place in it. For example, you might gain much more from a reflective stroll through the park than any institutionalized religion., Regular exercise is a central part of building happiness. Not only does regular exercise ensure that you are physically fit and energized, but it provides a conduit for getting rid of stress.


Put aside some time every day, or even 3 or 4 days a week, for exercise. This time does not have to be that long either, 20 to 30 minutes a day may be enough to relieve stress and energize you.
Pick an exercise that you enjoy. For instance, if you hate running, don’t run. Instead, set some time aside for swimming or jumping on a trampoline.
Exercise does not necessarily have to be tied to a weight training or weight loss program. For example, participate in marathons for causes you care about, play football or baseball with your friends, or simply play frisbee with your dog., How much time you dedicate to this will be up to you, and what you do with this time will be dependent on what fulfills your needs to allow your body and mind to rest and restore. The purpose is to reconnect with yourself and release any underlying tension or stress, allowing you to relax and unleash a happy creative soul.

For instance, you could take a few minutes each day, either at sunrise or sundown to meditate for 10 to 15 minutes. Or, you could take a walk in nature, or feed the birds and squirrels at a park bench on your lunch break at work.
 For most people, being tired, stressed out, and unhappy are associated. Ultimately, it’s hard to be happy if you are exhausted all the time. Thus:


Create a schedule in which you have time reserved for enough sleep. Most adults need between 7 and 9 hours of a sleep a time. Most teens need between 8 and 10 hours of sleep.
Make sure you regularly have time for rest when you return home from work or school. For instance, set 20 minutes aside to sit down and read, watch TV, or talk to your family before you start to prepare dinner, work in the yard, or do homework.
Avoid getting too much sleep, as it may have the opposite desired result – it may make you feel tired., The way you eat is one of the most important and impactful habits in your life. Without a healthy diet, you’ll feel sluggish and weak. Thus, consuming healthy and nutritious food is one of the most important happiness habits.


Eat a diet that includes a lot of fruits and vegetables.
Make sure you get important vitamins every day, like vitamin A, C, D, and E. You might consider taking a daily multivitamin if you are unsure as to whether your diet provides you with what you need.
Avoid a diet high in carbs, fatty meats, or sugars. Such a diet may leave you tired and impact your happiness.