 Our love for God comes first, and we do always and everywhere try to serve Him. And, because He is the Heavenly Father of us all, we love all our neighbours and do our best to serve them in whichever way we can, because what we do for (or to) His children, we do for or to Him.


Christians believe the Lord Jesus Christ Is the Eternal Son Of God, and Son of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
 Because our first parents had sinned; so we too sin, and thus, our souls are in danger of going to Hell. Through the Passion, Death, and Resurrection Of Our Lord Jesus Christ -- it is possible for us to go to Heaven, and be with Our Heavenly family members and Father for all eternity.


Christians become born again in Christ, through the Sacrament of Baptism, and receiving the Gospel and keeping Christ's words. Follow Jesus Christ including baptism. Baptism is symbolic of Christians dying to sin; being in the Tomb with Christ; and rising again to new life. Christians are born again.
 Prayer is communing with the Lord and God. Christians may pray directly to God as the Father, to Jesus Christ our Mediator, and/or to the Holy Spirit.


Christians pray to the Holy Spirit, to help them to continue repenting of their sins and to become Holy.
Christians worship on the first day of the week (Sunday), because it is the day in which Christ rose from the dead.
Christians may also ask the Virgin Mary and the Saints to intercede with God for them, in prayer too.
 "Jesus David" in a sense. He could take the family name of His Mother who was impregnated by the Holy Spirit, called the Immaculate Conception, so that He is not the biological son of St. Joseph!.
 31 You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. 32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, 33 and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever; his kingdom will never end." 34 "How will this be," Mary asked the angel, "since I am a virgin?" 35 The angel answered, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. 36 Even Elizabeth your relative is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month. 37 For nothing is impossible with God." 38 "I am the Lord's servant," Mary answered. "May it be to me as you have said." Then the angel left her. (Luke 1:30-38),


John 14:7-10
John 10:30
John 14:11
John 10:37-38
Matthew 27:43
John 17:11
John 10:31-33
John 17:5
John 17:10

, " (Psalm 2:7);
, I will establish His kingdom. He shall build an house for My (God's) name, and I will establish the throne of His kingdom forever. I will be His Father, and He shall be My Son." (2 Samuel 7:12-14)

"He shall cry unto Me, 'Thou art my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.' Also I will make (Him) my firstborn, higher than the Kings of the Earth." Will do so indicates that it will develop... (Psalm 89:26-27)

