 If you don't already know very much about the girl, ask some of her friends to tell you what she likes. This may be pretty easy to find out if you share mutual friends. Finding out what she likes can focus on what you have in common.For example, you may find that she loves the same types of movies that you're passionate about. Try catching movies at the same time so you run into her and have something to talk about.;
, Some people can become instant friends while others need to spend a bit of time in each other's company. Create emotional bonds by hanging out together, having fun together, and becoming comfortable around each other. If you're both hanging out in a group, make a point of seeking her out to talk to her. She'll probably be flattered or at least willing to talk to you since you've shown an interest in her.Realize that this won't happen overnight. You'll probably need to spend a considerable amount of time together.
 Let the girl know that you're there for her if she needs someone to talk to. If she does come to you for support, listen and be there for her. You don't need to profess your love or say anything nasty about her current partner. Instead, just make casual small talk, ask her opinion about something, or talk to her about things going on in her life.Just paying attention to her will signal to her that you care about her. This will increase her feelings of friendliness towards you, even if she's in a romantic relationship.
 It can take a while to develop a friendship. Don't pressure the girl into a relationship. Instead, just learn to enjoy her company. You may become really good friends for a while or the girl may leave her partner and decide to start a relationship with you.


Remind yourself that being a supportive friend can actually encourage the girl to reconsider her current relationship. She may realize that you make a better partner., If you like a girl, it's easy to think that you need to be the kind of person she'd like. For example, if she competes in several sports but you don't enjoy being athletic, don't pretend to enjoy or participate in sports for her sake. You should be honest with the girl so she becomes interested in starting a relationship with the real you.If you are dishonest with her, you'll weaken the emotional bond you're building with her. You'll also set yourself up for disappointment later on when you're not happy pretending any more.

