 If the person is alone, they might just be curious. If there is a group, their objective is to humiliate you.


Take into consideration who is confronting you. Is it someone you don't like or doesn't like you? Is it someone who is known for harassing people? Is it someone who is rather close-minded on other issues, such as race, gender, sexuality, or religion? If it is, think through what you should say very carefully. If not, you may not need worry about too much.;
, Maintain a straight face, and politely ask if the other person(s) has something they'd like to say.
 When asked why you like a little girls' show, say, "I don't see you making a big deal over other whether or not I like Powerpuff Girls, Kim Possible, Teen Titans, etc. (any kid shows that you may enjoy that is not considered unusual)." This is to shift the logic of the confrontation.
 If it happens, which it is bound to, smile and say, "Now who's acting like a little girl?"

, If they really want to know why you bother with My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, just shrug and say, "Why does anyone like any TV show? It's good!"


When/if you feel they might be willing to hear an actual explanation from you, feel free to give your reasoning, whatever it might be.
 Most anti-Bronies simply can't comprehend the notion of Bronies themselves, and thus are against it. When this topic comes up, bring up other examples of products made for children that everyone can enjoy. If this doesn't work, give a few examples directly from the show to describe why you find it enjoyable.
 If there is another local Brony/Pegasister (or more), join forces to back up each others' statements, provide more examples, and give a wider perspective to anti-Bronies.
 If you are being taunted, they are definitely looking for a reaction. Be the better man. Do not give a negative reaction to sneering losers.
 In the case you are accused of being a pedophile, avoid getting angry. Do not attempt to logically reason either, because at this point the other person clearly is desperate to belittle you in any way possible; doing so will only be disregarded. Instead, reply with something sarcastic, like, "Want some free candy? I've got a van out back."

, If they say something along the lines of, "Can you believe they watch My Little Pony?", grin and respond with, "Your loss. You're missing out."

, If it's not a big deal to you, it will soon cease to be a big deal to them.

