 If you find yourself getting less than the required seven to nine hours of sleep a night, you can amass a sleep debt. If you do this routinely, you may find yourself constantly tired and in need of more sleep. This cuts down on productivity and decreases your overall health. To catch up on sleep (or "pay back" your sleep debt), try taking a consistent nap every day for a few days. This can help make up for the hours you missed over the days before.


You can also try catching up on sleep on the weekends, but this can throw off your normal sleep routine, so be careful with how much you sleep in. This change in sleep pattern can make it hard for you to fall asleep on Sunday, which can start the process again the next week.This can be helpful if you are a student and you have to cram for exams or spend all night writing a paper. Make sure you leave yourself enough time to catch up on the sleep the next few nights.;
, If you find yourself with a busy schedule that makes it hard for you to get enough sleep, you need to start changing your schedule to include more sleep. Don't try to change it all at once. If you usually go to bed at midnight or 1 am, try going to bed 15 minutes earlier for a few nights. Continue doing this each night, going back an additional 15 minutes every few nights.


Eventually, you can move back your bedtime an hour or two, which will help you get more sleep each night.This will help you avoid sleep debts, since you will be getting more sleep each night.
 If you are working with a hectic schedule that is constantly filled with things you have to do, make time for sleep. If you schedule every part of your day, move things around in your schedule so you have time to sleep. This may mean letting go of some extra activities that aren't necessary or required.


Even if you have a busy schedule that has just a little room for change, make those changes to benefit your sleep schedule. The more sleep you have, the more productive you will be at the rest of your necessary activities.
This is really helpful if you are a student. Even if you have a ton of school related commitments and a ton of homework, you should always make it a priority to sleep. If not, your grades and overall productivity will fail.If these other methods don't work, improve your sleep routine, as described below, to help change your approach to sleep and increase your quality of sleep.