 While you have probably heard this a million times, it's important to really understand the worth of this skill. In a nutshell, it allows you to see that the bully is someone who lacks something, be it a sense of self worth, a secure home environment, a certainty of their abilities and so forth. When seen from this perspective, it becomes possible to realize that many a bully is operating from a place of insecurity and even fear, and they have latched onto pushing others around or hurting others as a way of feeling good about themselves. Certainly it is an odd way to cope but it's still something that you can understand as the motivation behind the behavior. By taking this step back and viewing the whole picture, you can begin to see the bullying behavior as less about you, and more about what the bully lacks, and therefore it will seem less intimidating.;
, Eye contact is a powerful way of reminding a bully that you're not going to be swayed by their tactics. You view yourself as an equal individual, not subservient to their bad attitude. Next time you pass such a person in the hallway, sit across from them at work or end up near them for whatever reason, make eye contact and make it clear that you don't have low self-esteem but feel equal.
 Consider what the bully is targeting and decide whether it is something in need of fixing or changing. Things such as how you present yourself, your demeanor and your approach to others can be changed if needed, as all these things involve skill learning. On the other hand, your height, eye color, hair texture, preferences, and the like, are what define you and are not weaknesses. If the bully targets those things, it may hurt but it is important to learn to not take such jabs personally but to see the bully's tactics for the weak and mean-spirited attacks that they are.


While you can make changes, don't take the bullying as a confirmation that you are any less of a person. Bullies can be highly perceptive about what we don't like about our own selves or are yet to fully work out about ourselves and they can work away at this uncertainty or confusion. It can be an opportunity for you to do some self reflection leading to self-driven choices to make changes that will enhance your strengths and help to bully proof you.
 Know yourself. What do you want and not want to be. Having an idea as to what you stand for will give you confidence. Sometimes we don't always know what we want out of life. Start with what you don't want to be.
 Sometimes people test you and your reaction to things. Identify when you should voice your concerns and when to just listen and walk away. There is a great strength in just letting what bothers you flow from you without it affecting your well being. This takes time and patience to acquire, so don't be hard on yourself if you don't get it right away.
 If someone is teasing you, agree with them. Letting the person get on your nerves will just satisfy them. Agreeing with them takes away the sting and spoils their expected reaction.
 Confidence is crucial to survival. Learn new skills, have hobbies and interests. If you are shy, you may want to volunteer in a setting that will help strengthen your social skills. Read, learn about the world, get in touch with what is happening out there. This is also a great way to start conversations, by having plenty to talk about when asked what you do.
 It is basically about keeping yourself from destruction or harm. It is your responsibility to make sure that no one hurts you (physically, emotional or spiritually). If you have the ability to determine that something is not good for you, then you should have the courage to deal with that situation.
 This involves acceptance of your nature, personality and preferences. If you don't love yourself, no one else will. Never lower your standards as how you should be treated. It all starts within ourselves. Carl Jung once stated "If we look outward we dream, if we look inward we awaken". Sometimes it is what we are doing to ourselves that makes us vulnerable to others.
 Don't let situations get out of control before you ask for help.
 You matter and it is important for you to believe this from within. Those who seek validation from others all of the time can be easy prey to the bully. On the other hand, those who feel self-validated (without being boastful or unduly stubborn about making fruitful changes) will weather the storms that bullies seek to set upon them. Thus, by knowing your self worth and accepting who you are, you can find a way to bully proof yourself and not take the taunts personally.

