 Mosquitoes don't like to go near citronella oil. In addition to using it on your body, citronella oil can be used in the following ways to keep mosquitoes away from your property:


Burn a citronella candle or torch. The smoke in the air may help keep away some bugs.
Plant a citronella plant in a pot on your porch.To use, you can snap off a twig and rub it over your skin and around the perimeter of your porch––the smell may discourage mosquitoes.
Use citronella incense coils. Check for the other ingredients in these and don't sit in the line of the smoke from them, as any smoke inhalation is potentially unhealthy.
 Get an oil burner and use a candle to heat some water and an essential oil like lemon eucalyptus, lavender or catnip (a mixture of few oil types is preferred). The heat of the candle will evaporate the oil into the air, and both the heat and the repellent oils will help to create a 2 to 3 meter (6.6 to 9.8 ft) radius of mosquito-free zone. , If you're having an outdoor meal, you can keep mosquitoes away by placing a dish of water with some dish soap in a discreet place nearby. The mosquitoes will be attracted to the water source, and they'll get trapped in the soap bubbles and drown., Place yellow LED lights around doorways, windows and porches. Mosquitoes won't hang around if the light is sourced from yellow LEDs, bug lights or sodium lamps., If you live in a place with a big mosquito infestation, you might want to use a net or screen outside as well as inside. Place a suitable net or clear outdoor covering around your porch or outdoor area. A waterproof one will help to keep out the rain, the snow and all the bugs, too.
 Eating garlic daily to repel mosquitoes has not been proven effective in scientific studies,but, some people believe it has an impact when used as a barrier. Since garlic is delicious, it can't hurt to grow it, but don't rely on it as the only source of repelling the pests.


Plant garlic around your house to repel mosquitoes. It can be integrated around your house, on a balcony, etc.Garlic powder from your local grocer sprinkled all through your yard may create a mosquito repellent. Sprinkle a little extra thickly around the patio and porch areas. This may protect pets from being bitten if they sleep in that area., Mosquitoes can be effectively killed using a dedicated machine that employs heat and carbon dioxide to attract the mosquitoes and then entrap or kill them using nets, containers or chemicals. While these mosquito trapping systems can be expensive, they're quite effective, and worth looking into if you're committed to keeping your yard mosquito-free.


Mosquito trapping systems won't eliminate all of the mosquitoes from your yard. Every neighborhood tends to have more than one species of mosquito breeding in the area, and different types of trapping systems cater to different species. Ask around in your area to find out what type of trapping system has worked well for others.Avoid using an electric "zapper". These have been shown to kill many bugs very effectively, but generally the bugs killed are the non-harmful ones.Plus, the noise they generate tends to be obnoxious.

