 Avoid using a lot of slang terms or talking about things that may be considered childish. A great way to appear more mature is to expand your vocabulary. You can try things like getting a word of the day calendar, or simply challenging yourself to learn and use a new word everyday. However, the best way to improve your vocabulary may be reading more good books., When communicating in writing, use real words and full sentences instead of slang or IM and SMS shorthand. This looks much better to those who might read your work. If you’re sending a text message to one of your friends, you can probably still use shorthand, but if you’re texting or emailing a teacher or other adult, take the time to write out complete sentences and punctuate appropriately. If you’re writing a paper or other assignment for class, always use proper grammar, punctuation, and spelling.


Read through any writing before sending or submitting your written communication.
Ask a friend who makes good grades in English or who likes to read or write to review papers, assignments, or even emails that you want to sound mature.
Work on your spelling, grammar, and punctuation. If you are really struggling in these areas, ask your parents about seeking a tutor to help you write properly., This will help you vary your knowledge, so you can talk to others about a number of interesting topics. Many young people only talk about themselves, and this leads others to assume they are childish. However, if you can speak intelligently about what’s happening in your community or around the world, other people will begin to consider you as being more mature., Wearing clothes that are brightly colored, mismatched, or too casual can make you look like a kid. Choose a simpler look. Try a plain button up shirt and jeans or slacks instead of a t-shirt with a slogan on it. Wear clothes that are appropriate to your surroundings. For guys, wear a shirt and tie and nice pants, if you’re going to an event where you want to look your best. For gals, a nice skirt, dress, or pair of slacks and blouse will make you look more mature. Something as simple as tucking in your shirt can dramatically improve your overall appearance making you look neat and put together.You do not need to spend a lot of money to dress well. What matters is that your clothes fit you well and that they convey pride in your appearance.
 For guys, a shorter hairstyle can make you look more mature. Consider cutting your hair, using different styling products, or otherwise creating a more adult hairstyle. For gals, ditch the pigtails, brightly colored hair clips, and other youthful styles. Instead, wear your hair down or held back in a simple ponytail or bun. Whatever change you make, choose something that makes you feel comfortable.


Try to style your hair like your favorite celebrity or an adult in your life whom you respect.
Next time you go get a haircut, ask your stylist to help you choose something more grown up. You can also ask them for styling tips you can use at home., Make it clean and organized. Also if you have posters of Barney or High School Musical up, take them down or put them inside a closet or somewhere less obvious. If you have children’s furniture, ask about getting new things or save up your money to buy new furnishings. Sometimes, simply changing your bedding can make your room look more adult. Instead of having cartoon themed or brightly colored sheets and blankets, switch to a solid color.Declutter your home as much as possible. Donate books, clothing, and other items that you no longer use or need. The less you own, the easier it will be to keep your room tidy.

