 To maximize the fun of this gift basket, choose a large bucket-like toy instead of using an actual basket.Options worth considering may include wagons, large dump truck toys, plastic beach buckets, plastic treasure chests, or baby doll carriages/strollers.
If this isn't an option, try to stick with child-friendly basket options or those marketed toward kids. Brightly decorated plastic baskets, plush animal-shaped baskets, and aluminum buckets decorated with children's characters are common.
 These should determine the types of toys you fill the basket with. Make sure that the individual items are safe and appropriately matched to the child's age level, and gear the toys toward the specific child's interests as much as possible.


For example, learning toys and toys without small parts are more appropriate for toddlers and other young children. While these toys are safe for all ages, though, they probably wouldn't appeal to an older kid.
Try not to assume that the traditional “boy toys” and “girl toys” will appeal to the child in question unless you already know they will. Some boys aren't interested in action figures or toy cars, and some girls may not find dolls or play tea sets particularly enthralling. If you aren't sure about the child's interests, it's best to ask someone who knows him or her before choosing the gift items.
 Gift baskets should present the receiver with multiple treasures, but choosing one toy to stand as the focal point of the gift can make the overall basket appear more eye-catching and appealing to a child.


For example, the feature toy in a gift basket for toddlers might be an electronic alphabet toy. For an older child, it might be a popular board game (or video game, if you have a larger budget).
You might be able to skip the feature toy if the basket itself is a great toy itself. For instance, if you use a wagon as the basket and the child is still young enough to ride around in it, you might consider counting the wagon as both the basket and feature toy.
 Avoid overloading the entire basket with expensive or elaborate toys, and instead, surround the feature toy with smaller gifts that accentuate it without competing for excitement.


Examples for toddlers and young children may include balls, toddler-safe plush toys, and toddler-safe cars. For older children, these toys could include small puzzles, yo-yos, action figures, and dolls.
Limit “practical” gift items. It might be tempting to throw in a few gifts for the parents—e.g., clothes or school supplies—but if you include too many of these in the basket, the child might lose interest in it. Limit the amount of practical items to one or two per basket, and try to make them appealing to the child by choosing fun or cool designs.

