 Charge is the warrior's main gap-closer. So save your main get-away-ability for the charge. Good warriors will wait for you to disengage but you will also wait for them to charge. Sometimes you have to disengage but I will show you a very good trick later how you can make the warrior's charge useless.;
, Traps can root the warrior in place if you chose the talent in the survival-tree. When you're running away, lay some snake or frost traps on the ground so they will root the warrior in place. If he can't move, you will get more distance.
 If you know that the warrior's charge is on cooldown and he used hamstring on you, remove the Debuff with master's call. You will gain much distance! If you can lay traps down too, the warrior won't have a chance to close the gap for a moment.
 If you can outrange the warrior, he has like no chance to catch up. He has to use heroic leap and charge to close the gap. You're range is about 40 meters (131.2 ft), his charge range only 30 so try to use this advantage. It's practice to outplay the warrior that he can't catch up anymore. But with the practice it will get easier. In a duel, you can't run away forever because it's a limited area (witch is good, because it would get annoying if there wouldn't be a limit). But on a battleground, there isn't really a limit. Every battleground has enough space to outrange someone.
 In a duel, where there is a limited area you can't kite the warrior till he is dead because you will "give up" when you leave the duel area. So how can you counter the next charge when you have to run towards the warrior? Deterrence is the solution. Run back towards the warrior and immediately use deterrence. Mostly all warriors will spam charge so they can close the gap immediately after the kiting. They will charge into your deterrence. You can run away from him again because his charge is useless against deterrence and you can start kiting again.
 Sometimes they won't use charge and you waste the deterrence but you will get the feeling for it. You can also use deterrence when the warrior closed the gap and is starting to use his cooldowns. With deterrence you can waste those cooldowns and counter them.
 A slow warrior won't catch up as good as a not slowed warrior. Use concussive shot and try to always refresh it on the warrior.
 When the warrior used all his gap-closing-abilities and you have some good distance, then it's the time to blow you damage cooldowns. Activate Rapid Fire and your damage trinket (works best with a macro). Then use your main damage shots like arcane shot, cobra shot / steady shot and deadly shot.
 You have to learn how to react on the warriors abilities and how you can gain distance. I only can beat warriors now because I lost to so many. I practiced and with the time you know when you can lay a trap, use deterrence and pump out some damage.
 That's very important.

