 Headbands work wonders with short, medium and long hair. The classic way to wear a headband is to pull the hair back from the face, but you can also wear a circular headband over your hair, including bangs (if you have them). Use mousse or gel to keep your curls in shape..


Experiment with different types of headbands: thin and sparkly, wide and bold, bows, flowers, colors, knitted materials, and more.
A headband can also be a perfect addition to updos, such as the curly topknot or ponytails in Method 2.;
, For a more formal look, or a hairstyle for a night out, this is a great choice. Brush back the top front sections of your hair, making sure it is not too sleek. Next, brush the sides away from the face and spritz with hairspray.To dress things up, place a cute clip to one side.


Again, mousse works great to keep your curls manageable. Alternatively, add a little hair putty to your curls to keep them separate and soft.
 This is an easy yet elegant way to bring the hair away from your face and at the same time show off its length. The simplest way to do this is to rake your hair back with your fingers from the sides of your face (and the top, if you don't want a part), then secure with a barrette, claw clip, or elastic.You can create a bun or braid with the hair you pull back.
Try twisting the sides as you bring them behind you for a fancier version.
Experiment with parting your hair in the center, or making a deep side part.
 Two braids pulled back from the sides complement your curls and keep hair back from the face. What's more, this romantic style is ready in just a couple of minutes.


Separate a 1-2 in (2.5-5 cm) section of hair from behind the left ear and make a braid, angling it around the back of your head towards your right ear. Secure with a clear elastic. (Note that if you have very long hair, you won't braid the full length of your hair – just braid enough so that it goes across the back of your head.)
Repeat with a section from behind the right ear, angling it around the back and towards your left ear. Secure this braid with a clear elastic as well.
Draw one of the braids across the back of your head towards the opposite ear and fasten it into place with bobby pins.
Draw the other braid over the first one, tucking the end into the braid underneath, securing with bobby pins., Accessories can be a girl's best friend. Beauty supply stores are great places to find sweet hair accessories for a reasonable price. Changing up barrettes, headbands, or pins can bring new life to tried-and-true hairstyles.

