 The theme can be broad or narrow, although the breadth will vary depending on whether you're writing a short story through to a novel. Plan out the basic story on paper, then backfill the heartbreaking moments, situations and themes that you want to introduce. This may help you to see how much the story will focus on a particular heartbreaking moment, or whether it will be a series of hardships leading to a pivotal disappointment or loss.


Do you want the story to have high points as well? Plan these in too, as juxtapositions to the less happy times being experienced by your characters. Or perhaps you don't want that––some characters might be on an ever-continuing downward spiral, whether of their own making or due to circumstances beyond their control.;
, There are many heartbreaking moments, situations and outcomes in life. As the author, your own idea of a heartbreaking moment will drive the reader's sense of it being sad, disappointing or shocking. However, here are some ideas of heartbreaking possibilities to focus on:


Loss of a loved one, a family member, a friend. Be it death, moving away, a rupture through an argument or disagreement, etc., this is top of the heartbreaking possibilities.
Broken romantic love is a good heartbreaking theme that never seems to tire the reader's interest (provided it's handled well, of course).
A series of unfortunate events happening to a good, caring character that just doesn't seem to get a break, such as losing a job, then their house, then failure in their start-up business, followed by a divorce, etc. It happens to people in real life and well-written, it can be heartbreaking as a series of events.
Loss of an animal or inability to save a habitat/piece or land/herd of animals, etc. can be a very heartbreaking theme. Many conservation, animal welfare and environmental themes are heartbreaking, including animals kept away from the wild behind cages, animals like elephants losing their own family members, etc.
Repetition of family behaviors that keep a family down on their luck through the decades/generations can make for a heartbreaking novel. Or, focus on a real family member you've researched who had a very hard life and a sad ending––this can have a real ring of truth because it's someone you really identify with.
Coping with a devastating illness, such as cancer, Alzheimer's, etc., can make for a heartbreaking story.
Homelessness, a descent into drug taking, selling/compromising ones dignity to survive, etc. are other possible themes.
 Name them, work out their motivations, character and loves. Get to know them so that they feel like real, living beings to you and you'll feel sorry for them or identify with them when the challenges begin facing them.
 In other words, allow your feelings to inform your writing. Realize some key things that you may experience when writing a heart-breaker:


You won't feel good. You may feel satisfaction with the manner in which you're crafting your work and writing but feelings-wise, provided you've created a good, substantial story with real characters, you'll identify with them and feel their pain and sorrows. On the plus side, this is a benefit because it will feed back into your descriptions and understanding of the character's progress.
Try to tell the story as you'd imagine your character seeing it, feeling it, experiencing it. However, in doing so, this can exhaust you mentally. You may actually cry––that's fine, you're really identifying with your character and their story. It's advised to take refreshing breaks though.
Avoid cynicism or cliched writing. Some writers of sad tales report blocking themselves off from the feelings, blending together the characters and feeling cynical about the whole genre. This can be a sign of writer's burnout or just focusing too much on the specifics without gaining broader perspective. Again, take breaks, even of a few days or weeks and come back to the story when you feel much refreshed.
 Life goes on regardless of the daily tragedies. This is what gives people hope that they too will return to normalcy some day. But it also gives contrast to your writing work, so that the reader can grasp the rhythm of everyday life continuing around the deep tragedy experienced by your character(s). This is like the background of an artist's canvas and needs to be a part of your tale to give it reality and depth.

