 Compasses are simple tools used to draw perfect circles. The diameter of the circle of the circle you draw will be the longest diagonal of the octagon - in other words, the distance from one point on the octagon to the point directly across from it. So, a larger circle will produce a larger octagon, and vice versa. Use a compass to draw your circle, and, after doing so, draw two lines that stretch across the diameter of the circle and meet in the center at perpendicular angles.
 Keeping the point of the compass on the same point, draw a circle with a slightly larger radius setting. For instance, if you originally set the radius to 2 inches (5.08 cm), you might add half an inch (1.27 cm) and draw another circle.


For the rest of this process, keep your compass set to this new, slightly larger setting.
 Place the point of the compass on one of the intersections between the inner circle and its diameter. Use the compass to draw an arc near the center of the circle. You don't need to draw an entire circle - just an arc that stretches from one side of the circle to the other.
 Place the point of the compass on the intersection between the inner circle and its diameter line opposite the point you just used and draw another arc across the center of the circle. You should be left with an "eye" shape in the middle of the circle.
 Use a ruler or a straightedge to make these lines. The lines must be long enough to intersect the circle in two points and should be perpendicular to the diameter line they pass through.
 Next, repeat the previous steps for the other diameter line that forms the central cross. In other words, place the point of the compass at the intersection points between this line and the circle and draw arcs stretching across the center of the circle as before.


When this is done, you should have two intersecting "eye" shapes.
 As before, you'll now want to draw two straight lines through the corners of your new eye shape. The lines should be long enough to intersect the circle and should be perpendicular to the diameter line they cross.


When drawn, these lines, together with the lines through the corners of the other "eye", should form a square.
 These points just mentioned form the corners of a regular octagon. Connect them to complete an octagon.
 Congratulations! You've just drawn a regular octagon!

