 Becoming familiar with script formats will give you fluency during the audition process. You should be able to memorize a script selection rather quickly and with a high level of accuracy. This skill forms the foundation for your craft.;
, In order to embody your character, you must have experience connecting with different human qualities and flaws. Do exercises where you read for roles outside your comfort zone or type. This will help to expand your range and provide variety to your repertoire.
 Performing in front of others is a skill in itself. Stay sharp and loose with your skills by taking acting classes in your community. Practicing scenes with other people will help you out tremendously.
 Find people who are able to give you honest feedback and ask them questions to help you improve.
 Check your local newspaper or online resources to see what is out there. Any sort of audition is excellent practice, in just the same way that career seekers attend many interviews to perfect their interviewing skills. It's a learning process, owning your skills of not only acting well on demand but also interacting positively with those auditioning so as to leave them with a favorable impression.
 Ask acting coaches, friends, casting directors for advice, though remember not to take it too personally. Realize what is true about the things they tell you and improve your skills as a result.
 It is not about getting the part (though that would be great). It's about gaining the real time experience of the actor's life. The more experiences you have the better you'll be. Take a risk and audition for a show.


Do not be surprised if offered a lesser role. Take it. Every role is valuable and begins to build up your acting resume.
 Once you've gotten experience auditioning and being in shows, this is the next step. Reach out to anyone you know in the entertainment industry for a meeting. The goal of this meeting is to get your face in front of someone who could help your professional development. The more people who know you and click with you, the more people there are who can help you.


Consider working with an agent. Agents can be great to get you in to auditions. But they are not absolutely necessary to being an actor.
 Don't give up acting just because you don't make it onto your favorite show and/or play. The right part is waiting for you, all you have to do is keep going.

