 Another option is to actually pay off your car loan. If you don’t have the cash, then you can take out another loan. This loan will be a personal loan and not backed by the car.First you need to know how much you owe on the car loan. Take out your paperwork and check.


If you can’t find your paperwork, then call the lender and ask for your current balance.
Also tell the lender you are thinking of paying off the loan in a lump sum. Give the lender a date and ask how much you will have to pay on that date.
 You have several options for getting a personal loan. Try to find favorable interest rates so that you don’t go deeper into debt. You can look for a personal loan in the following places:


Credit unions. Generally, credit unions offer the lowest interest rates. They also might be willing to extend a loan if your credit isn’t perfect.However, they tend to make smaller loans than banks.
Banks. Banks may be choosier about who they lend to than credit unions. You may also have to pay a higher interest rate. However, if you have a relationship with a bank, then you should check about getting a personal loan. Banks tend to make the largest personal loans.
Marketplace lenders. Lenders, like finance companies, are more likely to make loans to those with poor credit. The loans tend to be the smallest (around $2,000 on average).Family members. People who know you might be willing to loan you money free of interest.
 You will need to contact a potential lender and ask if you can get a loan in the amount of your car loan balance. Lenders like banks and credit unions will want to see your financial history, so you should gather the following information for them:documents that verify your current address, such as a utility bill, lease, or recent piece of mail
list of previous addresses
identification, such as a driver’s license, state-issued ID, or a passport
proof of income, such as pay stubs, W-2 forms, tax returns, and bank statements
summary of your current monthly debts (such as rent, student loans, credit cards, etc.)
your employer’s contact information, such as name, address, and phone number

, Once you have the money, you should pay off the entirety of your car loan. Now you own the car free and clear, and the debt no longer exists.However, you still have to make payments on your personal loan.

