 If your fear of loneliness causes you panic attacks and interfere with your ability to function, then it might be a phobia. In this case, using desensitization techniques may help. This process can be stressful, so it is important to know how to soothe yourself when you are feeling stressed or overwhelmed by your fears. You can do this by learning some relaxation techniques and using them to calm yourself.Some good strategies to try include:



Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.

Yoga.
 This will give you some easier items to start with and then you can slowly work up to the difficult ones as you gain confidence.


Try to think of activities you tend to avoid due to a fear of loneliness and include these on your list.
For example, the least frightening item on your list might be something like spending an evening at home alone, whereas the most frightening item on your list might be something like taking a long trip overseas by yourself. In between, you might list things like eating dinner alone in a restaurant, not having any weekend plans, or attending a party by yourself.
 It is important to use a gradual approach when facing your fears, so make sure that you start by facing the least frightening item on your list.Find a way to limit the first exposure to even the least frightening things on your list.


For example, if you begin with something like spending an evening alone, then you might begin by just spending an hour or two alone to see how that feels.Then, you might work up to spending several hours by yourself.
Remember to use relaxation techniques to soothe yourself if you become anxious during the activity.
 Continue to work through your list, repeat the experiences, and soothe yourself with relaxation techniques as you do so. Keep going through the list until you have done everything on the list that you can do.There may be some things on your list that you cannot expose yourself to, such as a fear of living alone if you live with a significant other. However, facing the other fears on your list will give you some confidence and you may feel like you are better equipped to deal with those situations if and when you have to face them.

