 It may be helpful to identify any emotional triggers related to school that contribute to your depression so you can make changes to avoid or manage those things. Try writing about your experience with depression and see if you can identify if something prompted the episode. For instance, you may notice that your depression often follows right after you've been assigned to work on a group project, or that it began when your best friend started hanging out with a different group. If you can identify a trigger, then it may be easier for you to avoid it or, if that's not possible, learn healthy and productive ways to deal with it.Research indicates a connection between depression and academic performance, and in some cases a connection between depression, self-esteem, and social standing. Consider if either these contribute to your depression.Other triggers might be stress related to upcoming tests or assignments, crowded halls, assemblies, grades, self-image, and peer pressure.
It may be helpful to work on this list with a counselor or therapist, who can also teach you positive coping skills.;
, When you have depression, it can be hard to motivate yourself to get out of bed and get dressed for school. Start by focusing on one task at a time. Get up out of bed because you have to, not necessarily because you want to. Then, brush your teeth and comb your hair. After these tasks are complete, move on to getting dressed. Check each task off in your head as you complete them so you can feel more motivated to get out the door to school.If you are having trouble getting out of bed, try to focus on one important task you need to do at school that day, such as take a test or turn in an assignment. Keeping your focus on this one thing you must accomplish may help you feel motivated to get out of bed.
Though it may be difficult to do, try not to give yourself time to dwell on how bad you are feeling. Get ready quickly for school by completing one task at a time. Doing this can keep you on track to getting out the door to school on time, ready to do your best despite your depression.
If you know you struggle in the mornings, prepare everything you will need the night before. Put all your books in your backpack, lay out the clothes you plan to wear, and make your lunch.
 Go easy on yourself and set the bar low. Do not try to do too many things at once when you have a bad bout of depression. Set goals that are small and specific. This could be as simple as having a goal to get out of bed in the morning. Or you may have a goal to wear clean clothes to go to school. Or you may have a goal to eat breakfast in the morning before school. Goals that are small and specific can help you stay motivated as you prepare for school.Once you are at school, set small specific goals for yourself. This could be handing in your assignment in class or getting to class on time. You may set a goal to say "hi" to one person in your class or to speak once during a class discussion. Keep the goals small and manageable so you do not feel overwhelmed.
 Another way you can handle school when you have depression is to stay organized. Make a weekly study plan to help you stay on top of your assignments and due dates. Write out the study plan on a whiteboard in your room or make one on your phone. Make sure you plan enough time for all your assignments, as well as time for breaks. This way, you do not feel overwhelmed or unmotivated. Instead, you can feel organized and focused, even as you also deal with your depression.Organize the study plan based on your energy levels. For example, if you tend to be more of an active person in the morning, schedule difficult assignments for the morning. Then, do the less challenging assignments at night.
 Having depression may make it difficult for you to meet due dates and deadlines for assignments or tests at school. Rather than feel overwhelmed or unmotivated, speak to your teachers and ask about getting extensions on your assignment. Let your teachers know that you are struggling with depression and need more time to complete your assignments. Your teachers should try to accommodate your needs and make you feel supported at school.Your teachers may offer to give you extensions on assignments, where you hand them in separately from your peers. They may also ask you if you’d prefer to have different dates or times for any tests or exams, especially if your depression is getting in the way of your time management.
Do not be afraid to ask for extensions on assignments due to your depression. Most teachers will be understanding and work with you to ensure you do well in school.
If your school has a counselor or student resource center, you should speak with them about making special accommodations for your depression. You may need to bring a note from a doctor.
 If you find being in crowded spaces overwhelming or stressful due to your depression or find that it triggers a depressive episode, hang back at the end of class. Wait until the hallway is clear of people to venture out. This way, you will feel less stressed and more comfortable at school.If you have to get to classes back to back, let your teachers know that you may be a few minutes late because you like to wait for the hallway to clear out to avoid feeling stressed.
 Getting exercise a few times a week can help to boost your mood and make you feel more energized for school. If exercise isn't already part of your daily routine at school in gym class, try to integrate exercise into your school routine so it becomes part of your daily habits. Bike, walk, or run to school in the morning or from school to your home. Schedule a workout in the morning before classes or after school is done.You can also join a sports club at school and exercise that way. For example, you may join the swim team or the track and field team at school.
You can also do recreational sports like softball or basketball outside of school to integrate exercise into your routine.
Your school may have a student gym that you can use for free.

