 According to several studies, omega-3 fatty acids may have anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombogenic and anti-arrhythmic effects.Fish oil has also been found to reduce the production and effectiveness of several prostaglandins.


Omega-3 fatty acids compete with omega 6 fatty acids for the same binding site called the COX 1 enzyme. This enzyme converts omega 6 fatty acids to prostaglandin. The more omega 3 fatty acids blocking the COX 1 enzyme, the fewer omega 6 fatty acids will be converted to prostaglandins .
Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids include: sardines, salmon, soybeans, flax seeds, walnuts, tofu and mackerel. The recommended dose for omega-3 fatty acids is between 0.3 g -0.5 g daily.;
, There are a group of compounds that are known as Vitamin E and have been found to show antioxidant-like properties.This vitamin is also known as an anti-inflammatory because it has the ability to suppress or inhibit the synthesis of prostaglandins, thus lowering your prostaglandin levels.


Foods rich in Vitamin E include: Sunflower seeds and oil, almonds, safflower oil, hazelnuts, peanuts and peanut butter, spinach, broccoli or wheat germ oil., Studies show that whole grain foods have a variety of health benefits including the promotion of anti-inflammatory processes in the body.This means that whole grains indirectly lower your PG levels.


Whole grain products include: Barley, quinoa, oatmeal, whole wheat flour, brown rice and 100% whole wheat pasta or breads.Refined grains are overly processed and stripped of their valuable nutrients. Refined grains to minimize or avoid include: white bread, white pasta, white rice and many cereals.
 Mangosteens are a tropical fruit, native to Thailand, that have fragrant and sweet white flesh.It has been used medicinally in Thailand for years and recently according to studies, has been shown to inhibit the production or synthesis of prostaglandins in the body.You can consume mangosteen raw as a snack or a healthy dessert. You can also toss them into salads or make a jam from them., This fruit is a tasty, ruby red fruit that are filled with tiny little sweet and edible seeds. There have been a large variety of health benefits associated with pomegranates due to high concentrations of phytochemicals.According to studies, pomegranate may help to lower your levels of PG by inhibiting its production and synthesis.You can eat pomegranate seeds raw, use them in desserts or toss them into savory dishes like salads or sauces.
If you're not a fan of the seeds, try drinking 100% pomegranate juice. Do not purchase juice mixes, cocktails or juice concentrate.
 This bright yellow fruit contains an enzyme known as bromelain that has been shown to reduce levels of prostaglandins. It does this by inhibiting PG production and synthesis.Pineapple is the only food source of bromelain available.Eating raw pineapple as a snack, part of a fruit salad or on top of yogurt or cottage cheese is a great way to consume bromelain.
 This common vegetable contains high amounts of a carotenoid called lycopene. This is an antioxidant known for preventing prostate cancer, cardiovascular disease and reducing inflammation. It's thought to reduce inflammation by affecting chemical mediators in your body that are ultimately responsible for prostaglandin and other inflammatory mediator production. Cook tomatoes or use tomato products that have been cooked or processed with heat (like canned tomatoes or tomato paste). Cooking and heating tomatoes changes the type of lycopene into a form that's more easily absorbed by your body.You can eat stewed tomatoes, add tomato sauce to your pasta or vegetables. Add canned tomatoes to soups, stews and sauces.
Raw tomatoes can be thrown into salads or eaten with a drizzle of olive oil and salt.
 Both garlic and onion contain allicin, an active ingredient that works like anti-inflammatory medication blocking prostaglandin production.In addition, these foods have been shown to display antimicrobial, anti-tumor, anti-thrombotic and anti-arthritic properties.Increase the amount you cook with garlic and onions. This combination makes a great base for a variety of dishes including soups, stews, sauces in addition to braised dishes, casseroles or crock-pot meals.
 Many different herbs and spices have been show to have a variety of health benefits including anti-inflammatory properties. Using a wide range of fresh or dried herbs and spices can help you add these anti-inflammatory foods to your diet.


Use turmeric in your cooking. Turmeric is a bright yellow/orange root that is most commonly known as an ingredient in curry powder. It contains a compound called curcumin, which has been shown to inhibit the production of prostaglandins.In addition turmeric has been shown to aid in the reduction of pain and inflammation related to osteoarthritis.You can purchase turmeric raw in it's root form or dried and ground into a spice powder. Try using turmeric powder in scrambled eggs, tossed with roasted vegetables, mixed with rice dishes, added to salads or salad dressing or even blend into smoothies.Many cultures also use turmeric to make a turmeric tea. Simmer turmeric root in boiling water for five minutes. Strain the tea and drink it three to four times a day.Add more ginger to your diet. Studies have shown that ginger displays anti-ulcer, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties..
Use fresh ginger in sauces, marinades, stir-fries or curries. You can also steep fresh ginger in hot water to make homemade ginger tea.
Dried ginger works well in spice rubs, baked goods and sauces.
 According to studies, green tea can lower prostaglandin levels in your body.It is believed that the polyphenols in green tea have antioxidant properties that aid in reducing damage to cells from free radicals.


To make green tea, put one teaspoon of green tea leaves in 8 ounces of hot water. Do not mix green tea into boiling water because the helpful chemicals in the tea will be destroyed by the high temperatures.Add honey to your green tea. According to studies, honey can help to lower plasma prostaglandin concentrations. .

