 Stand up by pushing off the ground with your feet and straightening your legs. Push your hips forward slightly. Squeeze your gluteal muscles (the muscles in your hips and butt) and your abdominal muscles (the muscles of the stomach). Avoid rounding your back.To set the bar down again, lower yourself to the ground by bending at the knees and tilting forward slightly. When it is safely on the ground, release the trap bar and stand.
 While you may think you need to do multiple sets of a particular exercise to see results, a single set of 8 to 12 repetitions is sufficient to gain the benefits of a given exercise.Just make sure to be consistent and perform the set once or twice per week as part of your strength training regimen. Perform 8 to 12 trap bar deadlifts in a row, then move on to a different exercise., Quad dominance refers to the act of shifting your weight forward and using your quads – the muscles in your thighs – to lift the trap bar. To avoid quad dominance, keep your body in a proper deadlift position and move your hips from back to front as you lift. Do not bend your knees any deeper than necessary after you’ve gripped the trap bar.One way to troubleshoot your lifting technique is to lower the amount of weight you’re lifting. This alone might solve the problem. But if it’s a firmly-ingrained bad habit, you’ll need to practice lifting a lower amount of weight and then adding more weight over time once you’ve corrected your quad dominance.
You might also benefit from visiting your local gym and working with a professional trainer to show you how to perform a trap bar deadlift properly.
 If you have a history of back injuries or are concerned about injuring your back (especially your lower back), doing all your deadlifts with a trap bar is a good idea. But if you’re interested in using deadlifts to strengthen your back and hamstrings to their maximum, stick with the straight bar deadlift or use both the traditional and trap bar during deadlifts.If you wish to abandon the straight bar deadlift altogether, you can continue to build back and hamstring strength using other exercises like kettlebell swings, hip thrusts, and glute raises.

