 Honey has both antibacterial and antiviral properties. In fact, honey is better at soothing coughs than dextromethorphan, a commercial cough suppressant.Do not give honey to any child under one year old. There is a very small risk of getting infant botulism from the bacterial toxins sometimes found in honey.Infants have an immature immune system and being exposed to botulism could cause fatal outcome.
Medicinal honey (Manuka honey from New Zealand is recommended) but any organic honey will have antibacterial and antiviral properties.
 Lemon should be added to honey for cough treatment because lemon juice contains high levels of Vitamin C. The juice of one lemon contains 51% of the daily Vitamin C requirement. Lemon juice also has antibacterial and antiviral properties.


To take honey and lemon, gently warm up one cup of honey in a small saucepan. Add 3–4 tablespoons of freshly squeezed lemon juice, 4–5 tablespoons of bottled lemon juice, or a whole lemon, cut into thin slices. Heat over a low flame for 10 minutes stir constantly, until the mixture is warm and the lemons (if you used them) are broken up. Add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the honey-lemon mixture and stir. Take 1–2 tablespoons as needed. Refrigerate the mixture.
 This recipe may work better for adults and children who enjoy garlic. Garlic has antibacterial, antiviral, antiparasitic and antifungal properties.


Combine one cup honey and one lemon, finely sliced in a small saucepan. Peel two to three cloves of garlic and chop them as finely as possible. Add this to the honey-lemon mixture. Heat on low flame for about 10 minutes. Stir in ¼ to ⅓ cup water to the honey-lemon mixture. Keep heating briefly over the low flame. Take 1–2 tablespoons as needed and keep the mixture in the refrigerator.
 Ginger is often used to improve digestion and to treat nausea and vomiting, but it is also used as an expectorant. It thins out mucus and phlegm and is a bronchial relaxant. This means that the urge to cough can be decreased by taking ginger.
 Cut and peel about 1.5 inches of fresh ginger root. Finely grate it and add it to the honey-lemon mixture. Heat this honey, lemon, and ginger mixture over low flame for about 10 minutes. Then add ¼ to ⅓ cup water to this mixture and stir in while heating over the low flame. Take 1–2 tablespoons as needed and refrigerate the remaining mixture.


Allow the mixture to cool before taking it to avoid burning your mouth.
 If you don’t have, don’t like, or can’t use honey, substitute glycerin. You should get natural glycerin (and not the synthetic or man-made form). Use ½ cup of glycerin instead of one cup honey in the recipes provided.


Glycerin has a “generally recognized as safe” (GRAS) status with the FDA.Pure glycerin is a colorless and somewhat sweet vegetable product that is used to make all sorts of indigestible products and personal care products. Because it takes up water, it can be helpful in small amounts to reduce any swelling in the throat.
Be aware that glycerin is used to treat constipation, so if diarrhea becomes a problem, reduce the amount of glycerin used.
Prolonged and excessive ingestion of glycerin can increase blood sugar and blood fat levels.

