 A vet should check the puppies within 48 hours of birth. The vet will examine them for cleft palates, birth defects, or other health issues. The vet may also be able to give you advice on how best to raise the orphaned puppies.


Ask your vet if they recommend a certain puppy milk substitute or if they can teach you how to properly feed the puppies.
Usually, the puppies would receive colostrum from their mother in the first 24-48 hours of birth. This important type of milk builds their immunity and gives them important nutrients. If they were unable to get colostrum from their mother, tell the vet. The vet may be able to provide them with blood plasma or serum from a healthy dog to have a similar effect.;
, A puppy’s weight can tell you how often to feed them, how much to feed them, and how well they are developing. Normally, a puppy will double their birth weight in the first eight to ten days. To weigh puppies, use an electronic kitchen scale or a postal scale. Weigh them once a day for the first two weeks. After that, weigh them on a weekly basis.The puppy may lose a little weight in the first 24 hours, but if any weight loss occurs after that period, you may want to contact a vet.Keep a chart of each puppy’s weight so you can see whether they have gained or lost weight.
 Puppies require constant care and supervision. Health problems can develop quickly and often require immediate supervision. Make a schedule for yourself so that you remember to feed and massage them at the proper times. You should also remind yourself to check their temperature often.


Don’t be afraid to handle the puppies. Picking up and giving them a light massage is not only relaxing, but it helps you determine if they are too cold. It can also help socialize them.Raising puppies by hand is a full time job. You may want to ask other family members, friends, or volunteers to help you so that you can rest.
 Puppies are extremely susceptible to viruses from other animals during this time, especially from other dogs. While it is treatable in adult dogs, canine herpesvirus can be fatal to puppies.Even if you don’t think your adult dogs are carrying any diseases, avoid introducing them to the puppies until they are five weeks old.
 Raising a puppy by hand is extremely difficult, and it can cause socialization problems with the dogs later in the life. If you can, try to find a foster mother for your puppies. This would be a mother dog that has had puppies around the same time that these puppies were born. You can contact local breeders, vets, animal shelters, and rescue organizations to see if they know of a dog that might work.If you find a potential mother, you should slowly introduce her to the puppies to see if she accepts them. If she does, she may even let them nurse from her. If she is aggressive or dismissive towards the puppies, remove them from her.

