 The term “RV” applies to a number of different types of vehicle, including Class A and Class C motorhomes, travel trailers, fifth wheels, and toy haulers. Think about what you will be using your RV for and plan accordingly. You can still compare across types, but knowing generally what you want can help narrow your search and save you time and effort.;
, There are a number of different sites that have information about different manufacturers. However, you will usually have to pay a fee to get more complete information. But it is still worth a try with a free guide, because it might have just the information you are looking for.


A good place to start is http://www.nadaguides.com/rvs. This site has information about a huge number of different brands and models going back a number of years.
 There are a number of different consumer guides available that compare a large number of different brands and models. These guides often include the vehicle specs and recommended pricing information. While they can cost about $100, they can save you a good deal of money and stress in the long run.


Two popular guides can be purchased at the following sites:


JR Consumer. This site offers a complete guide in both ebook ($68) and hardcopy ($78) formats, as well as a number of supplementary products. The guides provide information about make and model, price, value, and customer satisfaction. The guides only include information about 3 or 4 model years, so if you are looking for an older RV, make sure to purchase the appropriate guide.

RV Consumer Group. This non-profit site offers guides for individual purchase ($78), or memberships that include a package of informational products ($139). The guide offers information about price, reliability, value, control, and vehicle specs.
 You can do an Internet search for something general, like “RV reviews,” or for a specific brand or model if you have something in mind.


Forums have the benefit of being free, but they do not usually have extremely specific information about a wide variety of models in a single place. Forums can be especially useful once you have narrowed your search.
 If you have friends who have purchased RVs before, ask them about their experiences. Are they satisfied with the RV they purchased? Would they recommend a different manufacturer? The more information you have, the better, so ask around as much as you can.
 When you feel that you are ready to actually go to an RV dealer, ask him or her for recommendations. Chances are, they will have good information about customer satisfaction from previous buyers. They may be able to give you information that you were not able to get from a consumer guide or online forum. It never hurts to get more first-hand information, so don’t be afraid to ask.

