 Running up and over a wall is a moderately difficult move that is relatively safe when practiced slowly in a controlled environment. Walls that are very high or surrounded by hard ground, like cement, will be much more dangerous than moderate to small walls surrounded by soft dirt or grass.


Once you have mastered the wall run, you can apply this skill to nearly any wall you choose. However, when getting started, smaller walls approximately 6 to 7 feet (1.8 to 2.1 m) (1.8 to 2.1 m) will be safest.
Sneakers or athletic shoes that fit snugly, aren't constricting, and have good grip on the bottom sole will help you run up and over walls more safely and easily.
If safety is a major concern for you, the safest way to learn this move will be with a professional instructor, like a parkour trainer.;
, To perform this move you'll mostly be using your legs and core, so these areas should be given extra attention when warming up. You'll also have to approach the wall at a moderate to fast speed when going up and over, so you might want to take a quick jog or run, too.


Warm up your joints to improve performance and prevent injury. Start from your head and work your way down your body, rotating each joint back and forth. Make your rotations as wide ranging as possible.
Perform some dynamic stretches doing things like lunges, bending and touching your toes, and pulling your knee to your chest., Run at a wall at a slow to moderate pace. You'll want to be moving slow enough that you can easily gauge which foot will come in contact with the wall first. As you become more familiar with the motions of the approach, you should increase your speed.Run at the wall several times in this fashion. You may want to keep your hands raised in front of you as a brace or guide, especially with smooth walls, where slipping is a concern.
Avoid favoring a foot in your approach. Even if you find it most natural to end on your right foot before your left comes in contact with the wall, or vice versa, alternate between feet in your approach. This way, you'll be able to adapt to new environments more easily., When you are about a step away from the wall, raise your leg to prepare your foot for contact with the wall. Your wall-foot should be raised to roughly the max height of a normal step, or slightly higher. It should be positioned so that only the front third of the foot, not the entire foot, comes in contact with the wall.Keep your head up at this point in your wall run. It'll be natural reflex to watch your feet hit the wall, but this could result in you missing the top edge or dangerous hazards, like branches from trees or loose stones.
 For the best vertical distance, you'll want your foot to come in contact with the wall from the ball of your foot to your toes. In this instant, grip the wall with your foot and drive downwards. This will change your forward momentum upward, helping you to run up the wall.If your foot strikes the wall loudly when you come in contact with it, this is likely a sign that you are driving into and away from the wall, not downward and up the wall.If less of your foot is in contact with the wall, the force of your push might be directed outward away from the wall instead of upward, or you may not have enough grip to change direction.
Since the shift in your momentum from forward to upward comes from driving downward with your wall-foot, try not to connect with the wall too high. High contact points will make it difficult to generate enough force to run up the wall., You might only be able to run a single step up the wall, especially when you're first learning. Depending on your reflexes, strength, and skill, you may be able to take another step or two up the wall. If you can, do so in the same fashion as your leading foot.In some situations, you may come into your wall run with too much speed. Having your hands in front of you at this point can save you from accidentally slamming into it and injuring yourself.
Be ready to grab onto the top of the wall. Things will be moving very quickly. Being prepared will prevent you from missing your chance to grab hold.
Although some experts can get several steps in when running up and over a wall, allowing them to go even higher, you should only attempt a single step at first. As you become more comfortable with the motion, you can add more steps., If you've connected with the wall correctly, much of your momentum will now be redirected upwards. Even so, you'll have to use your arms to assist your upward momentum to pull yourself to the top of the wall. Then, carefully jump down or lower yourself to the other side.


Failing to assist your upward momentum can cause your jump to "stall," which is another way of saying your momentum has run out. It can be difficult pulling yourself up from a stalled position.Treat jumping from high places seriously. Falling or jumping incorrectly from as few as 10 feet, a reasonable height for a medium sized wall, can cause injury.