 While you are urinating, attempt to stop and start your urine stream. The muscles you use to do this are your pelvic floor muscles. These are the muscles you are trying to target.This method should only be used to find your pelvic floor muscles. It is recommended that you do not stop and start your urine flow regularly as this may cause a urinary tract infection.;
, Contract the anus muscles you normally use to prevent yourself from passing gas, or to hold in a bowel movement. These muscles are your pelvic floor muscles. To perform the exercise correctly, contract and release your anus muscles repeatedly.You know you are performing the exercise correctly when you feel a lifting or pulling sensation on your anus.
 Stand in front of the mirror. Try to lift your penis vertically while keeping your buttocks, abdominal and thigh muscles still. Use the mirror to focus on the pelvic muscles and to detect the use of any other muscles. Do this exercise repeatedly in front of the mirror.If you notice yourself tightening your buttocks, thigh or abdominal muscles, then stop the exercise and try again.
 Do this if you are having trouble targeting your pelvic floor muscles. Your doctor will be able to work with you and give you techniques to target these muscles. In some cases, doctors may use a technique called biofeedback training to help their patients isolate their pelvic floor muscles.Biofeedback training involves inserting a small probe in your rectum as you attempt to contract your pelvic floor muscles. This helps the doctor see which muscles you are using and how to target the correct ones., Lie down on a mat or your bed. Contract and hold your pelvic floor muscles for five seconds. Do this without contracting your buttocks, abdomen or thigh muscles. Then relax them for five seconds and repeat the exercise.Because it is easier to do kegel exercises while lying down, start out by doing them this way first if you are a beginner.
 Do this once you have perfected the movement while lying down. Sit up straight in a chair or stand in front of a mirror. Contract and hold your pelvic floor muscles for five seconds. Then relax them for five seconds and repeat the exercise., Each time you do a routine task, such as shaving, brushing your teeth, or sitting at your desk, practice contracting and relaxing your pelvic floor muscles. You can also do these exercises while reading or watching TV, for example., When you first start doing the exercises, start out slow by doing only five reps at a time. Do a set of five reps twice a day; for example, in the morning and at night. Do this five to seven times a week.Remember to breathe while you are performing the exercises. If you are having trouble synchronizing your breathing with the exercises, then count to five as you contract and hold your muscles.
 Do this after a week. So, on your second week, do a set of ten reps three times per day. You can do them in the morning, during your lunch break, and before you go to bed. Do this five to seven times per week.For example, contract and hold your pelvic floor muscles for five seconds and then relax them for five seconds. Do this ten times, three times per day.
 Eventually you should work up to a set of 20 reps three to four times a day, i.e., 60 to 80 individual exercises per day. Do this by adding five new reps and a set each week until you reach your end goal.Try doing a third while lying down, a third while sitting and a third while standing up.
Depending on your pace, it takes about six weeks or more to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles.

