 With your feet planted shoulder-width apart, take the handle of the whip firmly in your dominant or writing hand. Hold it with a firm business handshake.









Always practice whip cracks outdoors, clear of any people, animals, or obstacles.;
, The whip itself should be untangled and unbunched, preferably trailing straight back behind you, perpendicular to your hips. It doesn't need to be perfectly straight, but make sure it's not going to catch on your leg or hip as you bring it up into the snapping position.









Always start from this position, with the whip safely behind and to the side of your body.
 All other whip crack moves are based on the basic forward whip crack. With the whip held firmly in your dominant or writing hand, bring your arm up straight up to the 12 o'clock position, as if you were pointing at the sky. Keep your elbow locked on the up motion, keeping your arm straight. To crack the whip, let your elbow bend naturally and snap your arm down firmly in front of you, keeping the whip clear of your body.









Practice bringing the whip up smoothly, and letting the weight of your arm falling do most of the work. It shouldn't be an abrupt or jerky motion, it should follow the natural motion of your arm.
 The reason the whip cracks is because one part of the whip is traveling in one direction along a straight plane while the other end of the whip is traveling in the opposite direction. This is called the loop. When you bring the handle of the whip straight up, at the apex, the end of the whip will still probably be close to the ground and traveling up. As you bring the handle down, the end of the whip moves toward the point where the handle used to be, and will "crack" as you abruptly change direction.









Maintaining this loop is essential to making good whip cracks. It helps to make sure you've got the whip in the right starting position.
 It's important to remember that the whip won't crack if you don't maintain a straight plane. Whether vertical or horizontal, your arm and the whip need to be in a straight line to get that distinctive cracking sound from the whip.









If you're having trouble getting the whip to crack, make sure you're bringing the whip up high enough on the initial up motion.

