 The first gym is the easiest to get past and a few Pokémon trained up to level 15 or higher should be enough to beat Roxanne. If you started with a fire-type Pokémon, you may need to train your other Pokémon extra hard.


Rock types are weak to Grass, Water, Ground, Steel and Fighting.
Rock types are strong to Flying, Bug, Fire and Ice, so avoid using these Pokémon when possible., You want Pokémon around level 20, likely 3-4 of them.


Fighting types are weak to Flying and Psychic.
They are strong against Dark, Ice, Steel, Rock and Normal Pokémon .
 Train your Pokémon enough to handle Wattson's level 23 Magneton, and you'll be okay. You need to make sure, however, that you aren't relying on flying or water types, which will be quickly disposed of.


Electric types are weak to Ground (Ground is immune to Electric)
They are strong against Water and Flying.
 Any Water, Ground, or Rock Type move will work well. Fire Pokémon have a variety of weaknesses that are easily covered by common Pokémon, but a water Pokémon is usually your best bet. Your Pokémon should be able to fight against level 26-28 Pokemon.


Fire types are weak to Water, Ground and Rock.
They are strong against Bug, Grass, Ice and Steel.
 Use almost any of your moves for this gym, since they all hit neutrally with very few exceptions. Norman, the gym leader, has three Pokemon, the strongest of which is only level 31.


Normal types are weak to Fighting but immune to Ghost attacks., All of the Pokémon you fight here are around level 30, so make sure your team matches that. With a balanced team, flying Pokémon are a cinch.


Flying types are weak to Electric, Rock and Ice.
They are strong to Bug, Grass and Fighting and immune to Ground., Some of the best Pokémon in the game are Psychic, and they don't have many weaknesses. That said, a solid team above level 40-45 will handle the battle easily.


Psychic types are weak to Dark (doesn't effect), Bug and Ghost.
They are strong against Fighting and Poison.
 By now, you should have a strong, well balanced team that can get through the Water Gym. If you've got a solid electric Pokémon, like Raichu, you can usually get by with very few others. You will be fighting Pokémon from level 40-43.


Water types are weak to Electric and Grass
They are strong against Fire, Ground and Rock.