 The baseline for a successful dissertation project is whether or not it contributes something new to the field. Generally speaking, a master’s thesis should indicate mastery over the subject matter; a doctoral dissertation should do this, as well as cover new ground. Begin by trying to display your mastery of a given subject area, and see what new discoveries you can contribute.Scan the literature in your field (and related fields) to determine whether your ideas are truly new.
Run your ideas past your advisor to get feedback. He or she should be able to tell you if your concepts are novel enough, or if you need to push further.;
, Depending on your field, your university, and your department, there may be certain requirements you need to meet. These might include a minimum length, and/or a certain number of chapters. You may also be required to format your chapters in a specific way (e.g., Introduction, Literature Review, Methodology, Findings, and Conclusion). Speak to your advisor to determine what requirements you must meet., In order for your dissertation to pass, it must be completely original material. This means that any time you quote someone directly, the text must appear in quotes with a proper citation. Likewise, whenever you paraphrase or use the concept of someone else, you also need to provide citation. It is a good idea to review the plagiarism guidelines at your school, as well as the copyright laws in your state., If you will be using human subjects in your work, you will need to apply to the Institutional Review Board for the Protection of Human Subjects. To gain approval, you must submit an application that details the specifics of your study. Submit these materials at least one month (through the IRB website) before you begin your use of human subjects., Depending on both your field of study and the unique preferences of your university, a certain style guide will be preferred over others. Popular style guides include MLA, APA, and Chicago styles, although there are many others. These dictate specific grammar and punctuation rules that you will need to follow. Find out which style guide or guides are accepted at your school, obtain the current manual, and use it to check your grammar and punctuation.