 The last thing you want is a sniper hitting you in the face. Always have cover available within a few feet in case someone begins unloading in your direction. It's a good idea to blind fire from cover when someone is rushing you. This should kill them without exposing yourself. However, it is important to know which cover offers you the most protection, as many of the sandbags do not protect you from getting shot in most cases.;
, Go as fast as you can to the big guns on the map. Getting them is a huge advantage in most cases. Watch out for the opposite team. They could have the same idea.
 Talk with your teammates. Tell them where you are going and try to come up with a plan. Always designate one person to watch the rear. Try to outmaneuver your opponent with pincer moves and flanking.
 This is a great way not to end up with a cap in your back. Roll away and to the sides of incoming fire. A strategy that the best players employ is wall bouncing, in which you try to use the cover system to your advantage by jumping on and off cover objects, while shooting your opponent. This makes it extremely difficult for your opponent to get a good shot on you, especially if you have taken any damage and need to recuperate.
, Only use it if you are surprising someone.
 Sometimes if you shoot your enemy in the stomach, it will down them, but don't depend on that. Most of the time if you hit anywhere other then the head your target will just roll into cover and regenerate their health. A good tip for sniping heads, especially if your target is moving, is to aim the reticule where you think your opponents' head will be, then waiting for the reticule to turn red and remove the players' dome. Also remember that there is bullet lag so in this case shoot your sniper and see how much time it takes for the bullet to the wall and then when you see an enemy you shoot ahead of them also in the area of where the head is going to be and shoot then the target should run right into the bullet.
 Melee with an equipped frag to "tag" someone. They will then blow up. Don't forget to dive out of the way so you don't die with them! In terms of throwing the grenades, they can be very effective if the proper tactics are used. For example, if your enemy is taking cover behind a truck, throw a grenade on either side so the only option for him is to roll forward, right into the arms of your loving shotgun. Grenades that are thrown, but not close enough to your enemy for them to explode, will sometimes stun them, giving you an ample opportunity for the kill.
 Better bullets give you an advantage over other people if they do not have the active reload.
 Aim at the head, and you can get a headshot. But when things get up close, it is a very effective melee weapon! Melee someone twice and they will drop to their knees. Don't forget that after you melee someone, there's a split second that they won't be able to shoot. Usually the pistol is most effective at mid to close range.
 Just stop what you are doing and help your teammate. Not only will they be very thankful, but they also might return the favor in a later round.
 It may seem obvious, but knowing where every single weapon is definitely gives you an advantage over those who don't.

