 If he refers to you gives you a boyish nickname, it means he is comfortable around you. Furthermore, if he calls you by the same names he calls his other male friends, it could be a sign that you are close friends but nothing more. Flirty or unique nicknames—such as honey, babe, or cutie— can indicate that he is interested in you romantically. Platonic names could include dude, man, bro, and guy.
Flirty nicknames could include babe, sweetie, honey, cutie, and doll.;
, If the topics of your conversations only revolve around sports, raunchy jokes, vehicles, or video games, he is keeping your interactions platonic. If he confides in you his deepest insecurities and secrets, he may be opening up to you in a way that he does not with his male friends.


If he's interested, he may make specific comments about your sexuality and body. If his sexual comments are about other women or women in general, it may mean that he just sees you as one of the guys.
 If he doesn’t initiate texts or conversations, he likely just sees you as a friend. But if he is constantly texting, calling, and asking to meet up, it could be a sign that he wants to become closer to you.

If he texts you first thing in the morning and last thing at night, it could mean that he is thinking about you when he is alone. Similarly, if he texts you back immediately, it could signal interest.
If he does not respond to your texts for long periods of time, it may mean that he considers you a friend only.
 If he keeps asking you about your relationships with other men, he may be trying to determine if you are single or not. If you both have mutual male friends, he may be concerned that you are seeing one of them instead of him.


If a man demands to know what you are doing with other men, it is a sign of a jealous or controlling personality. If your male friend tries to prevent you from hanging out with other men, take it as a red flag and establish boundaries. , If you only ever see each other in group settings, you may struggle with determining if he likes you or not. Try asking him to hang out alone. If he’s up for it, he may still see you as a friend, but if he doesn’t want to hang out alone, he is signaling that he is uninterested. If you hang out alone often, it may indicate that he cares deeply for you.


When you're alone together, he may touch you more than he does in public, or he may bring up deep conversations. These conversations may be about past relationships or insecurities about his future. This can be read as a sign that he trusts you. Such trust may be an indicator of a deeper relationship.
If he acts the same way alone with you as he does in public, it still means you're good friends, but it may signal that he is uninterested in a romantic relationship.

