 First, preheat your oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius). Then, in a large mixing bowl, combine your flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut your butter into half-inch cubes (1.25 cm) and then work them into the flour mix with your hands, pinching them together, until they form what looks like breadcrumbs. Next, stir in the brown sugar and raisins, followed by the buttermilk. Now that you have your dough:Dust a surface with flour and then roll the dough into a rectangular shape approximately a quarter inch thick (0.64 cm).
Cut it up into a dozen squares with each measuring about three inches, then roll any leftover trimmings together to make extra.
Line a baking sheet with cooking oil. Fold each square diagonally so it turns into triangle, then place it on the baking sheet.
Bake for a half hour, or until the tops brown to golden.
 First, move one oven rack down as low as possible and another to a higher position. Then set your oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius). While it preheats, use an electric mixer to beat together your brown sugar, butter, egg, and vanilla extract in a large mixing bowl. In a second bowl, combine your spelt flour, baking soda, and salt. Add the second bowl’s contents to the first and stir to combine. To bake:Use a spoon to portion your dough out onto a baking sheet to form the size cookies you desire, leaving at least an inch (2.5 cm) between each one.
Place the baking sheet on the lowest rack and bake for five minutes.
Switch the sheet to the higher rack and bake for roughly five more, until the edges begin to brown a bit.
 Let your oven preheat to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 Celsius). Then either spray your muffin pan with nonstick spray or line it with paper muffin cups. Next, stir together the barley flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and brown sugar in a medium mixing bowl. In a second bowl, use a whisk to combine the buttermilk, vegetable oil, and egg, then add the wet ingredients to the dry ones and stir to combine. Fill the tins with the batter and bake for 18 to 20 minutes.The batter doesn’t need to be creamy smooth, so don't worry if it's a little lumpy.

