 You likely already know that you should take your dog to the veterinarian for an annual checkup, even if they seem to be entirely healthy. This will help your veterinarian spot any symptoms that you don't notice and address potential issues before they are more dangerous.


Further, whenever your dog's behavior changes unexpectedly, they become easily bothered, or seem to be in pain, don't hesitate to bring them in for a check up.
Meanwhile, make sure you're providing your dog with a healthy lifestyle - including a consistent diet and lots of exercise.;
, Many breed-specific conditions and risks exist. In order to help your dog stay as healthy as possible, ask your veterinarian what you should watch out for. For even more in depth information, consult a publication by a trusted veterinary organization regarding the risks your dog may face.Look online for breed-specific associations. If one of these associations exists for your dog's breed, contact them or check their website for information about health issues that your dog may be likely to face.
 Some dogs, such as Siberian Huskies, are genetically predisposed to progressive eye diseases. If any symptoms emerge that affect your dog’s eyes, especially when they are young, notify your veterinarian immediately. Surgery may be able to prevent blindness.Note that Huskies are prone to many genetic diseases, including autoimmune diseases and some skin conditions.
 Any dog can have epilepsy, but Beagles are especially prone. This brain disorder usually begins to cause seizures between 6 months and three years of age. Though epilepsy cannot be cured, medicine can help minimize the number and dangers of seizures.Note that Boxers are also prone to epilepsy.
Beagles are also prone to hypothyroidism, ear infections, diabetes, obesity, and eye problems. Signs of hypothyroidism include lethargy, skin abnormalities, and a slow heart rate.
 Technically classified as a “giant” breed, the health complications that accompany Great Danes’ immense size have led to the nickname of the “Heartbreak Breed.” Most prevalent are musculoskeletal and heart issues.Because of their rapid growth, Great Danes are also prone to Wobbler’s disease. If your Great Dane seems to have weakness in their legs, take them to the veterinarian.
 Von Willebrand is an inherited disease that results in excessive bleeding, even after minor injuries. The most common sign of the disease is frequent nosebleeds. Since the dog’s blood has trouble clotting, they are at risk of losing large amounts of blood quickly, and will likely need blood transfusions following surgery or significant injury.Breeds that are likely to suffer from this disease include German Shepherds and Dobermans.

