 You don't need to be a twig, but you may want to stay in shape. Go to the gym and use a treadmill, use one at home or a friend's place, or just go for a jog. This is the best way to look fit. Some girls at 13 can weigh 60kg and still look thin. Others weigh only 40kg and look about the same.;
, Remember that you don't need to wear really short shorts or skirts. You probably aren't allowed to anyway, but bear that in mind, or girls will call you nasty names. Skinny jeans, leggings, and slacks look great. Try boot leg track suit pants. They are tight up top, but stretch and are loose down the bottom. They are Soups comfy and really easy to wash.
 So many girls do this exact thing, and it doesn't look all that great. They look like raccoons. A little mascara and tan eyeshadow is all you need for the eyes!


Don't use eyeliner. It gets easier when you use it a lot, but don't wear it to school. It just looks tacky. You will want to use lip balm and a bit of lip gloss though. You don't have to, but it looks really cute.
 When you get up, have some Weetabix, or unsweetened cereal of any other kind, with some plain yogurt and chopped banana or strawberry. YUM. Don't skip lunch, and don't diet. It has been proven that diets make you gain weight, because your body thinks it is in starvation mode and conserves liquids (that doesn't mean pee.).
 Hair is the second thing you notice about a girl. The styles that are in at the moment are messy buns, high ponytails, and single side plaits. Of course, don't look like your copying everybody else! You could try putting little bows or flowers in your hair, and change it every other day.
 Don't wash your hair every day, but rather every other or four times a week. Brush your teeth and hair, and pretty much just look after yourself. Some girls start shaving at 10 - 12, but you don't need to unless you have a lot of noticeable hair.
 This is the most important step. You must appear confident, but not arrogant, sweet, but not totes annoying! And you must be kind, and not stingy without being gullible or a nuisance (No need for the whole "TAKE MY $5! TAKE IT, OR I'LL KILL YOU!" lol).

