 One of the main causes of tooth decay and enamel erosion is a bad diet, or excessive consumption of some particular damaging substances. Limit your intake of carbonated drinks and fruit drinks. Whenever possible, drink soft drinks and alcoholic drinks with a straw so as to minimize damage to the teeth. Straws help to keep the soda from directly hitting the teeth.Although you might think they are healthy, some fruit drinks contain highly erosive acids which can contribute to loss of enamel. Also try to avoid drinks with a lot of added sugar.A high intake of herbal teas may have an erosive potential that is greater than acidic orange juice., Water helps to rinse away any enamel-eroding substances that your food or drinks might have contained. If you have been eating or drinking something that is acidic, take a few moments to rinse your mouth out afterwards. The faster you can rinse away these substances, the healthier your teeth will be.The mouth is acidic for a few hours after consuming foods high in sugar and starches.
If you don’t have any water handy, promoting saliva protection also works well.
Saliva acts as a neutralizer that combats any acidic substances you might have consumed.Drink more water throughout the day if you have a dry mouth or low saliva., Another way to neutralize the acids in your mouth after eating and drinking is to chew sugar free gum after meals. Chewing gum can dramatically increase the amount of saliva your produce, to up to ten times the normal amount. The minerals in saliva help to strengthen your teeth and wash away the acidic remains from food and drink.


Be sure the gum is sugar free and with the ingredient Xylitol.
Limit your chewing to avoid potential problems with your jaw joints and grinding teeth., Friction and general wear and tear both contribution to enamel loss and erosion. Grinding your teeth causes friction, and abrasion can occur when you brush your teeth too hard. Other common causes of wear and tear are biting and chewing on hard objects, such as pens, pencils and fingernails.Chewing on these hard objects can scrape away the enamel on your teeth, so try to get out of the habit of chewing on pen lids.

