 Knowing why prejudiced comments are offensive helps you explain yourself to people who don’t agree with you. You can educate others when you understand the situation yourself. It is also important to know the difference among prejudice, bigotry, and racism so that you aren’t overreacting in any given circumstance.


The word prejudice breaks down into the terms “pre” and “judge,” meaning that someone has made a judgement before knowing the facts. It's an unfair view of people different from you because they have a different skin color, religion, gender, and so on.Prejudice can also be partnered with the term bias, which is preference for a particular demographic.
Bigotry is about hating an entire group of people, and is often a very entrenched mindset. A person might be bigoted against all members of a particular race and refuse to spend time or do business with them, for example.Racism tends to be a cultural mindset that believes one race is better than all the others. People with racist mindsets often believe they have license to practice violence or poor treatment upon people of different races from themselves.Racism can be at the root of prejudice, but it is a much more serious and deeply ingrained issue.
 Prejudice can be expressed in more ways than just jokes or comments. Prejudice can be expressed in the following ways:Insensitive remarks
Ridicule
Bullying
Belittling jokes
Un-inclusive language
Stereotyping
Slurs
Name calling
Social avoidance

, There are many reasons that people end up with prejudiced mindsets, and understanding them can help you educate others when prejudiced situations arise. Bigger issues are often at the root of prejudice, and while you can certainly address when others are pre-judging you, it’s usually going to take some time for their mindsets to change—if they want to change at all.


Prejudice arises from the need to adapt quickly to new situations. It is easier to adapt to a new environment when you can categorize everyone.Prejudice also arises from a background of racism or bigotry, such as being raised in a home where such ideologies are the norm.

