 Take your ruler or tape measure and measure the exact distance from your right edge of the last piece on the wall to the corner. Measure three times: at the top, middle and bottom. Take note of the longest measurement. If the three numbers are the same or very close, your corner is relatively plumb and you have done a good job keeping your wallpaper plumb as well.


Take the longest of the three corner measures and add about 3/8 of an inch. This will be the length you measure your wallpaper to.
Once you get good, you can consider using 1/4 of an inch in the cutting process instead of 3/8 of an inch.
 Place a previously pasted and booked sheet of wallpaper onto your cutting table with your "top" and "bottom" edges facing up. Place the ruler across the wallpaper just at one of the folded ends on the table and carefully measure from the left seam (if you are approaching the corner from the left) over to your "length + 3/8" distance. Take a razor blade and make about a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) cut parallel to the edge (seam) of the paper at this mark.
 Repeat your 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) cut at the other end of the folded paper using the same "length + 3/8" distance. Now you should have a small cut at both ends. Hold the ruler down reasonably firmly so that it does not slip as you cut. Take a new razor blade and make a lengthwise cut in order to cut the wallpaper into two sections. You now have a "to the corner" section and an "after the corner" section.
 This piece should overlap the corner at least 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm), and if your walls are crooked it may overlap the corner by more at the top middle or bottom. The key is to have overlap "top to bottom" at the corner, but too much overlap can be noticeable.


If the overlap is greater than about 3/8 of an inch, take a fresh razor blade and making a freehand vertical cut, carefully cut away any overlap that is greater than 3/8 of an inch.
 Take your level and draw a plumb 36" pencil line onto the new wall at this distance. Using the plumb line as a guide, hang this piece and get as good of a pattern match in the corner as possible. Again, it is most critical that this piece be plumb as it will set the stage for hanging the next wall nice and straight.


You want to avoid overlapping back onto the prior wall if you can. It's better for this piece to not quite make it back to the corner than overlapping.
The 3/8" overlap from the first piece will ensure you have wallpaper in the corner. If by chance, there is a "gap" where the second section does not get to the first section's "overlap", then remove the full second section, lightly re paste, and rehang.