 The rationale for a revolution can come from all artistic realms and areas of pop culture. You don’t only have to focus on the written word.


Spoken word, poetry, music, and art – including public art – can advance your message and cause more effectively sometimes.
Some art can be lasting. Consider a mural painted in a community. Music has the ability to influence minds all over the world.Try to humanize the movement. Make people care by telling the stories of real people whom the masses will identify with and care about.
 You can also start a revolution through the quality of your own ideas. The Internet has given anyone the ability to publish and reach the masses.


Create a blog. Install WordPress or another blogging service. Write a blog, and push it out to the masses. In it, create the intellectual foundation for why change is needed, and explain how change will look and what it would mean for your audience.
Consider other formats. You might want to create a documentary. This can educate and motivate an audience. Don’t forget the power of shorter video. A You Tube series could help. Don’t have a one-prong media strategy. Use old and new media. Use the written word and multimedia like video. Use social media and blogs, but plant your message in traditional newspapers and magazines. Push your message out through multiple formats and mechanisms.
 Remember to harness the power of social media. Social media is a great way to get your messages in front of a lot of people.


You can use social media to build attendance and events and to reach a targeted audience.Remember not to only have a social media strategy. Revolutions are more successful when they organize both off and on the computer screen. Build support by handing out flyers and pamphlets, by word of mouth and advertisements and through today’s technology.
 You can do this by choosing your words carefully. Choose your model of morality. In America, this is sometimes divided into “nurturant parent” or “strict father.”


Consider how words like “freedom” create emotional response.Anchor your words to people’s needs and your overall mission.
Persuade through a mixture of pathos (emotional appeal), logos (appeal to reason), and ethos (ethical appeal). Build your case with logical reasoning and fact while adding in an emotional element.Demonstrate the popularity of the movement to the people in power, legislature, and military. The greater the popularity among society, the more the likelihood of violent repression is reduced.
 Researchers have found five stages in the process of change.


The first phase is called “uninformed optimism,” and it’s the honeymoon phase of the project. There will be energy and enthusiasm at this point. However, problems will then crop up and “informed pessimism” results. Some change efforts may be abandoned.
In order to continue with the movement, you will need hopeful realism, the third stage. This sets in when efforts succeed even though there were some problems. Informed optimism is when confidence comes back because things are still progressing. Finally, rewarding completion develops when you can show concrete results, and communicate them.

