 Visit a store that sells organizing bins (The Container Store, Walmart, Target, The Home Depot, Lowes, IKEA, dollar stores, Bed Bath & Beyond, etc.) and pick up at least ten. Buy bins of all different sizes to fit pens, papers, and larger items. Buy bins, baskets, file drawers, and any other object that can contain your things.
 What is the point of having all of your things in nice storage bins if you do not know what is in each bin? Use a labelling machine to label each bin appropriately. For example, have one bin labeled “Writing Supplies” where you keep pens, pencils, and highlighters, and another bin labeled “Tools” that has scissors, staplers, staple removers, and hole punchers. Label absolutely everything including your files, drawers, and cabinets.
 Instead of putting an item in a file based on where you got it, file it based on how you will use it in the future. For example, if you have documentation for the hotel you will be staying at in New York on your business trip, file that in your “New York” file, instead of your “Hotel” file. Create sub files. Have a “Hotel” file, but then have multiple “city” files for the places you travel to often.
 You might have everything organized, but you might not remember where every item was placed. Type up a list of each box or bin you created and what is inside of it for quick, future reference.


This list will also help you put things back where they belong after you remove them.
 Have two specific areas on your desk for things that need to be done (papers to sign, reports to read, etc…) and a pile for things you have completed. By making separate areas, you will not confuse yourself on what you have or have not done.
 As you are putting your things into the boxes and bins you have acquired, throw away items you do not need. Dispose of things you have not touched or opened in a year, all broken items, and return extra supplies. You can shred old papers and ask you coworkers if they are interested in any of the things you are disposing.
If you are struggling to throw something away, try donating it instead.
 You can organize tangible objects around you, but having a disorganized computer will limit productivity and make you feel disorganized still. Create new folders and subfolders to put files into, organize your desktop so you can easily find specific items, remove duplicate files, name documents with detailed titles, and delete unnecessary apps and documents. 