 Anti-anxiety medication is better known as benzodiazepines. These types of medication are considered tranquilizers because they help slow down the brain and body. They work quickly and can be taken during an anxiety attack.Common anti-anxiety meds include Xanax, Klonopin, Valium, or Ativan.
Anti-anxiety medication can lead to dependence when taken for longer than four months.
This type of medication can interact negatively with alcohol, painkillers, and sleeping pills.
High risk individuals for taking anxiety medication include people over 65, pregnant women, and those with a history of substance abuse.
Stopping taking anxiety medication suddenly may cause withdrawal. This may include increased anxiety, insomnia, shaking, rapid heartbeat, sweating, and disorientation.
 Common antidepressant medications are used to treat anxiety. Antidepressants have a lower risk for dependence and substance abuse. When using antidepressants, it may take over a month to feel the effects.Common antidepressants used for anxiety include Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil, Lexapro, and Celexa.
Stopping taking antidepressants can cause severe depression, fatigue, irritability, anxiety, insomnia, and flu-like symptoms.
 Buspirone is a newer mild tranquilizer used as anti-anxiety medication. This medicine acts slower than other anxiety medication. The effects may take around two weeks to start working.Buspirone doesn’t have the same side effects as other anxiety medications. It doesn’t lead to dependence as easily, there are only minor withdrawal symptoms, and it doesn’t impair cognitive function as badly.
Buspirone has been shown to be most effective with generalized anxiety disorder.
This may be a good option for people over 65 of those with a history of substance abuse.
 Beta blockers and antihistamines are sometimes used to help with anxiety. They are mostly used in connection with norepinephrine and the fight-or-flight response. Beta blockers and antihistamines can help relieve physical symptoms connected with anxiety but does nothing for the emotional symptoms.These medications can help with things like shaking, dizziness, and pounding heart.
They may be helpful if you have phobias or performance anxiety.
 Each of the different types of medications used to treat anxiety have side effects. These side effects can vary from minor to severe. Before choosing a medication, weigh the side effects next to the benefits to make the right choice for you.Anti-anxiety medication can cause drowsiness, slow reflexes, slurred speech, disorientation, depression, dizziness, impaired thinking, memory loss, upset stomach, and blurred vision. Some people may experience the opposite of the calming effects, experiencing mania, rage, aggression, impulsive behavior, or hallucinations.
Antidepressants may cause nausea, weight gain, drowsiness, headaches, nervousness, decreased libido, upset stomach, and dizziness.
Buspirone can cause stomach problems, such as nausea, constipation, or diarrhea, headaches, drowsiness, dry mouth, and dizziness.
Beta blockers can cause abnormally slow pulse, nausea, light-headedness, and sleepiness.
 Each anxiety medication has characteristics that may influence your choice. You should think about whether you need immediate relief for a phobia or anxiety/panic attack, or whether you need something longer lasting. You should also think about whether you fit into a risk group for a particular medication, if you have medication or lifestyle choices that interfere with the meds, or if dependence is a concern.


If you need immediate help for panic or anxiety attacks, anti-anxiety medication like Xanax, Klonopin, Valium, or Ativan may be right for you.
If you want a medication for longer management, try antidepressants.
Beta blockers and antihistamines may be a good choice if you have a very specific phobia.
If you have a history of substance abuse, antidepressants or Buspirone may work well. These two may also work well if you are over 65.

