 These two oils, when applied to the scalp, are believed to treat skin infections and promote hair growth.They are also thought to reduce inflammation and provide hair follicles with the proper nourishment they need. However, there are no clinical studies demonstrating either herbs ability to promote hair growth.Use 3-4 drops of each oil once a day or follow the manufacturer’s guidelines when applying.
Rosemary may also prevent hair from going grey.
 This oil is thought to improve blood circulation to the scalp and stimulate hair follicles.However, there is no clinical evidence to support peppermint oil as a cure for baldness.Apply 3-4 drops of oil each day or follow the manufacturer’s guidelines.
For best results, mix with sage, rosemary, and a tablespoon of olive oil., Long known to help heal and sooth burns and wounds, aloe gel is also believed to promote hair growth. It is thought to stimulate blood circulation to the scalp and strengthen hair follicles.However, there is little scientific evidence to support using aloe extract to promote hair growth.Because aloe has significant diuretic properties, avoid ingesting the extract.
Mix the extract with some olive or coconut oil and apply directly to the scalp.
 There is some evidence that the essential oil of the lavender flower may help with hair loss.It is thought to relieve tension and limit anxiety, which can lead to hair loss. Apply 3-4 drops a day and massage into your scalp.


Mix lavender essential oil with olive or coconut oil for best results.
 This supplement, also known as false daisy, is a well-known Ayurvedic remedy for hair loss.In a number of scientific studies, Eclipta alba was shown to promote hair growth and reverse baldness.Mix the extract with olive or coconut before applying it to your scalp.


Follow the manufacturer’s guidelines when applying Eclipta alba.
 Another Ayurvedic remedy, the oil extract of teak tree seeds has a long history as a remedy for baldness. There is some scientific evidence that the oil promotes hair growth and can reverse baldness.The oil can be used on its own or applied to the scalp mixed with another oil.


Follow the manufacturers guidelines before applying the oil.

