 Precious metals are stamped with a hallmark, a symbol or series of symbols that denote its type, purity, and authenticity. If your item contains a sterling silver hallmark, it is sterling silver; if it does not have one of these markings, it is more than likely a silver plated piece.Use a magnifying glass to search for hallmarks in discreet locations. The United Kingdom, France, and the United States of America each have a distinct hallmarking system.


American sterling silver is marked with one of the following hallmarks: “925,” “.925,” or “S925.” the 925 indicates that the piece contains 92.5% silver and 7.5% other metals.Sterling silver items made in the UK contain a stamp of a lion. In addition to this stamp, UK made items will also contain a town mark, a duty mark, a date letter, and a sponsor’s mark. These marks will vary from item to item.France currently marks its sterling silver items with the head of Minerva (92.5% and below) or a vase (99.9% pure silver).;
, When sterling silver is gently tapped, it will produce a high-pitched bell-like tone that lasts for 1 to 2 seconds. To conduct this test, carefully tap the sterling silver item with your finger or a metal coin. If the item is truly sterling silver, it will generate a high-pitch ring. If you do not hear a ring, the item is not sterling silver.


When you tap the item, use extreme caution so you do not ding or dent it., Silver does not produce a smell. Hold the item up to your nose and smell it carefully for a few moments. If you sense a strong smell, the item the item likely contains too much copper to be sterling silver.Copper is a common alloy in sterling silver, but 925 sterling does not contain enough to make a smell., Silver is a soft, bendable metal. To determine if the item is silver, you can attempt to bend the item with your hands. If it bends easily, the item is probably made from pure silver or sterling silver.


If the item does not bend, it is less likely that it is made from silver or sterling silver.