;
, All the strategies for managing a horse prone to laminitis are also suitable for a horse with laminitis, however often have to be more strictly applied, with the advise form a vet.
 The first stages of treatment can be the most tiring for an owner. The nights will be sleepless and you will be up every 15 to 30 minuets checking the horse. A good method to cope with this sleep deprivation is to:


Get help and support from family and friends. Even if they don't have the knowledge to care for a horse they can help look after you.
Organise a bed for the lounge room, this way you will be close to the door and phone if help is needed by a vet or groom.
Ensure you have enough pillows and are warm enough. This will make you less prone to getting a sore back and feeling tired.
Watch movies or read a book, this will not only take your mind of your horse, time will move faster and you will not be so nervous and in turn your horse will get some rest.
Have good meals. Good quality food is important to help you stay in good condition and to keep your energy supply up. Eat high carbohydrates for breakfast, and eat fruit and veggies throughout the day for a snack and for lunch. For dinner, eat a sit down balanced meal. This will allow enough energy to function through the night. Make sure you have a bottle of water and drink regularly.
Set up lighting! The worse thing is when checking on a horse in the middle of the night, you can't find a torch or the light doesn't reach where you want to go. Ensure that your lighting has new globes and your torch has a new battery. Use floodlighting to generate light down into the paddock, or move the horse to a paddock with sufficient light.
If you are up during the night try to sleep when you can though the day.
Be prepared for possible situations. For example the horse is more likely to become cast if they are already getting up awkwardly. Make sure you have any equipment, phone numbers and help that you would need and that you know what to do.

