 Listen to all types of music, and see what you like best. Try to fit the stereotype for that music. This isn't essential, because you should be your own person, but people will easier know what you're into if you look like the people who are into it. If you like indie, be unique and fresh! If you like Metal, dress hardcore, and wear band tees. If you like country, wear country-ish shoes and accessories. If you like emo or punk, than wear band tees, skinnies, and converse! If you like pop, dress cute and colorful!;
, You can't even like music if you don't listen to it! So study up on one or two artists to find other bands or artists like them. Getting a Pandora account and starting a station for your favorite artists. But a better method would be to use a Last Fm account and find more in depth artists there. Here's a list of artists and genres.
 More in depth and complex pop artists might be Kate Bush, Prince, Kishi Bashi, Joanna Newsom, or Michael Jackson. There are many sub genres of pop music like experimental pop music, chamber pop music, and art pop music.
 Punk as a genre was the beginning and creation of many other different genres of music, some of which you may hear on the radio- such as pop punk (Blink 182, Sum 41, Fall Out Boy, Panic at the Disco). Punk also created the Riot Grrrl genre- which is a 90s scene of feminist based punk rock. Bikini Kill is a good example of this scene.
 The term "indie" is actually a huge umbrella term for a very large genre. There are also subgenres like experimental indie (xiu xiu, man man), indie rock (St. Vincent, Wolf Parade, Minus the Bear), or indie folk (Sufjan Stephens, Fleet Foxes, or Andrew Bird)

,, The origin of emo music was in the 1990s with bands such as Jawbreaker, Rites of Spring, American Football, and Cap'n Jazz. Later on in the 2000s there were bands such as Mineral, Brave Little Abacus, Snowing, and You Blew It! Emo is a diverse and misunderstood genre, just like the music itself.
 People who are obsessed with music know everything about every artist, band, and song. So crack those books! Read Wikis about your favorite artists, songs, and albums!

, Going to concerts will give you the right to say you've seen an artist in person, which makes it harder for people to call you a poser. And you can connect with the music and maybe even the band members! You can buy merchandise at concerts too!

, Don't do this if you don't like the music. Do it because you want to express who you are!

