 The signs you’re looking for are behaviors, thoughts, or emotions that indicate you’re experiencing a lot of stress or that a bipolar episode may be coming.The sooner you are aware of signs of high stress or a bipolar episode, the sooner you can begin distracting yourself so that you can cope with what’s going on.


Some of the signs that you are under a lot of stress are physical tension, fatigue, irritability, and trouble focusing.
Some signs of a bipolar episode include mood swings, agitation, withdrawing from people and activities, and problems sleeping.
Determine what your specific signs are. For instance, you might write how you feel in your journal and then review it over time to identify signs of stress or a bipolar episode.
 Triggers are people, places, events, or situations that increase the chances you will become stressed or have a bipolar episode.For example, starting a new job or visiting your childhood home may cause you a lot of stress. If you know what your triggers are, you’ll be able to anticipate when you might need to use a self-calming technique like distraction.


Make note of what things seem to upset you if you don’t already know what your triggers are. For example, you might write it in your journal if you noticed that you got agitated while at a Black Friday sale.
Look back through your journal and make a list of your triggers. For instance, you might have: loud crowds, moving, and taking written tests.
 Before you can use distraction as a coping skill for bipolar disorder, you have to recognize that you need to calm and distract yourself.Being mindful is a great way to stay aware of your moods and feelings in the moment as well as how they are changing.


Focus on doing only one thing at a time. This way your mind won’t be scattered all over the place and you’ll recognize when you need to distract yourself sooner.
Pay attention to all of your senses. For instance, when you’re doing yoga, pay attention to how your muscles feel, the sound of the instructor’s voice, and the smell of the incense.
Be mindful of your emotions and how they change. For example, you might think, “I was calm until I thought about my report. Now I’m feeling tense and overwhelmed.”

