 Many nurses see their roles as deferential to doctors and other practitioners. Make sure you understand and embrace the role leadership plays in your career.;
, Self-confidence is essential to a nurse's leadership skills.


Understand what you need to do and approach every patient with a confident and competent attitude. If you come across as nervous and unsure, your patients will also feel anxious.
 Good leaders are willing to take calculated risks, and as a nurse your leadership depends on your ability to take those risks. Playing it safe will not develop you into a nurse leader.


Share ideas. Let doctors and colleagues know what you think about the care that patients are receiving and if you have an idea, speak up.
 Whether you are talking to patients, doctors, family members or other nurses, be mindful of how you communicate.


Listen first, and respond directly and truthfully. If you cannot answer a question, say so. If you promise to do something, do it. Good communication will develop leadership and trust.
 Take classes, courses and seminars that go beyond those you are required to take to maintain your nursing license.


Look for opportunities to learn new skills. Try a business or management class, or attend a leadership conference.
Encourage any nurses you supervise to grow professionally. Recommend classes that might interest your staff. When other nurses see you investing in your own learning, they might do the same.
 Prioritize your tasks and responsibilities wisely. For example, you do not want to keep a patient waiting while you open mail or file charts that can be dealt with later.
 Be the best, most knowledgeable and talented nurse you can be. Other nurses around you will take note and mimic your demeanor, skills and leadership.
 Having good leadership skills as a nurse means learning them from many different sources.


Ask a nurse you admire for some coaching. Pay attention to the nurses that you work closely with, especially those who impress you.
 Read nursing journals, subscribe to e-newsletters and join professional nursing associations.


Keep up with the latest best practices in leadership as well. Read books and articles about leadership, even if those materials are not specific to nursing. There is a lot to be learned from business and nonprofit leadership theories.

