 Both strands should be 3 to 4 feet (1 to 1.2 m) long, and, to easily differentiate between strands, you will probably want to choose different colors.









This method requires only two pieces of material: the "four" comes in when you double over the strands by threading them through your lanyard hook.
 Draw the hook up to the center of your strands by doubling the strands over until their ends line up.
 Securing your lanyard hook will make braiding easier. To secure your lanyard hook, you can hook it to a tack on a wall or a table, pinch it between your knees, or simply tape it down.









Securing your lanyard hook allows you to maintain a tight tension while you're braiding, making the process easier.
 Pull the strands together, grab them all from the bottom, twist your wrist so they create a loop together, and draw their loose ends through the loop. Maneuver the knot near your lanyard hook and continue to pull the loose ends through the loop to tighten.
 Separate the strands by their color, keeping the same-colored ones together, and holding each pair in a different hand.
 In each hand, take the strand on the right and cross it over the left. You should then have two, crossed, same-color strands in each hand.
 With your two pairs of strands in each hand, cross the two, middle, different-colored strands by bringing the left middle strand over the right middle strand.
 You will now repeat crossing the strands in each hand and crossing your middle strands until you almost run out of material. Stop before you do run out, however, because you will need to make a final stitch to secure the end.









You may now disregard the color-specific aspects of the process (which were included for clarity) because what matters is the position and sequence of the weaving.
 Just before you run out of material, as close as possible to your braid, tie a knot at the end by wrapping all four strands around your forefinger and drawing their ends through the loop (that was created around your finger). Then pull to tighten. (See the video below for more help with the modified braid.)








