 If they have beaten you up or something very violent, then when you see the people that were mean to you, look directly/exactly deep into their eyes, give them the evil eye (such as squinting but there are many ways to give someone the evil eye (so they can be scared of you)/do this), smirk, roll your eyes, crack your knuckles, then walk away. This will scare them off. Remember, if it's just teasing you don't have to go that hard-core!;
, Don't care what anybody does or thinks of you and always have friends by your side so they can defend you.
 If they say your stupid, get all A's and study a lot. If they think you're afraid, be tough and crack your knuckles when you're not looking at them, but they're looking at you.
 This is one of the most important steps. Mimicking them won't do you any good.
 Ways you can do this are to be yourself, flirt, and change your hairstyle or something so they can notice you (but don't change who you are. Besides, everyone changes their hairstyles every once in a while and that's not changing yourself and how you act. Make-up would change your looks to an even worse problem and guys wouldn't see your real face OR the real you. Hairstyle, jewelry and nail polish is fine its not like people are always the same with their hairstyle.



Make good grades.
Compliment and be nice to everyone
Help people out and always be there for them when they need you at all times
Always have something to talk about, Be very outgoing and talk to more and more people(this will cause more people to want to hang out/around with you)
Be yourself! And don't be mean or gossip about anyone.
 Whenever someone insults you, ignore them and continue doing whatever it was that you were doing and just mind your own business. This will make people get furious because they're teasing you for attention-and from a guys point of view-that mostly means he likes you and does not want you to think that but right now, if he is just teasing, that's fine. (But if its actual bullying, then no, it isn't all right!)

, If they harass you on the Internet, or through cell phones or just any type of phone in general, block them. Block them on the Internet and block their cell phone number so they'll stop whatever it is that's bothering you and leave you alone.
 You can stop them.
 They can't control you.

