 When friends get together, there are often a bunch of reasons as to why they want to spend time with one another. And talking about politics may well not be one of the things people are keen on. Until you know your friends really well and only then, when the occasion is right, should you try to raise any discussion of political issues and beliefs.;
, For example, if the two of you met at a political convention, the you can probably feel safe in talking about it from the outset. But if you met in a non-political environment, give it a rest until you're more sure about one another. Nothing dampens passion like raising another rival passion!

, where there are events that enable you to talk politics. That way, you can rest assured from the start that people do care about politics and any personal relationships that you develop in this context will have already overcome the hurdle of not knowing whether or not it's OK to discuss politics.
 If politics is your life's passion and raising any opportunity you get has become a habit, but your spouse is not very keen or passionate about politics, you will need to temper you political talk around him or her. See your spouse as the moderate influence in your life; the person who reminds you of everything else that matters, including being a good spouse, parent, family member, and community participant. If it really matters to you to spend your life with someone as passionate as you about politics, take this into consideration prior to marriage.
 Discussions about politics at work can create division with colleagues, especially if you take hard lines and oppose others in front of everyone. You're at work to get along, not to create rifts. Work out gradually who follows and respects your own political leanings and quietly have discussions with them. Only these people are the ones to send the political jokes to by email, and even then, be careful because political humor can be dynamite in a work context and can get you into trouble for harassment or hate-mongering.
 To keep get-togethers amiable, don't goad these people or set them up. It can cause a great deal of tension and won't win you any favors with members of the family who want peace and quiet. Then again, if you grew up in a highly political family where the lifeblood of table conversation is politics, then use this occasion to feel free to discuss it all you want. This still requires sensitivity to those who either don't want to hear about politics, or who hold differing views from your own.

