 Take a shower or a bath every day. Showering or bathing every day keeps you clean, removes dirt and allows you to use fragrant cleaning soaps or gels to add a freshness to your skin.


Clean all parts of your body with soap and a loofah. Don't forget the sensitive parts of your body like your armpits. Nobody wants to be around a stinky person so be its very important to take a good shower.;
, To have a clean looking body you need to wash your face not once, but two times a day.


Wash makeup off your face at the end of the day.
 Your hands touch over 2,000 things a day, which makes them very dirty. So, wash your hands at least five times a day, not including after using the bathroom. Washing your hands also gets the dirt out of your nails and off your hands, if you have lots of dirt on your hands than when you touch your face you make get your face dirty or get acne.
 Brush to remove bacteria from your teeth and to have sweet breath.


Brush for around three minutes at a time.
Use mouthwash and toothpaste to get rid of the plaque on your teeth.
Visit a dentist every 6 months and get your teeth checked.



Don't wash your hair every day, because it's bad for your scalp. Wash it every other day.
Washing your hair upside down is great for your scalp and it brings all the oils in your hair together. Don't put in too much mousse or hairspray, because they might damage your hair. In addition, if you use a blow dryer, straighter or curler, be sure to use heat protection.



Be sure your clothes are always clean and they always smell good.




Shave, wax or use tweezers to remove hair.
 Scrub the dirt out from underneath nails after doing activities that are dirty, such as cleaning, gardening or being out and about all day.
 Eating fruits and vegetables is a good way to stay clean within. Eat clean, be happy. This means having plenty of clean eating practices, such as clean eating recipes, raw food cuisine, salads and lean meats. Look online for "clean eating" recipes. Eat food in as close to its original state altogether, not heavily processed.
 For example, don't smoke and minimize your alcoholic intake. Avoid drugs and if you are too reliant on over-the-counter drugs, learn some other ways to counteract the pain or problems you are using them for.
 Chase the negativity away with sensible thoughts, and acknowledge bad feelings but reply to them with self-compassion and positive thinking.
 Being clean is nothing without being organized. A clean house means for clean thinking, not feeling cluttered mentally as well as physically.
 Never ever just throw your clothes anywhere, because it makes you look dirty and unclean when you wear them.
 Wash the floors and vacuum them regularly. Sweep up crumbs and dirt daily. Do a spring cleaning every now and then to get rid of major amounts of dirt in the house.


Develop a cleaning calendar to remind you when the house needs specific cleans. Living in a clean environment will help you to feel better.

