 You'll need to decide whether you want the party to be completely at a horse riding ranch or place or you would like to have the party at your house but include taking the guests to a local horse riding place as part of the event.


Alternatively, if you have horses on your own property, you can combine both the horse riding and the comfort of your home.;
, Alternatively, they might give you a space and let you do the setting up yourself. Call local horse riding places and see what they are prepared to offer.



You'll need to get the guests to and from the farm, ranch or place. Perhaps some parents will be happy to carpool and take a few guests per car.
Get parental permission for traveling to and from the place.
 If you have beginner riders, either provide a horse that is great with learners or a pony. If you don't have such a horse, you'll need to prepare some of the guests in advance for not having a horse ride but still participating in the party.


You don't always need your own horses. Some child entertainers can provide traveling pony rides in some areas. Check the Yellow Pages or online for this possibility. Provided there is a suitable area to ride (your garden, a nearby park, etc.), this would remain the responsibility of the provider and all you need to do is set a time and provide payment.
 Do not assume it is okay without permission; ask well ahead.
 Work out when the horse riding will form part of the party. How long will the horses be ridden for, and to where? Will it just be a fun tour of the garden or a big circle, or will it be a full ride to somewhere on the property? The choice will depend on the skill levels and ages of the guests.
 If the guests don't have their own, can some be borrowed from the horse riding place?

, If buying them, look for horse designs. If making the invitation, a horse shape is ideal, or a saddle, horseshoe or just the horse's head. Or, use the silhouette or a girl or boy wearing a horse riding hat.
 Ask the guests to "saddle up" and get ready for the horse riding party of the season! The details you'll need to add will include:


Party type and theme
Time, date and place
Explanation that the party involves horse riding. Hence, ask for parental permission, ask for level of experience with horse riding from the guest in advance of the party and inform the guests to bring riding clothes as well as party clothes
Transport requirements (if needed)
Any other relevant details
RSVP date, including your phone and email contact details.
 You will need sufficient time to get back parental permission and to ensure that all of the guests have told you about their riding abilities and have the right gear for horse riding.
 Obviously, as many horse-related decorations as possible is a great way to set the mood. Also choose a color theme, focused on the favorite color of the party person.
 If having some games, consider basing them on horse themes where possible. Some good choices include:


Horseshoes
Running and jumping races
Toss the hoop over the horse's head
Pin the tail on the horse
Decorating horse-shaped cookies
Races with hobby horses, etc.


Award prizes with horse show rosette ribbons. Horse show ribbons can be purchased online.
 For food, have such things as trail mix cookies, carrot stick snacks, horse shaped or horseshoe shaped cookies, cake pops, chips, etc.


For the party cake, make a horse-shaped cake. This could be a horse's head, a whole horse shape, a horse image piped or set onto the cake top, plastic horses roaming across a green frosting field on top of the cake, etc. If you're clever with sugar paste/fondant or royal icing, you might be able to shape the whole cake as a horse.
 There are many to choose from, such as Seabiscuit, Black Beauty, National Velvet, My Friend Flicka, The Silver Brumby, etc.
 The horse riding is probably best as one of the first activities, while everyone is bright and full of energy.
 Those who are waiting their turn will need to be kept amused; ask them to watch the others or entertain them with a game as they wait.


If the guests are riding off as a party, ensure that at least one adult from the party group is also going with the guests.
 Games can be left for later in the party, if you're having them.


If the party is also to be a sleepover, have the guests shower (in turns) before bedtime. It will ensure they're all clean and will also calm everyone down after the excitement and gives them a chance to soothe any sore muscles.
 Include a message, such as "thanks for horsing around at my party". Include a little plastic horse in the goodie bag and some sweet treats.

Younger children can be given a hobby horse to take home.

