 Place the tip of the needle at the back of the fabric, just below the start of your line. Insert the needle into the fabric at this point and draw the thread through to the top.


This is the A point of your stitch.
Draw the needle and thread through A completely, stopping only when the knot at the tail of the thread hits the back of the fabric.
 Point the needle at a position further down the line. Poke the needle into the fabric at this point, drawing it through completely.


This is the B point of your stitch.
Draw the needle and thread down to the back of your fabric, stopping only when the thread lies flat against the top of the fabric.
 Poke the tip of your needle into the back of the fabric and out through the front, positioning it past B and further down the line. Draw the thread through this point.


This is the C point of your stitch.
The distance between B and C should be roughly the same as the distance between A and B.
Draw the thread through this point until it lies flat against the back of the fabric.
 Point the needle down toward the inside of B. Poke it through to the back of the fabric, splitting the stitch as you do.The needle should split the stitch created between A and B.
Make sure that there are an even number of strands on either side of the needle. For six-strand floss, there should be three strands of floss on each side.
The needle needs to be inserted near or directly through B.
Draw the thread through this point until the stitch lies flat against the fabric.
This step completes your first split backstitch.
 Poke the needle through to the front of the fabric at a point further down the line. Draw the thread completely through to the front.


This is point D.
The distance between C and D should be the same as the distance between B and C.
This step starts a second split backstitch.
 Position the needle to the inside of C and pierce it through both the stitch and the fabric. Draw the needle and thread all the way through to the back of the fabric.


Make sure that the stitch in between B and C is evenly split by your needle in this step.
The needle should be positioned next to or directly through C.
This step completes a second split backstitch.
 The rest of your split backstitches should be completed using the same technique applied to your second split backstitch.


Poke the needle through to the front of the fabric further down the line.
Insert the needle through the previously created stitch near the end point of that stitch, evenly splitting the strands of that stitch in the process.
 Once you reach the end of the line, you should secure your stitches by tying a small knot at the back of your fabric.


Another way to secure your stitching is to weave the ends of the thread through some of the previous stitches along the back of the fabric.

