 The best way to safely eat sushi is to go to a reputable establishment that serves high quality, sushi-grade fish. Ask friends and family members for restaurant recommendations. Go to establishments that use fresh ingredients, properly freeze and store fish and follow food safety guidelines., If you intend to make your own sushi, it is important purchase fish from a reputable fishmonger that sells high quality, sushi-grade products. Look to see whether the fish is properly packed with ice. Pick fish that is firm and shiny. Make sure your fishmonger properly freezes and stores the fish.If the fish smells too “fishy” or has a bad odor, you should avoid it.
Make sure your fishmonger knows that you want to eat the fish raw., Raw fish needs to be frozen at specific temperatures in order to kill parasites prior to consumption. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has specific guidelines for freezing fish prior to raw consumption. Ask to see the logs of the restaurant or fishmonger to determine whether the fish has been frozen at the required temperatures.Review the logs to see if the freezing temperatures and times meet FDA guidelines:If the fish has been frozen and stored at -20 Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit) for seven days, it meets FDA guidelines.
If the fish has been frozen at -35 Celsius (-31 Fahrenheit) until solid for at least 15 hours, it meets FDA guidelines.
If the fish has been frozen at -35 Celsius (-31 Fahrenheit) until solid and then stored at -20 Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit) for at least 24 hours, it meets FDA guidelines.
 Ask the staff at the fishmonger or the restaurant to tell you about the fish handling procedures. For instance, you could try asking the following kinds of questions:“Is your equipment sanitized to ensure there is no cross-contamination from non-sushi-grade fish?”
“Where does your fish come from?”
“How long has the fish been frozen?”
“How do you handle the fish?”

, If you are purchasing sushi from a restaurant that allows you to observe the chef, you can watch their cooking practices. See if they are using clean cutting boards and knives. Determine whether they are disinfecting equipment and changing their gloves prior to cutting sushi-grade fish., There is no official determination of “sushi-grade” or “sashimi-grade” fish, so you need to use your senses to identify the quality. Smell and touch the fish or sushi prior to purchasing and eating it.If you are buying raw fish for sushi, it should smell like the ocean.
It should not smell too “fishy.”
The fish should not be flaky.
The fish should not be too soft.

