 You can use a quarter sized amount of conditioner. You can leave it in for about 2 and a half minutes, and you can use this time to shave or finish showering. If you are using conditioner for normal hair, you can use it every day. 








Rinse your hair well with lukewarm water. If you are getting build up in your hair, it could be due to not rinsing your hair well enough after you condition.
 Rub a quarter sized dollop of conditioner between your hands. Do not worry about applying conditioner to the roots of your hair. Your hair has enough oil at the roots of your hair. 








Clip your hair up, and finish your shower. The longer your hair is being conditioned, the better it will absorb the conditioner. Keep a clip in your shower for repeated use.
You can also use a hair tie to put your hair up, but be careful not to put your hair up tight because you don’t want to damage the cuticles of your hair. Remember, your hair is at its most fragile when it is wet.
You can also use a shower cap to keep your conditioner from rinsing out while you are in the shower.
 If you want to get out of the shower quickly to conserve water or you have extra dry hair, this will give your hair the extra time it needs to absorb the oils in the conditioner. Keep your hair up in a clip or wrap your hair up in a towel to keep it out of your way.
 The cool water will shut the cuticles in your hair and keep the moisture and oils sealed in your hair. You hair will look shinier if you remember to do this step consistently during your shower routine.









Make sure to rinse all of the conditioner out of your hair. If there is still conditioner left in your hair the conditioner will leave your hair looking limp and oily.
 There are leave in conditioners marketed to men as well as women. Leave in conditioner will strengthen hair, and they will make your hair more flexible. After you have showered, apply leave in conditioner to damp hair.









Bed Head, Aveda, and Paul Mitchell have products for leave in conditioner for men.
Some men report that the leave in conditioner makes their hair more manageable if they shampoo every day. 