 Many people who have body image issues either exhibit actions of body avoidance or body checking. Counseling can help you learn how to deal with these behaviors and move past them. You will learn how to replace unhealthy behaviors with healthier ones.Body avoidance is when you avoid everything that might remind you of how much you hate your body. Common activities avoiding include clothes shopping, swimming and beach activities, looking in the mirror, sexual relationships, and social events.
Body checking means you repeatedly focus on your body to look for flaws. You may stare at your reflection for hours or look in the mirror multiple times a day to check the parts you hate. You may weigh yourself over and over. You may believe you are controlling your flaws, but you are focusing on them all the time.
 Counseling can help you break down unrealistic perceptions you have about what you think you should look like. By telling yourself that you don’t have to look like what the media portrays as a perfect person, you can start to lessen the control that false image has over you.CBT and counseling can help you focus on the people around you and watch them for what they are. Think about who you find attractive, how people you love and respect don’t look perfect, and how there are things beyond your looks that make you worthy.
 Many times, negative self images can make you think there is nothing worthy about you, inside or out. Counseling can help you start to identify and find things about yourself that are good and positive.


For example, if you hate your eyes or your muscle definition, acknowledge other parts about yourself that you like. Perhaps you like your hair, your hands, or your lips.
Make a list of things that are good about the way you look. This can help you change your negative perception about yourself.
Remember that there are things about yourself outside of your looks that make you a worthy person. Make a list of things you are good at, strengths you have, and reasons people like to be around you. This includes your intelligence, your taste in music, or your ability to play a musical instrument.
 Group therapy is another common technique to address body image issues. In group therapy, you connect with other people who have similar body image issues. Together, you help each other face your perceptions and negative ideas.In group therapy, you may be expected to interact, collaborate, and participate in activities with other people. Group therapy provides you an outlet to voice your concerns to other people in a safe environment.
Group therapy may help you connect with other people who feel similar to you. You may be able to provide support for each other as you try to overcome your negative perceptions.
Through this collaborative process, you may be able to explore any underlying emotional issues that have lead to your body image issues.
Group therapy may also require you to go to counseling with your family to help them learn how to help you with your body image issues.

