 The paper should be in the landscape position so that the longer edge is facing you. Make sure that a hard surface is available for you to easily write on.
 Make sure that the lines are evenly spaced. You will be writing in the boxes that these lines create, so make sure that there is adequate space in between the lines.
 Most researchers agree that these five personality traits reflect the general components of personality that are most important in interpersonal interactions.Keep in mind that these “Big Five” traits are not personality types but dimensions of personality. For example, someone may be high in “Agreeableness” (friendliness) but low on “Extraversion” (sociability.) This person is probably not very social, but he or she is in fact quite friendly.
The “Emotional Stability” dimension is also sometimes referred to as the “Neuroticism” trait. Neuroticism is on the other end of the Emotional Stability-Neuroticism spectrum.
Similarly, Sometimes the “Openness to Experience” dimension is referred to as “Intellect.” The terms are interchangeable.
 People generally fall in the high spectrum or the low spectrum of each personality dimension. Take a minute to think about where you fall in each area. Write “High” or “Low” in each corresponding box on your paper. Here are descriptions of each trait to guide you with your self-assessment:Extroversion reflects a keen interest in other people and external events. Highly extroverted people tend to be very confident and have no problem exploring uncharted territories. People who are low in extroversion are often referred to as “introverts” and tend to prefer solace and quiet environments.
Neuroticism reflects anxiety level. People who are high in this dimension tend to experience negative emotions stronger than their counterparts. If you find yourself worrying and freaking out a lot, then you may want to rate yourself as high in this area.
Openness to Experience indicates a person’s willingness to adjust their thinking when new information arises. If you are high in this area then you are probably unconventional and “free spirited.” If you are low on this dimension, then you are probably more conventional and concrete with your thinking patterns.
Conscientiousness refers to how much a person considers other people when making decisions. It also reflects one’s level of self-control. If you are high on this dimension then you are probably disciplined, well organized, and function well with autonomy. If you are low in this area then you are probably quicker to follow your impulses and do well in environments that are fluid and constantly changing.
Agreeableness indicates the degree to which a person is compatible with other people. It also reflects how much a person cares about others. If you are high in this area then you are probably quite empathetic and can quickly and easily understand other people. You are probably often described as “nice” and “tender hearted.” If you are low in this area then you put less emphasis on emotions when determining how to behave. There is generally a gender difference on this trait with women generally being higher and men generally being lower.
 People are likely to engage in behavior and select environments based upon what is comfortable for their personality. This self-assessment may give you a huge insight into why you behave the way that you do.


People can be high or low in each dimension. However, 45 different personality combinations emerge when all of the different possible combinations are combined.

