 Write a list of what you'll need and set out your schoolbag's contents on the floor, checking every item off the list as you place it in your bag. To ensure you have a good start at your new school, you'll need to make sure you are organized and prepared for the classes. After your schoolbag is prepared, set it by your door so that you don't forget to grab it on your way out! Items that you may want to consider adding to your schoolbag's inventory are:


A small box of pencils, pens, highlighters, and other writing utensils that you may need
Notebook paper
Folders for each class (to keep your notes, homework, tests, etc. in it)
A binder (to organize your folders, notes, and any other papers you may receive)
Pencil sharpener (some schools' pencil sharpeners don't work very well)
Lead (for any mechanical pencils you're using)
School books
Notebooks (easier to take more organized notes with than notebook paper)
Planner (to write down any homework assignments);
, Choose what outfit and hairstyle you plan to wear the next day so that you have more time to prepare. Suggestions for outfits:


Wear a comfortable outfit that defines who you are, not what you want others to think of you. It doesn't need to be anything fancy, but you must dress decently in order to avoid looking sloppy. However, refrain from dressing smartly (ex: tucked in shirt, tight pants) or formally. You want people to be comfortable. Also, choose colors that complement you and bring out your eyes and skin tone.






Make sure your outfit will not violate your school's dress code if it has one. Read all the rules so that you are knowledgeable of what is and what is not acceptable. It's best to do this in order to avoid feeling humiliated about your outfit on your first day at your new school!






Avoid adding too many accessories to your outfit, as you will look overloaded and not so great. Add only one accessory to your outfit. If you choose to wear more than one, follow the famous rule: remove one item before walking out the door.






Be confident in your outfit. If you appear confident while wearing your clothes, people will like it better than if you appear insecure about your clothes.
 It's best to wash your hair the night before school so that you have attractive, good-smelling hair! However, refrain from wearing the same hairstyle every single day, as this gives people the impression that you have no variety.


If you have a favorite hairstyle, don't be afraid to change it. Perhaps you could even spice it up a little, such as adding a braid in appropriate areas that won't make your hair look awkward. Slip in a cute headband or hair accessory.
 Remember that you'll need enough time to prepare in the morning, so wake up a little earlier than usual for more time.


If you find that you have problems getting up, set the alarm far away from your bed, but in a place where you can still hear it. When the alarm rings, you'll be forced to get up.
For an extra boost of needed energy to encourage you to start the day, massage your ears for two minutes, concentrating on the tips. Your eyes will instantly open up and you'll feel great! Plus, it's healthy for you and keeps the blood flowing to your brain.
 Although it may take you a while to be able to navigate around the school easily, it helps to know what classes you're going to have instead of having to look at your schedule after every class. If you're afraid you still won't be able to remember, keep your schedule in your pocket for reference so that you may be able to easily pull it out and glance at it.
 You'll want to leave a good first impression upon the school, so that they aren't behind because of your failure to turn in a form in time.

