 Styling will be easier when your hair is full and pliable. Go ahead and clean it with shampoo and conditioner, then straighten it out with a comb. If your hair dries and you find it tough to cut, you can dampen it again by spritzing it with a spray bottle.;
, Cutting your own hair is tricky at first. A handheld mirror can help. Hold it as you work towards the back of your head. It’ll help you see what you’re doing. Afterwards, you can use it to inspect the cuts you made and find any areas that need to be corrected.
 Adjustable electric clippers are your best tool for achieving a fade. Get ones that come with several guards. Attach the guards to your clippers to cut your hair at different lengths. Start at the lowest guard number and switch as you work up your head to achieve the gradual length transition the fade is known for.


Some clippers may also have a bracket setting. When you flip off the setting, the blades cut off about an extra ⅛ an inch (3.2 mm), making it perfect for achieving lengths between those cut by guards.
 The key to a good-looking fade is balance. A fade that starts too high on your head doesn’t work well with longer hair on top. It can resemble an undercut, or make your face look longer. Before you begin, determine how long you’ll leave the hair up top. Don’t cut the hair at the tops of the sides of your head short unless you are going for a short fade.Trimming the top of your head first may help you figure out your balance. Remember, it’s better to cut your hair longer at first because you can always go back and cut it shorter.
 Start with the hair on the crown (top center) of your head. Hold your comb flat and sweep it over your head to pick up hair. Use scissors to cut the hair to the desired length. Continue working until you get to rounded portion of your head. Don’t cut the hair below it., Electric clippers come with adjustable guards. The lowest-numbered guard cuts hair shortest. Use a low guard, such as a #2.The #2 guard will leave hair 1/4th an inch (6 mm) long.
Another way to achieve a fade is to start with higher-numbered guards and create layers from the top down. This may help you if you keep cutting your hair too short.
 Work on the sides and back of your head. Hold the clippers vertically. Press the clippers down and gently sweep them upwards and off your head in a scooping motion. Move slowly and gently from the bottom of your head to avoid taking off too much hair.When you are starting out, you may wish to experiment on one side first. Figure out the cutting motion and length you need to make the hair to correct rough spots.
 The next highest-numbered guard will leave your hair a little longer. Try moving up a size or two. Alternatively, keep the same guard and flip on the bracket setting, if your clippers have the option. The brackets add about ⅛ an inch (3 mm) to the length of each guard.A #4, for instance, will leave your hair ½ an inch (12 mm) long.
 Place your clippers right above your last cut. Cut your hair the same way you did before, using the scooping motion to make short, precise cuts. Do this all the way around your head and to the other side. You’ll see the beginning layers of the fade., Look into a mirror. Often you will see a line distinguishing your two cuts. If your clippers come with a bracket setting, now is a perfect time to use it. Hold the clippers horizontally. Start at one end of your head and gently cut over the line., Switch up another guard size or change the bracket setting. Cut right above the last cut to form another layer. You may have to switch the guards and bracket setting on your clippers multiple times until you reach the top of your head., Hold up a mirror and examine all sides of your head. Look for lines left over from layering. Also, check to see if the hair length on the top of your head is balanced with the length of the fade. Go back over with the clippers to make adjustments, then finish by using trimmers or a razor to reach areas such as your neckline or near your ears.


As you are learning, the haircut may not come out very well at first. You can try to correct it, or you can cut your hair short and wait for it to grow back so you can try again.
 Once you believe you are finished clipping, you can style the hair on the top of your head using gel or another product. This is of course optional and not needed if you chose a short fade.
 Because a fade involves short cuts, hair growth will be noticeable. You’ll see the layers start to disappear as the hair gets longer and messier. Go back and fade your hair again or have a barber trim it.A friend can not only tell you when it’s time for a haircut, but can tell you where you need to make corrections after you cut your hair.

