 Make sure it is the thin kind; the kind that have the felt coating on the back will be too thick for this project. If you can't find any cheap, plastic tablecloths, use a large trash bag instead.This parachute will work on action figures that are 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 centimeters) tall, like Star Wars action figures., Fold the square in half to make a rectangle, then fold it in half again to make a square. Draw a 5-inch (13-centimeter) square on the corner where all four corners are loose (not joined). Cut the square out, going through all four layers, then unfold the square. You will have something that looks like a plus sign., Go to the first corner you cut the 5-inch (13-centimeter) square from. Push the edges together to close the square. Place a 2-inch (5-centimeter) piece of tape halfway over the bottom edge. Leave the bottom half of the tape hanging over the edge of the tablecloth.Do this for the remaining three corners.
 Flip the tablecloth cove. You should still see the pieces of tape sticking out from underneath it. Fold each piece of tape over the edge of the table cloth. Now the corners are taped on both sides.You will have something that looks like a bag or basket with a slit in each corner. Do not tape these slits up!

, Find some thin cording, such as crochet string, thin yarn, or kite string. Cut two 30-inch (76-centimeter) pieces. Use a marker to make a dot on each string, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) away from each end.You will need two dots on each string, one fo each end. These will be your guides for the next step.
 Take your first string, and place the end over one of the corners you taped up. Align the mark with the edge of the tablecloth, then place a strip of tape over it. You will have about ½ inch (1 centimeter) of string peeking out over the top of the tape.Keep the tape horizontal; don't let it hang over the edge of the parachute.
 Fold the loose end of the string over the tape, towards the edge of the tablecloth. Place another piece of tape over it to secure it., Use the same technique as before. When you are done, tape the other string in the same way. When you are done, you'll have two loops hanging from your parachute., Hook your finger through the first loop and tug it away from the parachute to find the middle. Tie a knot in the loop right above your finger. The loop should have equal amounts of string on both sides of the knot.Repeat this step for the other loop.
Leave some space between the knot and the middle of the string. You want to be able to feed elastic through it.
 If the loops are too small, you can link mini rubber bands together to make a harness for the figure. You can also lay a strip of tape across the figure and the string to hold everything together.