 Oatmeal baths are perfect for reducing the uncomfortable symptoms of skin conditions such as eczema and psoriasis, as well as infections from poison ivy, oak and sumac. The power of the oatmeal eliminates itch, cuts down on redness and swelling and forms a defensive layer on the surface of the skin. Take a dip in an oatmeal bath one to three times a day until the condition improves.Oatmeal baths will not cure a chronic skin condition, only alleviate the symptoms temporarily.
 A gentle oatmeal bath or two will get rid of the redness and irritation of diaper rash in infants. Simply pour a small amount of finely blended oatmeal into a warm bath (about half as much as you would use for an adult) as you clean your baby. Pat the area with a dry towel. The oatmeal-infused water works much better than regular soaps and powders for clearing up diaper rash, and can be safely repeated as often as you like.Allow the irritated skin to dry completely and rub on a little anti-rash ointment before putting on a fresh diaper.
 For mild sunburns, a specially formulated oatmeal bath can work wonders. Simply add a little powdered milk, mint and aloe vera to the oatmeal as you run the bath. Together, the ingredients can ease pain while speeding up the healing process of sun damage.Taking an oatmeal bath with mint and aloe is an easier way to get full body relief from a sunburn than applying topical creams.
Severe sunburns should always receive medical attention. If you have a sunburn that is swollen, blistered or discolored, see a doctor immediately., Even people who don’t suffer from irritating dermatological conditions can benefit from regular oatmeal baths. When combined with additives like sea salt, lavender blossoms, baking soda and essential oils, oatmeal restores skin to full health while drawing dirt and oil out from the pores. Best of all, it will leave your skin soft to the touch.Olive, coconut and almond oil make great natural moisturizers when paired with oatmeal.Schedule a relaxing oatmeal bath once a week to pamper yourself as part of a home spa session.

