 Your digestion starts in your mouth. This means you need to make sure you are chewing your food as thoroughly as possible before you swallow it. This helps break up large pieces of food, which will make them easier to digest later.


Your saliva also contains enzymes that will start breaking up your food in your mouth.
Chewing also stimulates the secretion of stomach acid, which will help your stomach digest your food, especially proteins., If you find yourself overly full or bloated after a big meal, you may benefit from eating smaller meals throughout the day. For some people, eating smaller meals more frequently during the day can help give your body more time to digest the food you ingest before it gets even more food.


For example, eat three smaller basic meals each day, with two smaller meals in between breakfast and lunch and lunch and dinner. This will keep the amount of food in your body to a minimum and give your body more time to digest.
 Some digestive problems have been linked to the use of additives and preservatives like MSG, which is common when you eat out or buy prepackaged foods. Instead of relying on this method of eating, cook your meals from fresh ingredients at home. This will allow you to always know what you are eating.Try out recipes with your favorite ingredients to make your meals exciting and enticing to eat.
 To help your digestive system work properly, about 80% of your total food intake each day should be vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole grains. When you do eat meat, try incorporating more poultry into your diet. It tends to be more easily digested.Other meats are typically harder to digest and it can cause digestive problems for many people.
 Water is very crucial to digestion because it is the liquid that helps all the chemical reactions in your body take place. Due to this, make sure you drink plenty of water every day. Try to drink at least the recommended 9 cups (2.2 liters) if you are female and 13 cups (3 liters) if you are male.Water can also help your food slip down your throat easier. It also keeps your bowels more regular., There are a number of beverages that can actually slow down or inhibit digestion. These liquids will make it harder for your to digest things, which can cause uncomfortable symptoms. These beverages include:Those high in caffeine, such as coffee
Alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine
Super acidic juices

