 Try listening to lots of different styles/genres and not just sticking to one. For example: Only liking metal and rock music. Try researching different genres on iTunes or the internet- and that should come up with some good artists for those difference genres. Some examples are: pop, classical, techno, dance, rock, metal, blues, country, etc.;
,: playing an instrument, writing your own songs, etc. If you don't already play an instrument then try getting some lessons for something that interests you. There's no point getting lessons for flute when you really want to play piano. Or if you already play and instrument then, if it's possible, start to learn another one. You could also try singing, composing or song-writing too. Search the internet for some good tips on how to do these.
 Fill it up with lots of different music including your favourite artists as well. Create a playlist including songs from lots of different genres of music so when someone asks you what you're listening to, then it won't always be the same thing as this will make you seem more musical.
 Casual but funky is the key- don't go overboard. Try to be unique as well. Try wearing jeans and hoodies with cute accessories. Investing in a pair of converse is also a good idea because they are casual but still look cute and cool. Try wearing skinny jeans and cute top or a skirt with leggings and a hoody. You don't have to dress the same as everyone else. Another good idea is accessories with musical notes on them or t-shirts with musical designs. Just remember- the key is expressing yourself.
 Simple mascara and eyeliner to make your eyes stand out and maybe a little bit of bronzer or lipgloss if you want. Try dying your hair a shade of dark from or a reddish chestnut brown. Wavy or tousled hair looks natural and like you haven't spend ages fussing over your hair. Accessories such as headbands are also a good idea, or just throw back your hair in a simple ponytail, bun or plaits.
 If you want to play the flute and love heavy metal music then you do that. Stay true to yourself and don't let others take you out of your comfort zone. Just remember that it's your life and your musical taste and not theirs.
 Try performing your school assembly to get you started off. If you get stage-fright then try performing in front of just a few close friends or family, and as you get more confident you'll gradually be able to perform to even more people.

