 If you feel like you are dealing with social eating pressure at home, you can take control by preparing your own meals. You may find that your parents or siblings comment on what you eat during a shared meal, such as dinner. You can address this by preparing your own meals so you can eat what you want and not feel judged.You may make a meal plan for the week and go shopping for your own food so you have enough ingredients to prepare your meals. You may opt for healthy meal options and ensure you are getting a balanced amount of each food group in your meals.
 If you do not want to make your own meals but are still bothered by the pressure you feel eating at home, you may want to talk about it with those around you. Start a conversation with your parents, your guardians, or your siblings about how they talk about food with you and how it affects your eating habits. Be honest and open during the discussion.For example, you may ask them, “Are you aware that your words are making me feel pressure to eat in a certain way or to eat certain foods?” Or you may say, “I feel like your comments about my eating habits are not positive or helpful. Can we talk about why they make me uncomfortable?”

, Though you may find it difficult to be around others while you eat, you may need to do this when you are living at home or with your parents. Also, keep in mind that not wanting to eat around other people may be a sign of an eating disorder. Signs of an eating disorder may include having a preoccupation with food, excessive exercise, obsessing over your weight, and perceiving yourself as overweight when you are not.If you notice that they bring up your eating habits, try to tune them out or ignore them. Listening to their critiques will only make you feel more pressured and anxious about your eating habits. Instead, try not to respond to them.
If you do want to respond to their comments, you may say, “You are making me feel uncomfortable with my eating habits right now. Can we talk about something else?” or “Would you mind if we changed the subject?”

