 The first sign is a fever of 104F (40C) or over, which lasts for 1 - 6 days. The dog may also have sticky eyes, which is a very similar presentation to distemper.Dogs with ICH usually become very ill very quickly and are extremely lethargic and lacking in energy, off their food, develop sickness and diarrhea, and then a raft of other symptoms. This varies slightly from distemper, where the symptoms tend to come on less quickly.


The incubation period from being in contact with the virus to becoming sick is 4 - 9 days.The signs of ICH are quite general and there is an overlap between them and other diseases that cause fever or clotting problems. However, any dog showing suspicious signs should be checked out by a vet in order to be given supportive treatment when necessary.
Death is usually from any combination of dehydration, blood loss, and secondary infections, such as pneumonia.;
, ICH stops the liver from producing clotting factors so when the body uses up its reserves, the dog is prone to bleeding. This could be bleeding from the gums around the teeth, or hemorrhage from minor cuts or even after injections.


Some dogs show "petechiae," which are small pinpoint areas of bleeding on the gums and look like red freckles against the pink (or white, if blood loss is severe) of the gums. Dogs with clotting problems can show a number of symptoms, including hematomas (blood blisters) on the skin that form as a result of minor bumps. They may bleed persistently from small scratches or cuts, or even along the gum line. If the dog bleeds internally, their gums are likely to be white or pale and the dog will be very weak.
In same cases there is bleeding within the brain and this causes seizures or poor co-ordination., Infectious canine hepatitis affects the liver and creates other symptoms related to liver damage. These include jaundice, which is a yellow tinge to the whites of the eye, skin, and gums.However, even when the liver is affected, not all cases develop jaundice. This means that a lack of yellow staining does not discount ICH as a possibility.
 ICH can also affect the kidneys. This means the patient is liable to be very thirsty and drink more than normal. This is also exaggerated because of fluid lost in diarrhea or sickness, which the dog needs to replace by drinking., For example, some dogs also develop "corneal bluing" This is where the surface of the eye takes on a blue haze. This usually resolves in dogs that have recovered from active CAV-1 infection but in some cases is permanent and leads to loss of vision in that eye.The virus is also likely to multiply in the tonsils. This means that infected dogs often have swollen glands in their throat and develop a runny nose and sticky eyes., Dogs under 12 months of age are at risk because their immune systems are not as strong at fighting off infection. Dogs with other infections are at higher risk because their immune system is already weakened. The average mortality rate in young dogs is around 10 - 30%., If you any of the signs of the disease are present, contact your vet immediately. Because this disease can be so dangerous, it is better to be safe than sorry when it comes to veterinary care.
 ICH is caused by a virus from the Adenovirus family, called CAV-1. This is closely related to, but different from, infectious tracheobronchitis (kennel cough). CAV-1 is a virus which can survive for weeks or months in the environment but is destroyed by steam-cleaning or household bleach.One of the reasons ICH is so widespread is that the virus is present in bodily excretions such as saliva, sneezes, urine or feces. Indeed, a recovered animal can excrete virus particles for up to six months after recovery, which results in considerable contamination especially when wild animals are infected., Some major clues as to a diagnosis of canine infectious hepatitis are the clinical signs and the speed with which the dog became ill. While the symptoms are not diagnostic in themselves, they will give your vet a strong suspicion of a couple of conditions, including ICH and distemper.
 Your veterinarian will examine the dog and make a list of its problems it is having to narrow down the possible causes. However, putting an exact label on the illness is not always an efficient use of financial resources. This is because most of the conditions, such as distemper or parvovirus, that have similar symptoms are also viral infections with no specific treatment or cure.In all cases it is supportive care (intravenous fluids, antibiotics where appropriate against secondary infections), pain relief, and anti-nausea drugs that ar most helpful. The vet does not need a specific diagnosis to know these therapies are the pet's best chance., The vet may want to run tests to rule out other conditions that do have specific treatments, such as lungworm infection or pneumonia. The vet will start with a general screening blood test looking at organ function and the red and white cells.


The vet then looks at the white cells to rule out problems such as leukemia and to see if the body is fighting an infection.
The numbers and sizes of red cells also tell the vet if hemorrhage is present and if the body is making new replacement cells or not., If the dog is anemic the vet may want to run tests checking that the dog doesn't have a disease (such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia) where the body attacks its own red blood cells. This is done by a slide agglutination test and examination of the size and shape of the red blood cells under the microscope.


Additional blood tests can be run that identify either the presence of the virus in the bloodstream, or the antibodies which the dog has produced against CAV-1. However, a positive test can be of limited use because it does not distinguish a successful vaccination from active infection.