 If you don't know the rules, you might as well throw your money away. Learning all the rules and nuances of a game helps you understand the odds and bet strategically, not just randomly. Don't trust the casino or other players to explain the rules in a clear and complete way—it may be to their advantage if you miss something. Check out the following articles for more help:


How to Play Craps







How to Play Blackjack







How to Play Poker







How to Play Roulette







How to Play Keno







How to Bet on a Live Horse Race







, Even if you memorize the rules, playing is the best way to really learn how a game works. So before you put any money on the line, get together with friends and play practice hands until you know the rhythm and flow of the game.

This is especially important in poker, where the game is about more than just understanding the rules.
 Most games of chance aren't just random—they're statistical. At any given point, some basic math can tell you the probability that you will roll a specific number in craps or flip over one of your "outs" in poker. Learning to make these calculations and playing based on your real odds, not your gut, is the best way to lose less and win more in the long run.
 Set rules for how much you can put on the line before you go out gambling and yourself stick to these rules. You can lose a lot of money very quickly if you don't give yourself limits and cut your losses when you hit them.
 This can be the hardest part of gambling, especially with games like slots and roulette. Many gamblers will win a few rounds and feel like they are "hot" and can't lose. Don't fall into this trap! Just because you are on a winning streak, doesn't mean the odds are in your favor. In fact, it will make the odds in games like blackjack and poker edge to the casino.

If you do get ahead, that's a great time to take your winnings and leave.






If you keep playing, consider betting more conservatively (like the Kelly bet) instead of less to preserve your profits, because the odds will probably swing back against you sooner rather than later.







