 You can eat hamburgers when you go out to eat if you plan ahead and choose conscientiously. Think of ways to reduce unnecessary calories, fat, and cholesterol. For example, remove the bun or ask for the burger on a bed of lettuce. Ask for no mayo or for the condiments on the side, plus no cheese or bacon. This cuts out a lot of unhealthy additions to your burger.
 One reason eating a hamburger out is such hit to your nutrition is the size of the serving you receive. Many burgers contain anywhere from 1/4 pound of meat to an entire pound. Some burgers have multiple patties of meat. Choose only hamburgers with one patty.For restaurants that serve extremely large patties, share the burger with a friend, or cut the burger in half and save part for a later meal.
 When you eat burgers at restaurants, do your research beforehand. Don't order without knowing the nutritional information of your meal. Many restaurants provide calories on menus now, so you can know exactly how many calories you are consuming. But you should also look online at nutritional information for additional information, like fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol.


Know the calorie content of the burgers you are eating. For example, a Dave’s Single from Wendy’s has 550 calories, 34 grams of fat, and 13 grams of saturated fat.At Five Guys, a hamburger has 700 calories, 43 grams of fat, and 19.5 grams of fat.At Applebee’s, a hamburger has 780 calories, 50 grams of fat, and 18 grams of saturated fat while a mushroom swiss burger 1060 calories, 72 grams of fat, and 28 grams of saturated fat.
Since you want to try to keep your meals under 500 calories, try these hamburgers instead. A jr. hamburger at Wendy’s has 230 calories, 8 grams of fat, and 3 grams of saturated fat. In-and-Out as a “protein style” burger with no bun that has 240 calories, 17 grams of fat, and 4 grams saturated fat. A little hamburger at Five Guys has 480 calories, 26 grams of fat, and 11.5 grams of saturated fat.These calorie and fat counts don’t include fries, so stay away from those.

