 While the specific dollar amounts will change from wedding to wedding, more people will always lead to a more expensive wedding. Most catering companies charge couples per person for food and waiters, so more people require more tables, chairs, and a bigger room. On top of that every guest needs an invitation, save the date, and a party favor after the wedding. These costs will quickly pile up with every extra guest.


Additional costs for each guest can range from $80 per person (small, low-key wedding) to over $300 per person (extravagant wedding)., Much like when you are budgeting, you should start the invitation process by asking yourself how many people you want at the wedding. Small, intimate weddings usually invite anywhere from 20-50 guests (the average wedding has 140 guests or more), but you need to plan the number that works for you. Some things to keep in mind include:


Is this just for family and close friends, or should you invite aunts, uncles, and coworkers as well?
How many bridesmaids or groomsmen do you want? 2-3 of each will keep costs down.
Who do you "need" to invite? Should you really spend your special day with people you've only seen once or twice over the past year?

, You and your spouse should draft a list of the 10-15 people you strongly want to invite to the wedding. This will be your jumping off point for the invitation list and will usually contain parents, grandparents, the best man and the maid of honor. There will likely be some overlap between you and your spouse as well, which frees up space for other guests.


Keep this list as small as you can by reminding yourself "this is a small wedding." You want your time with people to be meaningful, not rushed.
 For a small wedding, creating personalized wedding invitations is not only easy, it lets your guest know that you care about them. Instead of spending money buying and printing costly invitations, purchase some nice stationery from your local art store and write out a simple invitation by hand.


Look online for ideas on how to customize your invitations, from adding decorations and pictures to writing messages or poems.
 A smaller wedding gives everyone the chance to get involved. You can afford to spend more time with everyone instead of rushing around the party, so get your guests involved in the wedding to keep them entertained and give your party and intimate, tight-knit feel. Ask you guests to:


Read a line from a prayer.
Submit pictures to a slideshow.
Pick 2-3 songs for the DJ to play.
Share a story of the bride and groom in a wedding book/video.