 Children with social anxiety disorder often struggle to participate in class and interact with peers. Since you can’t observe how your kids act at school, discussing your child’s in-school behaviors with their teachers can be valuable. Social anxiety may be a problem for your child if:


They do not participate in class by asking or answering questions, reading aloud, or writing on the board.
Reading or being called on causes them distress, which may look like blushing, crying, tantrums, refusal, or poor performance despite ability.They often sit alone in the cafeteria or library, and stay removed from peers at school.;
, Children with social phobia are generally exceedingly fearful of criticism and overly concerned with humiliation or embarrassment.Young children are probably unable to recognize and tell you that they have fearful thoughts, but consider statements like these as possible indications of social anxiety:


“What if I say the wrong thing?”
“I'm going to say something stupid.”
“They won't like me.”
“I’m an idiot.”
“People say I’m anxious.”, Children of all ages are constantly maturing socially. Fear of or refusal to socialize could indicate that your child is anxious about being around others, speaking with others, or being in a public environment. Invite friends over or take your child to play dates, and watch how they engage when around others. Social anxiety in children may appear as any of the following:


Refusing to go on a play date if a parent is not present, or asking a parent to be always available.Being extremely clingy to you physically when around others.
Refusing to initiate conversations, invite friends to hang out, or call, text or e-mail with others in their age group.Older children may stay home on weekends instead of hanging out with friends., Your child may feel so anxious speaking to others that they are unable to carry on a conversation.

When they do, they may speak very softly or mumble.Frequently, socially anxious children avoid eye contact with adults or peers.Behaviors can occur with people your child knows or with strangers.
 Performance type of social anxiety disorder is intense fear and anxiety about speaking or performing in public.This can occur at school, such as presenting a report to the class; during a music recital; or even playing a sport.


Sometimes children may be so anxious about performing that even eating in front of other people or ordering food at a restaurant causes stress.Using a public bathroom can incite anxiety for some children.,, Starting new activities can be one of the most challenging events for a socially anxious child, where they would be forced to encounter a new peer group and partake in a skill with which they are not comfortable. Refusing to try new activities is frequently seen with socially anxious children.
 For young children who are unable to verbally express their feelings, tantrums may be the most frequent expression of anxiety.A child’s fear might present as severe, prolonged crying or tantrums. If this is a common occurrence in your home, look especially hard for other signs of social anxiety disorder.


Tantrums related to anxiety can be misunderstood as oppositional or being “a difficult child.”