 For oily hair, one commonly household item is baby powder! Sprinkle some on top of your head, and rub through. This will absorb the oil.;
, If you have dry hair- olive oil with help you. Just add a couple drops to your shampoo and conditioner. Olive oil is also good for your nails. It makes your cuticles and nails soft. It will moisturize them, and prevent hang nails.
 For dry skin on your hands or feet, Vaseline comes in. Just slather it onto where ever the dry skin is, and put on socks or gloves while you sleep. When you wake up, take off the gloves, and wash your hands thoroughly.
 For beautiful skin, this may sound weird, but you can take a bath in beer. Believe it or not the vitamins in the yeast in the beer will really smooth out your skin. And also, if your hairs starting to look a little bit dull, an old trick is to shampoo with beer. It may sound weird but Cleopatra did this and she was one of the hottest women back then.
 If you have a favorite piece of jewelry that's turning your finger green, a cool method to stop this is clear nail polish. Just the clear coat. In smooth motions, just run the brush dipped in clear coat around the inside of the piece of jewelry and let dry.
 Apple Cider Vinegar is great for so many things, like sunburns, and say you went swimming in the pool and your hair turned green, this will help take this out.
 We all want white teeth, and two of the main ingredients in any whitening toothpaste is baking soda, and hydrogen peroxide. So why don't you try to mix together your own whitening toothpaste? It's way cheaper.
 Now you may have heard of putting mayonnaise in your hair, which is true, its totally going to make it smoother and softer and moisturize your hair, but it is also good for your skin. So if your skin is dull, and just not as hydrated, grab some mayonnaise from the fridge. It's also great as a face mask.
 Speaking of masks, did you know that egg whites make great masks? So take the egg whites and slather it all over your face and let it dry. It will get all tacky, and that's the white exfoliating and tightening your pours. Its going to make your skin look smooth and refreshed.


Another good mask is coffee. You can get coffee beans and grind them, or get the ground kind and just rub the coffee on your face. It will massage, and exfoliate. Just make sure you wash your face after wards.
 A lot of us suffer from acne and acne scars. And a good way to reduce these scars and acne is pineapple. Not only is it delicious, but its active insides and fun stuff including acid is going to reduce your scars if you rub it all over your face. Just take a fresh pineapple and cut it up and puree it until its kind of chunky. Then rub all over your face and leave on for a good 15-20 minutes. Do this at least once a week if you can and you will see great results.
 One way to deep condition your hair is to take any conditioner you have in your house and when using it, don't wash it out. Instead, leave your towel wrapped around your head or use a shower cap while you sleep. Then in the morning wash it out.
 Dryer sheets are good for so many things. If your hair is static-like, just take the sheet and kind of slide it down where the static is and it will reduce static. You can also put them in a drawer or closet to keep clothes smelling fresh.

