 Once you've shown enough interest in the girl and have flirted enough to make her think she has a chance, it's time for a turnaround. Slowly start talking about another girl, whether it's someone she knows or a random girl you keep calling "my really good friend" or "this girl I've known forever."


Find a way to mention the girl every few minutes. Don't do it every few seconds or it will be too annoying, but make it sound like you're constantly thinking of the other girl.
Find ways to complement the other girl. Without being too obnoxious, say things like, "She's like, my favorite person," or "She can get any guy she wants." Make the other girl feel inferior.
You can also make this person up. If you're a good liar, this "other girl" can be completely fictional.
Repeatedly say, "You should really meet her. I think you'd get along." This will drive the other girl crazy.
 Instead of just going on and on about another girl in your life, you should take the opportunity to talk about lots of other girls. Just make yourself sound like a ladies man who hangs out with a ton of cute girls whenever and wherever.


Mention a party you went to where there were so many amazing girls. You can even say that you were one of the few guys there but that it was okay -- you're used to it.
Talk about a fun weekend trip you took to the beach, and mention how all the girls you were with were wearing the most ridiculous bikinis.
Just mention "this one girl I was seeing" after another. Make it sound like you go on a ton of dates.
Just make sure not to sound gross or like a total player. The girl will lose interest if you make yourself out to be too much of a Lothario.
 While you're talking to the girl about being with other girls, your phone will be a great prop in making her jealous. Keep your phone handy and check it from time to time and even be prepared to answer it.


Check your phone from time to time and smile to yourself, as if you've just received a naughty message from a girl. Say, "Excuse me" and smile as you type back something that may be equally naughty.
Have your phone ring once while you're talking to the girl. Pick it up and say, "Hey, how are you? Can I call you back?" Don't overdo it and call the girl "honey" or "baby" over the phone. Just make it clear that you're talking to another sexy lady from the tone of your voice.
Don't overuse the phone tactic. A girl's patience will quickly wear if you spend all of your time on your phone.

