 Know that people with lighter-colored hair may have success with all types of chalk colors; those with darker hair may need brighter colors (neons come to mind) in order to truly have the chalk color stand out.


When choosing chalk, avoid:

Sidewalk chalk, as these are often too dusty
Oil-based pastel chalks, as these can stain clothing


Chalk dyeing won't be great for dyeing large portions of your hair. If you want to dip-dye your ends, or accentuate your hair with a little bit of color, chalk is the way to go. If you want to dye larger portions of your hair, know that it will take a lot of time and may not have the same effect as just doing highlights. Try these guides instead, or skip to the bottom section:

Traditional dyeing
Dyeing hair a bright or unnatural color
Dyeing hair using natural products

;
, You won't be able to style your hair after applying the chalk, so it's best to do that now.
 You don't need a lot of water; the more water, the less vibrant the chalk color in your hair will ultimately be.
, Dip a small piece of chalk in the lukewarm water. Take your paintbrush, dip it in the water on onto the wet chalk, soaking up water and color, and begin to paint the section of the hair you want dyed.









Smaller pieces of chalk work best, as you'll grab onto the chalk later on and run it through your hair. If you choose a small piece of chalk, remember to choose a small amount of water as well.
 Take the wet chalk and work it into the primed patches of hair you want dyed. The more you go over the area with the chalk, the brighter and more intense the color will get.









If you're dyeing entire strands of your hair, start at the root and work your way out to the ends.
 Dip-dye small amounts of your ends for a nice accent, or go for larger amounts of hair. Do whatever suits you best!








, Your chalk-dyed hair will stay vibrant until your next shower, and will not have damaged your hair. At the same time, be mindful of a few things:









Avoid brushing or combing, as this will remove much of the color.
Avoid wearing light-colored or expensive (or valued) tops with chalk-dyed hair; although most chalk will wash away just fine, some chalk may cause stains.
 If you want the color to stay in for a bit longer, straightening may be good. Before you straighten, however, blow-dry your hair lightly first and make sure your hair isn't too damp.
