 Look on the Internet or at the library. Find local organizations that offer Alzheimer's education. It will be difficult to face some facts, but you need to know what to expect.

There are 7 described stages to the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Many patients are not diagnosed until they have reached stage 4. Determine which stage the person is in, and what the symptoms are now and as the disease progresses.;
, A physician makes the diagnosis. Primary care physicians, neurologists, and psychiatrists are all very adept at making these diagnosis. Typically a MMSE (Mini Mental State Exam) is administered. PET scans and CAT scans are also done to rule out stroke as a cause of dementia (stroke caused dementia appears to have more step like decline in cognitive ability whereas Alzheimer's is a steady downward arc).

Although there is currently no cure for Alzheimer's, there are many medications (cholinesterase inhibitors) that will slow the progression of the disease, and in some cases, extend a patient's cognition longer than they would have had without medications. These medications include: Cholinesterase inhibitors: Aricept, Exelon, and Razadyne (a version of Reminyl). Cholinesterase inhibitors can be taken in very early to late stages of Alzheimer's. Namenda is a glutamate reducer that is taken as adjunctive therapy to cholinesterase inhibitors in moderate to late stage Alzheimer's
Alzheimer's patients live an average of 8 years after diagnosis. Some patients will survive only 3 years, and others survive up to 20 years.
 Once you are aware of how Alzheimer's disease may affect this person, think ahead and be ready for the changes that will follow, both in the short term and in the long run. You will need to prepare both materially and emotionally. Eventually, you will probably need to do the following: assist with toileting and personal hygiene; adapt mealtime rituals to suit their condition; and obtain a wheelchair when mobility becomes a problem., Make changes in your home that will protect the person you are caring for. Limit access to dangerous areas and medicine cabinets. Install child-safety locks and automatic shut-off devices. Install grab-bars in the bath. It may become necessary to take measures that will prevent them from leaving the house and wandering off., Your loved one may forget names for common objects. It will not help to reprimand. A person with dementia will not benefit from an argument. Offer love, emotional support, spiritual support, interesting activities, and social interaction with understanding people., A sufferer of Alzheimer's will lose the ability to perform complex tasks, then later, even simple tasks. The sleep-wake cycle will become disrupted, keeping you up some nights. They may suffer hallucinations, even the delusion that you are an enemy or impostor. Remember: As a caregiver, you are assisting a person—not a disease. Try to treat this person as you, yourself, would like to be treated., Enjoy sharing memories from the person's past for as long as you and they are able. As the person with AD is losing their capacity to retain or learn new information, talking about their past may enable them to revisit happier times., Although a person with Alzheimer's Disease may not be able to say who you are, or recognize even the closest relatives or friends, often their feelings can be expressed through interactions geared towards their current capabilities. Almost everyone is capable of receiving love and kindness., Try to maintain a sense of compassion, humor, and a willingness to learn new strategies to assist the person with AD, as well as yourself. The person with Alzheimer's Disease (and you, as their caregiver) will experience many changes over the course of time. This can be frightening and requires flexibility. You are both experiencing unknown territories. Be kind to the person with AD and yourself.

Most of the pharmaceutical manufacturers have programs for elderly individuals that cannot afford their medications.
Never make a promise that should not be kept. The best option for some patients is residence in a skilled nursing facility. They can provide health care and supervision that is not possible in your home.
Keep in mind that other family members and friends will want to help you with your difficult task. All you have to do is ask, and the worst that they could do is say no. Caregiving is very stressful and you'll need all the help that you can get.
Consider attending a caregiver support group such as is offered by organizations like the Alzheimer's Association.
Contact your local Area Agency on Aging through the Eldercare Locator 1-800-677-1116 or www.eldercare.gov to find out about free caregiver support services.
You could also write down a list or a guide to help you with every day things and or tasks.

