 You can get it for free from the Play Store. Here’s how:

Open the Play Store. It’s the white briefcase icon with a multicolored flag on the home screen or in the app drawer.
Search for bitmoji in the search bar at the top of the screen, then select Bitmoji – Your Personal Emoji from the search results.
Tap Install. When the app is installed, the “Install” button will change to “Open.”;
, Tap Open on the installation screen, or tap the green chat bubble with a winking face in the app drawer., If you’ve already signed up for Bitmoji, tap Log In to sign in with your username and password. Otherwise, tap Sign Up With Email and follow the on-screen instructions to create your account., Now’s your chance to be creative:

Tap the gender of your choice.
Choose either Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style for your character. Bitmoji characters have rounder features and look more like cartoons. Bitstrips-style is more customizable and look more realistic.
Start by selecting a facial shape, then tap the arrow button to move to the next step. As you make selections, your character’s preview will update. After the final step, you’ll see a screen that says “Save & Pick Outfit.”
Tap Save & Pick Outfit to show the outfit screen. Tap the outfit of your choice, then tap the white circle with an arrow at the top-right corner of the screen to save.


Open your Android’s Settings. It’s the gray gear icon in the app drawer.
Scroll down and tap Language and Input.
Tap Current Keyboard under “Keyboard & input methods.”
Tap Choose Keyboards.
Slide the “Bitmoji Keyboard” switch to the On (green) position.
Tap OK to accept the security warning. You need not worry about Bitmoji harvesting your passwords.The keyboard is ready.
 It’s the blue icon with a white “f” in the app drawer., Here’s how:

Create a new Facebook post.
Tap the text area to open the keyboard.
Tap and hold the globe icon at the bottom of the keyboard. You’ll see a pop-up with a list of keyboards.
Select Bitmoji Keyboard.
Tap a Bitmoji to add it to your post.
 This is a little trickier than adding Bitmoji to a new post.Open the Bitmoji app (the green chat bubble icon with a winking face in the app drawer).
Select a Bitmoji.
Tap Save. It’s at the bottom of the screen at the end of the list.
Go to the Facebook post on which you want to comment.
Tap the camera icon next to the comment box and select your Bitmoji image. When you post your comment, your Bitmoji will appear.

