 If you suspect your employer might fire you because you've filed for bankruptcy, you have an uphill battle – particularly if at-will employment laws apply to your position.Start saving copies of any performance reviews or positive comments you get, including emails or notes from supervisors or managers.
You also might keep a log and make entries each day to record positive experiences or statements from supervisors or coworkers.
Essentially, what you're doing is creating a record that will demonstrate that your employer had no reason to fire you except the fact that you filed for bankruptcy.
Protection from discrimination extends to other actions by your employer as well, even if those actions fall short of termination. For example, if you were due a raise or were in line for a promotion, your employer can't deny those just because you filed for bankruptcy.
There is an exception to this if you happen to work in the financial industry. Banks, investment firms, or other financial institutions can take your bankruptcy into account when considering you for a raise or a promotion.
 If your employer does fire you, talking about it with coworkers can confirm your suspicions that your termination was bankruptcy-related. In the event you decide to sue your employer, a few witnesses can strengthen your case.To go along with your strong performance record, you're going to need some indication that your employer terminated you because you filed for bankruptcy. This isn't typically something that your boss is going to say to your face.
However, comments may have been made to someone else, or a coworker may have seen emails or other correspondence that discussed the issue.
Take care not to rely on mere rumor. Try to get directly to the source – the person to whom the statements were made, rather than someone who heard about it from someone else.
Take detailed notes of coworker statements that you think might be helpful in a lawsuit, and ask if they would be willing to testify on your behalf. If they are, take down their name and phone number for future reference.
 Wrongful termination lawsuits are extremely complex and difficult to prove. Find an experienced employment law attorney and lay out your case for them so you can decide if you want to sue.Not only will you be filing your case in federal court (which has complex rules that can be difficult for a layperson to understand or intuit), but proving bankruptcy discrimination is incredibly difficult.
An experienced employment attorney will understand the types of proof you need and where you can possibly get them.
If your bankruptcy case is still pending and you've already hired a bankruptcy attorney, ask them for a recommendation.
Your wrongful termination case may intersect with your bankruptcy case, so it will be helpful if you have two attorneys who know and respect each other.
Employment law attorneys typically offer a free initial consultation, so it shouldn't cost you anything to at least talk to someone. Given your current financial situation, they should be willing to work with you on fees and may take your case on contingency.
 Particularly if your bankruptcy is still pending, you must notify the bankruptcy court if you intend to sue your former employer for wrongful termination. Any recovery you get typically will be factored into your assets for the purposes of your bankruptcy.If you fail to notify the court of your claim – even if it's only at this stage a potential claim – against your employer, you run the risk that your bankruptcy case could be dismissed.
This rule applies even if you haven't technically decided whether you're going to file suit or not, so it needs to be taken care of as quickly as possible.
Talk to your bankruptcy attorney (if you've hired one) about your plans to sue your former employer for wrongful termination, and see what they say. They should be able to take care of this obligation for you.
 If you've decided to file suit, your attorney will work with you to draft a complaint suing your employer for wrongful termination. Since your case is based in federal law, it must be filed in the federal district court with jurisdiction over your employer.Your complaint will identify you and your former employer, and set forth factual allegations that, if proven, would constitute discrimination against you on the basis of the fact that you filed for bankruptcy, in violation of federal law.
Your attorney will work with you to decide the damages for which you should ask the court.
When your lawsuit is filed, you'll be responsible for paying a $400 filing fee. Your attorney may pay this and add it to your bill, or help you apply to have the fee waived.
Once you've filed your lawsuit, you must have it served on your former employer. This typically means you'll have a U.S. marshal hand-deliver the complaint to your former employer (or their attorney or representative).
After service, your employer has a brief period of time to respond. Expect them to deny your allegations and potentially file a motion to dismiss.
 After the pleadings have all been filed and you've overcome any motion to dismiss filed by your former employer, the discovery process will begin. Through this process, you and your employer will exchange documents and information relevant to your case.One method of discovery which may be particularly helpful in proving your former employer's motivations in terminating you is requests for production.
You can ask for copies of your former employer's communications regarding your termination, your personnel file, and any other related policy documents.
Your attorney also will likely want to depose the person or people responsible for your termination. A deposition is a live interview under oath that is recorded by a court reporter, who produces a written transcript.
Your former employer's attorney likely will want to depose you as well. Your attorney will help prepare you for your deposition.
 Many federal courts require litigants to attempt mediation before they can proceed to trial. Even if it isn't required in your case, mediation may enable a quicker and simpler resolution to your claim.In mediation, a neutral third party facilitates negotiations between you and your former employer that hopefully lead to a mutually agreeable settlement.
The outcome of mediation is completely voluntary. That is, no agreement is forced on you. If you and your former employer cannot come to agreement, no agreement will be made and your case will proceed to trial.
On the other hand, if you and your former employer are able to reach a mutually agreeable resolution, the terms will be set forth in a written agreement.
Once you both sign the written settlement agreement, its terms will be legally binding on both parties. Make sure you read it carefully and understand everything in it before you sign.

