 If you aren’t counting calories yet on Volumetrics, then just make sure that fat makes up about 1/4 of what you consume every day.;
, Adding a little fat to your Volumetrics meals will help you to feel more full, especially when coupled with the larger volume of fruits and vegetables that you are eating. It will also help your body tone up better as you lose fat and water so that you don’t look as giggly (it’s not a substitute for exercise, but the plant-based fat does help improve the consistency of your flesh as you lose the weight).


Use olive and canola oil when you make salad dressing. You should start both your Volumetrics lunch and dinner with either soup or some salad.
Sprinkle nuts and seeds (no more than 1 tablespoon) on your salad.
Eat avocados in moderation. Avocados are high in both nutrients and monounsaturated fats, which are very heart healthy.
 Saturated fat is found in many fatty cuts of red meat or in fatty cheeses and butter. Many foods that contain saturated fat also have a high calorie density, which means they should only be consumed in limited amounts.
 Trans fats, like partially hydrogenated oils, are designed to keep products shelf stable at room temperature. However, these fats are also extremely harmful. Avoid products like margarine and processed foods that contain trans fats.
 Deciding what matters and what doesn’t in terms of fat will help you to make decisions that work for your own dietary preferences. Because you cannot eat many foods with high calorie density, you will have to make some trade-offs concerning when you consume fat.


Eat leaner cuts of meat and then you can put more cream in your coffee.
Enjoy low-fat cheese so that you can have a full-fat salad dressing.
 You’ll still enjoy substantial flavor in your food while keeping your meal’s calorie density low.


Try different cooking methods, like roasting, grilling and broiling.
Cook foods in broth or wine to add flavor without adding fat.
Herbs, spices diced flavorful vegetables and citrus juices and zest, as well as vinegars also add big flavor without adding fat.
 With larger portions of fruits and vegetables, for example, you can feel full without the fat, which is at the heart of the Volumetrics philosophy.



Learn to cook with yogurt or with reduced-fat sour cream.
Try pureeing vegetables or potatoes for a creamy texture without the fat. You can also use these purees in place of fat in many dishes.

