 Oats contain a very unique compound called avenanthramides. This compound is known for its anti-inflammatory properties. This means that oats can reduce the inflammation caused by acne, and help prevent it in the future. One great way to use oats is by trying an oatmeal mask.To make an oatmeal mask:


Cook a half cup of regular oatmeal. You can add 2 to 3 teaspoons of honey to the oatmeal because honey has antiseptic qualities.
Let the oatmeal cool down and then apply it to the spots on your face where you tend to get acne. Wear the oatmeal mixture for 30 minutes.
Rinse your face with warm water and pat it dry with a clean towel. Repeat this process as necessary.
 Baking soda contains sodium bicarbonate, which can reduce inflammation and clean out existing pimples. For facial acne, you can try a baking soda mask. If you are dealing with acne on different parts of your body, try a baking soda bath.



To draw a baking soda bath: Fill your bath-tub with warm water. Do not use hot water because hot water can make your skin dry out. Add one cup of baking soda to your bathwater. Soak in the baking soda bath for 15 to 20 minutes.

Try a baking soda mask: Wash your face with warm water. Take eight teaspoons of baking soda and mix it with a cup of water and stir the ingredients until they form a relatively thick paste. Apply the mixture to your acne and let it sit on your skin for about 15 minutes. Rinse your face off with water and pat it dry.
 The gram flour removes excess oil from the skin and turmeric acts as an antiseptic as well as a natural healing agent. Replace gram flour with fine wheat flour, if your skin is very dry. Mix two tablespoon of gram flour, half a teaspoon of turmeric and 2 tbsp. of water. Wash and scrub with this smooth, gentle, antiseptic, natural cleanser.


Add a teaspoon of olive oil to the mixture if your skin is overly dry.
 Honey has antiseptic, anti-inflammatory properties that can help reduce inflammation and clean acne-prone areas. It is also a natural healing agent that can help clear up acne scars while keeping your face germ-free.Wash your hands and face. Use your clean fingertips to apply honey to each pimple. Repeat twice a day or as necessary.
 Your skin can break out in acne when it gets too dehydrated, as well as when it gets too oily. Cucumber can help to keep your skin hydrated as it has one of the highest water contents of any food. To make a cucumber paste:


Take half of a small cucumber (skin on) and reduce it to a paste in the blender or food processor. Apply the cucumber paste to your skin and let it sit there for 20 to 30 minutes. Wash it off with warm water.

