 As hard as it may be to block people from your life, hateful people are only going to bring negativity. Distance yourself from them and instead focus on positive relationships.

Set boundaries with people who bring negativity to your life. Don't answer their phone calls or texts, and avoid making plans with them.
Regularly call, text, and visit with the people who are positive influences in your life.;
, Learn to love yourself first and foremost. If you don’t feel confident in yourself, then everyone’s opinions about you tend to matter more than they should. Learn to accept yourself fully as you are. Confront any parts of yourself you feel ashamed of and learn to extend love to all of yourself.When you fully love yourself, the opinions of others matter less and less.
People only take the hate they receive from others personally if they believe that it may be true on some level. You may secretly feel that way about yourself. You can work through these issues with a therapist or a self-help book.
 Whether you need to vent your frustrations, talk about your problems, or ask for a hug, know that you can go to family and friends for support. They don’t have to fix your problems or even offer solutions, they just have to be good listeners. If possible, make time together in-person instead of over the phone or through email or text.Choose people who readily listen and offer support. If you have a friend that tends to talk about themselves a lot, go to someone else for this.
 If you feel like your haters are getting you down, set your mind on happier things. Think positively and approach unpleasant situations in a productive way. Practice positive self-talk and surround yourself with other positive people.You should also create a positive living environment for yourself, such as a clean home that is decorated in a way that you like.If you struggle to use positive thinking, try thinking about how you speak to yourself. Don't say anything to yourself you wouldn’t say to a close friend. For example, you wouldn’t tell your friend that they are dumb or not good enough for a job.
Thinking positively doesn’t mean ignoring bad things or pretending like things don’t bother you. It just means expanding positive influences in your life and putting your attention there.
 If you’re having a hard time dealing with stress, try calming and relaxing activities. Calmly releasing your emotions instead of bottling them up can help you get along better with others and feel more peace. Practice relaxation exercises like daily yoga and qi gong and meditation.


Do something relaxing for 30 minutes each day. It can help you cope with stress without it building up.
Spend some time in nature. Not only will activities such as walking, hiking, biking, or running clear your mind, they will also help decrease cortisol.
 Be the kind of person people look up to and respect. If people are spreading hate about you, be purposeful in spreading kindness toward others. Treat people kindly, even if they are rude or mean to you. You don’t need to become a doormat, you just need to respond in gentle and kind ways.If someone is speaking harshly to you, speak kindly back. Don’t raise your voice and don’t say mean things.
Offer to help people in need. This might include giving food to a homeless person or offering to babysit for a frazzled friend.
 If you’re struggling to cope with the hatred and are having a hard time on your own, try talking to a therapist. A therapist can help you make sense of what you’re thinking and feeling. They can also help you learn ways to cope with your feelings in a safe and effective way. Your therapist will listen to you, support you, and give you feedback.Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also obtain a recommendation from a friend, family member, or physician.

