 Use a rear-facing seat for an infant under 20 lbs. (9 kg). Buy a front-facing seat for a toddler between 20 and 40 lbs. (9-18 kg). Purchase a booster seat for a child between 40 and 80 lbs. (18-36 kg) and under 4 feet 9 inches (145 cm) tall.

Never place children in front-facing car seats or booster seats in the front seat unless the passenger-side airbag is turned off. Infants should always go in the back seat., Look for a lever on the side of the seat facing the car door. In most models, lift it up to straighten the seat. Raise the seat back to a 90-degree angle., Read your the car seat user's manual and follow the installation instructions. Depending on the style and model of your car seat, you might need accessories, such as a universal anchorage strap or a locking clip. If they don't come with the seat, consult your manual or he company website for information on ordering them., Insert the base first. Lace the bottom part of the seat belt through the belt path on the seat base. Fasten the seat belt and press the base firmly into the backseat. Finally, lock the carrier into the base.

Untwist the belt, if necessary, before fastening the seatbelt., Untwist the seat belt, if necessary. Thread the belt through the belt path on the car seat. Fasten the belt and press the car seat into the seat cushion to tighten the car seat. Make sure you can't move it more than 1 inch (2.5 cm). Read your user's manual for further instructions., Buckle the child into the seat according to the instructions in your user's manual. Seats for infants and toddlers usually have a tripartite harness that secures the child's shoulders, torso, and lap. Booster seats typically depend on car seat belts entirely., Wait until the child is in the seat. Untwist the seat belt, if necessary. Then, bring it across the child's body and fasten it. Make sure the shoulder strap rests against the child's chest and that the lower belt rests on the tops of their thighs. Keep it away from their abdomen or throat.If the booster seat has armrests, keep the lower belt below them.