 Be genuinely interested in what he has to say and practice active listening so that he knows you are hearing and understanding him.Smile and nod as he is speaking to acknowledge that you are hearing him and encourage him to continue talking.
Focus on what he is saying instead of how you are going to respond.
Avoid interrupting him or directing the conversation off of him and onto yourself or your perspective.
Repeat what he has said back to him using phrases like, "What I hear you saying, is..."

, In a relationship, men fear being laughed at as much as women fear rape and murder.While you certainly can laugh at his amazing sense of humor, this should make him feel smart and funny. Never tear him down or belittle him, but show support and respect.
 Allow him to spend time following his passions and dreams. Celebrate his successes and help him through the hard times. If you prove you are there for him, you will be the one he turns to in these extreme times, and the one he wants to share these life events with.
 Understand that he may want to spend time with friends and that this does not discount your relationship. Beware of projecting a problem onto the other person. This happens when, instead of dealing with our own internal anxiety or paranoia, we externalize that problem and blame the other person.Ask yourself if these thoughts and feelings are justified.
Find the root of where the problem is coming from.
Reassure yourself that this is your own problem, and that means you can control it.
 Everything is not always going to be perfect. Relationships get hard and life is even harder. When he is going through a hard time, handle it with calm comfort. When the two of you run into trouble, address it calmly and head on.


Make him feel safe to address a conflict with you and not fear that you will hold it against him. Don't tear him down or attack him for expressing his thoughts.Be open to the conversation and possible solutions rather than insisting that you are right., Don’t try to change him. This doesn’t really work and we should not want to change someone we truly care about. Both of you may make sacrifices along the way, but none should be forced on the other person.
 Being with you should make him want to be a better person. Keep doing all of the impressive things you are good at, which make you an incredible human being. Set goals and go for them. Watching you achieve your goals will be an inspiration as you encourage him to achieve his own.

