 Many teachers and administrators prefer that students use the restroom on their own time. Visiting the restroom during passing time and throughout lunch time, teachers argue, increases the amount of time students are present in the classroom. While some students can manage to do this, others simply don't have time in between their classes.


If you have enough time in between classes, make an effort to use the restroom before your next class starts. Teachers will appreciate that you took care of this need prior to entering their class.
If your passing times are extremely short or your classes are really far apart, do your best to fit in visits to the restroom between classes. If you simply don't have enough time, ask your teacher for permission to use the bathroom during class., When you need to use the restroom, your teacher may allow you leave the classroom without asking for permission. Instead, they may simply require you to sign-in and sign-out of the classroom when you need to go to the bathroom. This sign-in/out sheet is usually located near the classroom door.


Quietly get up from your seat and walk to the sign-in/sign-out sheet.
Fill out your name, the date, the time, and where you are going.
If your teacher requires you to take a pre-printed pass, grab one before exiting the room.
When you return from the bathroom, sign-in and write down the time you returned.
Go back to your seat without disturbing the class., Some teachers have a classroom bathroom pass that they require students to take with them to and from the restroom. This form of pass is often less disruptive to the entire class. Students may take these community passes without asking permission to use the restroom and the teacher is not required to sign any passes.


When you need to use the bathroom, get out of your seat quietly and walk to the classroom restroom passes.
Grab the pass and take it with you to the restroom.
When you return to class, put the pass back and return to your seat.
If you get up to use the bathroom while your teacher is talking or giving instructions, they may ask you to wait a moment.
 In some classrooms, teachers use a sign to let students know exactly when it is and is not a good time to use the bathroom. One side of the sign may read: “You may use the bathroom without asking permission.” The opposite side of the sign may read: “Please wait to use the restroom. If it is an emergency, let me know.”


When the sign says, “You may use the bathroom without asking permission,” get up from your seat quietly and walk to the bathroom. After using the restroom, return to your seat quietly.
When the sign reads, “Please wait to use the restroom. If it is an emergency, let me know,” wait patiently for your teacher to flip the sign. If you are having an emergency, notify your teacher immediately.