 You will be using the oven's heat to set the curl in the ribbon., Choose a 3/8-inch (9.5-millimeter) wide grosgrain ribbon and a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter dowel. Wrap the ribbon in a spiral around the dowel. Secure both ends of the ribbon to the dowel with wooden clothespins.#* The edges of the ribbon can touch, but don't let them overlap. The closer together the wraps are, the tighter your curls will be. The further apart they are, the looser the curls will be.Choose a dowel that is about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) long.. This ensures that it will fit on your baking sheet.
 This will give you a nice, full korker bow.For an extra-full bow, you could make 6 more dowels. You can use the same color of ribbon for each dowel, or experiment with different colors and patterns.
 Cover a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Set the dowels down onto the baking sheet. Don't let the ribbon part touch the sheet, or the ribbon may scorch.


Some people find that dampening the ribbons with water helps the ribbons hold their curl better., As the ribbons bake, they will conform to the shape of the dowel, and hold their curl. If you want crisper curls, spray the ribbons with clothing starch just after you take them out of the oven., Pull off the clothespins first. In most cases, you should be able to slide the curls off of the dowels. If you can't, carefully unwind them. The ribbons should spring back into shape.
 Cut them at angles by keeping your scissors parallel to the ribbons. This way, the ends of the ribbon will be angled and not stick out randomly. You want a total of 30 to 36 curls., This will help prevent fraying. The easiest way to do this is to hold the ends over a flame for a few seconds. If you are nervous around fire, you can use fray check instead.


Use a tea light or a pillar candle as your flame source. They are sturdy and less likely to tip over.
Keep a bowl or cup of water nearby in case of accidents.
 Something between 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) long would be ideal.Orient the elastic horizontally.


If you can't find thin elastic, a piece of string or thread would also do.
 Orient them vertically so that they lay across the elastic. You can pile them in whatever order you want, but make sure that they are even on both ends.
 Pull both ends of the elastic together, then overlap them and tie them into a tight knot. The ribbon curls will gather in the center, and flare out at the ends.
 There is a chance that some ends of the ribbons ended up shorter/longer than others. If this happened, gently tug on the shorter ends until they are all the same length., The square knot is very similar to a double knot, but instead of doing the same knot twice, you reverse it. Cross the left elastic over the right, and tie it into a knot. Cross the right elastic over the left, and tie it into a second knot., The ribbon needs to be twice the length of your clip, plus an extra 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). You will be covering the top of your clip, then folding the rest of the ribbon instead. The excess ribbon will cover the clasp. You can use any color of ribbon you want for this, but it needs to be the same width as your clip., While not completely necessary, this will help keep your ribbon from fraying. Hold one end of the ribbon over a flame until the end melts. Repeat for the other end. , Turn your clip so that the top is facing away from you. Pinch the clip open. Run a line of hot glue along the underside of the top piece. Quickly press the ribbon into the glue.
 Turn your clip so that the top is facing you. Run a line of hot glue along the top piece. Press the ribbon into the glue.
 Turn the clip so that the bottom is facing you. Place a dot of glue on the bottom edge, on the same side that the clasp is on. Fold the ribbon over the clasp and press the end into the glue. This will cover the clasp on the back of the clip.If there is any ribbon that did not get glued down, secure it with more hot glue.
 Make a small mound of hot glue in the center of your clip. Find the side of your bow with the square knot, and press it into the glue.