 Your boyfriend is with you because he likes you, not some phony person that you're trying to be. So, be yourself. He obviously likes what he's seen so far, otherwise he wouldn't be bothering to spend time with you. Just relax and try to enjoy the time you spend together.;
, This should be one of the first topics you bring up when you see him. It makes you sound as though you're interested in him, and shows that you're not a self-absorbed egomaniac. Also, he may bring up a topic that will turn into good conversation. Build on what he says, making sure to ask questions and keep your focus on the subject at hand.
 Although you don't always want to be talking about yourself, it's important for him to get to know you properly. It'll give him an insight into what you're really like, what you're passionate about, what you enjoy and what you abhor. Also, it'll help you to find things that you have in common. Voice your opinions on current affairs, discuss your hobbies, mention things you like doing at school/work.
 Ask him about himself. Try to talk about things he is interested in. If he's a jock, talk about sports. If he's into the arts, try music. Keep the conversation as much on what he likes as what you like. Don't pretend that you're interested in things if you're not, though, and have your own opinion on the subject--don't automatically subscribe to his. You want him to get to know you as much as you want to get to know him.


Remember things that he's told you so that you can relate them to other topics. Eventually it should come naturally so that you can easily create a conversation that you know will interest him, but first you need to really get to know him.
 (Or movie, or TV show, or game. The list goes on and on.) These kinds of topics can lead to a long conversation because once you talk about one thing, e.g. a movie, it can lead to something similar, such as a film of the same genre, or a book that should be made into a movie.
 Smiling automatically eases the conversation, so it won't be nearly as awkward. Have a laugh, choose a light topic, like a joke from a comedian you saw on TV last night or something funny that happened to you and your friends. This will relax you both and help the conversation to flow more naturally.
 It shows that you're interested, and you want to hear what he has to say. That doesn't mean you should be staring directly into his eyes the whole time; employ quick but meaningful glances to show that you're genuinely interested. Also, eye contact is one of the most powerful tools you have when flirting or trying to attract someone.
 Do things that you'll be able to talk about. Try starting a so you can talk about how that's going, or catch up on current affairs so that you can talk about what's going on in the world. This will provide for intelligent conversation, as opposed to gossip, which can be fun but gets boring quickly (especially for guys).
 Seeing as he's your boyfriend you probably spend a lot of time together, and there will be times when you run out of conversation, but there's no need to panic. There's nothing wrong with grabbing his hand and walking along without speaking for awhile.


If there is an awkward moment, don't stress or make pointless conversation. You can give him a kiss or hug. Or you could talk about your surroundings--if you're walking down the street there will probably be something in a shop window, someone with a strange outfit, a new trend going on, a nice restaurant or something like that to talk about to fill the gap.
 This can be quite nerve-wracking, but it's actually quite important if you want your relationship to move forward. You could ask questions about your partner's past, such as ex-girlfriends, but only as long as you're not going to get impractically jealous or paranoid about them. You can talk about plans for the two of you, long or short term (for example, what you want to do on the weekend, or how long you want to be together). Bear in mind, it's better to hold off talking about the distant future until you've been together for at least several months, otherwise you'll scare him away.
 If you crowd each other too much then you really can run out of things to talk about, especially if you don't know each other well enough. If you find that you're getting bored then give it a few days until you next see him. By then there will almost certainly be something to talk about!

, Your boyfriend should be willing to sit and talk with you if you're truly upset, but whining for hours on end about how MAC discontinued your favorite shade of nail polish is petty and annoying. As for gossip, keep it light and only resort to it if you absolutely need to.

