 The one-inch punch is thusly named because the punch is thrown from an inch - actually, three to six inches, if you count the width of your fist. To execute the punch, it's necessary to be quite close to the person or object you're punching. Gauge the distance by stretching out your arm toward your target; your elbow should be slightly bent at a bit less than a 45-degree angle.


If you can straighten your arm without touching it, you're too far away; you'll have to lunge forward to hit your target, which will take away from the force of your punch. Move a little closer.
If your elbow is bent at a right angle, or close to it, you need to step back a bit.
The term "one-inch" is actually an estimate here. The point is to punch from a very close distance, not from exactly one inch.
After practicing the punch a few times, you should be able to figure out the right distance from your target without having to extend your arm beforehand.;
, If you're going to punch with your right hand, your right foot should be pointed toward the space between your target's feet, and if you're going to punch with your left hand, put your left foot forward. Bend your knee comfortably and stand with your torso centered.









Don't point your toe to the left or right of your target; it should be pointed straight ahead.
Don't lean forward toward the target, as this will prevent you from being able to punch as hard.
 If you're going to punch with your right hand, your left foot should be slightly behind your center of gravity, and if you're going to punch with your left hand, your right foot should be placed slightly back. You'll use it to spring slightly forward when you throw your punch.









Be sure your torso is centered, rather than leaning forward or backward.
 It should be within an inch or two of your target - either a punching bag or a person's chest. Note that trying to punch below chest level is a lot more difficult. You'll get the best power if you punch in a line from your chest to someone else's.
 Hold your hand so that your fingers fold over your palm. They should be pointing toward your wrist. Grip your thumb over your forefinger. Your fist should be firm, but not too tight. If you're too stiff, you won't have the flexibility you need to punch with force.









If you're trying to take someone by surprise, you want to make a fist right at the last second. You can fake someone out by holding your non-punching hand in a fist and cocking it backward; they'll be watching that hand instead of the one that's about to go for the punch.
 Synchronize your arm and body movements so that your punch has as much power as possible.Throw your hips and weight into the punch. Even though your force is being exerted from a very short distance, you be sure to punch, not push, the target. When you connect with the target, your hand should spring backward, rather than continuing to travel forward in a pushing motion.
 This upward flick of the wrist is an essential part of the one-two punch movement, and it's what distinguishes this punch from the others. When you flick your wrist, your thumb should tilt up. Think of the motion you'd use to yank on a fishing pole when a fish has just bitten the line.









Make sure your wrist doesn't weave from right to left as you punch. You want to flick it up and straight toward your target.
 A way of checking how much power you are putting into the punch is to have a buddy hold something soft, such as a phone book, over his or her chest (not over the heart). A powerful punch will knock the person off balance.








