 When doing this, it's alright if there are some ties. Sometimes, you won't be able to choose one interest over another. The interest ranked topmost will be your primary interest. Lower ranked interests can become hobbies and free time activities.


If you have a tie for the top spot on your list, write out the pros and cons for each interest involved in the tie to determine which takes first place.
Your interests may change over time. This ranking is just a way to give yourself some direction so you can focus on careers with high potential.
Ranking your interests is also helpful should your interests change. For example, after student teaching you may have discovered that you're not suited to teaching. In this case, you might use the interest ranked below teaching to guide your work choices.;
, Aptitude, or skill, does not necessarily mean that you'll find the work enjoyable or interesting. However, these kinds of tests can show you where your strengths lie, like whether you have a knack for linguistic, mathematical, or mechanical jobs.


You can find some free aptitude tests online, though these are often offered through guidance counseling programs or career resource centers at schools.
Not only can you usually get an aptitude test at these places, you can talk to a professional guidance counselor to get some additional direction., Online classified ads, like Craigslist or ebay classifieds, often break down jobs according to group and then list postings for new jobs.On sites like these, you can select a field that interests you, and use jobs within that field to help you in your search, like:


Administration, which could involve jobs such as secretary, executive assistant, data entry, receptionist, and so on.
Hospitality, which could involve jobs such as hotel desk worker, concierge, host/hostess, and so on.
Security, which could involve jobs such as doorman, security guard, nightwatchman, doorman, and so on.
 Write out your interests in several different columns on a piece of paper. Under these columns, write any jobs you can think of that involve the interest heading each column. For example:


In the column "fashion and style," you might list designer, stylist, personal shopper, salesperson, tattoo artist, and so on.
In the column "gaming," you might list game designer, programmer, board game developer, video game copywriter, and more.
In the column "sports," you might list sports therapist, massage therapist, personal trainer, athlete, sports writer, and others.
 You might not be able to include all of your interests in your chosen career, but you may find your work more fulfilling if it incorporates several interests. Take a piece of paper and group similar interests together, then list potential jobs that use these. For example:


If you have good leadership skills and enjoy working with people, you might consider jobs like manager, team lead, or departmental director.
If you have a knack for finance and skill with numbers, you might like working such jobs as accountant, financial planner, or banker.
 Oftentimes, adults and friends can see things that you might not be able to. People like parents, siblings, teachers, counselors, and long time friends may have a career in mind they think would be perfect for you. Try asking things like,


"Hey mom. Now that I'm a junior, I've been thinking a lot about what I'm going to do for a career. I have so many interests, I can't pick. What do you think I should do?"
"Mr. Smith, I have a lot of fun in your English class, but I don't want to be a teacher. What careers would be available to me if I majored in English?"
"Sally, you're my big sis. I'm freaking out about what I'm going to do with the rest of my life. You seem to have a pretty good idea. Do you have any advice for me?"

