 If you are interested, smile at him, and if he says something funny, laugh. Put down your phone, and make eye contact while you are talking. You're not just being superficial. Rather, you're showing him you're interested in him, just as he's interested in you.Also, the brain perceives the smiles of other people as a reward. In other words, when you smile at someone, their brain processes that as a reward. If you want to encourage someone who's flirting with you, a smile is a good place to start.;
, If he's just smiling at you, don't be afraid to say hello if you want to talk to him more. If he’s asking you questions, respond in such a way that leaves room for more conversation. You want to open the conversation, so he understands that you find him interesting.One way to encourage him to start talking is to ask him his opinion about something. For instance, ask what he thinks of the restaurant, what he's eating, or even a question about the team playing on television behind you.
Make questions open-ended. Asking a simple yes-or-no question will get you a simple yes-or-no answer. An open ended question requires more than a simple yes or no to answer it. For instance, asking "Do you like the wine?" is a yes-or-no question. Asking "What do you like about that wine?" requires that he provide a deeper answer.
 If he’s been flirting with you, he’s most likely said some nice things to you, so return the favor. Everyone likes to hear nice things about themselves, and guys are no exception. Plus, giving him a compliment back lets him know you're interested.Keep it honest. Try to look for something you can sincerely compliment him on, and make it specific. For example, "You're handsome," is pretty general. "Your smile lights up the room," is much more specific.
Don't stick to just good looks. Complimenting his brain can be just as flirtatious. For example, you could say, "What an insightful comment. You seem like a really smart guy."

, It's not enough just to open up the conversation. You also have a responsibility to help keep it going. If you keep talking, you show you're interested in his flirting and him as a potential date.


Try digging a little deeper. Ask about what interests him. See if he has any interesting hobbies or if he has pets.
Ask about his job or what he likes to do outside of work. Use anything to keep the conversation going., As your showing interest, your body says a lot about how you feel, too. If you like someone, you will probably use some unconscious body language to tell the person that, but you can also be conscious of what your body is saying, too.For instance, you don't want to use closed-off body language, such as crossing your arms or legs and turning your body away from the person.
Leaning in, touching the other person, adopting open body language, and smiling are all ways of encouraging interest.

