 Ideally, prenatal planning should begin long before becoming pregnant to minimize pregnancy complications and to allow for any medication changes.However, it is generally not recommended to make any medication changes after becoming pregnant. If you are planning your pregnancy, talk to your prescriber as soon as you make the decision to start a family. If you did not plan to become pregnant, talk to your psychiatrist as soon as you think you may be pregnant. The earlier you talk about your options, the more in control you can feel of your medications during pregnancy., Your psychiatrist will closely monitor you throughout your pregnancy. They will consider lots of factors in your treatment throughout your pregnancy, such as your current mental state, psychiatric history, history of relapses off medication, and response to medication.All of these are important factors when considering medication during pregnancy.


Work with someone who is familiar with managing medications for pregnant and breastfeeding women., Talk to your prescriber about the potential risks and effects you and your developing baby may experience while on medication. Before you make a final decision, spend some time researching the potential effects on your own. This will help you make an informed decision and know what risks should be monitored at your obstetrician appointments.It can be easy to feel fearful after reading potential risks. Remind yourself of the costs and benefits of remaining on medication and remember that there’s no way to predict your own risks.
You might also try to find out how many birth defects have been reported in women using the medication, rather than reading about all of the possible birth defects. Your obstetrician may be able to help you find this information.
 Connect your psychiatrist and obstetrician so that they can monitor you and your developing baby’s health together.If you choose to continue your medications during pregnancy, you may need special prenatal tests to monitor your baby’s health and development. For example, to rule out heart problems, a fetal echocardiogram and level 2 sonogram can be performed.Ask your provider what you can do to keep your developing baby healthy during pregnancy. Get any tests that help you determine the health of your developing baby.

