 In order to achieve a good shot, you must know how a photograph will be perfect. Different fields of photography have different criterion.


Landscapes are meant to show simply the beauty of nature. The most important criteria in landscape photographs is the light and background. These two factors are differently used to express sadness, happiness, might, peace etc. in the landscape.
Portraits are where the society is shown by taking pictures that represent the different sections of society, divided on the basis of age, occupation and social stature. These photos mainly consist of one or two people at a time. The main effort is to create a vast emotion through the photograph. These photographs often depict tales about the person. Their miseries, sorrows, happiness etc. are captured in one frame. In order to achieve such influential photos, the colors and sharpness along with the background are shown with great emphasis. A boy who performs tricks for people at a bus stop and lives right on the footpath would be depicted with a monotone or low contrast with a blur street in the background and the boy in his costume. These photos must capture the natural expressions.
In wildlife photography, the background, expression and subject play an important role. The animals or birds must be highlighted in the background. The expression of might, focus, beauty, slyness, concentration, elegance, mischief, suffering, elegance or solitude must be clearly expressed.;
, You must always remember that nature is beautiful in every moment and that each moment once gone, never comes back.
 When taking the a photo that consists of land and sun/moon, try using a wide angle lens i.e. between 18 to 250mm. This way you can capture a wider image. Adding filters can also help in a better contrast and sharpness. Landscapes can be used to express beauty or harshness. They need a lot of patience and can not be fully controlled because we can't control the weather and nature.
Social and Portrait Photography. Manipulation with contrasts and detailed sharpness are required. These photos can create a deep impression if taken properly. This type of photography consists of portraits and journalism. You can use this type of photography for displaying the various characteristics of a person or society.
Wildlife Photography. In this type of photography requires wast amount of traveling and sharp images. The subject must always be highlighted in a suitable environment. To show sadness you should have a deserted background. The creature must represent itself the way people think it to be eg: lion shows death or elegance, elephants bathing show relaxation etc.
 By adjusting the color scheme and contrast, you can change the mood. You must also try to be completely in this subject so that you can even make a useless image into a masterpiece.
 Try different things like adjusting the saturation, contrast, color scheme, focal length etc. This way you can improve and excel.

