, Use a non-comedogenic (won't clog your pores) exfoliating cream and a loofah. The exfoliation will remove dead skin cells that may be clogging your pores.


Use a soap with at least two percent benzoyl peroxide. This will clean out excess oil and help to clear your pimples.
 Treated toilet paper can cause chafing and promote the growth of pimples.
 There are specific detergents for people with sensitive skin as well. Use these products whenever possible to avoid irritation or an allergic reaction that might be caused by your current detergent.
 The more breathable your clothing is, the less likely you are to trap sweat in unwanted places. Choose breathable underwear made from natural fibers like cotton.


Sweat can get trapped on your buttocks, making it a perfect breeding ground for the oil and bacteria that cause butt acne.
Change your underwear frequently, and shower after sweating.
 At bare minimum, take one multivitamin and one Chelated Zinc tablet daily.


Vitamin A, B5, C, E, Selenium, and Super Omega 3 are all known to promote healthy skin.Consult your doctor about the appropriate vitamins for you.
 Water does remarkable things for your skin. Be sure to drink eight glasses of water per day to hydrate your body, inside and out.
 Certain sugary, fatty, and fried junk foods can cause an increase of insulin in the body, therefore forcing the body to produce more Sebum, the cause of acne.


Try a raw food diet to cleanse your body and get rid of unwanted toxins.
 Sitting can prevent the skin from breathing adequately and sitting for long periods contributes to pores clogged by sweat and bacteria


While sitting at your desk or computer for long periods of time, stand up for a while and/or take a short brisk walk. Even doing butt or leg exercises at your desk helps the blood circulate.
 It is common for those who have acne on the buttocks to retain the condition well into their late 20's, but a dermatologist may be able to provide you with a prescription that can clear up your acne.
 Some food allergies contribute to acne patterns on the buttocks.

