 There are a number of laws that protect your personal information from being improperly shared. The two most notable laws are the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Both laws provide safeguards to protect your personal information and the right for individuals to access their information. The Privacy Act established the following rights:


The right for a person to view federal records about oneself.
The right to request an amendment of any federal record that is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete.
The right to be protected against an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy that results from the collection, maintenance, use, and disclosure of personal information., HIPAA was passed to provide patients with privacy protections for their health information that was created or maintained by health care providers who use electronic transactions, health plans, and health care clearinghouses.HIPAA gives patients the following privacy rights and protections:


The right to inspect, review, and receive a copy of your medical and billing records maintained by health plans and health care providers.
HIPAA limits access to your medical records to you or your personal representative. A health care provide can only send your records to another medical provider or insurance plan with your permission and only as needed to share treatment or payment information.
You cannot be denied a copy of your medical records, even if you have not paid for your medical services. You can be charged a copying fee for your records.
A psychotherapist cannot disclose most of the notes that they make regarding your care.
You can request a change to incorrect medical or billing information. If the provider disagrees, you have the right to add a statement to your medical records.
You can ask to see a copy of your medical and billing information. You are entitled to receive a copy within 30 days if you request a copy in writing.
You are entitled to know who has viewed your medical information and with whom your information was shared.
You can request a limitation on who is able to see your medical information or with whom the provider shares information.
At your request, you can be contacted by a medical professional somewhere other than at your home., In addition to the security and privacy steps that health care providers are required to take, you should also take steps to protect your health care information. This is particularly true if you store health information on your personal computer or mobile device, exchange emails about it, or participate in health-related online communities.


HIPAA does not protect information that you post on an online health information board. You should never post anything that you do not want to be public.
If you store health information on your computer or share it via email, make sure that your computer and email is password protected.
Shred any documents that contain health information in order to prevent identity thieves from using your personal information to get medical treatment, prescription drugs, or surgery.