 When you think about politics, what issues do you think about? What stances do you normally sympathize with, and which ones could you care less about. Before trying to place yourself in the left or right, remember to think about your own political spectrum without thinking about "sides." Ask yourself the following questions, knowing that there is no "right" answer:


Do you think the government should try to make life better, or should stay out of the way for other people to make life better?
Do you think the US should help other countries in wars or issues, or should we only respond when we are directly attacked?
Do you think the government should help make the economy more fair, or does regulation stifle businesses and entrepreneurs?;
, Sites like "I Side With," "Vote Smart" and even newspaper quizzes can be a good way to get your political baseline. These sites test out your position on a variety of issues, usually asking you to rank how important the idea is or how much you agree. When done, you can use these answers to help you dive into some of the suggested pages, ideas, and parties.Take more than one quiz to avoid biases and mistakes found in one alone.
Don't take these quizzes without a grain of salt. Instead, check out the parties and sites they suggest. Do these sites also match up with your general viewpoints?

, Again, you don't have to agree with all of one side, and you generally shouldn't. This is why thinking of your own beliefs first is important -- it lets you sort out what is important to you instead of letting you feel dragged to one side or the other:


Those on the left may support:

social welfare programs (food stamps, homeless shelters, unemployment benefits)
separation of church and state
higher, or more "progressive" taxes to pay for social programs
environmentalism and green initiatives
strong trade unions and industry regulations
social change or social justice to create equality
stronger federal (national) government, as opposed to stronger state governments


Those on the right may support:

strong moral and religious values
belief that charities, churches, and communities should provide social welfare, not the government.
lower or flatter taxation to cut government programs
limiting the scope of government
the strength of free-market capitalism, both at home and abroad
reducing regulations on industry and business
stronger powers to state and local governments, with a weaker federal government, Again, this is why it is important to make your own mind up before diving into other people's interpretations. If you decide you're "right-wing," ask yourself how often you let yourself see "left-wing" news. Oftentimes, the reason you choose one side is because you haven't been exposed to the other. This is often known as the political "echo-chamber," where you only hear the same views over and over. While these change frequently, test out some of the sites "across the aisle" from you to get better news:



Conservative Leaning News: The Washington Post, Fox News, The National Review

Liberal Leaning News: New York Times, MSNBC, The Huffington Post.
 You can place yourself anywhere between left and right based on your unique views. One of the biggest tragedies in American politics is the insistence that you must be either "left" or "right," and you can't disagree with your own side. Real humans, however, are not so perfectly ordered. We agree with some policies and disagree with others regardless of what side they fall on. Remember to stay true to yourself, not the prescribed beliefs of each side, to truly understand your political leanings.