;
,


Click "free e-newsletter" at the top right corner of the website and enter your information on the next page to subscribe. The newsletter includes Second Step program information, which includes details on trainings and seminars, and Funding InfoSource information, which allows you to find funding opportunities to decrease the cost of Committee for Children programs.



As a member of the Committee for Children community, you will have access to the online forums and groups as well as various CFC program materials. The forum provides an opportunity to connect with other CFC enthusiasts-usually teachers-to learn tips and share stories.



Recent research and personal experiences are posted regularly on the blog. The blog is an avenue for community members to receive uplifting information and stay informed with the progress of the mission.



The Second Step program teaches preschoolers through middle school-aged children important skills to success in social and academic realms.
The Steps to Respect program focuses on reducing bullying in elementary school by enlightening everyone involved: staff, teachers, families and students.
The Talking about Touching program addressed sexual abuse with young children.
The Woven Word program is an interactive literacy program for preschool and kindergarten students.



This annual report details the progress made around the world for the previous year and accounts the financial status of the organization. Reviewing this report will give you a better idea of where the organization is focusing its efforts lately as well as where the most help is needed. The community report also recognizes its supporters at both the individual and organizational levels.



Your donation will promote further research and expansion of the CFC's programs. There are two ways to donate to the organization: online or with a paper donation form. Both are accessible through the CFC's website by clicking the "donate now" option.



By choosing the "contact us" tab at the bottom of the website you will be directed to the phone numbers of various staff members. The client support team exists to answer your questions concerning the organization's programs.



You can become a member of the CFC team by checking the organization's job postings on the website. The Committee for Children headquarters is located in Seattle, Wash.

