 Participating schools will plant one tree on or around 22 May, the International Day for Biological Diversity (IBD). Students will count down to 10am local time, when they will water their tree, thereby creating a global "green wave". Students will upload photos and text summaries to an interactive map on The Green Wave website to share their tree-planting story with others. This map will go live at 20:10 local time, thereby creating a second "green wave".;
, Both students and teachers in all countries around the world will be able to plant a tree as part of The Green Wave. The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the rest of the world will support and observe the action.
 You will be able to track the activities of The Green Wave in schools around the world by checking in at The Green Wave. This website is live and you can use it to start planning your school's events at any time.
 Spread the word about The Green Wave among students, teachers, schools, NGOs working on curriculum and educational projects, tree nurseries, media, Ministries of Education and other partners. Ways in which you can help to spread the word include:


Posting a link to this article and The Green Wave page on your website.
Signing up and registering your tree at The Green Wave


, It is important to plan ahead to be ready for the 22 May:


Talk to your classmates, teacher or school club about The Green Wave. Once you’ve organized a group, have your teacher join The Green Wave.
Do some research to plan your group’s tree planting activities. Once you’ve finished planning, ask your teacher to “register your tree”. Don’t worry if your activities evolve over time – your teacher can always update the information.
Put your plan into action! Plant your tree. On 22 May, count down to 10:00am (local time). At 10:00am, water your tree (whether it is in the ground or in a container or in a plastic bag) to create a symbolic “green wave” around the world. Take a photograph.
Prepare and upload your submission for The Green Wave website. Submission ideas include adding a small piece of text of around 100-200 words, drawing a picture for uploading, choosing three pictures or photos, getting the submission uploaded as quickly as possible - the sooner it is uploaded, the sooner it will be on the website.
Check The Green Wave website at 20:10 (local time) on 22 May. The interactive map will “go live” and you can see projects around the world.
With your group, talk about the good and not-so-good parts of The Green Wave experience. Send your feedback to The Green Wave team so they can make next year’s event even better.
Keep checking The Green Wave website and dreaming about next year’s event.
 It is also really important to keep tending your trees after planting them. Don't forget to keep watering and fertilizing it.

