 Take packed lunches to work or school. For some people, just this simple step can go a long way toward helping them eat less. Home-cooked food is going to be healthier than the vast majority of restaurant food, and will not have the same kinds of preservatives or high sodium levels., Consuming beverages other than water can make the calories add up. Fruit juice, soda, milk — any of these can add a great deal to your daily caloric intake. Black coffee and tea are extremely low in calories, and can be part of your daily beverage rotation if you know it won’t be possible to stop drinking caffeine., Start with seven to nine servings per day, then see if you can work up to 11. Eat the ones you know you like and take this opportunity to find tasty new fruits and vegetables. Look for new recipes and preparations to help guide you. And for fruit, if in doubt, throw it in a smoothie. For vegetables, most can be roasted successfully in the oven at high heats to cook, if you aren’t planning to eat them raw., These are grains that include the bran, germ, and endosperm. Some common ones are barley, oats, quinoa, brown and colored rices, wheat varieties like spelt, farro, and kamut, along with many others. These are going to provide carbohydrates, but in their healthiest form. Keep in mind there are many whole-grain pastas now available, and an array of whole-grain breads that are often delicious., Protein sources include nuts, lentils, eggs, fish, and lean meats. To be considered a lean meat, it has to have less than 10 grams of total fat in a 3 oz (21g) piece of meat. Turkey and chicken are lean, but some red meats are as well. Look for cuts with “top” or “loin” in the title. Fish and lean meats are a great source of protein. These are important to eat as part of a balanced diet, but they should not be the elements you eat the most. You need to eat more vegetables and fruits than lean meats.Keep your meat portions the size of your palm. Bigger than that and you are consuming more than your body can properly process, and it will just be extra calories!

