 After you have bleached your hair, you need to decide which color you want to have. The cuticle layers of your hair strands have been disrupted in the bleaching process, which allows hydrogen peroxide (a key ingredient in hair bleach) to penetrate the hair strand and strip out color. Depending on your hair's natural color and how long you left in the bleach, your hair now might be yellow, white or reddish. You can choose a natural color, such as shades of brown, black, red or blond. You might also choose a color like cherry red, blue, purple, pink, and so on. Be sure to consider your work environment when choosing a color; many workplaces consider bright, unnatural hair color to be unprofessional. For more natural color effects, stay within 1-3 shades within your own natural color.


Look at your hair in childhood photos. This will help you determine how your hair will react to certain colors. If your hair was a warmer color (honey blonde or similar), your hair will likely react with a warmer color now. Similarly, if your hair was a cooler color (ash blonde, brunette), your hair will likely have cooler undertones when you dye it now., Find a picture of the color you’re looking for in a magazine and bring it with you. This will help you convey your vision to your hairdresser.


Magazines, Pinterest and social media are all great places to look for photo inspiration.
 They are experts in how to mix colors, how to integrate highlights and lowlights, and how to achieve the best color. They are trained in the chemistry of these hair dyes and understand how they work together.
 Your hairdresser may want to administer an allergy test and have you reschedule your appointment for another day. Alternatively, they may have suggestions for milder hair dyes that would be suitable for you.
 Dyeing your hair can be costly at a hair salon, typically starting at $100 and going up from there. Beauty schools are training grounds for hairdressers and offer inexpensive rates for haircuts and hair treatments. Students in training are overseen by skilled professionals who give advice and fix any errors before they are damaging. The level of the stylist will likely determine the price.
 In order to keep your hair color vibrant, visit your hairdresser for a touch-up every 6-8 weeks.

