 The number of participants will directly correlate with the number of "straws" you need. For example, a pool of 6 participants mandates a total of 6 straws.
 To create an unbiased and nondiscriminatory ranking, you need to find a random number generator. The program “draw straws!” by David Goodreach is, as its name suggests, a straw-drawing simulator, and thus perfect for your purposes. Research Randomizer is another excellent choice for creating unbiased feedback. , Assign one number value to represent the total population of participants. Some random number generators, such as “draw straws!”, have specific areas for straw input, whereas most require you to create a single “set” of numbers, with the amount of numbers in that set contingent on the number of participants in your group.
 If you’re using a generator without default input for names, you’ll have to create a reference chart of names, numbers, letters, or some other kind of designation. Make sure you create this chart before generating the numbers.
 The default number of short straws should always be 1, but you’re free to add as many as you like, especially if you’re creating a random ordered list.


If you’re using a generic random number generator, you can assign a single number in the set to stand as the short straw; for example, in a set with 20 participants, the number 8 might be your “short straw”.
Similarly, to create an ordered list in a random number generator, pick several numbers to stand as short straws. Once your results are set, simply place the individuals to whom the numbers pertain in numerical order.
 Once you’ve created your reference charts or entered in names, find the button to generate results and click it. Most sites will have their “generate numbers” button toward the bottom of the value fields.
 A full-page screenshot with the site’s URL and the results posted should prove your honesty to the participants in the drawing. Make sure you don’t alter the image in any way before sending it to the group--if you do, they might notice and doubt your credibility.


To take a screenshot on a PC, hold down ⊞ Win+⎙ PrtScr. The image should appear in a folder labeled “Screenshots” in your “Pictures” file.
To take a screenshot on a Mac, hold down ⌘ Cmd+⇧ Shift, then tap “3”. The image will save to your desktop. , Attach the screenshot to an email with the results and send it to the participants. This should solve any disputes and allow you to proceed.

