 To become a teacher, there are two options: Master of Arts in Teaching and Master of Education. Both offer different programs and are geared for slightly different career paths.Master of Arts in Teaching focuses on a teacher's performance in the classroom. It offers a lot of hands on experience teaching and working with students. You will also be able to advance your expertise in the particular area you want to focus on.
Master of Education focuses more on the education system itself. People with Master of Education degrees can and do stay in the classroom for the remainder of their careers, but this degree is also appropriate for people who want to advance in the field. Aspiring principals and administrators would benefit from this degree.
 Your first step in getting your master's degree is finding the right school. Many schools offer master's degrees, so you'll have a lot to choose from. What you're looking for in a school will vary depending on what is important to you. You might choose a school based on faculty, location, expense, or any number of reasons. Narrow down what you want out of a school to help narrow down your choices.Don't save this for the last minute. Applications are usually due in December or January. Ideally, your investigation will start in the spring, so you have enough time to gather all of the necessary materials.
Feel free to contact schools and request information or a meeting. They will be happy to talk to potential students.
Also make sure to check if a school is accredited. If you attend a non-accredited school, you won't be able to get certified to teach after graduating. Click here for a database of accredited school and programs in the US.
If you're feeling lost, make an appointment with former or current professors. They will be happy to talk with you and make recommendations.
 The GRE is a standardized test for entry into graduate school. Not all schools require this test; you'll find out which ones do during your investigation of potential schools. Depending on your level of aptitude, your prep time can vary from a week to a few months. Again, start early to ensure you have enough time to prepare.Read Prepare for the GRE General Test for tips and preparation help.
 Whenever you apply to graduate school, you'll have to get your transcripts from every school you attended. Schools most often want transcripts sent directly to them, so make sure you have the correct addresses for every school you're applying to.Allow at least two weeks for your transcripts to be printed and sent. The earlier you do this, the better.
 Almost all graduate programs will require a letter of recommendation from former professors. The general rule is to allow at least two weeks for your professors to write your letters, so let them know as early as possible., Besides the transcripts and letters of recommendation, you'll also need to fill out the application form. These vary from school to school, but usually include personal information, a resume, and a statement of purpose. Be sure to complete all of the necessary forms to finish applying to graduate school., Once you get into a program, you'll need to complete between 15 and 30 credits of coursework in education. This will consist of typical work like tests, presentations, and papers. Complete all of these to get a step closer to your master's degree., In addition to your coursework, your master's degree will require some mind of final project. Depending on the program, this can either be a thesis under the direction of a supervisor, an internship, or an exam.Once you complete this final assignment, you'll have your master's degree and will be qualified to be a teacher.
 Once you complete your degree, you still need to get qualified to teach. The process varies from state to state, so click here to find out the laws in your state.

