 Even if you are no longer being abused or assaulted, it is possible for you to still be experiencing lingering physiological effects of trauma from the abuse.This trauma is comparable to PTSD. Flashbacks from the experience, along with intense fear and panic, can arise unexpectedly during your day-to-day life.Often the scars remain years after the abuse has stopped, and many people go to counselors to seek further help in overcoming the effects of their past.


A mental health counselor or therapist can lend you a supportive ear and provide various techniques to help you overcome the effects of any trauma that you might be holding on to.
Domestic violence organizations often have counseling services to help victims of domestic violence situations and sexual assault.
 One of the most important steps to recognizing and escaping the clutches of sexual abuse is to realize that it is not your fault that you are or were being abused. Guilt or shame will sometimes arise, either as a result of the perpetrator's actions or from the way you are treated by people you tell, but it’s important not to allow this to keep you from telling other people and getting help for yourself.It’s important to know that being assaulted or abused by another person is never your fault.
 After an assault or ongoing abuse, it may take a while before you are feeling like yourself again. During this time you may feel frustrated, but it is important that you do not take out your frustration on yourself. Accept that you will need time to recover and that it will be a challenging process., Look for the people who are most important in your life, the ones who lift your spirits and make you feel relaxed. Pick up the phone or go to the kitchen and spend time with them. The support of others will help you heal.
 One way that you can begin to express your frustrations about what happened to you is to write about them. Start keeping a journal where you write a little bit each day. Write about whatever is on your mind. Some people even benefit from describing the abuse they endured., As you heal, you will need to keep talking to people who care and understand. Try joining a support group for survivors of sexual abuse to connect with people who understand what you are going through. These support groups can provide a safe place to talk about your experience and hear what other people have been through, which may help you realize that you are not alone., It is common to experience feelings that you are not in control or to have difficulty making decisions. The best thing that you can do to regain some control over your life is to start making decisions about your recovery and your future. Gather as much information as you can about your situation and make decisions about how you want to respond.


If you are pressing charges for rape or domestic abuse, choose a lawyer to help you navigate the legal matters.
If you have an STD or injuries, choose a doctor that can help you find treatment.
For emotional recovery, choose a counselor to help you work through it.

