 Although it's not necessary to have an attorney, especially if you're being deposed as a third-party witness, you may find an attorney's presence calming and their guidance useful – particularly if you find the prospect of being interviewed under oath intimidating.If a party in a lawsuit wants to depose you, typically you'll receive a notice of the deposition along with a subpoena. This means that you must appear at the location on the date and time scheduled or you could be compelled to do so by a court.
If you're a third-party witness and can't appear on the date scheduled, the parties to the case typically will be willing to work with you to reschedule the deposition. But don't use that to unnecessarily delay the deposition, you're just postponing the inevitable.
You may be contacted by the attorney for one of the parties if that party is going to call you as a witness for their side. That attorney may work with you and help you prepare for the deposition, but keep in mind that attorney does not represent you.
The website of your state or local bar association is a good place to start if you decide you want to hire an attorney. There you'll find a searchable directory of licensed attorneys in your area who do similar work.
 Before the deposition, you want to make sure you're familiar with the claims in the case and have a general understanding of the types of questions you're likely to be asked and how you will answer them.For example, if you work in the human resources department of a company and are being deposed for a lawsuit regarding the alleged wrongful termination of one of the company's former employees, you likely will want to brush up on your company's termination policies and procedures as well as information regarding that particular employee and their performance.
However, take care not to research or read up on any information that would not normally be within the scope of your employment.
If you're an eye witness or party, keep such research to a minimum. You are being deposed for the knowledge you have in your head about issues of relevance to the case and your observations – not what you would know if you had several weeks to thoroughly research and evaluate the circumstances surrounding the dispute or incident.
If you've hired an attorney, they typically will go over with you the types of questions you should expect and give you general guidelines on how to answer them – although they won't coach you on specifically what you should say. What you should say is whatever the truth is.
 You must answer questions completely and honestly, even if you're afraid it might be damaging to one of the parties in the case (or to your own case). Don't forget that there are serious consequences for lying under oath.You may be tempted to provide a partial answer, especially if there are aspects of the answer to the question asked that reflect poorly on you as a person. However, keep in mind that a partial answer is considered a false answer. You are expected to answer fully and completely based on your personal knowledge of the situation.
In the same vein, if you don't know the answer to a question, don't try to guess or make something up. "I don't know" is an acceptable answer if it is the truth.
If the question is complex and you're not entirely sure how to answer, ask the person conducting the deposition for clarification before you respond.
 When the attorney or the other party is asking you a question, wait until they are finished speaking before you answer. Take a minute to collect your thoughts after the question has been asked rather than trying to formulate your answer before the question is finished.If something about the question is confusing, ask the person deposing you to restate the question or explain what they meant.
Likewise, if the person deposing you uses a word that you don't understand, ask them to define that word for you before you respond, rather than assuming you know what they mean.
Keep in mind – especially if you are being deposed by a lawyer – that some words may have a different meaning in the legal context than they would in everyday speech. If you think you're being thrown some legalese, don't hesitate to request the question be rephrased in layman's terms.
 Don't give the opposing party information without them specifically asking for it. Answer the question you're asked, and don't add commentary or other information unless the opposing party prompts you to do so.Keep in mind that the goal of the other party is to get you talking and keep you talking. The more you say, the more they'll learn. Keep your responses brief and direct, and don't elaborate unless prompted to do so.
Don't treat this as an everyday conversation. Instead, take every question asked literally and answer only the exact question that was asked.
For example, in your everyday life, if someone asks you if you know what time it is, you typically would respond by giving them the time (if you knew it). However, they didn't ask you what time it was – they asked if you knew what time it was.
In everyday interactions, you assume that question was asked because they wanted to know the time. In a deposition, you should make no assumptions. If the attorney asks you if you know what time it is, this is a yes or no question. Don't volunteer anything else unless asked.

