 Gain access to use a scanner to upload your design onto a computer. It helps if the computer also has photo editing software, like Photoshop, but this isn’t required.


You can also go to an office supply store, like Staples, to scan your design. These stores will scan your photo to your desired quality and then store the design either on a flashdrive or in the cloud.
Scan multiple designs just in case you want to go in a different direction later down the road.
 There are several photo-editing software options that are not Photoshop, but Photoshop is the industry standard. Open the software and upload your logo into the program. Once in the program, you should save the logo.


You can download one of these free alternative softwares: GIMP, Pixlr, Paint.net, or PicMonkey.Make sure to check out each program's specifications to see if it is compatible with your machine.
 Once the image is in your editing software, you can make adjustments to the logo. Play around with filters, vary the colors, or even add text of the band’s name. It is easy to take these tools and potentially add too much to your logo. A good thing to do with the software is to remove any white space.


By deleting white space, you’ll be able to add your band’s logo to any flyer, regardless of the flyer’s color.
You can also edit and modify the quality of the image. A good image type is .tiff.
 Add the logo to your band’s web pages. Set the profile picture of your band’s social media pages as the logo. Add the logo to any upcoming show flyers. Get the word out through the internet.
 Once you and your band is completely satisfied with the band logo, you can begin to print the logo onto merchandise. Send in the logo to a local print store to get t-shirts created. Add the logo to your newest album. The best place to put a band logo is on the back of an album. Another idea is to use the logo as an album cover.


The options are limitless once you have a logo.
The key is to not change the logo or the name of your band. If you change something, the logo won’t be as effective.
You can also print out the logo onto pins and stickers.