 Before you can begin to grow your hair, it needs to be in tip-top condition. It may sound counter-intuitive, but in order to grow your hair the best thing you can do is cut it. A good trim of about a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) to an inch will get rid of any dry or split ends and prepare your hair for maximum growth.


Sometimes people have trouble growing their hair, not because it doesn't grow fast enough, but because their hair is dry and damaged, breaking off at the bottom before it gets the chance to reach a certain length.
When this happens, the only solution is to cut off the dry, damaged ends and start afresh. And this time round, you can take care of hair a little better.;
, If you are rough with your hair, you will cause damage and breakage which will appear to slow down the growth of your hair. It is important to be gentle when you brush and style your hair as this alone can do a huge amount to reduce breakage.


Wet hair is more susceptible to damage than dry hair, it is more elastic and more likely to break. Since hair is most fragile when it's wet, you shouldn't rip a brush through it after washing.
To detangle wet hair, you should spray some detangling mist on it, and then use a wide-tooth comb to remove tangles and minimize breakage. Always brush from the ends up, not from the roots down.
Avoid roughly towel drying your hair, as this causes breakage. Instead, try blotting your hair gently with an absorbent towel to remove excess moisture.
 While it is important to keep your hair clean, washing your hair too often can dry it out or weigh it down with product. Most people do not need to wash their hair every day, three to four times a week is usually enough.


The longer, thicker, curlier, and more processed your hair, the longer it can go between washes. If your hair gets oily very quickly and you must wash everyday, use a lightweight or "everyday" shampoo, as these contain milder detergents than others.
Use moisturizing shampoos and conditions every time you wash. Avoid using shampoos containing silicones however, as these dry out the hair and cause it to break down faster.
 It's time you knew the truth: styling tools are the enemy of long hair. The intense heat from blow dryers and straighteners will cause irreparable damage, causing the hair to split and break. So put the styling tools away (or ask someone to hide them on you) and let your hair's natural beauty shine.


If you must use styling tools, it is crucial that you apply a heat protection product first, in order to lock in moisture and minimize burning and breakage. Heat protection products come in many forms, including sprays, serums, mousses and creams.
When using a hair dryer, avoid holding the nozzle too close to your hair as this will cause your hair to burn, or turn the air to a cooler setting, if possible. Consider investing in an ionic hair dryer which emits charged particles that can cut drying time in half, thus minimizing heat exposure.
 Style your hair in the morning, then leave it alone for the rest of the day. No twirling, twisting, pulling, combing with your fingers or - God forbid - chewing. Constantly fussing with your hair will only make it dry and cause more breakage and split ends.


If it helps, think of your hair as a piece of fine lace. If you handle it too much, it will wear out and become grubby looking. Like fine lace, your hair needs to be handled gently and carefully at all times, especially when brushing, detangling or styling.
 Caring for your hair on a day-to-day basis is great, but in order to really maximize growth potential you should also treat your hair from time to time. You can fork out for a deep-conditioning treatment at your hairdresser's once every couple of months, or you can buy or make conditioning hair masks to use as home. Protein masks are particularly good for keeping hair strong and healthy. Some home recipes for healthy hair masks are outlined below.



For all hair types: avocado and honey: Cut and scoop out the flesh from a ripened avocado and mix in a tablespoon of organic honey. Apply to hair and allow it to sit for 20 minutes before rinsing it off in the shower.For dry hair: olive oil and egg: Combine three tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil with two eggs and apply the mixture to your hair and let the mixture sit for 20 minutes before rinsing in the shower.For oily hair: apple cider vinegar and lemon: Combine 1/4 cup of apple cider vinegar with the grated peel of an entire lemon and allow it to set for 15 minutes to absorb the excess oil from your scalp, and then rinse in the shower.For flaky scalp: banana, honey and almond: Mash together 1/2 a ripe banana and add two tablespoons of honey and a few drops of almond oil and allow it to set with a shower cap on for 20 minutes before rinsing., Wearing protective hairstyles is another way that you can avoid damaging your hair. Protective hairstyles include French twists, buns or any kind of updo where your hair ends are not exposed to the air. By tucking away the ends of your hair, you are minimizing your hair's exposure to the elements and removing the temptation to play with it.


If you're serious about growing your hair, you should wear these kinds of hairstyles everyday, or as often as possible.
Don't tie your hair too tightly however, as this pulls hair and causes breakage. And avoid using hair ties with metal bands as these can catch in the hair, causing more damage.
You should also protect your hair from harsh UV rays by wearing a hat or head scarf whenever you spend prolonged periods in the sun.
 Wear a protective satin or silk scarf to cover your hair when you go to bed at night. If you don't use either of those, then try sleeping on a satin or silk pillowcase. These will keep your hair from getting tangled and from drying out.


Don't wear your hair in a tight ponytail while sleeping. Instead, try putting your hair in a low, loose plait which will protect your hair and keep it from getting tangled. As an added bonus, your hair will be beautifully wavy when you undo it in the morning.

