 Some people with vitiligo end up with whitening of the hair around the eyebrows. If this is the case with you, you can use make-up to enhance the shape of your eyebrows. To start, you'll comb your brows. If your normally pluck your eyebrows to reshape them, do that as well.


You can purchase an eyebrow comb at your local beauty store, which you can use to gently comb out your eyebrows. You can also wash a fine-toothed comb and use that instead.You can then use a pair of tweezers to pluck your eyebrows into your desired shape and size. Not everyone plucks their eyebrows. If it's not something you normally do, skip this step. If your eyebrows are losing color, only pluck the portions of hair you can easily see., From there, you will trace the bottom of your eyebrows with a light shade of eyeshadow. Choose a shade that matches your regular hair. You can apply the eyeshadow with an angled eyebrow brush, which you should be able to purchase at a local cosmetics store or supermarket. While cosmetic products are typically marketed toward women, the main goal here is to fill in your eyebrows in a natural color. This method can work for men as well.Gently trace the bottom of your eyebrows, moving in the natural direction of your eyebrows.Apply in swift, gentle strokes. You may need to apply several layers before you begin to bring out the natural color of your eyebrows.Once you've traced the bottom of your eyebrows, trace the tops. Repeat the same gentle motions, following the natural angle of your eyebrow., In order to remove any clumps, you should brush out your eyebrows to smooth out the color. You can use a brow brush. If you don't have one, you can wash out a mascara brush. Run the brow brush or mascara brush over your eyebrows, following the direction of your hair. Do as many strokes as you need to get your eyebrows to look smooth and natural., Once you've smoothed out your brows, use a brow pencil or eye shadow to darken the center of your brows slightly. Choose a shade that matches the natural color of your hair. This makes them look more defined.


Draw a line through the middle of your eyebrow. Avoid drawing around the edges, as this can make the brow look unnatural.Do not press too hard on the brush. You want the line to look soft, blending into the rest of your eyebrow. Pressing too hard can cause an unnatural appearance., You can purchase a clear brow gel at a local department store or make-up store. This works something like hairspray. It sets in the product, preventing it from smearing or fading throughout the course of the day. Once you've finished applying brow make-up, apply a single layer of brow gel over both eyebrows.