 An eye catching pendant revitalizes any ensemble. You can also draw attention to your figure with a long necklace. Layer multiple strands at once to create a more dramatic effect.With bling of different sizes and styles your dress will fit in at any occasion.Neutral metallics support a more conservative look.
A necklace with chunky stones and bold color create a funky look.
A tattoo inspired necklace with its intricate patterns is pure vamp.;
, A wide metallic bangle captures a futuristic look while leather studded cuffs show off your inner rebel.Stacking multiple bracelets together will have a bolder effect.
 Tasseled dangly earrings and sparkly hoops are both strong choices. On the other hand, larger studs will draw extra attention to your face.Opt for smaller studs for a simpler, more elegant look.
 Go for a masculine inspired (larger sized) watch to show off your sporty side. Embellish your outfit simply, with a classic brooch. Alternately, pair the dress with something more modern like a button-inspired brooch, or think outside the box with one made of ribbons or feathers.
 If you're sick of your neckline, change it up with a detachable collar.For a semi-formal affair, pair your dress with a beautiful yet delicate neck scarf. A pashmina offers the most coverage for your neck and shoulders when it gets cold., Pick a metal belt and clasp it around the smallest part of your waist to show off your shape.You can also try a brightly colored or glittery belt that pops against the black.This will add shape to a looser dress or emphasize form in an already fitted one., Stay warm and stylish by adding a pair of tights to your ensemble. Try black tights for a more traditional look. For something understated pick a nude or a brown colored stocking. Try polka-dotted tights or sparkly stockings to add a sense of volume to your dress.Experiment with colorful stockings. Purple, orange, or even bright red are especially fun to try. Wear these bold colored tights on a night out rather than a day at the office.

