 The plot of a comedy usually involves at least one character who has a want, but a series of funny, unfortunate events get in the way of their want. Their want is what they want to gain from life, from someone else, or for themselves. The plot usually ends with the character getting what they want or failing in a funny, over-the-top way. The key is to have enough funny events to keep the reader engaged, as well as a main character they can root for.For example, you may have a comedy plot where your main character wants to graduate high school and go to college. But his troublemaker best friend comes for a visit. Together, they get into funny and slightly dangerous situations that could prevent the main character from graduating.
 A running joke is a joke that is returned to more than once over the course of a comedy. Running jokes are a great way to call back to earlier moments of humor and make the reader laugh. Sprinkle running jokes throughout the comedy so the text feels concise and smartly written.For example, you may write a joke about a character’s hairstyle. Then, later in the comedy, you may have another character comment on the same hairstyle in a more ridiculous way.
 Most good comedies will have a major laugh or humorous high point. This high point could be the climax of the story or the key moment of humor. It may appear about ¾ of the way into the text or towards the end of the text.

For example, you may build up the text by including small, slightly dangerous scenarios. Keep building until you reach a very funny, intense scenario that means life or death for your main character.
 Reversals are when you reverse or subvert the reader’s expectations. Doing this can keep the reader engaged and force them to pay attention to the text. Try to include as many reversals as you can in the comedy to up the laugh factor.For example, rather than have a regular car come pick up two characters at valet parking, have a cop car come pick them up. Or rather than have a regular server at a restaurant, make the server the father of the main character.
 Many successful comedy writers work with a writing partner or a team of writers. Having another person to write comedy with can make it easier for you to bounce off ideas and thoughts with someone else. Often, if you can make your writing partner laugh with a joke or idea, it’s worth putting in the comedy.You may ask a friend or peer to be your writing partner. You may also approach someone in the writing community that you admire or find funny, and ask them to be your writing partner.

