 If you’re an average person, your insulin sensitivity is probably quite good, and you don’t need to make specific cuts to your carbohydrate intake over any other types of calories like fats. People gain weight when the calories they consume exceed the calories they need to maintain their physical functions. For instance, if you burn 1,500 calories daily, but consume 2,000 calories daily, you will gain weight. To reduce your caloric intake, you should reduce the amount of carbs, protein, and fats you take in without totally eliminating any one macronutrient.For instance, instead of drinking soda, drink water.
Instead of eating a sandwich, try a wrap.
Instead of eating a big bowl of pasta, eat a small bowl of pasta.
Cut back on the total amount of calories you consume by incorporating low-calorie meals into your diet, such as salads.
Typically, a diet that permits about 50 to 100 grams of carbs per day is ideal for people trying to lose weight while still consuming some carbs.;
, People with poor insulin sensitivity will benefit from making specific cuts to their carbohydrate intake. If you are obese or overweight, or if you have a diagnosis of prediabetes, then you may have insulin sensitivity. In this case, reducing portion sizes of grains is essential. Reduce your portions and frequency of foods such as bread, pasta, cereal, and other processed grains. Instead, focus on eating whole fruits, vegetables, and protein with small portions of grains.You should speak to a doctor to confirm you have an insulin sensitivity.
 Specialty diets that radically restrict carbohydrate consumption – for instance, diets in which carb intake is less than 20 grams daily – often boomerang back on people and cause them to consume more carbs than they normally would. Instead of eliminating carbs altogether, eat a 50% of your calories from carbs, fats, and proteins.About 20% of your daily calories should be from protein (though you might need more if you are an athlete).
No more than 30% of your daily calories should be derived from fat, and no more than 7% should be from saturated fat. No more than 1% of your daily calories should come from trans fat. Foods with partially hydrogenated oil also contain trans fats.
 Losing weight while eating carbs is easier if you exercise. On average, you should exercise at least 2.5 hours per week to maintain your weight. To lose weight, you should exercise more than that.The extent to which you exercise should depend on your own baseline level of health and fitness, as well as your levels of motivation to lose weight.Try to incorporate exercise into your daily rhythm. For instance, walk to the store instead of driving. Ride your bike to work instead of driving. Go for a walk with your family or pet.
Schedule time into your schedule to exercise. Sprinkle your exercise throughout the week. For instance, aim to exercise 45 minutes four days per week.
Perform both cardio and strength training exercises. You might plan on running, lifting weights, or riding your bike.
 Talk to your doctor if you have a medical condition. If you have a medical condition that could impact the effect of losing weight through a healthy mix of dietary adjustments and exercise – for instance, diabetes, heart disease, or arrhythmia – you should speak to your physician before embarking on a weight-loss diet. Your doctor will be able to help you develop a health plan that enables you to both eat carbs and lose weight safely.You can also ask for a referral to see a registered dietitian.


The fewer calories you consume and the more you exercise, the faster you will lose weight. However, you must not push yourself beyond what you can safely endure physically.
If you find that your exercise regimen interferes with your social, professional or academic life, you should reduce the intensity and frequency of your workouts.
If you find that you’re skipping entire meals, binging, or regurgitating your food, seek counseling.

