 Being self-sufficient is important in increasing and maintaining your overall sense of well-being or happiness. Make your own goals; do not rely on others to tell you what you want.Resist social pressure to believe in or do certain things. Hold true to your beliefs.
Regulate your behaviors. In order to be happy you need to be in control of your own actions. Impulse control, or the ability to stop and think before acting, is an integral component of regulation.
Evaluate yourself by your personal standards instead of by what society thinks you should be or do.
 Values and interests are the guiding force of motivation.Curiosity and enthusiasm are also strongly associated with life satisfaction and well-being.


Get interested in something new. Try a new hobby, activity, or exercise. Explore ideas that you have not yet considered.
 Meaning and purpose are strongly associated with happiness.This means having goals and aspirations.


Remember that money alone will not maintain your happiness. Make short term goals in all facets of your life. Instead of making huge goals for yourself, make them shorter and easier to accomplish. For instance, if you want to lose weight, do not look at a huge amount of weight you may need to lose. Set your goal for losing only 10 lbs. This you can accomplish more easily, but it's much more difficult to lose 50 lbs at once. Keep setting the goal for only another 10 lbs -- until one day you will see the 50 lbs weight are lost.
Think of your possibilities for achievements in education or training that are within reach instead of far down the road. Find what kind of course of study you can take to begin to make progress toward your goals.
 If you are employed, it is important to have happiness at your work as well. After all, you may spend 40 hours a week at work.Studies show that a negative work environment can lead to stress, burnout, and less productivity.


Seek an occupation that: pays you well, is secure, provides supportive supervision, and promotes equality and fairness. It is also important that you feel valued.