 A great way to start a conversation with someone while you are out in public is to note something interesting about your surroundings. For example, if you are sitting outside at a coffee shop, then you might mention the nice weather. Or, you could comment on how much you like the place and ask the person if he or she comes here often.


You might also try complimenting the person. For example, you could mention that you like the person’s outfit and ask where they got it.
If the person has a child or a dog, then this is also a great built-in conversation starter. For example, you might say something like, “Aww, she’s so cute! How old is she?”

, Get someone to start opening up by asking a question that lets them talk about how they see the world. For instance, ask about how they wound up doing whatever caught your eye. When you see someone doing something interesting, ask “Where’d you get that idea?” Similarly, if someone says something interesting, ask them, “How’d you arrive at that perspective?”People enjoy feeling as though they are interesting or insightful. Ask questions that imply that you feel this way about the, and you’ll readily have their attention.
Feel free to ask general questions as well. Perhaps the best question of all: “What do you care most about?” They’ll be able to respond with something about a topic you know they’re interested in speaking about.
Another great option: “What’s the next thing you’re looking forward to?” This will get someone thinking positively about something they enjoy, which is a great way to start a conversation, let alone a friendship.
 Maybe you have a particular stranger or partial-stranger in mind. This makes it even easier to reach out and offer your friendship. Think about what you know about this person, including what they’re interested in. Read up on anything in the news with relevance to their interests or profession, and ask them about it next time you see them.For instance, “Hey, Jerry, you’re the new guy from corporate, right? Did you see that great Breitbart piece on staff restructuring?” Knowing a bit about a stranger may help you get your foot in the doorway to friendship.
 Mention the things you're especially interested in, as well as other conversational topics that might interest both of you. One easy way to do this is by casually mentioning where you're from, or somewhere you visited. For instance, "Yeah! Back when I lived in Michigan, I used to really enjoy that sort of thing." Or ask, "Have you ever been to Bermuda? That seems to be catching on down there."


Include references to places you've been or people and ideas that appeal to you in the course of the conversation. This gives your conversation partner plenty of options in terms of their response.
 Crack a joke. It doesn’t have to be a good joke. In fact, a bad joke may make an even better conversation starter, and will often remove awkwardness very quickly. Puns are great go-to type of joke. For instance, if you and a stranger are near a Mexican restaurant, break the social barriers between you with something like “Have you been there? Their food is spec-taco-ular.” You’re one smirk away from a friendship.Seriously, don’t stress about the quality of your jokes. If someone doesn’t respond positively to a friendly attempt at humor, do you really want to befriend them after all?

