 A dog may show distress by barking or biting at the air, but other signs of distress may be less obvious. Other signs of discomfort may include yawning, licking their nose, crouching, walking backwards, or making the body as small as possible.If you notice signs of discomfort with your dog, try to identify the source of the discomfort. This will help you better understand your dog's reaction and help better prepare yourself and your pet in the future.
Do not try to force physical attention on your dog if they give indicators that they do not want it, such as backing away. Forcing attention could startle them more and cause an unintentional aggressive reaction.;
, Above everything else, a dog that is working through its own emotional issues will need your patience and your kindness. They may not socialize much early on, and you may discover unexpected objects, noises, or other cues that trigger an extreme emotional response from the dog. Regardless, stay calm and provide support.If a dog engages in reprimandable behavior after an extreme event, scold them using a stern voice, but avoid yelling, clenching your fist, or raising your hand. Be firm with the dog, but not seek to threaten.
Understand that it may take the dog time to open up to people, yourself included. Do not force attention on the dog, and be patient while the dog becomes acquainted with its surroundings and the individuals in its life.
 While your dog is adjusting or dealing with their emotional problems, it can be beneficial for them to have a space all their own to which they can retreat if they feel stressed or anxious. Provide them with a crate, a corner of the house, or a room that is designated as their space.If you are bringing home a dog from a situation where it spent most of its life in a crate, such as a puppy mill, it may be best to skip the crate and instead offer a corner in a more open room.
Equip the dog’s safe space with bedding, access to fresh water and food, and comfort items such as toys, chews, pillows, and/or blankets.
Try not to enter the dog’s safe space unless absolutely necessary. Allow this to be a place where they can relax and feel comfortable.
 A traumatized dog may learn to trust a bit more when experiences that cause panic end on a good note. Try to create a positive outcome for experiences to which your dog is acting negatively to help them build trust in you and the situation.For example, if your dog is afraid of having their teeth brushed, try to end each brushing session with gentle petting along the jawline and praise for your dog’s positive behavior. This can help them grow increasingly more comfortable with future brushing sessions.
When possible, try to give your dog the option to leave if they become too uncomfortable with any situation. Forcing the dog to stay may only make their anxieties worse.
 Training is a great way to teach a traumatized dog new skills and allow them to find new ways to interact with their environment. If your dog is not already trained, consider starting with a basic class taught by a professional trainer. Check with local trainers and pet stores to see when new classes start.Some trainers offer courses especially for rescue dogs or formerly abused dogs. Call or go online to see if any local trainers specialize in working with dogs similar to yours.
If your dog has already mastered basic training, you may want to consider signing up for a continuing or advanced class, or start with agility training to help build your dog’s strength and confidence.
Puzzle toys, available at most pet stores, can also be a great way to engage your dog’s mind and offer them rewards for interacting with their environment.

