 An employee who would potentially make a good boss should be self-driven but shouldn’t mind asking for help either.


Though this person can easily manage things on his or her own, he or she should be open enough to seek advice or comments from other colleagues or team members.
If the person doesn’t ask for help, it signals that this person is unlikely to reach out to staff for support, which is a poor quality in a potential boss.;
, A good potential boss will recognize which tasks to do on their own and which to delegate. These delegation skills show that the employee will be able to assign responsibilities and possesses the capacity to balance both operational and strategic areas of business.


This also shows that the employee closely observes each person’s unique talents and talks about which job aspects they enjoy the most. When the person understands each employee’s life, he or she is sympathetic and can successfully manage assignments and time allocations. In doing so, the person makes employees feel that he or she cares.
If the person doesn’t delegate, this indicates he or she might feel reluctant to work in teams and socialize with other colleagues. And if the person is unable to identify talent and assign other employees to the right task, this shows the he or she is not making a personal investment in discussing their employees’ goals and helping them achieve their ambitions.
 If the individual is capable of identifying opportunities and prioritizing them from both an employee and management perspective, then the person shows potential for being a good boss.


This shows that the person discusses performance goals and sets clear expectations which allows others employees to achieve them.
When the person regularly gives clear instructions and sets realistic timelines for subordinates or other co-workers,, he or she is sure to perform well in the role of boss.
 People feeling ignored by their boss in the workplace is one of the main reasons behind low employee engagement and high staff turnover.


Therefore, the employee who lends a helping hand to other co-workers is definitely manager material. It shows that the employee understands the challenges others face.
If the employee doesn’t help others in addition to his or her own tasks, this indicates that he or she is not able to think beyond their own work.
 As a responsible employee, he or she doesn’t look away if things go wrong but has the courage to take ownership for their mistakes.


When things go terribly wrong with a project or people in the workplace, he or she is the first one to figure things out and take action, without wasting time on assigning blame to others.
If the employee doesn’t embrace mistakes, this signals that he or she is less likely to take steps to streamline workplace issues and solve problems in an efficient manner, making them unsuitable for a managerial position.
 The employee who inspires others, irrespective of his or her position or title, will definitely be a good boss. If an employee can inspire others, it shows that such an employee is highly passionate for the workplace and is ready to use his or her leadership qualities to foster business growth.
 The employee who not only meets daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly targets, but also keeps the overall mission of the company in mind at all times is usually the one nominated for promotions.


This is a rock star employee that frequently exceeds expectations and creates short-term goals; that helps other staff members move closer to progressively accomplishing the company’s overall strategy.
If an employee is not able to see the big picture but only focuses on dealing with the tasks at hand, the person is less likely to be successful as a future boss.
 A successful potential boss knows every bit of his or her job and understands where and when development is required. This person takes initiative to ensure both personal and professional development.


Employee who pay attention to improving their skills are strong candidates for management positions because their skill development effort contributes to achieving business goals in the long run. They are self-starters and always keep professional development a priority.
If an employee doesn’t demonstrate the urge to improve at a professional level, he or she should probably not be considered for promotion.
 Employees who are ready to give up more of their time (on top of normal work day hours) when demanded by the company should be considered for promotion.


This doesn’t mean that the employees stay late every day, but only when there is a crucial need to meet business goals.
When an employee consistently dedicates additional time to business endeavors when help is needed, without complaint, this person should be regarded as a good future boss.
 An employee possesses the quality of a good boss if he or she doesn’t wait until the formal performance review to give feedback.


In addition to this, he or she doesn’t focus on negative feedback, but provides positive reinforcement. The person understands that their subordinates and coworkers thrive on recognition, so they ensure that the efforts of others are recognized and rewarded. .
When the employee creates an environment based on trust, respect, creativity and encouraging feedback, subordinates and other co-workers are likely to grow. This is an excellent quality for a potential boss to possess.
 These include:


External hires are usually paid more and they are more likely to get laid off than those promoted from within.
Internal employees tend to have existing relationships with bosses, which is key in getting work done efficiently. People hired from outside the company usually take more time to find their way.
Since people already working within a company tend to become good at what they do, you may genuinely wish to reward them with a promotion.
It’s easier to analyze current employees on a day-to day basis and test their managerial potential through challenging assignments.
 Once you identify promising managerial qualities in an employee, you should consider assigning them more responsibilities through a career development plan.


This will not only make the employee ready to perform as a good boss in future, but will also allow you to assess their abilities even further.
Maintain a consistent feedback loop, so the employee can use your feedback and constructive criticism to create a personal and professional development plan.
 It should be noted that employees are not always born with innate leadership qualities, so you should make an effort to foster leadership skills in employees you believe have a lot of potential.


Be patient - people have to learn the craft of being a good boss, so you should encourage your most promising employees to continually improve themselves through training, seminars, reading inspirational books and using other tools for self-assessment.

