 Right after finishing the “Proving Honor” quest, travel back to the Jorrvaskr—the easternmost hall in Whiterun—and talk to Skjor, one of the leaders of the Companions. Ask him for a job and he will tell you to meet him in the Underforge at night.;
, Wait for night to arrive. Take the path on the left side of the Jorrvaskr leading you to a secret opening on the stone wall leading to the Underforge. Go through the secret opening and inside you should find Aela (a female companion) and Skjor.
 Aela will transform into a werewolf and Skjor will cut her arm and pour her blood on the fountain in the middle of the room. Move towards the fountain and press the Activate button on your controller to make your character drink the spilled blood.
 The game screen will blacken out right after your character drinks the blood from the fountain. The next scene will show your character standing outside Whiterun, now in werewolf or “beast” form.


Run around the city to see how it’s like to become a werewolf. After a few seconds the screen will turn dark again and the next scene will be your character now back in its normal form.
 Speak with Aela once you become human again, and she will tell you that you need to wipe out a group of werewolf hunters called the Silver Hand in a place called Gallows Rock.


Leave Whiterun and head straight east past the Valtheim Towers. You’ll find a small encampment with a torn-down watchtower in the middle. This is Gallows Rock.
 Move towards the entrance you see on the encampment and pull down the chain next to it to open the way into Gallows Rock.


Open your in-game menu and select “Magic.” Choose “Powers” from the menu panel on the right-hand side of the game screen, and select “Beast Form” to turn your main character into a werewolf.
 There’s no special way you need to follow to eliminate all the Silver Hand members; simply hack and slash every person that attacks you until you kill everyone in the encampment.


Remember though that you need to exterminate all the Silver Hand while in Werewolf form.

