 Combine the yeast, warm water, and one pinch of sugar in a large mixing bowl. Mix the ingredients with a paddle or spoon until they are fully incorporated. The better the ingredients are mixed, the better texture and flavor your beavertails will have, Letting the bowl stand for a few minutes will allow the yeast to swell and dissolve, which is essential to activating the yeast. Do not mix or disturb the bowl while you are waiting as any disruption could affect the yeast’s activation., Combine the vanilla, eggs, remaining sugar, milk, oil, salt, and most of the flour with your water, yeast, and sugar mix. Stir all of the ingredients until fully incorporated and the dough becomes soft and slack. , Knead the dough for 5-9 minutes, adding flour as needed. You may want to use a dough hook rather than your hands, but either method works. Kneading the dough with a dough hook will generally be more consistent than mixing with your hands.
 Then, seal the bowl in a plastic bag. If your bowl cannot fit in a plastic bag, cover it with a tea towel or clingfilm. Grease the bowl with a small amount of oil, enough to prevent the dough from sticking to the bowl while it rises.You can place the bowl in your refrigerator if you plan on waiting before you make the beaver tails.
 Let the dough rise until it has doubled in size, which will take approximately an hour. Letting the dough rise will give the beavertails a lighter texture and density., You can deflate the dough by making a fist and gently pressing it into the risen dough, which should leave an impression and release the gas generated from the yeast. Remember to be gentle, deflating the dough will allow the dough to be workable, but you don’t want to flatten the dough and compromise all of the work your yeast has done., Carefully pull off a small, golf ball sized piece of dough. Roll the piece of dough into an oval shape on a lightly floured surface and cover it with a tea towel. Repeat this step and continue until all of the dough has been rolled into oval shapes.
 Heat about 4 inches of vegetable oil in a fryer. The temperature should be385 °F (196 °C) before you place any dough into the oil. If you don’t have a fryer try using a wok instead. If you use a wok make sure to measure the temperature of the oil with a thermometer as you heat it.


If you do not have a wok, you can use a dutch oven or other deep pot that can hold a large amount of oil.
 Pull gradually on the two ends of a piece of dough until they reach a tall oval shape and look like a beaver’s tail. Pulling on the dough slowly will help the pieces retain their shape without risking them being torn or ripped.
 Gradually and slowly add the beavertails to the fryer. You should carefully place one or two pieces at a time. Do not dump them all in at the same time, you will likely ruin their cook and run the risk of seriously burning yourself! Continue with carefully adding one beavertail after another until they are all in the fryer.Place one beavertail in the oil to make sure the oil is at temperature before adding the rest in one at a time.
 Use a slotted spoon or pair of tongs to flip the beavertails over and keep frying the pieces until the undersides are a deep, brownish color. This should only take a couple of minutes so be sure to keep an eye on them.
 Using a pair of metal tongs, take out the fried pieces and let them drain on a paper towel. Be careful not to let the pieces touch you as they could burn your skin. Let them drain and cool for 3-5 minutes., Carefully pour in the sugar, adding cinnamon if desired. Mix the sugar and cinnamon until they are both fully incorporated.
 Place the beavertails, a few at a time, into the bowl. Carefully and gently shake the bowl so that the sugar and/or cinnamon gets shifted around, making sure the pieces are generously covered. However, you don't need to do this for very long.
 With clean hands, pick up the beavertails, shake off the excess sugar and cinnamon, and transfer them onto a clean plate. You can get rid of excess sugar and cinnamon by gently tapping them against the side of the bowl.

