 Pour about half a cup (120ml) of distilled white vinegar into your stained flask. Then, shake in approximately one tablespoon (15ml) of baking soda for every cup the flask holds. The vinegar and baking soda mixture will froth up, so be sure to put the flask in the sink when you combine them.Baking soda and vinegar are excellent at killing germs and wearing down stains when acting together.It’s important to use distilled white vinegar, as it's more acidic and will result in a better cleaning. It’s also less likely to leave a lingering odor or taste in your flask, which other types of vinegar may do.;
, After the fizzing baking soda mixture has died down, fill the flask the rest of the way up with hot water. This will help loosen the dried stains from the inner surface of the flask, as well as distribute the vinegar and baking soda throughout. Leave the cap off the flask to keep the pressure from building up too much.Baking soda and vinegar are notoriously reactive. Putting the cap on the flask with both substances inside could result in a messy leak or even damage.
 Leave the flask to soak for 8-10 minutes. The baking soda solution will begin working on the worst of the discoloration while the heat of the water softens and collects the stain-causing residue. It’s as easy as that!For especially thick buildup or heavy discoloration, give the vinegar and baking soda longer to set up.
 Purchase a bottle brush in the baby aisle of your local supermarket or department store. These brushes were designed to clean out the types of bottles used to feed infants, which tend to be tall and narrow, so they’ll work perfectly for scrubbing out your flask. Use the bottle brush to scour away any stubborn spots that the baking soda mixture hasn’t already removed.A basic bottle brush only costs about $5, but it’s a very useful tool to have on hand for difficult cleaning jobs.
Be sure to run your bottle brush through the dishwasher after using it to clean a stained flask.
 Dump out the mixture so that the flask is completely empty. Rinse it repeatedly with hot water until no trace of vinegar or baking soda remains. Don’t forget to rinse around the opening of the flask. Your flask should now be clean and ready for use.Pat the body, mouth and cap of the flask dry with a clean towel, or let it sit and air dry.
Give the opening of the flask a sniff. If you can still smell vinegar, rinse it a few more times, or fill it with hot water and let it soak, until it’s odorless.

