 Some offer private, members only services, others are "open" systems which allow non-members to search or contact listings. Open systems offer the opportunity for more offers from non-members, but non-members will not have supplied the exchange club with a credit card number to pay for membership. Search on phrases such as: home exchange, home swap, house swap, house exchange, and vacation home exchange, or get a reliable translation of these phrases into the language of the country that interests you to find sites based in these countries.;
, This can be done in a number of ways.


Look at the numbers of home exchange offers in countries you are interested in and the numbers in your own country. This will give you many choices of places to stay while narrowing your competition to help ensure you get the exchange you want.
Consider how up-to-date the listings are (whether you can see when a member joined/their listing expires).
Decide on a website that is easy to use. If the website is easy, you need only focus on finding the right place for you. It also helps to make sure you can contact the agency by phone in case you have additional questions.
Consider the features of the home exchange programs. Some offer simple listing services, while others help members arrange their home exchange. Some offer only mutual home swaps, while at least one program also offers non-mutual home swaps, which may better suit those whose vacation timing requires flexibility.
, It is best to include photos with your message or direct potential exchange partners to your listing on the home exchange program's website.
, Decide whether you will complete a written exchange agreement.
, doctor, dentist, taxis, garage) and local information (e.g. restaurants, amusements and recreation, bus and train timetables). Differences in cleaning standards are the top reason for dis-satisfaction among exchangers, so hire a cleaner if needed.,, Make sure you leave it at least as clean, if not more so, than when you got there.

