 Getting a good’s night sleep is not always easy, but you can make it better by working to improve your bedtime habits. Consider your usual evening routine and think about what might be preventing you from getting a good night’s sleep. Do you drink caffeinated beverages late in the day? Do you have hard time relaxing at night? Use the following suggestions to help you improve your bedtime habits.


Make your bedroom a pleasing, relaxing space. If your bedroom is messy or cluttered, you might have a hard time relaxing at night. Make sure that it is clean and attractive so that you don’t have anything distracting you from getting a good night’s sleep.
Don’t have any alcohol, caffeine, or nicotine at least three hours before bed. Alcohol, caffeine, and nicotine can disrupt your sleep cycle, so it’s best to avoid these substances in the hours leading up to your bedtime.
Do something to relax before bed. Reading in bed for 10-15 minutes, meditating, or talking to your partner are good ways to calm down and get ready to sleep. Avoid watching television or playing video games right before bed because they may cause you to become more alert., Having a consistent sleeping and waking times are essential to starting your day in a healthy way. If your bedtimes and wake up times are erratic, try to correct the problem by setting a regular bedtime and wake-up time that you can stick to. Also, make sure that you will give yourself enough time to get your recommended amount of sleep every night. For example, if you need to be at work by 8am every morning, you may need to wake up by 6:30 to have enough time to get ready and get to work on time. Therefore, you should go to bed no later than 10:30pm every night to get the right amount of sleep.Try a sleep monitor or tracker to make sure you are getting enough sleep every night., A jarring alarm clock may be getting your day off to a stressful start. If your alarm clock stresses you out, try using an alarm clock that wakes you up with a progressive sound or that uses light instead of sound to wake you up. There are even some apps for smartphones that can help you to wake up gently rather than with a loud, jarring alarm sound.Don't hit the snooze button. Hitting the snooze button has been shown to be more harmful than helpful because the extra few minutes you get when you hit snooze do not actually provide you with quality rest., Sometimes getting up early is enough to put someone in a bad mood and set a negative tone for the entire day. Setting aside a few minutes every morning to focus on positive things can help get your day off to a better start. Avoid watching the news or reading about things that will upset you first thing in the morning.


Try journaling about a happy memory or reading a positive quote or story. If you are religious, you could take a few minutes to read from a spiritual text and consider the verses you read.