 Have the boat parallel to the dock, unattached. Make sure the oars are in and are pushed as far as they can go until the catch, and that the 'oar lock' on the rigger is closed, to stop the oar from popping out. Move the oars forward and hold them with one hand. Slide the seat back, and put one foot in. Make sure to stand only on the parts of the boat that are marked with tape and do not step in the bottom, or rounded, part of the boat. Then squat down and sit down on the sliding chair. You should then be able to put the foot in the shoe, and then move the other foot in. Hold the oars in one hand and push off of the dock. Always keep one hand on the dock until you push off the dock.;
, The oars will move back. Make sure they're flat on the water when you do this. Keep moving your hands forward until you can't reach anymore. Then bend your body over until it is fully extended. Then you should bend your knees so the seat moves up until your shins are perpendicular to the water. Remember not to lunge (called 'rushing the slide') when you get to the front or reach for too much length.
 This means to roll your wrists so the oars shift so that they are parallel to, yet above, the water. In sweep rowing (one oar), it is important to only roll the wrist closest to the oar blade (a.k.a. the inside hand). This requires very little effort and the oars are built to stay in the flat or squared position, so don't fight it! If you're just starting out, you can row "on the square." Though this may unset the boat for new rowers, it is a useful technique in larger boats, especially when rowing half-crew.
 When sitting forward the first motion is to push your legs back in a dynamic motion, and the seat slide back. Do not jerk but apply some force. As you continue to improve, you can start to add more force, but it's helpful to get the technique down properly before you try to go quickly. Then lean back when you are close to the end of the stroke. The final motion should be the arms. The boat will probably spring backwards. Don't be worried, shells only go backwards.
 Be sure to roll up the oar(s) once the handle passes the knees. Continue doing this until you feel you've traveled an appropriate amount, and then row back to where you got on.
 It takes a long time to perfect your proper rowing technique. But do not be discouraged, the sport is great fun and a great workout. The first few times out will be difficult, but the more you get to know the boat you are rowing the easier it will get.








