 If autistic people don't have a clear voice in an autism organization or event, then it is probably not a good place to find other autistic people. It may also be a source of inaccurate, pitying, or hateful material.


If an organization is run partially or completely by autistic people, its about page will usually say so.
See if it is partnered with any autistic-run organizations.
Autistic-run support groups may be more difficult to find, and you may need to rely upon word of mouth regarding which one is best.;
, The hashtags #actuallyautistic and #askanautistic were created specifically for autistic people, and you can find them there.
 The autistic community is full of wise, compassionate, and educated people. Here are some examples of well-known writers and blogs:


Cynthia Kim
Amy Sequenzia
Ari Ne'eman
Emma's Hope Book (Note: Emma's parents are not described as autistic; however, they are educated and well-regarded in the community)
Jim Sinclair
Lydia Brown

, Look for walks, charity fundraisers, pride festivals, and more.


Always research an event before participating in it. Some events are run by harmful organizations., Autistic people use a unique set of terminology to discuss autism-related issues and experiences. Here are some example terms:



Stimming: Repetitive motions such as rocking, hand flapping, echolalia, and more.Useful for coping, and self-expression (like a smile).Identity-first language: "Autistic person" rather than "person with autism." Argues that autism is not a terrible thing, no more than "Asian person." Preferred by most autistic people.Curebie: a person who believes that autism should be cured. Derogatory, since most autistic people believe in therapy and acceptance instead.Neurotypical/NT: non-autistic, and also without any other neurological issuesAllistic: non-autistic, though not necessarily neurotypical.Neurodiversity: the idea that neurologically disabled people are a minority, and deserve acceptance and respect, Some autism language is considered insulting or outdated.



High/Low-Functioning:It's considered rude to put people in boxes, especially since they may be skilled in some areas and significantly impaired in others.Person with autism: Disliked by the autistic community in general because it implies that autism is separate from a person, and that it is antithetical to humanity.Only use this to describe someone if it is their personal preference.Suffering from autism: Many autistic people are not suffering.They have challenges, but so does everyone, and they consider themselves all right.Autism epidemic:Autism doesn't kill people, and it is not communicable.
 Some descriptions of autism are inaccurate, because they are written by people who don't really understand autism, or they are motivated by a desire to control autistic people. Autistic people tend to paint a more factual and accepting picture.



Autism Acceptance Month: every AprilAutistic Pride Day: June 18

