 This is important due to the fact that dry ice turns from a solid into a gas at a rate of five to ten pounds per 24 hours in a normal insulated container. Buying it too far in advance could mean you won't you get a chance to use it before it disappears., You can use oven mitts, insulated gloves, or thick towels to handle dry ice, otherwise, it will burn your hands. Dry ice registers at negative 109 degrees F (negative 79 degrees C). The burn dry ice creates is similar to frostbite., Dry ice is carbon dioxide and carbon dioxide is hazardous to your health in large or concentrated quantities. If too much dry ice gas accumulates in a small space, you can suffer from carbon dioxide poisoning. Keep the windows in your vehicle open when transporting dry ice.You can put a sleeping bag, or other similar insulating materials, around the insulated container you plan on transporting your dry ice
If transported inside your vehicle (excluding the trunk) for periods longer than ten minutes, you should open your window to ventilate any concentrations of carbon dioxide., It should not be stored in a small space where the gas can build up and become dangerous. Keep dry ice where the air can flow. Styrofoam and newspaper are suitable insulators for preserving your dry ice.Use caution in low areas; carbon dioxide in gas form is heavier than air and settles close to the ground. Proper ventilation is the best way to prevent a build up of CO2 in low spots.
 A broken freezer full of food, or a freezer that's been shut off from power failure, can be saved with the cooling power of dry ice.However, you may not want to store your dry ice in a conventional, functioning freezer. The dry ice may be a colder temperature than your freezer thermostat can handle.
 Counter tops are not ideal, as the surface may crack from the extreme cold of the dry ice. If you are using dry ice in a freezer or refrigerator because the unit does not work, a small amount of dry ice is all that is needed to provide cooling and will not cause harmful effects.Wrap your dry ice in newspaper to protect it from dissipating too quickly due to air flow., Leave it out at room temperature and do not dispose of it in the garbage, sewer, sink or tub. Washing dry ice into your plumbing can do damage to your pipes and you should be certain you don't leave it to evaporate someplace children or animals might touch it.Some places you might allow your dry ice to evaporate include:


In your sink.
In your shower or bathtub.
Outside, out of reach of animals and children.

