 With one hand, brush or pull your hair back, trying to avoid fly-away strands. With the other hand, grab a hair tie and slip the ponytail through the elastic. Twist the elastic, forming a figure-8 and pull the hair through again. Keep twisting the elastic and pulling your hair through until the elastic is tight.


Consider covering the hair tie with a scrunchy, a ribbon, or a bow or ribbon in your school colors.
If you don't want any hair ties visible, take a strand of hair and wrap it around the base of your ponytail several times, covering the hair tie. Secure the hair strand using a bobby pin.
You can wear your ponytail low at the base of your neck, high on the top of your head, or medium high at the very back of your head. You can even wear it on the side of your head.;
, This style is also known as an upside down ponytail. Start with a ponytail. Make a hole just above the hair tie, between the back of your head and the tie. Be sure to keep equal hair on either side of the hole. Pass the ponytail through the hole, and give it a tug. You can then tie a scrunchy or a bow around the base of the ponytail. You can also add a bow hair clip above it.
 Start with a high ponytail on top of your head. Take your ponytail and twist it into a rope, then wrap it around the elastic as many times as you can. While holding the hair in place with one hand, start securing the bun with some bobby pins. Place a bobby pin in the front, back, left, and right side of the bun, then place another bobby pin between them. Finally, spritz the bun with a small amount of hairspray, and smooth down any flyaway strands with a little bit more hairspray.


Add a bit of detail to the bun by braiding a strand of hair and wrapping it around the bun. Secure the braid with a bobby pin.
 Start with a high ponytail. Twist your hair into a rope, and wrap it around the base of your ponytail, creating a bun-shape. Secure your hair by wrapping a hair tie around the base of your bun—be sure to get the hair tie over the ends of your hair. Shake your head around and pull a few pieces out until you get the messiness you want.
 To do this, gather a small section of hair at the top of your head (about eye level and up). Pull it towards the back of your head. You can clip it in place or tie it using a smaller hair tie.


Consider curling or straightening your hair.
 Start by separating your hair into three even sections. Then, take the section of hair to the left and cross it over so that it ends up between the other two sections. Then, take the section on the right and cross that over so that it ends up between the other two sections. Repeat these steps until you have about an inch or two left of hair. Tie the braid off with a hair tie.


You can make one braid at the back of your head, or two braids to either side of your head. If you are making two braids, start them behind your ear.

