 Selena is known for her huge, dark, shiny eyes, so give your eyes a beautiful natural shine by applying two cold cucumber slices. (or two cold, wet cotton balls) Pull your hair back, lay down, and gently press them against your closed eyelids. Count to fifty slowly, then pull them away; your eyes will have a natural shine.


Remember that your eyes don't have to be brown. Blue, green, grey, and hazel eyes are just as pretty.;
, Make sure your eyes are dry then select a quality eye shadow. (Don't go and buy some cheap eye shadow at a gas station. If you want a flattering Gomez look, you might need to pinch a couple pennies to afford it.) First apply a lighter color to the lids, then apply a darker color to the creases. Be sure the tones suit your eye color.
 Get a black or dark brown eyeliner to match Selena’s style. Line both the top and bottom of your eyelids, but don't overdo it. (especially if you really want to look like her)

, Get a high-quality mascara and dip the wand in. Set it near your eyelash and blink until there is enough mascara on your eyelashes for you.
 Selena has a naturally full mouth, but there are cheap ways to emulate the look. Get about a teaspoon of sugar or salt. Lick your lips twice and kiss the spoon of salt or sugar, until the majority of it is on your lips. Rub your lips together until they are slightly numb, then rinse them thoroughly. Also, every time you brush your teeth, brush your lips for three minutes.
 Buy a moisturizing lip balm with SPF and use it whenever your lips get dry or chapped. Don't lick your lips! It may be tempting, but it dries out your lips.
 Finish your lips off with a nice lip gloss. Go to any beauty store and buy lip gloss. When buying the gloss, don't make it super-shiny. Keep it moderately glossy, as Selena likes to keep her look natural.
 Then you have pinkish lips like her.
 Selena is very fresh-faced, so the best place to start is with a natural glow. Buy a good acne cleanser and use at least once daily. If you have sensitive skin, ask your doctor or dermatologist what cleanser you should use.
 Buy a lightweight moisturizer and apply it to your face after you've applied the cleanser. This will help keep your skin moisturized and will avoid dry, flaky skin. Make sure that it's lightweight so that your face doesn't get too oily.
 Use a sheer foundation that matches your skin color and apply it to your face, concentrating on areas like your nose and under eyes. Put on a bronze or dusty-rose blush if your skin tone is like Selena's; otherwise, go for a color that suits your skin tone better.


If your complexion is already even, avoid foundation; it may dull your natural vibrancy.
 "Done" eyebrows make your eyes look bigger and your makeup pop. If you don’t want to shape your own eyebrows, have them waxed. (If you’re under thirteen, you can also have them strung.)


Only pluck your eyebrows if you want to and are ready for it.
 Selena has sleek, shiny hair that looks great with or without styling. Keep your hair healthy by washing and conditioning it according to its needs (ex. thin, dry, oily, and dyed hair all have different needs).


Selena says that she uses "Hello Hydration." Of course, just because it works for her hair doesn’t mean it’ll work for yours.
 Luckily for you, Selena has worn her hair in a variety of styles including long, shoulder-length, layered, straight, and wavy with front bangs, side bangs, and no bangs at all. Look through some photos of her over the years to choose a style that flatters your face shape.


To achieve the straight-haired look, buy a good flat iron and some heat protection (so your hair doesn't get frizzy or damaged). Apply the heat protection to your hair. Once the straightener has heated up, straighten your hair.
To achieve a wavy look, buy a good heat wand as well as heat protection. Apply the heat protection to your hair. Wrap different sections of your hair around the wand and, when you’re done, spray with hairspray or shine-spray to hold the kinks.
 Selena has a great sense of style (and it's actually pretty affordable!). Search for pictures of Selena online to see what you like, what would flatter your body type, and what’s in your budget. Circle the items you like in certain pictures. Do you love the skinny jeans she's wearing in that picture? Or maybe the cardigan? Get inspired by her before going out shopping.
 Selena wears skinny jeans, scarves, heels, and anything else that is frilly or girly. It's a good idea to shop at teenage stores like American Eagle, Forever 21, Urban Outfitters, Garage, Aeropostale, etc., which are all fairly affordable. If you have a higher budget, try going for stores like Abercrombie and Juicy Couture. Selena loves shopping at Abercrombie and Juicy for occasional clothing.
