 High temperatures make your hair dry and brittle, increasing the chances of breakage. If you must use heat on your hair, try to limit it to once a week at most.


Allow hair to air dry whenever possible. The heat from blow dryers can be especially damaging, as it is combined with a strong blast of air - another culprit for hair damage.
Keep use of flat irons and curling irons to a minimum. Because these can heat upwards of 400 °F (204 °C), you are literally cooking your hair.
 The chemicals in hair dye are a major cause of hair damage. Using dyes often can prevent hair growth from damage to the entire strand of hair. If possible, don’t dye your hair at all. If you must, spend at least three months between hair dye sessions.
 If you get your hair relaxed, you know how damaging it can be to your hair. Although getting your hair relaxed frequently may be tempting in order to maintain straight locks, try to wait as long as you can between sessions.


Spending at least three months between hair relaxing treatments can help aid in hair growth.
If you are able and willing, try foregoing relaxing your hair for a natural look instead. This will not only mix up your hairstyle, but increase your hair’s ability to grow faster.
 Stress has shown to have an effect on hair growth and overall thickness, so do things to make your life as anxiety-free as possible. Stay away from things that stress you out, and incorporate more things into your life that put you at peace.
 Although sleeping and daily activity can make your hair difficult to manage, don’t try to control it through power-brushing and a strong hand. Instead, be soft to your hair to ease out tangles and knots.


Brush your hair slowly. This will help to reduce the amount of breakage your strands experience. Always begin brushing from the top, and work your way down.
Use a comb or boar-bristle brush to brush your hair. Avoid using a brush that has knobs on the ends of bristles, as these can get caught in your hair and cause more damage.
 These place stress on the roots of your hair, making them more likely to break from the root.


Using weaves and fusion extensions can damage hair roots, so try not to use these if you want to grow your hair long.
Braiding your hair loosely can help protect brittle ends, but exceedingly tight braids or cornrows can break off your hair near the follicles. Use loose braids to help keep your hair protected.