 You want to do this so that you can lift up the carpet and check the pad and the floor underneath. It's important to remove the furniture as quickly as possible so that you can get started on the carpet.









Leaving the furniture on the wet carpeting can damage both the furniture and the flooring.
 You probably won't be able to take up the entire floor, but you are going to have to check beneath the carpet, so keep that in mind. There are several different ways that you can get rid of the water.








Rent a vacuum capable of removing water. Do not use a regular house vacuum, because a regular house vacuum can't handle vacuuming up water. Vacuum until you get no more water.
Alternately you could rent a hot water extraction unit. Check with a local carpet cleaning company to see if you can rent theirs. This helps suck the water from the carpet, although again you will have to check beneath the water.
 Getting rid of the water on top of the carpet is only the beginning. You'll need to get rid of the water along the floor and in the padding beneath the carpet, otherwise the floor could buckle.









Walk across the carpet. If there's a sopping/squelching sound when you do, then there's definitely still water beneath the carpet.
 Start in a corner. Using pliers and a pair of work gloves, start separating the carpet from the padding and the floor. You're going to need to dry the floor beneath the carpet, otherwise it could cause floor buckling. Avoid cutting the carpet, because it will be incredibly difficult to put back together attractively.









You can also lift the carpet up pulling it off of the installation strips at one of the corners. You can also do this on a carpet's side or edge if you have a short side that is easy to access and work with.
Fold the corner or side of the rug over so you can see the carpet pad.
 You're going to want to try to dry the pad without removing the carpet, especially if the pad seems to have only gotten a little damp and the subfloor seems dry.









A dehumidifier in a closed room will pull out water fast, and can be rented from rental companies.
Keep the corner or side of carpet that you have lifted raised and use a fan to blow air under the carpet unto the pad. Turn up the heat and open the windows to aid in the drying.
Attach a vacuum hose (for vacuuming up wet things) to the exhaust of a vacuum then put the hose under the carpet, placing the carpet back over the hose. The hot air will cause the carpet to float over the pad and speed up the drying process.
 In the end, one of the best ways to deal with a wall-to-wall wet carpet is to call in someone who knows how to deal with it. It's important to do this as soon as possible so the company can salvage as much of the carpet, floor, and padding as possible.









Make sure the service is guaranteed and look for a company that promises to dry the carpet, the pad and the floor if necessary.
Check with your homeowners or renters insurance. Depending on the cause of the wet carpet, it is possible your policy may cover the cost of the carpet cleaning.

