 When you leave work, you should do just that - leave work behind. Try not to take work home with you. Focusing on work at home can increase your anxiety and OCD symptoms while feeding your need to work. Try to make a clear boundary between work time and time not at work.For example, you can decide not to check your email or answer your phone when you’re at home.
Leave all paperwork and projects at work. Don’t bring them home with you.
If you must answer emails or work on paperwork at night, set aside a designated half an hour or hour to do just that. This helps keep your work time separate from your home time. It also keeps you from doing work all night.
 If working too much is triggering your anxiety or OCD, then you may want to talk to your boss about setting boundaries. You should tell our boss that you need to make clear boundaries about when you work and when you won’t work. This may include what you will and won’t do when you’re off the clock.If you are an hourly worker, you may tell your boss that you will only work during your required hours. If your boss wants you to work outside of those hours, you may negotiate overtime or say no.
If you are salaried, you may set a limit on the amount of hours you will work and discuss this with your boss.
You may want to say, “I have been working too much and spreading myself too thin. I would like to set some boundaries in relation to the hours I work.”

, If you have anxiety and OCD, you may be plagued by inaccurate thoughts or obsessions. You may believe if you don’t work all the time you will lose your job. You may have the compulsion to work constantly and get edgy or irritated if you are unable to work. To help treat your anxiety and OCD symptoms, work on changing your thoughts about work.Start by telling yourself that being away from work doesn’t make you lazy or unproductive. Repeat to yourself, “I do not have to work every hour of every day. I can take time to focus on myself and relationships.”
Face your obsessive or anxious thoughts. When you start to feel anxious because you aren’t working, tell yourself, “Nothing bad will happen if I am not working. These are just my anxieties. I deserve to take a break from work.”

, Due to your anxiety, you may have a long to-do list with things you must get done. Maybe you have obsessive thoughts about what will happen if you don’t complete everything, or you have the compulsion to keep working until you have completed everything on the list. This is not healthy and just feeds anxiety and stress. Instead, start prioritizing the things you have to do and limiting your to-do list.For example, honestly assess everything on your list. What are things that have to get done today? What things have to be done by the end of the week? What things have no time limit on them? You may have to finish paperwork for work by the end of the day, complete a project by the end of the week, but making fliers can be done when you get to them.
Limit your tasks to around five per day. If you have to add something to your task list for that day, you need to remove one task. Keep yourself limited so you don’t overextend yourself.

