 The best way to avoid him is to avoid certain areas you know he’ll be at certain times. If you tend to bump into him on a daily basis, try walking a different way to class, or to wherever it is you are going. If you see him at your locker, try changing the time you go to drop off and pick up books.;
, If he’s in your class and sits in the front, try sitting in the back. If you eat lunch at a table he sits at, try switching it up and sit with a different friend group. Changing where you sit every day can also be a good way to change your routine and meet new people while avoiding the boy., The easiest way to avoid a person is to avoid people that he hangs out with. If you have mutual friends, you’ll want to think about who he will be with on what days. If you have multiple friend groups, you can just bop around between the ones that aren’t friends with him while you sort out your feelings.


If you have a good friend he hangs out with, confide in that person that you are trying to avoid him. They’ll be able to help you out by telling you where he is if they’re hanging out with him.
 Just as important as avoiding him in person is avoiding him online. Don’t read messages or updates from him, and definitely avoid responding to posts he makes. You can hide his updates from your Facebook feed while still staying friends. Out of sight, out of mind!, If he has your number and calls you or texts you, keep your messages short and to the point. If he texts you and asks what you’re up to, just tell him “not much” and don’t ask what he’s up to.


Keep in mind, if you are just trying to avoid him for a short time period, you don’t want to give him signals that you don’t like him. You just want to avoid carrying on a long conversation that will put you in an awkward situation.
 If the situation is dire and you can’t stop thinking about him, try picking up a new hobby. This way you can avoid putting yourself in a situation where you’ll see him, and you can give yourself a distraction to keep from thinking about him.Do something that will take your total concentration, like doing a puzzle. You can also find something to do outdoors, like identifying plants or insects.

