 It may seem contradictory to try to lose water by consuming water. But staying hydrated is essential to helping your body release fluids (including water) and cleanse your body of any food that may be causing bloating.
If your body is dehydrated, it will store water to compensate,
leading to more water weight. Ensure you have at least eight glasses of water a day.Try to sip, rather than chug, water. Sipping water allows your body to digest food properly. Chugging water can actually make your belly swell up.;
, Eating high amounts of sodium can cause your body to store water and lead to bloating.Your diet should include no more than 2000-2500mg of sodium a day to allow your metabolism to function properly without leading to water retention.Avoid canned soups and frozen meals as salt is used as a preservative in these foods. Go for fresh meat from the butcher over deli meats, which is full of sodium.
Use table salt sparingly in your cooking and use less spices in your food to cut back on sodium.
Avoid pre-made salad dressings and sauces, as these are often high in sodium. Cheese is also a high sodium food, so cut back on cheese if possible.
 Consuming fiber rich foods helps to cleanse your urinary tract, kidneys, and your colon, thereby releasing excess fluids.Have a breakfast high in fiber, like a bowl of whole grain cereal, or add a few tablespoons of flax seed to your breakfast cereal, your yogurt, or your morning smoothie. Flaxseed is high in fiber and omega-3 fatty acids. They can be ground in a coffee grinder or a food processor to then add to foods.
Have steamed or raw vegetables as part of your lunch and dinner.
Avoid boiling or roasting your vegetables
as this removes a lot of the nutrients and healthy fiber.Be sure to snack on fruits like blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, and blackberries, which are packed with fiber and other antioxidants.
 Coffee and tea are known diuretics, which help to release fluids from your body. Always balance your coffee and tea consumption with glasses of water to prevent dehydration.You can also drink cranberry juice, a natural diuretic that will help to flush toxins and fluids from your body.