 It’s important to avoid making a few mistakes that are commonly made when treating chickens for frostbite. First and foremost, don’t overreact – mild cases of frostbite will heal themselves. For more severe cases, be sure to avoid these missteps:Do no massage frozen, frostbitten areas of the chicken.
Do not expose the chicken (or parts of the chicken) to direct or sudden heat. This may further damage the chicken’s nerves.
Do not rupture any unbroken blisters. This increases the risk of infection., If your chicken’s flesh is discolored and swollen, they may be frostbitten. If their feet are frostbitten, they will likely not be able to move their toes, and may not be able to stand. If infected, the swollen parts will feel warm to the touch.Bring the chicken inside, but let it rest in the coldest part of the house to ensure they warm up slowly.
Once the chicken has warmed up somewhat, wash the affected areas with lukewarm water and Epsom salt. Make sure the water is not hot.
Dry the area with clean paper towels.
Place the chicken alone in a box with plenty of towels and ample drinking water.
 If your chicken has an infection, getting rid of the infection is your first priority. After cleaning, consider applying an antibiotic. There are specific antibiotic creams that are safe for birds and available at pet stores and farming suppliers. Your vet can also provide you with antibiotics.


Keep the chicken in an area that is covered in a clean layer of newspapers. Change these papers daily.
If the infected area doesn’t heal in a week, or worsens rapidly, you should consider trimming the infected area or allowing a vet to do so.
 For frostbite on your chicken’s feet, get a vet’s assistance. It is safe for you to remove pieces of your chicken’s comb or wattle flesh are infected. If you’re comfortable doing so, get a clean, sharp pair of scissors, a scalpel, or very sharp knife and clean it with alcohol or antiseptic.


After cleaning the affected area, apply rubbing alcohol to the area you’ll be cutting.
Secure your chicken or have someone hold it. It will likely scream.
Make the incision just inside the infected area (through healthy flesh), taking care to make a straight, decisive cut.
Wipe the area with sterile gauze or cotton, and apply a healthy amount of antibiotic or antiseptic when the bleeding stops.
Clean and reapply antibiotic cream twice a day for a few days.
Do not cut off flesh that is blackened but not infected. Again, only cut off infected parts of the comb or wattle.
 Keep a chicken you’ve operated on isolated in an area that stays between 65-75 degrees Fahrenheit for 24 hours. Ideally, keep it in it’s own cage with a heat lamp at one end.


Know that the healing process may take a while.
Monitor you chicken’s dietary intake, and make sure they’re eating well during recovery.Do not return the bird to the flock if there is still any active bleeding. The other chickens will likely pick at the wound.
Return the bird to the coop at night, after you’ve turned off the lights. This will reduce the chance of fighting as social parameters are re-established within the flock.

