 If simple coping mechanisms prove ineffective in dealing with your feelings of anger and fail to stop you from reacting angrily, your problem may not be something you can fix on your own. A plethora of books and websites provide techniques for controlling your anger, but you may find you need additional, face-to-face assistance when it comes to coping with your anger., Anger management is not a problem from which you alone suffer. There are likely many groups in your area that can provide you with support in dealing with your anger issues. Research and identify the types of groups that you feel will be the most beneficial for you. Sometimes these groups are composed of regular people like yourself who have problems controlling their anger. Others are headed by licensed professionals. Some of the groups are free and open to the public while others are fee-based and exclusive to certain members of the community. Find a group that is right for you. Searching online, consulting with a doctor or asking a friend or colleague who has had similar issues are all great ways to help you identify legitimate anger management resources in your area., Coming together with individuals who suffer from the same anger management problems as you will provide you with tangible methods for coping with your anger. These groups can also provide a safe place for you to express your feelings of anger in a nurturing and understanding environment. Finally, the support of a group can help you devise and stick to an anger management routine or plan. Anger management sessions provide specific techniques or ways of thinking that help you minimize and control your anger. While books and online resources provide general solutions for anger management, these sessions can help you develop and tailor an anger management routine that is specific for your needs., Even after you have seen some improvement in dealing with your anger issues, it is possible to relapse and fall back into to negative patterns of behavior or thinking. That is why it is critical to attend anger management classes regularly, even after you have begun to employ methods for controlling your anger.There is no established time frame for ending your anger management sessions. While there may be a point when you feel you don't need them anymore, you should allow a trained professional to tell when it is safe to stop attending.
 Anger management classes, groups or sessions provide you with the framework for dealing with stress in your day-to-day life. It is up to you to put these theoretical methods into actual practice. Employ the techniques you acquired in anger management in real life situations and gauge the end results of utilizing these techniques. When you know how these techniques work or don't work for you in real life situations, anger management sessions can help you find alternative solutions or reinforce the techniques that do work. So, be prepared to put what you have learned into use and report the results in your anger management sessions to achieve the most favorable outcome., Anger management classes are not just for you. You may find that, after attending these classes or groups for some time, you are equally capable of helping those people with similar problems. Not only does this help the other individuals in your group, but will also lend some perspective to your own anger management issues.