 Get charts ahead of your visit that show where the coral reefs are located. Avoid disturbing them with fishing gear, anchors, or high speed motoring. The best time to navigate watercraft in coral-rich areas is when the sun is high in the sky, making the coral easy to see. You can also try wearing polarized sunglasses to help see the coral in the water.Be mindful of where you drop anchor when boating. Coral is easily broken by anchors and boats, and breakage can lead to the coral’s death., Reefs are a wonderful place to dive and explore, but coral polyps, the living animals which make up coral, are very fragile. When scuba diving or snorkeling, make sure not to kick the coral, stand or sit on it, or even hold it in your hand. You could potentially cause great damage, even without intending to.Simply the oil in your skin can be damaging to coral. It might be tempting to reach out and touch the coral to see what it feels like, or just for the experience, but doing so could be detrimental to the coral.
 Aside from just being careful about touching or kicking the coral when diving, you need to be careful about what you bring in the water with you. Even the sunscreen you put on your skin before entering the water could ultimately be harmful to the coral. Try choosing a sunscreen that is eco-friendly, or a sunscreen that reflects the sun rather than absorbing it.Be mindful of any gear you have with you. If you are taking underwater photos, for example, keep your gear close to you and don’t let it knock into the coral. Keep your fins in mind when snorkeling. Make sure you don’t hit the coral with them while kicking and swimming. Stay high above the coral and observe it from near the surface., The one true method of preventing accidental damage to coral reefs is to not dive or swim near them at all. It might not be the most ideal option, especially for tourists or travellers who desire an up close and personal experience, but it might be one of the only ways to keep reefs completely safe from damages caused by tourists and visitors.

