 Turtles are omnivores and have a voracious appetite. Just like humans, turtles need variety in their life. A balanced diet of vitamins and minerals is very important to keep your turtle happy and satisfied. A balanced diet of leafy green vegetables, insects, and prepared turtle foods will keep your turtle growing to full size. Your turtle might also like fruit or even flowers. Make sure you know what type of turtle you have so that you can provide the appropriate diet.
Never feed your turtle dairy products, as their stomach cannot properly digest lactose. Also steer clear of giving your turtle processed foods. Whole, dairy free foods are best.
 Turtles like to chase their food. By providing live food for your turtle, you will give them time for exercise and entertainment. Provide your turtle with live crickets, mealworms, wax worms are delicious insects that turtles love to eat.
Consider adding alternative insects, or even live fish and shrimp, throughout the week to keep your turtle’s diet interesting and nutritious.
 You love your turtle and it loves you, but do not give your turtle food every time you witness begging. Turtles are opportunistic feeders in the wild since they never know when the next meal is coming. Oftentimes, when your turtle sees you they will approach you with an open mouth because they associate you with feeding. Do not veer from the schedule, otherwise you will probably overfeed your turtle. Younger turtles need to eat daily whereas adult or mature turtles only need to be fed a few times per week. Be careful not to overfeed your turtle, they can become obese.
Water should always be accessible. Indeed, many turtles will consume their food under the water, but if they do not, then you should leave your turtle’s food in the same location in the aquarium. That way, your turtle will always know where to go to get their food.
To help avoid overfeeding, you should present food as your turtle eats it and remove all uneaten or partially eaten food after about five minutes.

