 Make sure your legs are turned out right from your thighs, not just below your knees or you could get serious knee injuries.

Second: like first, but place your feet about a foot apart. Keep the toes turned outwards.

Third: This position is like first, but cross the front foot's heel at the middle (instep) of your back foot.

Fourth: place your feet turned outwards, but place your front foot about six inches in front of your back foot. This can be done from first-open fourth; or from third; crossed fourth.

Fifth: similar to first, but you place your front foot's heel at your back foot's toe.;
, A barre is simply a rail to help you keep your balance when doing warm-up exercises. It should be at a comfortable height, just above (or at) your waist.
 The more that you read, especially books with illustrations or photos, the more you will feel comfortable with the different positions, the styles and techniques. It is also very useful to read about famous ballerinas and ballet dancers to understand their techniques and artistic backgrounds. Not only will these inspire you but they will also provide you with ideas for creating your own style. Also, try watching videos which instruct the basics of ballet. These are helpful as you can visually see the correct way to perform steps, and have audible instructions to make them as clear as possible.
 Do this daily - you are training your body for life. Even those who cease dance as adults tend to hold their bodies better than those who have never danced and retain a high level of flexibility and body awareness. So, even if you do not go on to make a career of ballet, you are doing your body a good turn. Just make sure you hold your posture correctly during dance, or you may well damage your body instead of doing it good.
, You need a ballet teacher to help you know if you are doing it correctly. This is very important as there is only so much you can teach yourself at home off the internet or from a book. Get a good teacher; keep looking until you feel a "click" with the person teaching you.
 This is important because you won't know if you are doing it right if you don't participate. Take all criticism constructively. You will never learn anything if you aren't told how you are doing something incorrectly.








