 You may begin to see a pattern of missing items from your home. You might also notice money being taken from your wallet or purse without your consent. If your teen is desperate for money to purchase more drugs, they might start to steal from you or sell their valuables for cash.If you notice money or valuables that are missing from your home, ask your teen if they know where the item went.
 You may start to notice that some of your prescription or over the counter medication is missing. Over the counter medications such as cough syrup can be abused. Prescription medication such as opioids or stimulants can also be abused and are very addictive.If someone in your home has been prescribed a commonly abused prescription medication, consider hiding that medication or keeping count of the pills in the container. Some commonly abused prescription medications include opioids, sedatives, and stimulants.Lock up your medications if you suspect that your child may be abusing them.
 If your teen is doing drugs, their grades are likely to suffer. They may be skipping school, not turning in homework assignments, or simply not focusing during class. Schedule a time to talk with your child’s teachers, school counselor, or coaches to discuss your child’s academic progress.Many schools now report grades to parents through a web-based system. Monitor your teen’s grades and attendance closely.
 All teens want respect for their space and privacy. However, if this need for privacy becomes extreme, it may also be a sign of drug use. It should be considered alarming if your teen considers their room “off limits” and refuses to allow you access to their room or personal belongings.Your teen’s bedroom is not the only place that may contain clues of drug use. There may also be information on their phone, computer, or in their car.
Take note if your teen makes sudden “privacy” demands.
 Your teenager may start to listen to more drug related music. They may wear t-shirts or hang posters on their wall that are related to drugs. If you aren’t familiar with these images or artists, do your research. Their new fascination could be a sign of drug use.