 If you had a big blow-up, it is probably best that you take a break from each other for a few days to calm down and reduce your anger levels. This will also give you both a chance to reflect on the situation, your motives, and your emotions. You’ll be able to talk to each other much better when you are both less upset.If you hang out in the same circle of friends, continue spending time with them, but only when your friend will not be there. Even if you have calmed down, there will still be some tension between the two of you until the matter is resolved, which may make your other friends uncomfortable.
Don’t text or communicate through social media. If it is upsetting to you, consider hiding your friend’s posts from your feeds until the two of you have cleared the air.;
, Once you feel calmer, take the initiative to approach your friend and try to talk. Understand that your friend might not be ready to talk yet, and respect that they may need some extra time.


You could say, “Hey, I was wondering if we could talk about the other day. I was pretty mad but have calmed down now. Are you ready to talk?”
If your friend says no, say you understand. Give them a few more days and then try again.
 Understand it may take a while for your friend to come around, particularly if the fight was your fault. Each time you check in with your friend, you could start the process of apologizing to them.


You could say, “I know you’re not ready to talk to me yet, but I do want you to know that I’m really sorry I said those things that caused our fight. I hope you can forgive me. Please let me know when you’re ready to talk.”

, You may talk to your friend directly about their desire to end the friendship, you may find out through another friend that your friend wants to end your relationship, or your friend may just continue to avoid you. You could try to talk to the friend about it, but if they refuse, you may need to let it go.Losing a friend can be painful. It’s okay to be sad and grieve the loss of your friendship. Spend time with your other friends, and talk to someone you trust about how you are feeling. You could also take up a new activity with new opportunities to meet people, to help yourself stay busy.
Remain polite to your friend and say hello to them when you see them. Respect your friend’s need for distance, and don’t try to force your way back into your friend’s life.
The close nature of your relationship may change, but you may find that in time you can talk to one another again. You may even be able to rekindle your friendship at some point down the road. Friendships grow and change with age and life, just like people do.