 There are many different types of bikes to choose. It’s important to pick the one that will best serve your needs. Consider your travelling distance, the terrain, and the grade you’ll be riding when you choose your model.


Visit a bike show and talk to the employees. Check out what they have to offer. Take the models you like out for a test spin around the block.
Consider how you’ll be using the bike. If you’re using the bike to go back and forth to work, to the grocery store, and to run other errands on pavement. Consider a road bike, which is quick, efficient, and light.
Determine if a mountain bike is a sound investment. They are durable and can jump easily from pavement to mud and sand. They are built to take a thrashing. They’re just not that great for endurance rides.Consider the weight of the bike. It might not seem very heavy going for a spin around the block. It will be much heavier as you pedal it through miles on your way home from work. Buying a lighter frame will make the ride home much more manageable.;
, Keep your budget in mind. Classifieds and online sources are a great place to begin. Also, ask a friend if they have a bike they’d be willing to sell.


Get a bike multi-tool, tire patches, a spare tire, lube, and a flashlight. Keep them in your riding bag in case of emergency.
Buy a bike lock and use it.Talk to someone at a bike store to find out what will work best for you. Always use multiple locking mechanisms. Although not foolproof, a kryptonite U-lock with a four foot long cable is a good way to prevent bike thieves.
Get bad weather gear. You’ve gotten rid of your car, so you’ll be exposed to the elements on your rides home. Being prepared means a smooth ride.
Buying a waterproof bag to keep your equipment in will help you out. Check for used ones online for the best deal.
 Bikes, like cars, need proper maintenance. A small amount of care can make all the difference in your ride.


Learn how to take care of your bike. Your bike is a series of moving parts. Learn each of these moving parts and what they do.When you expose them to the elements like rain, mud, sand, or snow, the parts will begin to deteriorate. A few simple steps can save you a breakdown in the middle of your commute.
Do a pre-ride inspection. Like a car, you will benefit from making sure there are no glaring problems to hinder your ride before you begin pedaling. Check the tires, for any loose parts, the chain, and the brakes.
Clean your bike. Wipe it all over with a dry rag. Take note of any loose parts. Base your cleaning schedule on how often you ride. If you ride every day, wipe your bike down every few.
Secure any loose bolts. Don’t over tighten them by cranking down on them.
Apply lube to protect moving parts (the chain, the brake and derailleur levers, the brake and derailleur cables, the brake and derailleur assemblies, and the bearing systems) from the natural wear and tear of riding. It will keep rust and corrosion at bay. Don’t over-lubricate as too much will attract dirt and debris.
 Many bikes are stolen because they are not properly secure. Becoming familiar with how to lock your bike up will help give you some piece of mind as you are going about your day.


Use your bike lock. Always. A good lock is your first line of defense against would-be bike thieves.
Know how to lock your bike. Put your cable through your frame and both wheels. The U-lock goes through the back wheel (inside the rear triangle of the frame). Secure the bike to something solid. This approach locks the rear wheel and the frame.
The smaller the U-lock the better. It’s easier to carry around and is harder to break.
Consider the insurance quality bike locks offer. You can fill out a form online after purchase, and in the event someone steals your bike, they will pay your homeowners or renters insurance deductible or they will pay to replace the bike. Research your options. Don’t throw any receipts away (for the bike, the locks, or the tools).
 If you can, take it inside with you and find a safe place to store it while you’re away. Make sure to lock it when you are not around, even if it’s just for a short time.


Use a small U-lock if you lock your bike to a parking meter, never just a cable. A small U-lock makes it impossible to lift the bike over the top.Look for immovable bike racks installed outside of buildings. Check to make sure it’s bolted down and solid. Never lock your bike to something flimsy, like a chain-link fence which can be easily snipped open.
Look for parking garages and parking lots that are bike-friendly. While some ask for a minimal fee, it’s worth the cost for peace of mind.
Bring your bike inside when you return home if you can. If you can’t, secure your bike with as much precaution as you would when you take it out. Even if you’re tired, taking these extra steps will help insure you have a ride tomorrow.
Bring any accessories with you after parking your bike: lights, water bottles, seat, etc.
Take care of yourself, too. A soggy-wet, cold bike ride is miserable.Dress to stay dry. Buy a waterproof vest or jacket with a hood. Rain pants are always a great investment.

