 A BOSU ball is like a stability or exercise ball that's been cut in half. It has a ball side and a flat side. Turn the ball side upside down and balance on the flat side.It's best to use a BOSU ball while doing the stability version of the medicine ball alphabet workout, in which you're tracing smaller letters directly in front of you.
Find your balance standing on the ball, then extend your arms with the medicine ball in front of you. Wait until you've found your balance and are stable again before you start tracing the letters.
 When doing the medicine ball alphabet workout to improve your mobility, try tracing the letters from either a squat or a lunge position to increase the difficulty.If you use a lunge position, make sure you can do two sets so that you can lunge forward on each leg.
Make sure you're doing the squat or lunge with proper form. Keep your back straight and your shoulders neutral.
In squat position, make sure your knees are directly over your ankles so that your shins are perpendicular to the floor.
 Lie on your back with your knees bent and your feet are flat on the floor. Hold the medicine ball in front of you and flex your core to bring your head and shoulders off the floor. Trace a letter with the medicine ball, then return to the ground.
 One of the simplest ways to increase difficulty with the medicine ball alphabet workout is simply to use a heavier medicine ball. However, be careful not to increase the weight too much. Make sure you can still do the movements with control.Especially if you are doing a one-armed medicine ball alphabet workout, you also want to make sure that the ball remains at a size that you can comfortably hold in one hand.
 While not entirely the same as the medicine ball alphabet workout, the ABC plank is a challenging strength-training exercise that will work out your entire upper body.Using a lighter medicine ball, place it on the floor in front of you and then get into a plank position with your forearms on the ball. You can do a plank either from your knees or your toes for this exercise.
Engage your abs, keeping your body in a straight line, your shoulders neutral. Using your forearms, draw the letters of the alphabet on the ball. Firm up your core and stabilize yourself so your hips aren't wobbling all over the place.
Start small. The larger you draw the letters, the harder the exercise will be.

