 You will need:

1 rectangular vanilla or chocolate cake (bought or homemade) (around 30cm/1" in length)
5 x round cookies (biscuits), chocolate coated
Smarties or similar candy-coated round candies
Butter icing/frosting (red and white)
Length of black licorice/liquorice (soft round lengths that are easily bent);
, The cake is the body of the car and you only need to shape it at the ends., This becomes the back end of the car.

Start the slope about 5cm/2.5 inches from the end.
 This should be cut as a slope to halfway of the middle of the cake, then cut straight across (horizontally) to the end of the cake.,, Use the tip of a sharp knife to carve out a window at the front of the cake (an oval is ideal) and small round or square circles, two each per side of the car. Leave the back windowless, as there's a cheat for this one., Pop the whole cake into the freezer. This will freeze the red icing in place., This time, spread it only in the window spaces. Once again, place in the freezer for a few minutes to harden.

Do not mix the white and red together or you'll cause the red to bleed into the white. The gaps between the two will be taken care of by the licorice.
 To attach, add dots of icing to the back parts first and press in place.

Cut two small lengths and attach at even spaces just under the top line of licorice on the front window. These serve as the visors of the car.
Cut two small lengths. Place diagonally across the front window, upwards, to look like windshield or windscreen wipers in use.
 These portions make the car look realistic, so work with care. If you cannot use licorice, use any other sort of bendable candy length. If you can't find candy, use a dark colored icing or frosting, and pipe in place.

Run a length each side of the car from the front the very back of the car. This should be at the edge of the cake on each side and provides the top of the car doors, as well as defining the car.
Add a small length down the middle of each side window. This makes the doors.
Run a length across the front end of the cake. This marks the end of the hood or bonnet.
Run a length around the entire base of the car. This just neatens it up and gives definition.
 Use yellow or orange Smarties (or similar) to make lights at the front of the car. Use Lifesavers or similar hard round candy with a center hole, to form lower lights under the Smartie lights., Use the icing or frosting to glue on the chocolate coated cookies as wheels. Place two at the front end on the side and two at the back end on the side.

Add the last one on the back slope. Instead of a window, this car has a tire (tyre) on the back.
 This gives it the look of a fancy wheel with hub caps., The cake is now ready to go on display.