 Whether you decide to tutor on your own or work with a company or agency, you will need a well-organized and clear ] that you can distribute to prospective clients or employers.Be sure to highlight your educational background, tutoring and teaching experience, and academic awards.
Include references from teachers, professors, and previous tutoring clients.;
, Tutoring clients and companies or organizations hiring tutors will want to know which subjects you are qualified and prepared to tutor. Make a detailed list so you have this information on hand when it is needed.Be as specific as possible, listing course names and numbers. Also, be clear about the student age groups and levels you are prepared to tutor.
Don’t forget to mention specific skills such as writing, study skills, foreign-language fluency, time management, and organization. Although these may not correlate to specific courses, these skills are often in high demand and may help distinguish you as a great fit and land you a tutoring job.
 Tutoring rates vary considerably depending on the tutor’s age, experience, skill level, and location. Although you should come up with your own rate or idea of how much you should be compensated for tutoring, here are some guidelines to help you determine your rate:The more advanced your education and degree, the more you can charge.
Tutors for math, science, and specific standardized testing are often in high demand and charge more money per session.
Don’t forget to factor other expenses into your tutoring rate such as supplies, travel costs, time spent preparing lessons, etc.
Ask parents or teachers in the area what they might consider a reasonable rate.
Research what other tutors in the community are charging.
 If you are looking for a tutoring job, you are going to get a lot of questions from students, parents, and prospective employers about how you will conduct tutoring sessions. Although you cannot anticipate every question, you can prepare for some of the more common ones in advance:What are your qualifications?
Do you have a proven record of success tutoring students? Can you provide testimonials, references, or other evidence to support this?
Where will you conduct the tutoring sessions?
How will you communicate with students, parents, or teachers?
How many students will you tutor at one time?
How will you help a student improve? Will they earn higher test scores, improve their class grades, or complete homework more easily?
Do you have a policy for canceling tutoring sessions?
Will you charge more if multiple students are present during a tutoring session?
Will you offer a discount for longer tutoring sessions?
What happens if the student does not improve?

, If you are committed to tutoring and would like to improve your skills and connect with other tutors, you may be interested in researching or pursuing professional tutor certification. The American Tutoring Association and the National Tutoring Association, for example, feature certification programs.If you receive certification, you can likely increase your pay rate. You will also distinguish yourself as a more advanced and professional tutor.
 One of the most effective ways to find a tutoring job is to rely on word of mouth. Each time you work with a student, ask the student and his or her parents if they would be willing to tell friends and family about your tutoring services.If they are happy with your work, you will probably receive many referrals.
You can also ask the student or his or her parents if they would be willing to serve as a reference. This way, when you market your tutoring to someone else, you can provide the potential client with a list of references they can contact to learn about the quality of your teaching skills and methods. Do not include clients’ contact information unless they provide their consent., Reaching out to teachers, administrators, guidance counselors, sports coaches, and advisors is a great way to promote your tutoring services. If you make a good impression, these individuals can refer students in need.For example, if you specialize in teaching elementary school students to read, contact the elementary school teachers, administrators, guidance counselors, or advisors in your area.
An introductory email with a copy of your references and resume is a good way to start the dialogue if you do not know the people you are contacting. Since many schools have strict visitor policies, it is best not to drop by unannounced.
 If you are hoping to find tutoring positions in your community, events such as festivals, fairs, and parades offer important networking opportunities.If there are school-sponsored events open to the public, try to visit these since there will likely be many students and families in attendance who may be interested in your tutoring services. Sporting events, for example, are often open to the public.
Offer to make a presentation at a school or community event such as a PTA meeting or service club.
Make sure you bring some of your business cards, flyers, and brochures to these events so you can promote your services if the subject comes up in conversation.
 Posting flyers and handing out business cards promoting your tutoring services will help you find tutoring jobs. As a precaution, ask permission before posting your materials, but here are some ideas for ideal locations in your community:Your neighborhood.
School bus stops.
Sporting arenas or fields.
Public parks.
Community bulletin boards.
Public libraries.
School bulletin boards or hallways.
Coffee shops.
Bookstores.
Stores and restaurants close to schools or campuses.
 If you are planning to work independently as a tutor instead of working for a company, learning center, or school, you may want to create a website to advertise your tutoring services. A website will help you seem more established and professional, and you will likely receive job requests.Be sure to include your resume, contact information, a list of subjects you are prepared to tutor, and testimonials from past or current clients.
 Use social media accounts to spread the word about your tutoring services and recruit new clients.Remember, if you are hoping to find tutoring jobs, you need to keep the content of your accounts and posts professional and focused on tutoring.
If you are hoping to tutor privately, consider advertising tutoring discounts, contests, or specials using social media. This should help attract new clients and promote your tutoring services.
 Research online tutoring companies and websites that match tutors with students looking for assistance with specific subjects.Some of these companies help clients locate a tutor in your area, but others pair tutors with a client online and you work remotely.
Applications to become a tutor are typically completed online.
Depending on the website and service, you may be required to take screening exams or undergo background checks.
 If you are hunting for a tutoring job and would prefer to meet with your students in person instead of online, visit local learning centers and community centers.Most communities feature a branch of a national tutoring company such as Sylvan or Kumon. If you live in a larger town with a university, there may also be tutoring positions through testing review companies such as Kaplan or the Princeton Review. Contact these places and ask if they are hiring tutors.
It’s also a good idea to visit local community centers that may offer after-school tutoring programs and be looking for qualified tutors. At the very least, these places may be willing to advertise your tutoring services.
 Many summer camp programs and after-school programs offer tutoring services to students who participate in their activities. Contact the administrator of the program, discuss your qualifications, and ask if they need any tutors.Even if they do not currently have available positions, the administrator may know of another program that is hiring or may be able to recommend that you speak with someone else.
 Many community colleges and universities hire qualified tutors in specific subjects, so check with human resources at a college or university in your area to find out if there may be available tutoring positions.While these positions are usually advertised online through the college or university’s human resources website, you can also call or email.
Find out if there are continuing education programs in your area that may also be interested in hiring qualified tutors. Public libraries, for example, sometimes host these programs.
 If you are interested in seeing more of the world while you are tutoring, you might consider looking for tutoring positions abroad.There are specific tutoring companies that specialize in matching tutors with families or agencies abroad, so conduct your own research and explore these potential options. Keep in mind, that these are usually more full-time and long-term positions. If you are looking for a part-time commitment, this might not be the best choice.
 If you are having a difficult time locating a tutoring position with a specific company or center, or would just like the freedom of working on your own, you may want to establish your own tutoring business.If you decide to tutor privately or start your own business, think carefully about where you will meet clients. While your home or a client’s home may be convenient, you may prefer a place that is public such as a library or coffee shop. This way you do not have to provide your address to strangers and it is a safe location where you could get help if needed.

