 Depending on the scale you want to boil wort and the amount of money you have, you’ll have to pick an appropriate kettle. While many different types of kettles are good for boiling wort, some are much more efficient and will produce a better-quality product. Some kettles include:

Traditional copper kettles. While this type of kettle isn’t the most efficient, it is relatively cheap and easy to use.
Kettles with external heating jackets. These kettles apply heat from the exterior of the kettle and are much more efficient than copper kettles.
Kettles with internal heating systems. These kettles will apply heat from within, and are one of the most efficient ways to boil wort.;
, Make sure to properly clean all your equipment before you begin the process of boiling wort. You can do this by boiling everything you intend to use. This is important, as any bacteria could contaminate your wort and ruin your final product., When it comes time to boiling your wort, you’ll want to use good water. You can use bottled water, distilled water, or spring water. Ultimately, though, you’ll want water that has low chemical traces and has a smooth and sweet taste., If you plan to add yeast during the boil, let it sit on the counter for a couple hours. This will bring it to room temperature. By warming your yeast to room temperature, you’ll make sure it is more easily absorbed into your boiling water.This is an optional step.
 Depending on your recipe, you’ll need to boil a certain amount of water. Start off by filling your kettle with your water and turning it up to a boil. This first batch of water will be half of the total water you’ll need to boil., After your water has boiled, pour it into a fermenter and allow it to sit and cool. You’ll be using this water to dilute other water and malt extract later., Boil the same amount of water as you did before. Once it comes to a boil, remove it from the heat. Then, add your malt extract. Stir the water and malt extract until the extract has completely dissolved – there should be no clumps left., Stir up any malt that has collected at the bottom. This will make sure you don’t burn any malt extract. Burnt malt could ruin the taste of your final product., Then, bring the pot to a rolling boil. Watch the water/malt extract combination as it begins to heat up. Turn the heat down if the pot boils over. Also, make sure to stir the pot occasionally., After your water/malt mixture boils for a few minutes, foam will begin to appear on the surface of the water. It should appear smooth. The foam should gradually grow thicker until it begins to dissipate. This could take between 5 and 20 minutes., After the foam has disappeared, you should add your hops. When adding hops, make sure to stir them in thoroughly. Boil them for about an hour after adding them. Adding hops is important in making sure your final product has a hoppy taste and sweet aroma.

Be careful that the pot doesn’t boil over after you add your hops. You may need to turn your heat down a little., After your initial hops have been in for half an hour, add more hops. This second addition of hops will add to the aroma and taste of the final product.

If you want, you can add more hops 25 minutes later., After one hour, remove the kettle from the heat. Using oven mitts, carefully submerge the kettle into your sink. Keep the top of the kettle on as you do this.

Your sink should be about half water and half ice -- this will make sure the kettle can submerge without a problem (but will still be kept very cold).
If you are very careful, you can remove the pot and stir the wort. This will help it cool faster., Use a thermometer to take the temperature of the wort. Leave the kettle in the sink until the wort goes below 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27 degrees Celsius). This will take approximately 30 minutes.

The kettle should eventually be slightly warm., If you’re producing more than a few gallons of beer, you may want to consider purchasing and using a copper wort chiller. A copper wort chiller is a coil of copper tubing you insert into the wort as it chills. It helps increase the rate at which the wort cools.After cooling your wort, it’ll be ready for you to begin the fermentation process.

