 Coffee may help reduce puffiness and swelling, making it ideal for that sleepy, morning face. It is also a natural astringent, so it can help tighten your pores and reduce oiliness.The coffee grounds will also help exfoliate away dead skin cells.
 Olive oil is a good choice, but you can use another type of oil instead. If you tend to get breakouts, however, you should avoid olive oil and the following oils as they tend to clog pores: coconut, flax seed, linseed, palm, and wheat germ.Here are some suggestions based on certain skin types:Acne-prone or oily: argan, grapeseed, hemp, jojoba, sunflower seed, or sweet almond.
Dry or mature skin: apricot kernel, argan, avocado, hemp, jojoba, sunflower seed, or sweet almond.
Normal: apricot kernel, argan, grapeseed, hemp, jojoba, sunflower seed, or sweet almond.
 Avoid using white sugar or "raw" cane sugar if you can. These will make the scrub too harsh and abrasive for your face. Brown sugar is the better for the face, because of its smaller grain size. It is still exfoliating, but in a gentle way.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will give your scrub a nice fragrance.
 The scrub should feel like wet sand. If this is too dry for you, add a little more of whichever oil you were using. If the scrub is too wet, add a little bit more ground coffee or brown sugar. Remember to stir the scrub well after each addition.
 If the oil, sugar, and coffee start to separate, simply stir the scrub with your finger or a spoon. The scrub should last up to two months, but if it starts to smell or look strange before then, discard it and make a new one.


Try to use a glass jar, if you can. The oil in the scrub may deteriorate plastic over time; a glass jar will last longer.
If you plan to give the scrub as a gift, stick a homemade label onto the lid for a personalized touch.
 Wash your face first using warm water. This will get rid of any surface dirt and open up your pores. Scoop out a small amount of the scrub, and gently massage it onto your face for 45 to 60 seconds. Use small, circular motions and take care to avoid the area around your eyes. Rinse the scrub off with warm water, then splash cool water onto your skin to seal the pores. Apply some moisturizer afterwards, if needed.You can also use this scrub on your neck.