 This method requires a little prep work but once you have prepared your ingredients, you can leave the coffee in the fridge overnight to cool off on its own. To use this method, you will need:1 cup coarsely ground espresso beans.
4 cups cold water.
A 16 ounce mason jar with a lid.
A wide bowl.
Cheese cloth.
A colander.
Ice.
Sugar.
Milk.
 Then, pour in the ground coffee and use a spoon to stir the grounds into the water. It’s fine if the grounds float to the top.Cover the mason jar with the lid, sealing it tightly. Place it in the fridge for at least 8 hours or up to 24 hours. You can also let it sit at room temperature if you do not have access to a fridge.
 Do this by layering two pieces of cheesecloth into the colander. Pour the coffee and the grounds through the cheesecloth into a bowl. Use a spoon to press the coffee grounds so more of the coffee comes out into the bowl.Rinse off the cheesecloth in the sink to remove the coffee grounds and fold it so there are now four layers of cheesecloth. Place it in the colander and strain the coffee again. You can also strain the coffee through a coffee filter if you have access to one.
Rinse off the cheesecloth and strain the coffee one more time. This will ensure there is less sludge at the bottom of your cold brew, making for a more enjoyable drinking experience.
 You can rinse out the jar you already used or use a new jar. Store the cold brew in your refrigerator so it stays cold and fresh., Now that you have your cold brew ready to go, you can make an iced latte in just a few steps.Fill a tall glass with ice. Add the sugar to the ice or use a flavored syrup to add sweetness. Start with 1-2 tablespoons of sweetener and adjust it to taste once all the other ingredients have been combined.
Fill the glass halfway with coffee and then fill the other half with the milk. Use a 1:1 ratio if you prefer a less strong latte. Use more coffee than milk if you prefer a stronger coffee taste.
Stir the iced latte with a spoon and add more sugar to taste.

