 Call your baby’s healthcare provider if you have questions that you need to have answered or if you are in any way unsure about your baby’s condition.


Newborns are very fragile, and can become quickly dehydrated. If you suspect that your baby is dehydrated, or if he has any of the following symptoms, call the pediatrician immediately:Fever. Call the doctor for any temperature above 100.4 F in babies under two months, or any temperature over 101.5 F in babies over two months.Vomiting. While vomiting and diarrhea commonly occur together during bacterial or viral illnesses, newborns are already at risk of dehydration and that risk increases when both factors are present.
Symptoms of dehydration including dry mouth, less than six wet diapers per day, lethargy, sunken eyes, a sunken fontanelle (soft spot), no tears when crying, or dry skin.
Diarrhea that has lasted for 24 hours or more or if there is blood in either the vomit or stool.
If the baby refuses to eat, is very irritable, or is very sleepy or difficult to wake up.

;
, Have your baby seen by her healthcare provider if her bottom develops open sores that are not helped by any of your attempts to sooth them, or if the irritation does not appear to be getting better.


Sores on the bottom as a result of diarrhea are very common, but open sores can become infected if not treated properly. The pediatrician can prescribe an ointment to sooth the baby's discomfort and prevent infection, as well as helping improve the diarrhea so that the sores do not worsen.
 If you find that your baby has recurrent bouts of diarrhea, even if they are not severe or accompanied by other issues, it is a good idea to schedule an appointment to discuss the issues with the doctor. That way, the doctor can help to pinpoint the underlying cause and prescribe a plan to prevent future issues.


Ongoing issues with diarrhea could signal intestinal problems, food intolerances or allergies (in newborns, this can include sensitivities to foods that mother eats if the baby is breastfed, or an allergy to ingredients in formula).
A pediatrician can also help to ease your mind if you are not sure whether or not your baby has diarrhea. Feel free to save a representative soiled diaper in a large ziplock bag and take it to your next appointment. The pediatrician should be able to tell if the baby is truly struggling with diarrhea.

