 First, you obviously need a bottle. Any bottle will do. Glass will spin a little better, but plastic won’t break. Now you will want to find fun thing to share. You will want to collect 6-8 items to play with. Get creative! You can use paper, pen, markers, blindfolds, roses, books of love poems, or fortune cookies. The argument is still out on whether foods can be an aphrodisiac,but there is no doubt that some foods are considered sexy.


Strawberries are always a good choice and are heart-shaped and colored.
Chocolate is a common favorite as a romantic gift.
Chili pepper flavors can spice things up.
If you have a favorite food you both love, throw that in there.;
, You will want a large flat surface and some privacy. For ideal spinning, use a nice flat hardwood floor. This is going to work better than a textured surface like carpet. You could use the floor in your room, or get creative and find a secluded place in the park and set out a large blanket on a flat piece of grass in the shade.
 Spread out the food, markers, pens and whatever else you have chosen to play with. Make sure they are far enough apart that it will be obvious which item or person the bottle lands on when you spin it. Each person is also a part of the circle. The items are where the other people would be sitting if you were playing in a group.
 It should be on it’s side and within arms reach for both people, so the circle shouldn’t be too big.
 This game is best played with someone you are already in a relationship with. Asking someone to play this game as a way of getting to know them could be intimidating and awkward.
 This is pretty different from the group game, so take some time explaining how the game works and decide together what you want to do with each item in the circle.


Start by explaining the concept of the game, that each item will be placed in the circle in place of the group members in the common party game.
Decide together what you would like to do when the bottle lands on each item you have chosen for your circle.
 You can use a game of chance, like a coin flip, or you can talk it out and decide together.
 Reach out and grab the bottle. With the bottle still on it’s side, twist your wrist and give it an easy spin. Depending on the weight of the bottle, you won’t need to use too much effort for it to spin around at least one time. Glass bottles will have more weight and be more likely to stay in the middle and spin. Plastic bottles can get a little wild, so use a gentle touch.
 Whichever item the mouth of the bottle is pointing toward when the bottle stops spinning determines what the spinner must do. Grab the item or the person and do the appropriate action.


Feed the food to the other person.
Write them a love note with the pen and paper.
Draw them a picture with the markers.
Read a love poem to the other person.
Read their fortune from the fortune cookie.
Tie the blindfold around their eyes and surprise them by choosing any of the options in the circle.
Give the other person a rose or play “He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not.”
If the mouth of the bottle is facing the other person, kiss or hug them, whichever you are both comfortable with.
 Figure out what the other person likes and add these things to the game. Enjoy feeding each other. Draw fun pictures of how you see the other person as a superhero. Fold your love note to look like a flower. Get creative and enjoy your time together.
 It may take some explanation of how the game works, but now you’re an expert! The first and most important rule when initiating intimacy with someone is making sure they want to do the same things that you do.The best way know what they want is to ask them. It can be a simple yes or no question, or leave it open-ended and find out what they want. Consent is sexy.They these questions:


Do you want to do this?
Are you comfortable with this?
What do you want?

, Never pressure anyone into doing something which makes them uncomfortable. If they say, “no,” take it at face value and don’t write it off as someone being coy or playful. Also, don’t take it as a challenge and try to talk them into it. If they don’t want to play right now, that is fine. Don’t take it personally, just accept that this is not what they want to do and move on to something else.
 If they said yes and are enthusiastic about playing with you, that is great! If the enthusiasm fades or they seem to become less comfortable with what is happening, stop and ask if they want to continue.Ask one or more of these questions:


Are you okay?
Are you having fun?
Do you like this?
Do you want to stop?
Do you want to do something else?

, Even if someone gives consent, they can always take it away. Respect the other person and stop if they want to. This will show the other person that you respect them and they will trust you. Maybe they will even want to play again some other time.

