 Being able to quickly determine your risk is one of the key steps to finding shelter and surviving. Unfortunately, there are few proven ways to stay safe in the open if caught in a tornado, and the number one advice is to find shelter as soon as you see these warning signs. Most tornadoes are accompanied by thunderstorms, hail, and, of course, high winds, but there are other things to look out for as well:


Dark, green-tinted clouds
Loud roaring noises, like airplanes taking off
"Wall clouds," where the base of a thunderhead seems to lower
Funnels or rotating clouds
Debris and dust "walls.", If you hear the warning and it is still safe to drive, get to the closest building you can find. Keep your seat belt on and get off the open road as soon as you can. Turn on your high beams and move immediately to some sort of structure, preferably with a basement. You are almost always better off in a building than in your car.


If you can see the tornado and/or flying debris makes driving dangerous, stay put.

If your car is pelted with debris while driving, this is your cue to pull over.
Never try to out-drive a tornado in an urban environment -- get to any building as shelter instead.
 Fasten your seat-belt and duck down below the window line. Take your coat, a blanket, a pillow, etc. and put it over your head and back, and hold your hands over your head to protect your brain. Stay put until you can safely drive to shelter., If there is a low ditch nearby, and you have no other options, hop in. Lay face down and cover the back of your head with your hands. If you can, cover your whole body with a blanket or similar covering to prevent scratches from debris., Falling and spinning debris is the cause of most tornado fatalities. While being caught in the open is not ideal, try to hunker down in a spot without the potential for lots of structural damage or fast moving debris. If torn between an overpass or an open area, choose the open space and try to get as low as possible., Waterspouts, tornadoes that form over water, pose a special problem. While they are generally weaker and slower than tornadoes on land, it's not possible to seek shelter on the open water. If waterspouts have been sighted in the area, get out of the water, if possible. If you're in the water when a waterspout hits, experts recommend trying to avoid it by sailing at right angles to its path, not straight away from it.


If a waterspout is about to hit the boat, it's probably best to dive overboard, as you then have a better chance of avoiding injury from flying debris.
If you are on land and a waterspout is very close to shore, you are not necessarily safe. While they rarely come on land, they can. Treat them like any other tornado and get to cover in case they come on land.

