 Attack the ball at the highest point possible. Jump and meet the ball as high as you can in its arc off the rebound. The higher you jump, the better your chances of snatching the ball ahead of someone else.Pay attention to your peripheral vision as you snag the ball. Note the positions of players around the side court line. These players will be the "outlet" you pass to.;
, It can be difficult to coordinate all this movement in such a short period of time, which is why practicing the outlet pass is so important. As soon as you’ve secured the ball, but while you’re still in the air, try to turn your head to look down court at possible targets for an outlet pass., When making long outlet passes, aim for a spot on the court instead of a teammate. Try to pass so that nearby offensive teammates can pick up the pass on their drive to the net, like the area between 3-point and free throw line.The area between the 3-point and free throw line allows enough space for the ball to bounce once before going out of bounds, giving more time for your offense to retrieve it., This will prevent the opposing team’s defense from slapping the ball out of your hands. Once you secure the ball, draw it towards your body until it is under your chin.Your elbows should be pointed out. You should still be in the air while performing this motion., When you land, place your feet to form a wide base. Allow your legs to bend slightly at the knees upon impact. The hardest part about landing is maintaining the under-the-chin position of the ball throughout the motion.Landing in this fashion will minimize impact, which should help you keep the ball in position underneath your chin.
 Pivoting to the outside (away from the basket) will funnel your rebounded ball to safer territory. Pivot as soon as you land in the direction of the outlet you scoped out earlier, then pass the ball.Even a poor pass to an outlet can be recovered by your teammates. The heavier defense at your opponent’s net should be avoided, if possible.