 The most common way to check for a fever without a thermometer is to feel the person's forehead or neck to see if it feels hotter than usual.Use the back of your hand, since the skin on your palm isn't as sensitive as these other areas.
Do not feel their hands or feet to check for a fever, as these can feel cold when a person’s body temperature is in fact high.
Keep in mind this is the first step to figuring out if something might be wrong, but it can't accurately tell you if someone has a dangerously high fever. Sometimes a person's skin can feel cool and clammy when they have a high fever, and sometimes their skin might feel very hot even though they don't have a fever.
Make sure to check the person's skin temperature in a room that isn't too hot or cold, and don't check right after the person has been sweating due to exercise.;
, A fever will usually cause the skin on the person’s cheeks and face to turn red. However, this may be more difficult to notice if the person has darker skin., A fever is often accompanied by lethargy or extreme fatigue, like moving or speaking slowly or a refusal to get out of bed.Children with fever may complain of feeling weak or tired, refuse to go out and play or have a loss of appetite.
 Body aches in the muscles and joints also often happen at the same time as a fever.


Headaches are also commonly experienced by people along with fever.
 When a person has a fever, it's easy for him or her to become dehydrated. Ask the person if they are very thirsty or if their mouth feels dry.


If the person has urine that is bright yellow, this could be an indication that he or she is dehydrated and may have a fever. Darker color urine than normal is also an indication of more serious dehydration.
 Nausea is a key symptom of a fever and other maladies like the flu. Pay close attention if the person feels nauseated or is vomiting, and can't keep food down.
 As the person’s body temperature goes up and down, it’s common for the person to shiver and feel cold, even when everyone else in the room feels comfortable.The person may also alternate between feeling hot and cold as the result of a fever. As your temperature goes up and down it is common to shiver and feel very cold even when those around you are feeling comfortable.
 A febrile convulsion is a kind of shaking fit that happens either just before or while a child has a high temperature. If a fever is over 103, it may also cause hallucinations.About 1 in 20 children under 5 years old will have a febrile convulsion at some point. Although it can be upsetting to watch your child experience a febrile convulsion, it does not cause permanent damage to your child. To treat a febrile convulsion:Place your child on their side in a clear space or area on the floor.
Do not try to hold your child during the fit and do not try to put anything in your child’s mouth during the fit, as they will not swallow their tongue.
Stay with your child under the convulsion stops after 1-2 minutes.
Lay your child on their side in a recovery position while they recover.
 This may be a sign of a more serious condition. Call 911 for an ambulance and stay with your child, keeping them on their side in the recovery position.You should also get immediate medical attention if the febrile convulsions are accompanied by:Vomiting
A stiff neck
Breathing problems
Extreme sleepiness

, If your child is between 6 to 24 months old and their fever is 102 or above, then call your child’s doctor. If your child is 3 months old or younger and has a fever above 100.4, then you should call the doctor.Give the child lots of fluids and encourage them to try to rest., These could all be symptoms of Meningitis, a life threatening and highly contagious disease., These could all be signs of a virus or a bacterial infection like pneumonia., These are also signs of a more serious infection., The fever could be a sign their immune system is under attack or experiencing other complications or conditions., Fevers are caused by a variety of different maladies.Ask your doctor if the fever might be an indication of the following illnesses:


A virus
A bacterial infection
Heat exhaustion or sunburn
Arthritis
A tumor that's malignant
Certain antibiotics and blood pressure drugs
Immunizations like the diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis vaccines

, The fever is your body way of trying to heal or recover and most fevers go away on their own after a few days.


A fever can be brought down by the right kind of treatment.
Drink plenty of fluids and rest. Taking medication is not necessary, but it may increase your comfort level. Use an over-the-counter fever reducer like aspirin or ibuprofen.Call your doctor if your symptoms last more than 3 days and/or more severe symptoms develop.
 Children and teens should not take aspirin as it is linked to a condition called Reyes’ disease.As well, if your child has a temperature under 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38.9 degrees Celsius), they can likely be treated at home.
Visit the doctor if the fever persists over 3 days and/or more severe symptoms develop.

