 Blow through the mouthpiece until you get a buzz going using the least amount of air and energy.;
, Continue this for a maximum of two minutes.
 You may also want to do a siren, where you are going from the middle of your range to the bottom, to the top, back to the middle. Try to do this without any breaks. Don't force it. If you can't play the higher notes, don't work too hard. They will come with practice.
, Make sure you're taking deep breaths and exhaling with ease. Use warm air. Also be sure to keep the airflow constant. Don't pause after the inhale.
 Start with the C (concert Bb) scale, working your way up to the next major scale. Do this for 5-10 minutes.
 Again start at C (concert Bb) and work your way up. Perform this for 2-5 minutes.
 If not, do some lip slurs, going no higher than E (concert D) at the top of the staff.
 If you have a metronome, set it at 60 beats per minute. Hold that note for 4 beats (equivalent to 4 seconds) and then proceed up a half step every 2 beats until you reach high C (concert Bb). Do this for 2-5 minutes. If this is too much, keep practicing up to this part until your chops have gotten strong enough to move on.
 Start on C (concert Bb) and slur up and down from there while keeping the same fingering. Keep your slur slow so you can center each note as it's played. Gradually work up the scale, by half-step, as high as you're able to play.
 One time isn't good enough. This takes consistent practice. You will begin to lose strength if you rest for more than two days. Persistence is crucial while expanding your range.
 This is very tedious work, but the payoff is excellent, you will build the muscles needed to play that note every time you play it, so, make a little rhythm, whatever you need to make it, just a little interesting.
 Get tighter until you reach the highest pitch buzz that you can make. Keep that same embouchure and put the line in between your lips at the lowest playable section of your mouthpiece (screamers and shallow mouthpieces help a lot). Now blow some good, fast air and hear how high you can play.
 Then 3 beats of air inhaled and 4 beats of releasing air. 2 beats of air inhaled and 4 beats of releasing air. Lastly, 1 beats of air inhaled and 4 beats of releasing air.
 Use a stopwatch to time how long you can release.

