 Yukon gold potatoes are the heart of this delicious dairy-free mac and cheese, so it is best to find fresh potatoes at your local farmer’s market or grocery store. Yukon gold potatoes are early-bearing so you should be able to pick them up early in the season. They are available year round but taste best when they have been recently harvested, so check your local farmer’s market for fresh potatoes. Choose fresh potatoes that are golden and have no deep bruises or cuts.You will need one cup of potatoes for this recipe., If you want to make a vegan or dairy-free mac and cheese but don’t have any nutritional yeast, this recipe may do the trick. You will need the following ingredients: two cups of elbow pasta; one cup of chopped Yukon gold potatoes; a quarter cup of chopped carrots; a third of a cup of chopped onion; three tablespoons of olive oil; three tablespoons of all-purpose flour; half a cup of non-dairy milk; two teaspoons of sea salt; a quarter teaspoon of minced garlic; a quarter teaspoon of Dijon mustard; a tablespoon of lemon juice; a quarter teaspoon of black pepper., For the topping, you will need two shredded slices of whole wheat bread; a quarter teaspoon of paprika; and two teaspoons of olive oil. Using these ingredients, make your mac and cheese topping., Get ready for cooking by preheating your oven and preparing the pasta as well as the ingredients for the sauce. Use the following instructions for the first stage of this recipe:Turn on the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (176 C).
Cook the potatoes, carrots, onion and a cup of water in a medium saucepan. Bring the water to a boil and simmer for fifteen minutes or until vegetables are done.
Follow the instructions on the pasta to cook until al dente.
 In the final stage of this recipe, you will prepare you sauce and bake the mac and cheese. Use the following ingredients to finish the mac and cheese:Cook the olive oil in a saucepan and gradually add the non-dairy milk and the flour until thickened. This should take five minutes.
Add the vegetables and milk sauce to the food processor. Add the salt, garlic, mustard, lemon juice, and pepper. Blend it all together, and then pour it over the cooked pasta.
Pour the pasta and sauce into a baking dish, thrown on the breadcrumb mixture, and bake for thirty minutes.

