 As soon as you know you want to try being part of Zimbardo's Heroic Imagination Project, please tell us more about yourself in this Intake Questionnaire.;
, Take a look at the our HIP Facebook page. If you like what you see, then please follow our page and contribute when you can.
 Do you know other people who might like to be part of HIP? You can forward them a link to this page, share it in any of your social media, and talk to people about HIP when you find opportunities to. We welcome people from any background, anywhere in the world. We want to invite everyone to join in this movement from bystander behaviors to more heroic readiness.
 What would you do if someone you cared about needed first aid and you didn't know what to do? You can find emergency preparedness classes all over the world. You can get even get free training and certification by going to Free First Aid.
 What can you do to personally experiment with the new ideas you have learned during Zimbardo's talks? If you want HIP-related experiments you can try for yourself, let us know. If you have experiments you have already tried or ideas you'd like to consider, please tell us.
 Do you want to help get groups of people together to work on common goals? Whether you have lots of experience or none, we have organizing projects you can do, in your online and real world communities. If you are interested in working on HIP-related community organizing projects, please tell us more about your interests in our Interests Questionnaire.
 With so many studies and so much data out there in the world, we need help with research and data management. If you are interested in working on HIP-related research projects, please tell us more about your interests in our Interests Questionnaire.
 Want to help spread the word? We need writers for HIP-related articles in wikiHow.com, wikipedia.org and blogs, in every language. We want to your help developing articles which make it easier for people to access and understand the new research in heroism, psychology and the neurosciences. Want authorship credits for your LinkedIn profile? Want opportunities to interview the people you respect most? It's easy to get started. If you are interested in working on HIP-related research and writing projects, please tell us more about your interests in our Interests Questionnaire.
 Do you love creative expression? We need creative, designing materials in every medium that can be shared, online or in person. How can you use your creativity to help generate heroic imagination in others? You name the types of art forms you want to add to your portfolio of work, and we can give you heroic design projects to match. If you are interested in working on HIP-related creative works, please tell us more about your interests in our Interests Questionnaire.
 If you have a HIP-related project you want to do, or just want more project management experience, now or in the future, we want to help support your efforts. With our project management experience, we can help you maximize your impact and minimize the time and resources it takes to reach your goals. If you are interested in working on HIP-related creative works, please tell us more about your interests in our Interests Questionnaire.
 Could you help review our work and give us feedback on how to improve it? You can learn how to do quick evaluations of many different types of materials, and help us evolve what we have. Examples include: Heroic Imagination talks, webpages, videos, and related Wikipedia and wikiHow articles.

Time commitment: 5 to 30 min per piece, whenever you have time. List of pieces needing reviews posted here: . Reviews to be submitted here: , If you think others should see any of the Heroic Imagination posts, please share it in some way and let us know you did! Likewise, if you see something you think the HIP community should know about, you can share it with us by posting it to FB or via SurveyMonkey.

Time commitment: less than 5 minutes to share

, Creative contributions come in many different forms. What are your favorite forms of creative expression? If you are inspired to write, illustrate or create anything based on the Zimbardo’s work and the Heroic Imagination, please let us know. All forms of creative expression invited. If you would like to share your work with others in HIP, please give us details in this Contributors questionnaire., Ready to participate in bigger outreach activities to teach others? If you want to go beyond sharing posts on social media and learn how to help others develop their heroic imagination, we’d love to have you join our outreach team. Lots of different ways to share with the people you care about most.

Time commitment: event-based meetups – a few hours each time.
 The more you know about how you can best respond in different situations, the more you can do to help when problems arise. Keep watching for opportunities to help others, and share your stories with us.

