 The pictures on your page, like your profile and cover image, are what make your first impression on people so it’s really important for them to be good. Make your profile picture something really interesting and make sure that the colors in both pictures go well together.


For example, get a nice black and white picture of yourself to use as a portrait and then a black and white, wide, narrow shot of you walking in a forest or doing an activity you enjoy to use for your cover image.
Making your pictures match each other will make your page look more professional when people come to it.;
, You want to seem like a larger-than-life person, someone who does interesting things and has interesting opinions. Make sure that people see you as a full person by posting opinions, discussions, and things that are important to you. People should feel like they know you, so make it easy to understand who you are and what you care about.


Always be upbeat or positive. You should be a person who is upbeat or positive. Constantly complaining about girls/boys, your family, or whatever else drives you crazy is just going to drive people away. They have enough of their own problems and they want to feel like even when someone has a hard time, they can find the upside in the situation.
 You want the content you post to be interesting. Don’t just post about the laundry sitting on your floor or whiny, passive-aggressive attempts to get attention. Instead, post funny stories, good jokes, awesome pictures, and interesting facts. Post things that are relevant or improve other people’s day, not something annoying and boring.


If you have a talent, use it! If you sing, draw, write, or have any other talent that you can show off, do that! Record videos or post pictures to get other people interested in the cool things you do.
You can also post content you like that you find on Tumblr, Reddit, Upworthy, and other popular sites, if you don't always have the time or ability to make your own.
 Don’t post too often, post about social games you’re playing, or treat your Facebook wall like an advertisement for a store. When stores ask you to mention them on Facebook for a discount, ignore it. When something you’re about to post looks like it would go to the spam folder in your email, stop. Being spammy will make people take you out of their feed fast!

