 Before you decide completely about having a boyfriend, ask your parents about their rules for you about dating. They might suggest you wait until you’re in high school, even even after graduating high school. You might not be able to decide if you can have a boyfriend right now if they want you to focus on school or other things.When you talk to your parents, be sure to ask about curfew, if you can drive with your boyfriend, if you should group date first, or if they have any other specific rules for you.Some good questions to ask your parents could include: "When did you start dating?" and "Do you wish you had waited to start dating?"
Your parents have your best interest at heart, so you should try and respect their wishes even if you don’t agree with them.
To help convince them, if there’s a certain boy you want to date, bringing him around to meet your parents might help your case.
Your parents may have a better idea of your maturity level. And listening to them is a great way to prove to them that you are mature enough to make grown-up decisions., It can be easy to get caught up in the thrill of dating and hearing about your friends' boyfriends and want one yourself. Just keep in mind that just because everyone is doing something, doesn't mean it's the best idea.


If your friends aren’t dating yet because of their parent’s rules or everyone still hangs out in groups together, maybe you don’t need to break away yet and have one on one time with a boy.
Ask your friends if you can hang out with them and their significant other to get an idea of what it's like to date at your age.
But, if your friends are happily established with significant others, you may be on the same maturity level as them and can handle having a boyfriend.Just make sure that whatever you decide, you make the decision for yourself and not for your friends.
Be careful. Just because your friends might all have boyfriends, doesn’t mean you have to have one. You might be old enough, but don’t feel pressured to just accept any boy’s offer for a date just because you want a boyfriend.
 Find an older married couple or a dating couple who have been together a long time. Ask about their love story and about how they met. Hearing about other couples’ experiences may help you decide if you want to wait to have a boyfriend or if you’re ready to jump right in.You may find that you want to wait for someone special to ask you out, or you may have even found that person already.
Older couples will have more experience in a relationship. They’ll be a better source of advice, not your friend who has a different boyfriend every week.
Ask questions such as: "When did you meet your spouse?" or "Do you think courting is a better idea than dating?" or "What kind of dates did you do on?"

