 If you suspect that your teen is in harm’s way due to physical or sexual abuse or neglect, you need to get appropriate help. It’s important for your teen to know that they have an ally, that they are not alone.


Get help by calling the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD. You can speak with a trained professional who can help you seek out resources in the community and get you and your teen necessary assistance., Beyond noticing the warning signs of abuse, you need to offer your teen a safe place to receive advice and comfort. Many victims of abuse fear speaking out because they worry the abuser will punish them. Validate your teen’s feelings, but also remind them that speaking up can help them get the help they need.


You might say, “I know you don’t want to talk about the sexual assault. But, if you don’t use your voice, this person might get away. I will go with you to the police station to seek help if you wish.”
This will be easier if you have already established open lines of communication between you and your teen, allowing them to feel comfortable to approach you. Try to talk regularly with your teen about their lives, interests, schoolwork, and friends. This lets them know you are interested in their wellbeing and you are someone they can talk to.
Remember, too, that your teen may feel ashamed, and they may not want to share every detail with you, or even have you present when they speak to the police. Make sure you respect their timeline and allow them to talk with you at their own pace.
 Experiencing abuse can have resounding effects on your teen’s future development and relationships. The only way to minimize this damage is to get your teen to safety as soon as possible. Your teen needs to know that you are an advocate and source of comfort.


If they are still in the household with the abuser, see if they can come live with you. If you both live with the abuser, try to stay with family or friends.
Work with the teen to choose the next steps together, so that they feel comfortable about the decision., Teen victims of abuse have to manage a plethora of difficult emotions. They may have trouble trusting caregivers, developing intimacy, or rebuilding self-esteem. See to it that your teen receives the necessary services they need to talk about the abuse and learn to cope with its effects.


Often a child abuse hotline will be able to provide you with a referral to local therapists and community resources to move forward after abuse.