 Often you may hear about a class action through a news story, but you can search for more information online.


In addition to using a web search engine, you also can search through a number of online databases of class actions, such as the one at http://www.consumer-action.org/lawsuits/.
Many of these databases provide information on the status of the case, and may have contact information on how to join the class. These websites also may provide updates on how the lawsuit is going or news on progress toward a settlement., Rely on actual court documents or information from the attorneys involved in the suit, rather than news reports, to evaluate the case.


Class action attorneys often create websites devoted specifically to a particular class action lawsuit that include information about the injuries suffered by the class and the progress of the case.These primary sources provide information you can trust regarding the case. Even reputable news sources may not include the specifics you need to determine whether you should join the class.
 If you've suffered damages or injuries as a result of actions by the defendant in the case, you must figure out how alike your situation is to that of the named plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit.


Keep in mind that the lead plaintiff is intended to represent the class as a whole, and so his or her injuries must be similar to the injuries you've suffered. If your injuries are markedly different from those of the lead plaintiff, you may not fit into the class for this particular lawsuit.For example, suppose you were injured as a result of an undisclosed side effect of a prescription drug you took. If the lead plaintiff's injuries are attributed to the same side effect, you may fit in that class. However, if the lead plaintiff's injuries have been attributed to a different side effect, you probably don't fit into that class – even if the ultimate injuries are similar. You must look at both the cause and the effect.
Likewise, if the cause of your injuries is the same or similar to that of the lead plaintiff, but your injuries or losses were substantially greater, you might want to consider opting out of the class and filing your own lawsuit, or talking to an attorney about becoming a named plaintiff in the class action., If you've decided you should be involved in the class but haven't received a notice, the attorney litigating the lawsuit can include you in the class's registry.


Typically, if your injuries or losses are similar to those in the class, you are considered a member of the class even if you weren't notified. However, if you want updates on the case and want to receive your share of any eventual award or settlement proceeds, the class action attorney must have your name and address.If you have information or evidence you believe would be useful to the attorney, you should mention this as well. The attorney will tell you what you need to do to provide any evidence you may have, such as copies of medical or financial records related to your injury or loss.