 For some people it is important to live in the outer peace, to achieve the inner peace. Basically, the inner peace is the result of a calm mind. A calm mind happens when you focus on yourself spiritually. By focusing on your own qualities, you focus on god, as Hindus embrace the term Aham Brahmasmi(one is inherently a part of god). This godliness is found by working continually to master your negative qualities, addictions, fears and aggressions, while simultaneously enhancing your positive qualities.;
, Those who live in the inner balance, save their energy, their physical, and their mental health. If you strengthen not only the calmness in your life, but also focus on your inner positivity and love, you will grow into the light. Replace negative thoughts with positive thoughts. Constantly practice positive thinking, positive speaking, and positive actions.
 When you facilitate the desire for a happy world, then you grow further towards enlightenment. The secret to this wish is the connection from the inner to the outer world. You are not spiritually separated from other beings. Their happiness affects yours. When you visualize other beings as happy, then you feel happy too. Those who encourage the goal to a happy world creates positivity within. When you send light to all beings, then one day light will come through to your soul. When you do something good for the world, the world will reward you with a positive psyche.
 If you follow the two principles of spiritual practice and love for all beings, you will transform your mind. Your inner tension will dissolve and happiness will appear. The longer you live and the longer you practice Karma-Yoga, the more you grow into the light.
 Globe = Visualize the earth beneath you, rub the earth with your feet and think, "May all beings be happy. May the world be happy."
2. Television = Which person on television today touches you negatively or positively? Clean the energetic connection, visualize this person as a Buddha or an angel. Give him or her a positive sentence. Think of the sentence as a mantra until you have overcome all attachment or rejection. Everything you see outside makes a knot in your soul. Create harmony in your mind. The first step to happiness is to create a positive world in your mind. Move a hand and send all the people in the television light: "I send light to .. I wish him / her wisdom, love and happiness. May all people on TV Buddhas, yogis and angels."
3. Goddess = Rub your hands before the heart chakra. Visualize yourself as a Buddha, Goddess or Christian: "I am a Goddess (Buddha, Christian). I go the way of the positive. I live in peace, love and happiness."
4. Enlightened Masters = Rub the hands over your head and ask the enlightened masters for guidance and help. Connect yourself spiritually with their energy, "Om all enlightened masters. I ask for guidance and help on my spiritual way."
5. Mantra = Put your hands together in your lap, move your feet and think many times the mantra "Om Shanti" in your body, your legs and in the whole world. Stop every thought for a minute. Relax. Live as a Karma-Yogi in peace, love and happiness.
 Be an angel for the world, "I send light to ... May all people be happy. May the world be happy."

