 This is easier said than done, but it is important to quell your anxiety in order to be able to eat. Being nervous is going to make it more difficult to eat and digest your food. It can also cause your hands to shake, leading to spills. Try to relax and appear calm and cool in front of your crush.Replace automatic negative thoughts with more rational ones.
If you are feeling judged, remember that everyone eats. It is perfectly normal and necessary.
Prepare for eating in front of your crush by eating socially around other people more often.;
, Many people eat too fast. Slow down. Take time to really enjoy your meal and the conversation with your friends and your crush. Spend less time worrying about eating and more time focusing on what your crush has to say. It’s really their company that you are interested in more than the food.Talk more between each bite.
Invite your crush into the conversation.
 This moment is not the end of the world. There are plenty of things to look forward to. If this moment of eating in front of your crush is freaking you out, focus on the future instead.Strike up a conversation about a movie that just came out.
If you are eating in the school cafeteria, talk about the classes you have coming up in the afternoon.
Keep it positive. Try to focus on things that make you happy to quell your nerves. Talk about your hobbies. Maybe you play a sport and have a big game coming up, or you’re reading a really good book.
 The fact is, eating is normal. Everyone must eat in order to survive. Anxiety over eating in social situations can be the result of feeling judged or suffering from a poor personal body image. If you suspect you may have an eating disorder, ask for help.Check with your doctor if you notice effects on your health, like fatigue, severe weigh loss, or loss of your menstrual cycle.
Ask for support from your friends, family and a medical professional.
 Have hope in knowing that this will get easier the more you do it. You will become more comfortable in the company of your crush after you get to know each other better. Also, the more you practice eating in front of other people, you will eventually become more comfortable doing it in front of your crush.