 Another common and accurate throwing style pioneered by powerful card thrower Ricky Jay and others is the frisbee-style toss, which can be super-accurate and super-powerful when gripped and tossed correctly. While you can also frisbee-toss a card using the Ferguson or the Thurston grip, it's more common to use Ricky Jay's style of holding the card:


To learn the Ricky Jay grip, place your index finger on one corner of the card and place your thumb on top. Fold your three other fingers along the bottom of the long edge of the card.
This grip is a bit like a hybrid of the other two styles. Your thumb on top should be on the other side of the card as your middle finger, pinching the card, much like the Hermann grip.
 Curl the card back into your wrist, much as before, but hold your wrist parallel with the ground, your pinkie facing down as when you hold a frisbee. You can also wrap your arm around your body so the card is closer to your armpit on the opposite side of your body from the hand holding the card.Ricky Jay actually lifts his throwing hand up over his head, almost as if he's going to do an overhand throw, but the mechanics are more like a frisbee toss than an overhand throw, or some combination of the two. It looks as if the card is going to touch the ear on the opposite side of his head.
 There should be almost no arm movement whatsoever when you first start out, to get the mechanics of the spin right. To practice, grab a hold of your arm and practice launching the cards with wrist movement alone.


After practicing and being able to throw cards without missing, you could try moving your arms for extra speed.
 Unwind, keeping your arm as straight and level as possible relative to the ground to keep the card from wobbling side to side, and snap your wrist forward to throw the card.


In general, you can practice just using your wrist to toss the cards accurately, much as in the overhand throw. The mechanics are much the same, just oriented in a different direction. It's still all in the wrist, but the power comes from your elbow.
 When your fingertips are pointing at the target you want to hit, let the card go with a final vigorous flick of your wrist, extending your fingers quickly and straight to release the card and get it spinning in the direction you want. It'll take some practice to get the whole maneuver put together correctly, but learning to throw accurately involves a careful attention to the details.

