 Emo haircuts usually feature chunky layers, as well as blunt-cut or side swept bangs that come down to your eyebrows.;
, Search online or in magazines for haircuts you like. If you find one you want to imitate, take a copy of the photo with you when you go in for your haircut.
 For super-sharp, straight edges on the ends of your hair, ask your stylist to use a razor comb.
 A lot of emo hairstyles feature hair that's teased and thick on top, but thin and straight on the bottom. It will be easier for you to achieve this if you ask your stylist to thin out the bottom 3 or 4 inches (7.6 or 10.2 cm) of your hair.
 Remember that you can always cut more hair off later, but growing it back takes awhile. If you're not sure about what kind of length you want, stay a bit longer than you think you might want. You can trim it up more next time.
 Keep your haircut looking sharp and fresh by staying on top of ragged ends. Go in for a trim every 6 to 8 weeks, or touch it up yourself. If you razor trim your ends at home, use a straight razor and work with dry hair.
 Typically emo hair colors include jet black, bleached blonde, or neon streaks running through dark hair. Look around for inspiration, and settle on something you like.
 If you want to dye your hair by yourself in the future, pay close attention to the stylist's method and ask questions about the process.
, You can use these to experiment with different colors before committing to dye your hair.
 A standard emo look requires the top or back of your hair to be teased out, while the bottom strands are sleek and straight. Tease your hair by grabbing a section that lays on top, applying hairspray, and using a rat-tail or fine-toothed comb to backcomb the hair (moving the comb "against' the grain and toward your scalp, not the ends of your hair). Backcomb as many times as necessary, then move on to the next section.
 Spray the foam along the root of your hair in 1 or 2-inch sections, working from bottom to top. Muss it through the top of your hair, and let it sit for a minute. Then try backcombing as normal.
 Straightening your hair can help it look sleek and flat where you want it to (like on your bangs or the bottom of your hair). If you have thick, curly hair, you'll need a higher-quality straightener (like the ones sold at hair salons that run around $100 USD). If you have thinner hair that tends to be wavy or straight, you can get away with a less expensive straightener sold at a good quality hair store.
 This helps minimize the damage caused by the heat.
 If you have a lot of hair, clip up the top sections so that you have a manageable amount to work with. Once that's straightened, unclip another section. Keep going in that way until you've worked through all your hair.
 Dying, backcombing and straightening your hair can all be harsh on your hair. Here are a few ways to lessen the damage.
 (It will be greasy at first, but just spray the roots with a dry shampoo and go over your hair with a blowdryer set to cool).
 If your hair is dyed, purchase a shampoo and conditioner set that's specifically formulated for colored hair. In general, though, seek out products that don't contain sodium laureth sulfate or sodium lauryl sulfate - these are alcohols that make shampoo foamy when you lather, but they can damage your hair. (If you buy new shampoo that doesn't foam up, don't worry - it's still cleaning your hair.)


Although excessive use of sulfate-containing shampoos can dry the hair (causing frizz and brittleness), they are good for cleansing excessive products from the hair. When hair-products build up, the hair tends to get difficult to manage (clumping, lying flat, sticking up abnormally, tangling, etc). This is the result of silicones and other ingredients causing the hair to hold in positions you don't want, as a result of sleeping on it. Sulfates are the only common shampoo ingredient capable of efficiently removing silicones and other styling products from the hair, and as such are useful when your hair seems to be suffering from buildup. Just make sure to use a good conditioner after using a harsh shampoo.
Consider giving your hair a break once or twice a week. When possible, try to give your hair a "day off" every so often, during which you don't style it with heat or backcombing. Tie it up in a ponytail, or wear a hat over it instead.

