 Stretch a little, do some yoga, or even do the Hippogriff (random dancing).;
, If it's the weekend or some other holiday for any reason, you can skip this step. Brush your teeth with your Harry Potter toothbrush (print an image off and cut it to fit your toothbrush's handle, then tape it on), get dressed in Harry Potter related clothes, brush your hair, grab your wand, and head out the door.
 Since you're past the last step, that means it's probably an off day for you- great job. You can do the following activities to entertain yourself in the morning.
 Pretty much any quiz site will do.
 Something like manga and anime. But other types are great too. Choose what suits you best. Recommended things to draw: the Golden Snitch, characters, Quidditch, etc.
 There are huge fan sites to explore, so why not check them out? MuggleNet (www.mugglenet.com) and The Harry Potter Wiki (www.harrypotter.wikia.com) are two great resources. You can also wishlist some shopping at the Harry Potter Shop (www.harrypottershop.com), approved by JK Rowling herself, or choose your wand at Alivan's (www.alivans.com).
 There's nothing better than Molly Weasley's Bacon Sandwiches or some Pumpkin Pancakes to start your day.
 Probably the most famous HP food of all, it's great as a latte from Starbucks (search Butterbeer Latte Starbucks Secret Menu) or served cold from home or Universal Studios. Or, you can make your own.
 For example, if you had Plants Science, History, and Math, your schedule would say Herbology, History of Magic, and Arithmancy.
 Test coming up? Study like Hermione!

, Take whatever opportunity that comes up to do something related to HP- wear a house scarf, say "Lumos" when turning on a light, whenever someone says JK think Rowling, etc.
).
 This is a great hidden Easter egg for Potterheads at restaurants who want to keep their geekdom but not scream it out to the world.
 Knickerbocker Glory, Frozen Butterbeer, Petunia's Chocolate Cake, Hagrid's Treacle Toffee are great choices.
 We don't have a code, but it is like a silent agreement to follow our own little rules:

,

,,