 The magical Golden Triangle in India is one of the country's most popular tourist circuits. Comprising Three Cities Delhi, Agra and Jaipur, it gets its name from the Golden triangle Tours that these cities form. Roughly located an equal distance of around 200-250 kilometers (125-155 miles) from each other in northern India, the cities provide a classic and unforgettable introduction to the country and its charms.


What also makes the Golden Triangle Tour a great tourist circuit is its accessibility. All cities are well connected by road (most hotels can arrange a car and driver), Indian Railways "super fast" services, and luxury golden triangle tourist trains.;
, Delhi is the capital city of India. It strikingly evokes the ancient past while at the same time showcases India's modern future. It's divided into two parts -- Old Delhi and New Delhi. The Old City which was constructed by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. However, New Delhi overlays the site of seven ancient cities.If Old Delhi is known for its narrow packed streets, then New Delhi is where you find several posh districts, malls, and Government administrative buildings. Delhi has an array of attractions that include Qutub Minar, Lotus Temple, Jama Masjid, Jantar Mantar, Lodhi Gardens, Humayun Tomb, Akshardham Temple, Red Fort, and more!

, Agra is a city on the banks of the river Yamuna in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India.It is located at the banks of river Yamuna, 363 kilometres (226 mi) west of state capital, Lucknow and 200 kilometres (124 mi) south from national capital New Delhi.


Agra is the home of India's most famous monument and one of the Seven Wonders of the World, and has a rich history dating back to 1630 AD.It's actually a tomb that contains the body of Mumtaz Mahal –- the wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. He had it built as an ode to his love for her. It's made out of marble and took 22 years and 20 000 workers to complete.
Visit the Taj Mahal. Taj Mahal was built by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in the memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal. This amazing white marble beauty is so beautifully designed that every year thousands of tourists visit Golden triangle Agra just to have a look of Taj. Apart of Taj Mahal, other places to visit in Agra are red Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. Like Jaipur, here also you will find an amazing market.
Go shopping. Agra is famous for gem stones, marble made articles, jewelry, rugs, leather items and ethnic handicrafts. Varanasi is basically a Hindu pilgrimage city since ages. It situated on the bank of River Ganga.
It is strongly believed that River Ganga carries away the wrong doings of people. Here, you can visit Hindu Temples, Ashrams, Ghats, Stupas etc.
Apart from these temples, you can also visit Archaeological Museum where you can find Ashoka Pillar, which is the National Emblem of India. Different temples in the city are Durga temple, Sankat Mochan temple, Vishwanath temple and Tulsi Manas temple. Various famous Ghat in Varanasi are Prahalad Ghat, Ravidas Ghat, Kabir Ghat and Vishnu Ghat.
Varanasi is also famous for its silk sarees. Banarasi Silk Sarees play a very important part in Indian weddings. Apart from sarees, Mizapur carpets, musical instrument, sweet betel leaves and mangoes are also famous in Varanasi.
 Jaipur is the Golden Triangle City. Jaipur also popularly known as the Pink City, is the capital and largest city of the Indian state of Rajasthan. During the British rule in India, Jaipur was the capital of the princely state of Jaipur. Founded on 18 November 1727 by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II, the ruler of Amber, the city today has a population of more than 3.5 million.


Jaipur is a very famous Golden triangle tourist and education destination in India. Lots of people flock to Jaipur to view the various forts and monuments in Jaipur which reflect its glorious past. Tourism is a significant part of Jaipur's economy. Some of the world's best hotels are located here.
There are some popular forts and Golden Triangle palaces. Amber Fort, City Palace, Nahargarh Fort, Hawa Mahal and Jaigarh Fort are the major tourist sites in Jaipur. Jaipur is also called as the “Shoppers’ Paradise”. People love to enjoy window shopping here. Jaipur is famous as Pink City as most of the buildings of Jaipur are painted in pink.
It is the first planned city of India and therefore, visited by both domestic and foreign tourists.
 Many Golden Triangle tour packages are available in the market that cover visits to these three popular Golden Triangle cities of India. Some packages are combined with many other attractions as well. Such popular Golden Triangle attractions can be forts and palaces of Rajasthan, hill stations of Himachal Pradesh, beaches of Goa, wildlife attractions, etc.

