 How is this affecting you personally? Is it something you see as temporary or are you concerned that it will be long-term? Is it yourself avoiding intimacy or is it your partner? Or does this seem to have grown in place through neglecting to talk about it? The answers to these questions will help you to reach a decision about how committed you are to seeking a resolution through a third party. For many people, restoring intimacy is a valuable motivator to seek help.;
, Do you generally get along well with your spouse or significant other and still have that warm, fuzzy feeling when he or she enters the room? Or have your feelings waned and instead of excitement you feel apathy or even annoyance? The reason for this deep level of honesty is to ascertain whether a sex therapist is the right choice or if you need a therapist able to go more deeply into general personal and relationship problems. For example, if you feel as if you’ve mentally checked out of the relationship, you might be better off considering therapy to remedy the whole relationship––not having sex may be one symptom of something more broadly wrong with your relationship that's brewing underneath; in this case, traditional relationship counseling can address both the mental and physical aspects of your relationship.
 In some cases depleted hormones or taking certain medications such as antidepressants and even birth control may play a significant role in why your interest has fallen flat. Visit your primary caregiver and request a full blood panel workup. Explain to the physician your concern so he or she can test your blood for certain hormone levels. Low testosterone may be the culprit, but it's also easy to fix.
 Obviously, asking for a name of a good sex therapist from the local soccer moms may not be a great way to make friends, but if you're cautious about whom you talk to, you could come away with a few reputable therapist names. Other sources of recommendations include:


Parents. While asking your mom if she knows a good sex therapist may not be comfortable, consider going to her if you have a more open relationship. If you guessed that mom and dad had trouble in their marriage or sought counseling, your parents could be a great source of wisdom and may have a good recommendation.






Close friends. Your very best friends, the ones who you know have your back, may be ideal folks to tap for a referral. Of course, the last thing you need is for a friend to talk about your inquiry behind your back, so choose carefully and skip any friend who you know won’t keep your request discreet.






Your doctor. Your OB/GYN or even family practitioner may have a colleague or someone they know or recommend who is a sex therapist. Even if they don't, it's likely they'll be willing to ask around for you.
Your psychologist. If you're already seeing a psychologist for other issues, ask him or her for a recommendation. You may also ask your psychologist for insights to help you determine why you're having issues in the boudoir.
Medical or psychological associations. Professional associations may be a good resource to retrieve bio and background information on the physician, which may help in your decision-making. Some reputable associations to try include American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors, and Therapists AASECT or the American Academy of Sexologists.
Insurance carrier. Your insurance carrier should have a list of physician and therapists based on specialty.
 While it may only be you who needs therapy (or both of you), the decision to seek counseling from a sex therapist should be made jointly. Make sure that your significant other is included in the selection process so that you both feel comfortable the decision. Even if one partner ends up going to the therapist more than the other, both parties will need to attend at some point in order to revive your connectedness and intimacy.


Maintain an open line of communication throughout the process. Although therapy days may be when you really spill your guts about how you feel, keep the lines of communication open throughout the week so your partner always knows how you feel. Talk about how you feel the therapy is working (or not working) and ask for your partner's feedback regularly.
 Do you feel closer as a couple and is therapy making a positive difference in the relationship? Take a step back and reflect before going forward. If you aren’t seeing a positive change, discuss this with your therapist. They can't read minds and may need to know what remains outstanding for you.


If it really doesn't work out with your first choice of therapist, don't give up. Consider seeking a new therapist, as the "click" between you is very important.

