 Remove any rubber sealing from the inside of the cap and then wash each before you store it, using warm soapy water and a clean towel for drying.


Find wax supplies. There are a few ways you can do this – gather as many old, broken crayons together to melt and use as the wax or you can go a step further, hit the craft store and purchase candle wax. Another option is to use old, melted-down candles you find around the house.






Pick up a package of pre-waxed wire wicks. Do not worry about the wick length, as you will trim it to desired size after the candle wax has been poured.





;
, Use only undamaged bottle caps. If the cap is dented or twisted, do not use it for this project, as the wax may spill from the sides.


Place one pre-waxed wick in the middle of each bottle cap. Place the wick in the dead center of the bottle cap so that when you burn the candle, the wax melts away evenly.






Leave the long wick intact, as you will not know exactly how low you want to trim it until after the wax has been poured.
 Whether you're using crayons or actual candle wax, melt the wax the same way.

Place the candles or wax in a small pot. Remove all the paper from the crayons before melting the wax.






Fill a larger pot halfway to the top with water. Check that the smaller pot containing the crayons or wax can fit inside the larger pot (with room to spare).






Bring the water to a rolling boil and then place the smaller pot with the wax inside the larger pot. Allow the wax to slowly melt until it is of a liquid consistency.
 It is best if you transfer the heated wax to another container with a spout that allows for easy pouring – this makes it more accurate.
 Fill each bottle cap to the top, holding the wick upright to keep it centered and above the wax (an extra set of friend's hands may come in handy here).
 Although wax congeals rather quickly, don't move or use the candle until it has fully set, which takes approximately two hours.
 Shape a wick that is neither too long (which may create a larger than necessary flame) nor too short (which may create a crater inside your bottle cap).
 Ideally, they should sit on a saucer or candle plate to catch drips and hot wax overflow. There are plenty of lovely candle plates available but using your own pretty crockery works just as well.
 To light, simply use a match or lighter as for any candle. If you find the wick is not catching, you may need to move it upright with a toothpick or similar tool.

