 Crime, Horror, Romance,...you decide. If you don't know, just start writing.
 Think of one to three characters who are interesting. Write a Breakdown (describing the looks, personality and history of each character). They should be as familiar to you as your friend, brother, sister, mother and/or father. Once you do this, your characters will talk for themselves and they may even surprise you by what they say. When this happens, you know your characters are interesting.
 An outline of points (places where events happen) can be detailed as you want. Some deviation may happen, but that can keep the feel of the book more organic, but be careful of getting too far off. You can't have a character trying to solve a murder, then decide to go to 'Comic-Con' to hang out with Star peeps, then come back and pick up where he (or she) left off.
 Make it as interesting and attention grabbing as you can!

, Think of a really good storyline for the characters to be involved in. This can be done with the 'fish out of water' story where the character suddenly is in a situation they know nothing about (ie: Castaway). Or perhaps something happens to them or a member and they have to deal with it. But be aware of obvious lines. If your reader knows what's going to happen before they read it, you might as well be drawing equations on Hooters bathroom paper.


Remember, don't go over the top with the storyline! The ones are usually the best.
There are parts of a story: setup, conflict, climax and resolution.
Your set up shouldn't be very long; just long enough to introduce the characters and the situation. (Scrooge is a jerk; then his friend comes back as ghost to let him know more will visit him).
The conflict is then what the character has to deal with and solve. (Ghosts show up and torment Scrooge).
All this leads to the climax of the story where the situations reach a head. (Scrooge sees his death and has a change of heart).
The resolution ties up ends and sends the story out. (Scrooge gives Crochet a raise and a turkey).
 Remember a book should have a minimum of one page, but more would be preferable. Remember, you do not have a deadline so take your time! If it goes over pages, go to How to Write a Novel.
 Come back to it and then rewrite, rewrite and then rewrite some more. First publications are rare, impossible even. Much of the magic of prose come from rewriting anyway.



Consider a publisher for your novel. Many of the the publishers have digests or anthologies that are well suited to works.

