 They say breakfast is the most important meal of the day, and it's true - if you eat a good breakfast, you'll have more energy to do the activities that you want to do.


You may run into the problem of a breakfast you don't like. While most camps will have multiple options and usually have cereal, sometimes you may find yourself out of luck. The best thing you can do is to try a little bit of everything, and you'll eventually find something you like.
 Most camps have activities like archery, canoeing, arts and crafts, and nature hikes, but many also have other, more non-traditional activities. Some may even have an activity involving computers! Make sure you sign up for something at every chance you get.


Whatever they have, Try to do one thing that you know you love and three things that you have never tried before. Who knows? you may find something you really, really love!
Whatever you do, it's going to be hot outside, so Try to go swimming at least once while you are at camp, if you can.
Make sure that you also have a bottle of water with you at all times so that you don't get dehydrated.
 You're likely doing a lot more physical activity than normal at camp, so making sure you eat three square meals a day is a must.


If you can, eat a little more than you normally do to make sure that you still have enough energy to keep you going!

, Usually, there is a lot of downtime while waiting for a spot in the showers, so play a few games with your camp friends to pass the time.


Singing camp songs is also a fun way to spend your spare time. They may be a little silly, but they're a good way to have a laugh and they're loads of fun!
If you have the supplies, you can use your down time to write letters home. Be sure to include some important things in your letter:

What you're doing at camp
Your favorite part of each day
What you're looking forward to tomorrow
Anything else you want to add



, Naturally you and your cabin/tent-mates will want to stay up talking (this is especially common with girls), but try, once again, to get at least a little bit of sleep each night so that you can be awake for the next day's activities.

