 This could be your backyard. Some people won't have to worry about making a forest; they have a giant backyard!;
, It helps to draw your wolf you're going to be because then you can show people what you look like and how you act. You can be a mean scary wolf that eats people or fights other wolves, or make a lean one that is blind and deaf that needs help when battles happen. The options are great!

, Make sure you have lots of people that have preferably read this article or another wolf article.
 Make sure you have a few pups, a few yearlings and a few adults.
 Real wolf packs are led by the parents, the dominant male and female with no other ranks, there is a misunderstanding that they have ranks. Here is the order from most respected to least respected: Alpha Male and Female, Beta Male and Female, Subordinate Male and Female, and Omega Male and Female.
 While real wolf packs don't fight, it can be fun to have two packs against each other like in a movie. Your fight needs a cause, like the other pack claims the only water in your forest or something like that. The movie "The Lion King" gives great examples. Let one of the packs come in first and the other second. It's fun to play pretend if cats are fighting wolves or dogs. If you are left with your best friend fighting, be nice and don't act like you really hate them. Just bump your friend on the elbow and say " You won." if you're really nice. After the "war" fix people up if they're hurt or have hurt feelings. If someone is bleeding, tell a parent or supervisor. If no one is home, get bandages and clean and wipe the cut.


Have a snack! You're done fighting so why not relax and have a nice snack. You've worked hard and now you deserve to rest. After your snack, when your friends leave, say "goodbye" and "I'm sorry" if you hurt them or their feelings.
 A single wolf can hunt prey like rabbits, mice, and voles. Before hunting large prey, rally the whole pack together by howling and pretending to wag your tail by waving your arm behind you. Stalk whatever you want to be prey, whether a sibling, a tree, an imaginary creature or your dog, and when the leaders give command chase! When or if the prey is caught, enjoy a nice snack.
 Wolves love pups, and teaching them to hunt of playing with them. Real wolf pups usually eat regurgitated food, or when they are two months or older, small pieces of meat. As your pups grow and learn, they can start hunting small prey for themselves.
 Go to bed and sleep tight. You have been a nice wolf for the day!

