 Legitimate lenders should fully disclose the true costs of a loan. They should also explain any risks inherent in the loan.For example, you should receive a Loan Estimate after you apply for a loan. This three-page form includes information about your monthly payment, estimated interest rate, and total closing costs. It also includes information about penalties and whether your interest rate will change.The Loan Estimate should be written clearly and be easy to understand. Avoid any lender who doesn’t give you this form.;
, However, the borrower rarely benefits from all of the refinancing—which instead generates fees for the lender.Be wary if someone approaches you about refinancing a loan you have just refinanced.
 Predatory lenders might structure the loan in such a way that it’s nearly impossible for you to pay it off.For example, they may only charge interest payments, which means you’ll never pay down the principal.


Always check the amortization schedule to see that you can pay the loan off during the expected time period.
Be on alert if a lender refuses to provide you with an amortization schedule or is otherwise resistant to discuss how the loan has been structured.
 Balloon payments are often used to hide the true cost of financing.Your initial monthly payments will be small, but you eventually need to make one giant payment at the end. Typically, you need to refinance in order to make the balloon payment.


You also need to see an amortization schedule so that you can see how much the balloon payment will be. Don’t be satisfied if the lender only tells you what your initial monthly payments will be.
 Predatory lenders often target the elderly, who are especially vulnerable because they may be isolated or no longer mentally sharp.If you are a senior citizen, you should be skeptical of any lender who approaches you with a loan offer.


Predatory lenders also target people who have less education or are unsophisticated, such as first-time borrowers. If any of these factors apply to you, don't sign for a loan until you meet with someone else to discuss it.
 Predatory lenders often lend based on the equity you have in your home—and not on your ability to repay the loan.They do this because they are most interested in getting you to default and then foreclosing on your home.


Pay attention to whether the lender asks to see your employment data and financial information, or whether they are only focused on how much equity you have in your home.
 Arbitration is a dispute resolution method that happens outside of court. Instead of presenting your case to a judge, you present it to an arbitrator, who might be a private attorney. Arbitration often benefits large corporations who appear before arbitrators frequently.


Avoid loans with mandatory arbitration clauses. Instead, you'll want the option of suing in court.
 Predatory lenders often use the same phrases to lull you into thinking you’re getting a great deal. Pay attention to the following promises:


“No upfront fees.” The key word is “upfront.” This doesn’t mean the lender won’t fold fees into the loan.
“No credit, bad credit, no problem.” If a lender doesn’t care about your credit history, why are they making a loan? Often, predatory lenders give home improvement loans with your house serving as collateral. If you can’t make payments, they foreclose on your home.
“You have nothing to lose.” Lenders don’t lend for free. Although a loan evaluation might be free, probably nothing else is.
 If you use a mortgage broker, make sure to properly vet them. Check with your state to see if they are properly licensed to do business.Contact your state’s Department of Corporations and/or the Department of Real Estate.
 Another technique predatory lenders use is to offer you loans that are more expensive than you would otherwise qualify for.It can be hard to tell whether a loan is too expensive. However, you can certainly compare offers from different lenders and eliminate any that are out of line with the rest.


Avoid just waiting for lenders to come to you. In fact, predatory lenders are often quite aggressive in selling their products. They may advertise on television and through direct mail. They might even call you or visit you at home., Predatory lenders often encourage potential borrowers to lie about their income or their assets. If they do, then avoid doing business with them.They are trying to sell you a loan you don’t qualify for.


Also check your application to make sure the lender has properly reported your income, employment history, and assets.If you think the lender is inflating the value of the property, seek an independent appraisal.
 Some predatory lenders might encourage you to take out a larger loan than you need. Again, the purpose of this technique is to get you to default on your loan and lose your home in a foreclosure.


Never take out a loan that is worth more than the value of your home.
 Predatory lenders try to hide fees and charges in the loan packaging. Accordingly, you need to carefully review your loan offer. Walk away if you find unacceptable charges.


Look for fees or charges that haven’t been properly explained to you. Even if explained, question whether they are really necessary. For example, a lender might charge you for credit insurance when it isn’t necessary.Also look if there are prepayment penalties. If you can pay off a loan early, then you can lower the overall cost because you will save on interest payments. However, predatory lenders often charge penalties if you pay the loan off early. Avoid loans with pre-payment penalties.Check if the interest rate increases upon default. Avoid a loan with this term.
Review points and origination fees. You shouldn’t pay any points or fees that exceed 4% of the loan amount.
 You shouldn’t be rushed into signing a loan. Avoid any offer that is valid for only one or two days.This is a high-pressure sales technique associated with predatory lending.


Of course, by waiting, the cost of your loan might increase. However, a reputable lender should explain this to you and possibly offer you the option of locking in the interest rate for a certain amount of time.
 If you ever have questions, you can meet with a housing counselor for free by contacting the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Call toll free 1-800-569-4287 to find your nearest agency.Your counselor can review your financial situation and any loan offers you have received. They can identify anything that looks suspicious.
 Make sure the lender gives you a Closing Disclosure. Check that the loan details are what you have expected. If anything is different, you should avoid signing for the loan. Also avoid signing a loan if you receive no disclosure.You should receive the Closing Disclosure at least three days before your scheduled closing.Remember to keep copies of all documents lenders give you., Predatory lenders might give you documents with blank lines on them or with incorrect information. Avoid signing these documents.Also make sure all required information has been included in your documents. Don’t rely on verbal promises. Instead, get everything in writing.
 Report predatory lenders to your state’s consumer protection office. There should be a link at your state’s Attorney General’s website. Check their website or call their office., Often, you won’t discover you’ve fallen victim to predatory lenders until you fall behind on your mortgage. One day you realize that your mortgage payment has increased dramatically, or the lender is moving to foreclose on your home. You need to contact an attorney as soon as possible to discuss your options.


Find your nearest bar association and call for a referral.Then call up the lawyer and schedule a consultation.
Gather all helpful documents so the attorney can understand your case. Take a copy of your loan agreement, correspondence, and a payment schedule.
 If your lender has tried to foreclose on you, then you might be able to raise predatory lending as a defense.If you win, you get to save your home.


You might also be able to sue for cancellation of the contract (called “rescission”).
You can probably also sue for money compensation, called “damages.” Discuss with your lawyer what laws give you a right to sue for money and how much you might get.For example, you might be able to sue for fraud or for violations of certain federal laws.
 Predatory lenders often target vulnerable communities, such as people of color or those who don’t speak English. Because sunlight is the best disinfectant, you should contact your local newspaper or television station. They might run a story on the lender and expose them.

