 Don’t avoid your problem by shoving it under the rug. Tackle your work problem head-on and be aggressive in your strategies to prevail! If you are deciding between important job offers that each would lead you on a different course in your professional life, don’t wait until the last minute to decide. Instead, gather all the information you can about each job and talk with others to make a well informed decision you will be happy about.


Make pros/cons lists and to help you tackle your work problem.
 Think of your problem as an opportunity to improve yourself and take on new responsibilities. It can be a chance to show your boss a side of you they have never seen, which might lead to some sort of promotion.Take away all of your assumptions about your problem to help you overcome them. For example, make a list of the assumptions about a product in your industry. Then, think about what would happen if they weren’t there or you did the opposite. For example, Cirque du Soleil challenged our common assumptions of what a ‘circus’ was, and made something innovative and profitable., Do you want to be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company or run your own restaurant? Write down your ultimate goal, and then break it down into smaller goals. Each one of these smaller goals will help in the pursuit of your larger goal.Ensure that your goals are attainable and measurable, so you can monitor your progress. Celebrate in some way after reaching each goal.
 Visualize what you want your life to look like in five or ten years. Assess how this problem will help or hinder your imagined future. How can you tackle this problem to ensure your future is bright, and the way you thought it would be?


Visualizing a solution to your problem can also be helpful. Think about all the possible solutions and how you would achieve each. Decide which solution helps you the most and has the least amount of backlash with your colleagues.
 Ask for guidance from a mentor, family member, or other support group in your life. Overcoming problems can be very challenging when done alone. Asking for outside opinions might help put things in perspective and give you options you never though about.If you are uncomfortable talking to people you know such as family or friends, talk to a religious leader, counsellor, call an anonymous help line, or find a community support group. You can express your feelings and seek help without the fear of judgment or other repercussions.

