 When you know how to hold the strings to make notes and chords, the next step is to get your strumming down. Strumming is basic, and can be done a multitude of ways. Essentially, run your strumming hand quickly over the strings and over the hollow space to create sound. You can use your fingertips, fingernails, or a guitar pick to strum, but most people find it easiest to start with a pick..









There are many different strumming patterns, but two of the most basic are running your hand back and forth over the strings in a fast-pace, or running them in one direction only.
If you are playing a chord, don’t feel obligated to strum all of the strings. Instead, you can choose to strum only the strings which you need to play the chord.
Don’t worry about getting your strumming pattern fixated until you can play chords accurately. It is better to be slow and strumming to start and play accurate chords, than to strum quickly but have your fingers in the wrong place or playing notes poorly.
Plucking strings is when you pick at individual strings, and is generally a little more difficult for beginners. Reserve plucking for a time after you’ve already developed basic strumming skills.
 Rhythm comes with practice, and is very difficult to get at first. When you are first learning chords, you will likely have to pause multiple times to put your fingers in the right position, which is fine. Over time though, develop rhythm with your strumming to give your music a better sound. Using a metronome ensures you're always practice perfectly on time.
 Although putting together chords and strumming in a timely manner can take some time to master, the best way to practice both is to play songs that you know. Many beginning guitar books offer children's songs to start, but you can learn popular songs as well.









Check out this collection of 10 beginner songs on Wikihow.

Search online for “guitar tabs” to get the music to play your favorite guitar songs. These will tell you the chord that needs to be played, and on some sites you will be shown how to play that specific chord as well.
 By far the most important thing you can do when learning how to play the guitar, is to practice on a regular basis. This will help you to become accustomed to the shape your hands must take, strumming and rhythm, and learning new songs. Remember that 20-30 minutes every day is a much better way to learn than playing three hours, but only on Saturdays. Try out some more lessons as you learn:









Play Lead Guitar
Play Rhythm Guitar
Play the Blues

