 Eye contact is very important for flirting. You can signal your attraction to a guy by making brief eye contact with him.
Let the eye contact last for about 1-2 seconds, then look away.
Prolonged eye contact before a conversation can be off putting. Staring makes people uncomfortable.
Good rules for eye contact during a successful personal conversation are to glance his face while you are listening, then glance away every so often when you are talking.;
, Smiling is key to friendly non-verbal communication.This puts forth that you are self confident.
A smile sets a pleasant tone for your interaction.
Smiling as body language communicates approval and affection.
Keep the rest of your face relaxed and casual.
Don't force a smile that is too big or fake.
 You don't need to reveal your deepest feelings to your crush when you are just getting his attention.Keep the topics of conversation light. Stick to things like school, your pets, your sports or other activities.
Don't be afraid to be playful during conversations. Add a little humor by making small jokes.
Keep your facial expressions bright and happy.
For example, if you are in the same classes you could talk with your crush about an assignment or test and offer to study together.
If you know he has a dog or a cat, ask to see pictures.
Talk about your sports games or his. If he isn't involved in sports, pick something else he does like theater, reading, art etc. to remark on.
 You don't want to seem closed off or nervous.Posture is very important for flirting. Don't use a "closed" posture; this is when you stand or sit with your arms crossed or legs tightly crossed.
If you turn your body away from your crush you will seem disinterested.
When flirting, try to keep your body relaxed and open. Keep your arms relaxed and uncrossed, and lean your body towards your crush.
Mirror your crush's body language. If he has an open and casual body position, communicate the same body language in return.
For example, if your crush is casually leaning against the wall, keep your body language similarly relaxed. Lean against the wall too, or stand in a relaxed position.
 Say something nice about his accomplishments or appearance.Be honest and tell the truth when you give your compliment.
Try to keep your compliments away from his looks initially. Give a compliment such as "You were great in last night's game" or "You were a really good partner during the group project".
If you know he has worked on a project at school you can focus on that type of accomplishment: "I saw your art project at the fair. It was really cool".
You can compliment a guy on his looks, but don't focus all of your nice comments on personal appearance. This can make you seem too focused physical appearance.
 Gushing endlessly about yourself and your interests will make you seem self-centered.This communicates arrogance and self-focus.
When you are interacting with your crush, you do want to talk about yourself a little bit.
However, just stick to some relevant facts or stories about yourself.
For example, if he's talking about sports and you play them, respond with comments or a story about your own athletic games.
Listening is a very important skill when flirting.
Instead of focusing on yourself in the conversation, say a few things about yourself then ask about him. Listen intently to what he is saying.
For example, "I was in the play last year and it was a great experience. Are you going to try out for a role this year?"
Nod and acknowledge that you are listening when he talks.
 Follow some of the same ideas for this type of talking.


Keep your initial messages very casual. Say "Hey, what's going on?" or "Hi, what are you up to right now?"
Ask the guy you like questions about his family, pets, sports or hobbies.
You could say something like "I see you have some pictures of you playing with your little brother. That's cute. What do you guys do for fun?"
Comment on the photos on his Facebook or Twitter.
 Try not to be stiff, nervous, or too formal when you do so.Bring it naturally into a conversation. If you are talking about a sports game, for example, you could interject with "Would you like to go to the game together on Friday?"
Offer to do something that he is interested in: "So you like rock music? Why don't we go to the concert next week?"
You could also be more direct and say "Hey, I really like you and I'd like to go out sometime."
Remember to be confident. Self confidence is attractive and shows the boy you like that you are interested in him.
Don't mumble or stutter when you ask a question. You want to seem happy and confident.

