 Schools often organize career fairs and employers look to universities for some of their best hires. These events offer an easy way for you to meet potential employers, apply for jobs, and get a better feel for the current job market. Bring multiple copies of your resume to distribute among employers that are actively looking for new employees.


Prepare questions for company representatives. Ask about recent good press the company received, or about a new initiative that they have launched.
Dress professionally. You want to impress potential employers and colleagues. Show that you are serious and that you understand the norms of the workplace.
 If you have already graduated, you can likely work through your school's alumni association to look for employment. The alumni association can provide information on networking events and other opportunities to meet potential employers.


In doing this, you will have to learn how to market the skills your philosophy degree provided you with towards a diverse set of job opportunities. The more you talk about the skills you developed through your philosophy degree, the better prepared you will be for questions you will be asked in interviews.
 Philosophy organizations such as the American Philosophical Association (APA) or the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy (SPEP) will help you network with potential employers. The APA focuses on the analytic tradition in philosophy, while the SPEP focuses on the continental tradition. Though the focus of these organizations is on philosophy, many members will have connections that extend beyond university faculty.


Keep up with one or two philosophy forums online. They are good places to network and you may find philosophy graduates who have transitioned into other careers and can offer advice.
 Use your resume to emphasize the broad spectrum of skills you mastered by studying philosophy. Your resume will be a useful tool for emphasizing skills that will be valuable to employers in various professions.


Include skills that emphasize the specific skill set of philosophy: analysis and presentation of clear arguments, the ability to distinguish between differing views and to establish common grounds, the ability to write well-constructed and compelling arguments, and an openness to new ways of thinking.

