 We know that stories full of action, whether written or visual, appeal to all ages. Through physical action you can also communicate the larger meaning and importance of your story.


Let's say you have written a fantasy story where a warrior has saved a town from a dragon. Everyone is grateful to her except the town's former hero, who has spent the story feeling jealous about being outdone. You could end with the local guy giving over his prized sword to your heroine. Without even having characters speak, you can show the reader what is significant.
 Sensory details connect us emotionally to the story, and much good writing uses imagery throughout.However, by using rich, sensory language to paint word pictures in the final part of your story, you will leave the reader with depths of meaning.


"Timmy knew the monster was defeated, sinking now into the depths of the toilet bowl. But he stood and waited anyway, watching for every spot of dark color to disappear, to howl away into the watery elsewhere, until nothing but a clear and faintly blue calm remained. He did not move, in fact, until his own reflection returned to him, finally, in the surface of the bowl's water."

, Leave clues in your story for the reader/viewer to build an interpretation. People enjoy stories they can “wrestle” with and think about after reading. You don't want to make your story so confusing that a reader cannot make sense of it, but you'll want to include figurative language that is not so obvious to understand. By doing so you will add interest and significance to your work.


For example," As Sam said goodbye, she revved the engine of the motorcycle and then Joe could feel her becoming a memory--taking off in an explosion of sound and light, then stretching away, a rocket's arc down the street and up the hill, and finally the smell of smoke, and the echo of her goodbye, until she was nothing more than the aftermath of a firework, a thrilling vision he would always feel lucky to have seen up close."

, Similar to using action or sensory descriptions, this approach is particularly useful when telling stories within an essay. Think about the mental picture you'd like to “haunt” the reader with—some visual picture that can capture what you feel is the essence of your story—and leave that for the reader at the end.
 You might be working with a number of themes, particularly if you're writing a longer story, such as a history-based essay or a book. Focusing on a specific theme or motif through images or the actions of a character can help you create a structure that is unique to your story. This approach is particularly useful for open-ended stories.
 Similar to highlighting on a theme, you can choose a particular action, event, or emotional moment from within your story that feels most meaningful, and then “echo” that in some way—by repeating the moment, by returning to it and reflecting or expanding on it, etc.
 Similar to highlighting a theme and echoing a moment, this strategy means ending your story by repeating something you introduced in the beginning. This is commonly known as a “frame” or “framing device,” and it can offer shape and meaning to a story.For example, a story that begins with a person looking at, but not eating, a leftover piece of birthday cake can end with that person returning to the cake. Whether they eat the cake or not, the return to it will help the reader see the larger point or mood you are exploring.

