 There are two different types of aspirin poisoning. The first is acute aspirin poisoning, sometimes called rapid aspirin poisoning, that occurs when you get too much of the acetylsalicylic acid at one time. This requires a very large dose of aspirin at one time, which means that this type of aspirin overdose is rarely accidental.


For example, a 150 pound person would have to take more than 30 tablets of 325 mg aspirin to even develop a mild case of acute aspirin poisoning.This type most commonly happens through intentional overdose (suicide attempt) or accidental overdose (either children or adult).
 The other type of aspirin poisoning is chronic aspirin poisoning. This happens gradually when you unintentionally take a larger than recommended dose aspirin over a period of days. This can happen accidentally for people of all ages if they are given too much.


Adults may also easily develop this type of poisoning over the course of several weeks because they take too much aspirin each day.This commonly happens by either taking too much aspirin as a preventative measure against heart attack or a result of medication interactions causing the aspirin to metabolize differently.
 One way that you may develop aspirin poisoning is to not know that a product contains aspirin. Wintergreen oil, which contains aspirin, is used in skin treatments and is highly toxic if even a small amount is swallowed.There are also many over the counter medications that have aspirins in them. These include:


Alka Seltzer
Bayer
Excedrin
Percodan
Anacin
Bufferin
Ecotrin
Fiorinal
St. Joseph'sPepto-BismolKaopectate

, Treatment will depend on how long ago you consumed the aspirin, how much you consumed, and if your poisoning is acute or chronic. Treatment may include activated charcoal (this works best if it is taken within four hours of the ingestion of aspirin), stomach pumping, whole bowel irrigation, sodium bicarbonate, hemodialysis, and/or urinary alkalinization.


It may also be necessary to treat secondary symptoms of aspirin poisoning, such as hyperthermia, seizures, and dehydration.

