 You can leave it in the container while it warms, or in a large bowl.
 Wash and dry the food processor bowl and blade before you begin., Add any other ingredients you wish to use if you are making fancy butter, such as garlic, parsley, cumin, curry powder or other spices to suit your taste. Keep in mind, however, that if you put spices into the cream, they will also transfer to the buttermilk and your pancakes and feline friends may not like that.

Do not overfill the food processor bowl, otherwise the cream may spill out during churning.
 A teaspoon of salt per pint of cream is usually enough. If you like your butter unsalted, omit the salt., Watch as the cream solids separate and congeal into butter. It should take no more than two or three minutes.

The cream will go through stages, usually indicated by changes in the sound coming from the food processor bowl. First it turns very creamy and looks like ice cream. The churning noise will become rougher, and the cream will abruptly turn solid when the butter separates from the buttermilk.
Stop the food processor and taste it. If it tastes like butter, you're done.
If it still tastes like sweet cream, run it another one or two minutes.
 The liquid that remains after the butter congeals is fresh buttermilk that can be used in any recipe that calls for it.,


Wash your hands thoroughly.
Fold a large piece of cheesecloth in half and place the butter in the middle. Fold the sides up into a bag.
While holding the closed end of the bag with one hand, knead and squeeze the butter to force out any remaining buttermilk. This step is important––if you don't remove as much of the buttermilk as you can, the butter may turn rancid in one or two days.
 A bowl or square mold will do. Press it down firmly with a large spoon or spatula. This may cause more liquid to come out of the butter. Drain the liquid before storing.
 The butter will be immediately ready to use, but as with any dairy product, it needs to be refrigerated when not in use.

