 Both the primary and secondary class are very important over the outcome of battle. In this you must use common sense. An Elementalist won't benefit very much from being a secondary Ranger, for example, but would be able to take better advantage of the skills of a Mesmer. If your combination is bad, you have two options:


Play the game through until you "ascend" and can change your secondary profession. Even if you picked a bad combination, you can still specialize in a skill of your primary profession.
Delete your character and start a new one. This may be hard to do if you've already put time into your current character, but if things are too hard, you can simply look for a good "build" on the internet and build your character around it.;
, Take the time to experiment with different skill combinations. The game itself allows for a lengthy period of time for this, as well as a tutorial before you even begin play. Don't just throw in random skills, take time to form combinations of skills that benefit from each other.
 All of those Worn Belts and Grawl Necklaces could one day add up to a Glob of Ectoplasm. Equip weapons as you see fit, take advantage of collectors, then sell the leftovers. That extra money can be used to buy some fancy new armor.
 Having all Elementalists is a sure fire way to die, unless you know what you're doing. In which case of knowing what you're doing, always use Meteor first, it helps with chaining. Most groups concentrate on first adding a Monk or two, a Warrior to absorb the damage, and an Elementalist to kill the enemies. The Monk is the essential core of the team. Without them, many quests and missions will be long struggles.
 Some guilds are filled with helpful people, who would be glad to aid you in your mission. However, there are millions of tiny, bad guilds popping up and dying. Make sure you join a good one!


First check whether the guild specializes in PVP or not. If you do not share the same game interests as your guild mates, then you probably will not have a fun time.
Make sure you're comfortable with the amount of members. Some people prefer always having someone to talk to, while others would rather know guild mates by name.
Find out whether the guild has a hall. If the guild does not have a "Guild Hall", an island you can meet others at, it is most likely not worth joining. More experienced players' guilds tend to have islands, while new guilds do not.

