 Most kids think that their "Call of Duty" sniping skills transfer to life. Sorry children, it doesn't. Sniping not only takes spotting and shooting skills, but to be a team-effective player, the sniper must be able to point out enemies to his teammates.The airsoft sniper must be cool-headed and tactically sound. However, the best soldier in the world ain't nothing without the proper equipment.;
, There is no need to purchase some $500 rifle when you can basically get something just as good for 1/3 the price. First figure out what rifle you want. There is pretty much an airsoft version of any rifle out there, like L96s, M40s, and .50 cals. Then research prices and manufacturers from multiple sites or stores. Good manufacturers include Well, UTG, and UHC. Then find the model you want and see if you can get it cheaper at different sites, and maybe get it with a package deal.
 Try to avoid anything under $100. Most good rifles range between $100 and $200. These are usually the basic spring sniper rifles, usually bolt-actions. Going above $200 is when you begin to hit the gas-powered rifles and licensed rifles. If you have the cash, go for it. If not, like me, stick within your price range.
 You're a sniper, REMAIN HIDDEN! But that doesn't mean you have to buy a ghillie suit (though most people recommend it). Face paint is also a good option, though most find it easier to just wear a shemagh or a ski-mask.
 A well coordinated team will stand a better chance than a scattered, misinformed unit.
 NEVER buy the crappy BBs from places like Walmart or Dick's. Try to buy competition-grade BBs. Goldenball Proslick work wonders. If you think its stupid to buy BBs off the internet and wait for them, then think how stupid you'll feel when that new rifle's internals smash and burn. Besides, you can usually buy the quality BBs from airsoft stores. Look for SEAMLESS, WELL-MADE ammo( Elite Force, King Arms, Madbull, Matrix).They should be free of imperfections like dimples, cracks, and seams. Make sure those BBs work with your rifle. For snipers, I recommend .25s or heavier, as a heavier BB will be more accurate. A lighter BB (less than 23) grants more range but less accuracy., main your shots will curve dramatically over distance. Try to stay away from anything lighter than 23.
 Learn the limits of your rifle and ammo. If you can go through a can at 50 yards (45.7 m), you're set. Make sure your scope is in tune with the gun. Zero it properly and you'll have no problem scoping out your friend's face.
 Too many times has some idiot been acting a fool and ended up bleeding. Wear proper face and body protection, and try not to play with someone who refuses to don eyewear. Also, high-powered rifles can cause injury if improperly handled. Use a barrel sleeve if you have one and keep your gun on safety when not in use.
 Clean after a long day of play and periodically. Keep your BBs clean too. One of the best ways to prolong the life of rifle parts is to clean and use proper ammo.
 Remember, a soldier could be comfortable with being gunned down in a hail of bullets, but most are uneasy about the thought of a lone marksman singling them out with a shot to the head!

