 In order to sell more, you need to improve your ability to develop potential customers (also called “prospects”) into actual customers. The first step to achieving this is evaluating the motivations and interests of the potential customers. You can start to assess your prospects by determining how close they are to making a purchase.


If you are working through a website, look to see what point the prospect has reached. Have they just asked for more information, or have clicked through to look at pricing details?
Think about through which avenue this person has come to your business, so you can put their interest in your products into context.
If the person is showing little real interest in making a purchase, consider switching your attention to someone else for the time being.;
, When you have identified a number of potential customers, it’s important that you assess each of them closely to determine which ones you should approach first, and how you should make the approach. To do this, you can use the BANT formula to ask yourself a number of questions about each lead. The BANT formula is commonly used in sales, and is a good starting point.Budget: does the lead have the money to buy your product?
Authority: can the lead make or authorise a purchase decision?
Need: does the lead have a real need for your product, or a problem that it will solve?
Timeline: has the lead specified a timeline for the purchase?, It can be tempting to focus overwhelmingly on attracting new customers, when you are looking to grow your business and increase your sales. You shouldn’t, however, overlook the possibilities of selling more to your existing customers. Selling more to existing customers can be a cost effective way to sell more. You won’t have to spend the time and resources required to bring in new customers, and your existing customers will already have a good knowledge of the quality of your product.The price you pay to get a new customer is known as the “customer acquisition cost.”
In its most straightforward form it can be calculated by dividing the total costs associated with acquiring new customers, by total number of new customers acquired, within a specific time period.You are likely to achieve a better conversion rate with existing customers, as a result of your existing relationship.
You are likely to not have to do such extensive customer research, as you should already have good customer feedback from an established customer.
You may be under less pressure to offer special prices to sell more to existing customers than you would to attract new customers., The feedback you get from existing customers can be very helpful when it comes to assessing your prospects and developing new sales leads. Getting a full picture of your customers’ needs and responses to your offering will help you establish which of your products have particular appeal to which customers.


You can then use this information to inform your interactions with your prospects.
If you can make an educated guess about what your prospect is likely to be most interested in then you will be better able to tailor your approach.
Analysing customer feedback will also help you to recognise weaknesses in your business. Addressing such weakness is an important part of growing and selling more.
If you respond effectively to customer complaints then you will have a better chance of developing long relationships and selling more to existing customers., As you are developing some sales leads you need to plan your schedule for follow-up calls and communications. Always try to schedule times for calls well in advance, and ask your prospective customer for the most convenient time for you to call. Don’t arrive to work in the morning without a clear plan of who you are going to talk to on that day.


Make sure you log all your calls and keep some organised notes on each one.
You need to go into each conversation knowing where you stand and what approach you want to take., Before you follow-up with someone and attempt to seal the deal, spend a few minutes checking that you are fully prepared and ready to go. You need to make sure you have all the relevant information to hand and that you have familiarised yourself with the particulars of the customer.


You should also prepare yourself by taking a second to relax and eliminate any anxiety you are feeling.
You need to come across and confident, knowledgeable and assured.
Be prepared to put yourself in your customer’s shoes so you can better understand and respond to their needs., Consider beginning sales appointments with some important "small-talk" that is not directly related to your product or service. It is difficult for people to do business with strangers, so developing a rapport and mutual understanding can help you progress the conversation and find out more about your potential customer. Maybe they just moved to a new city, or are recently married?Don’t force the conversation. Your prospect will spot blatant attempts at disinterested small-talk.
Try to be open and progress the conversation naturally.
You are more likely to make a sale if the customer thinks that you are genuinely interested in them, and have a solution to a problem that they are experiencing., Any negotiation is a to-and-fro between people, and as such, you should not expect to be totally successful right away. If you are looking to develop a new relationship with a potential customer you should be prepared to accept small successes that could be developed into larger ones in the future. Getting a foot in the door is a key element in building the partnership.


Perhaps your goal was to get the customer to commit to buying a thousand units every quarter, but they instead stopped at 500.
Be prepared to accept a compromise and work on developing the partnership in the future to reach that 1000 unit goal., When you are talking with a prospect you should always make sure you take the time to really listen and take on board what they are saying. Listening carefully and attentively will set you apart from more aggressive sellers and will help the prospect warm to you. It will also enable you to get a fuller picture of the prospect’s needs and situation, which will help you tailor your approach and pitch.


If you listen carefully you will hear how your prospect speaks, what language they use and how they frame their needs.
Try to spend twice as much time listening as talking.
Listen to what a prospect says and repeat it back to them to get confirmation., When you are talking to your potential customer, try to think of them as a partner rather than an opponent in the negotiation. Confidence is essential for successful sales negotiation, and putting you and your prospect onto the same team can help a seller feel more confident. It does this by reframing the negotiation as a mutually beneficial process of achieving agreement, rather than a more desperate attempt to win somebody over.Focussing on the outcome rather than the product itself can be a good way to approach a sales negotiation.
Developing an image of the big picture with the prospect will help foster a co-operative environment and emotional connection., It’s important to recognise that aggressive selling techniques, such as incessant follow-up calls and emails, are unlikely to lead to a boost in your sales. Try to present your sales communications in a way that illustrates how they have a clear potential benefit for the prospective customer. If you can explain clearly how your product can solve a key problem for your prospects, you are much more likely to achieve positive results.It’s good to be energetic, but try be precise and focussed rather than just bombarding your prospects with vague or unspecific information.
 Getting good and thorough feedback from existing customers is a vital part of improving your service. Good quality feedback will help expose the weaknesses in your business that are best seen from the vantage point of the customer. You should try to encourage feedback as normal part of the customer experience, and use multiple media to engage with your customers.


Social media can be a very effective way to engage quickly and easily with your customers.
You can use customer satisfaction surveys, feedback cards, and follow-up communications after purchases.You can also sign-up to have mystery shoppers visit your business.
You can set-up a costumer relationship management system to record all your data., Special offers and sales promotions are tried and tested techniques for increasing your sales for a limited period. If you attract new customers with a promotion you can then attempt to develop a longer term relationship with them. You can approach offers and promotions either through money, goods, or services.


Money: for example you might reduce the price, offer money off a future purchase, or give our vouchers or coupons.
Goods: for example you might offer two for the price of one, offer free upgrades, samples or prizes.
Services: for example you could offer a free trial, free training or delivery., The sales rep with the best skills will always sell more than the reps who are making it up as they go along. If you want to succeed in sales you must master the execution of a professional sales process, and a good way to improve your skills is through training. There are a huge variety of sales training courses available, ranging from online courses all the way up to specialised modules that are part of an MBA.


Talk to senior staff in your office and ask about what training opportunities there are available to you.
Training courses can be expensive so always talk to your manager about professional development and training opportunities.

