 Not only is this important to teach the child to sing with good posture, but it actually teaches them how to properly participate in a voice lesson by giving them simple, achievable tasks to succeed. Children are very kinesthetic and love to do physical activities.;
, When breathing out, the stomach should tighten. The shoulders and chest should never raise or drop. You can work on this standing, or lying with a book on their stomach. Then practice hissing, buzzing, humming and eventually singing "Ah" by preparing with a good deep breath and steadily supporting with the stomach. Focus on getting good, even sounds while exhaling that do not sputter or die off.
 Practice long glissando "sirens," lifting up into the upper register (sometimes called falsetto or head voice) for high notes, rather than "belting" or straining in the speaking voice. Their high voice will probably be weak at first but insist on its use and it will grow stronger over time. Children should learn to recognize the sensation of vibration in their mouth and chest for low notes and in their head for high notes.
 Teach them to match pitch and then to sing steps going higher and lower. Begin by having them sing "ah" and match their pitch with the piano. Then explore a couple steps up and down. Since many children do not immediately understand the concept of raising and lowering pitch, it can be demonstrated by the raising and lowering of your hand. Be patient if they don't get it right away, they usually do soon.
 Begin to practice 3 and 5 note major scales, using the solfege syllables Do Re Mi Fa So. Transpose the starting note up and down by half-steps as far as they can hold the pitch. Once they make good progress, try the whole scale (Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do).
 Begin to work on major/perfect intervals beginning with seconds and progressing to octaves. Always use solfege syllables.
 Make sure the child sings each vowel with the proper mouth shape. Make sure they open their mouths enough for Ah and Oh and round enough for Oh and Oo.
 Instruct them to "sing through a yawn" but with their tongue flat behind their bottom teeth. Work on tone by asking them to focus the vibration on the roof of their mouth. This is especially effective by having them hum and asking them to maximize the vibration on the roof of their mouth. Tones in the upper register will feel like they vibrate above the roof of the mouth, in the head and even above the head when high enough.
 Practice sight reading by first singing in solfege while watching the contour of the notes. Begin teaching children to read music this way. Then move on to holding the vowel sounds out to the length of the notes (rather than closing them off quickly as in normal speech) and singing with pure vowels.
 Learning to successfully perform is one of the indispensable experiences in voice lessons. Frequently conduct informal performances where the child will sing an entire song, facing you. Encourage students to sing for their parents and even friends, if they are comfortable with it. Finally, hold a recital every 6 months or so for which they can prepare 1-3 songs to perform for parents and other students.

