 If your statement is fresh, lively, and different, you will be putting yourself ahead of the pack. If you distinguish yourself through your account, you will make yourself memorable.


Find ways to write with attitude. It's okay to be a little creative in a personal testimonial. People reading through testimonials likely sift through hundreds each day. A fun opening line can really set you apart. Let's return to the example of applying for a job in politics. You campaigned with your family when you were young. Try opening with something like, "Picture a 4 foot tall 8 year-old passionately handing out yard signs to middle-aged soccer moms in a typical Midwestern neighborhood. There you have my introduction to the political process in America."
Address possible objections. This can set you apart. Imagine what hesitations a reader may have about you. For example, "I may come off as a bit young or a bit naive, but I believe my youth only reinforces my passion and energy for politics.", The opening paragraph is generally the most important. It is here that you grab the interview panel’s attention or lose it. This paragraph becomes the framework for the rest of the statement.


Try for a fun and attention-grabbing opening line. Do not begin with something that sounds too generic. If you wrote something like, "I'm a 27 year-old content marketer looking for fresh experience," try to rewrite it in a more entertaining, energetic fashion. For example, "I've been in love with the world of marketing since finishing college 5 years ago, and I'm ready for some fantastic new challenges."
Read through your opening paragraph several times to make sure there are no typos. If readers are shifting through hundreds of personal testimonies, a typo is a good reason to discard one. Make sure you whole statement, but especially your opening paragraph, is typo-free.
 Be sure that every example and every sentence connects to the questions or topics you need to address in your personal testimony. Cut out any extraneous information.


It would be a good idea to return to the job advertisement as you read through your testimony to remind yourself of the key words and phrases you highlighted. Check that everything in your statement connects to the topics and requirements you noted earlier. Delete anything that does not relate.
Delete any references to experiences or accomplishments from high school or before unless you have just graduated from high school.
Look for anything that could be interpreted as possibly controversial—anything, for instance, that suggests a particular religious or political affiliation.
In general, don't include personal information such as your age, marital status, or race, unless it is relevant to the job position.
 Never go over the word limit; be as concise as possible. Going over the word limit shows a lack of consideration for the time constraints of the person reading your document and also suggests that you can’t get to the point in an efficient manner.
 Type and proofread your personal testimony very carefully. If your work includes typos or grammar errors, the person reading your document will think you are unprofessional. You want to be sure to make a good impression, even before people meet you, by submitting a polished testimony.
 Regardless of how good of a writer you are, asking someone else to read over your testimony will help you catch any remaining typos or errors. Ask a friend or family member with good writing skills to help you.


Alternately, pay a professional editor. Spending a little extra money on polishing your personal testimony might just land you your dream job!

