 In order to get Victini, you will need to connect to the internet with your DS between the following dates. Doing so will earn you a Liberty Pass, which you can use to find Victini:


Europe - Mar. 4, 2011 to Apr. 27, 2011
North America - Mar. 6, 2011 to Apr. 27, 2011
Australia - Mar. 10, 2011 to Apr. 28, 2011If you were unable to connect to the internet during this time, you will have to obtain Victini through trading with another player, or by using an Action Replay cheat code which is detailed below.
 You can access this in both Pokémon White and Black. Select Yes when asked if you want to begin Wireless Communications.
 This will connect you to the Nintendo servers and begin searching for available gifts. It may take a moment to complete the search. Once the search is done, click “Get Liberty Pass”. The pass will then download to your DS.
 Once you’ve downloaded the pass, return to the main menu and load your game. Find and enter any Pokémon Center in the game, and then talk to the Delivery Man who will be waiting there. He will give you your Liberty Pass.
 It is the large city located in the bottom-center of the Unova map. You can get to the city on foot by Route 4. Stock up on expensive Pokeballs such as Ultra Balls and Great Balls, as Victini can be difficult to capture.
 Speak to the captain waiting by the boat, and he will take you to Liberty Garden if you are holding the Liberty Pass.
 Once you arrive, there will be some people you can talk to if you wish. You will need to head up and then right to circle around the lighthouse. You will be forced to fight several Team Plasma members on the way to the lighthouse entrance.


There is an Ultra Ball in the trash cans on the far left side of the island, directly below where you entered. You will need to go all the way around to reach it, because the crowd is blocking the path where you arrive. The Ultra Ball will make catching the Victini much easier.
 You will need to fight a Team Plasma member on the way in, and then the man on your left will offer to heal all of your Pokémon. Head down the stairs and fight the other Team Plasma members on your way to Victini.


The Team Plasma’s Pokémon range from levels 15-20.
 This will initiate the battle. Victini will use fire attacks, so fight it using a Pokémon that is resistant to fire. Victini is Level 15.
 Use small attacks to whittle Victini’s health down without accidentally knocking it out. You want to get Victini into the red portion of its HP bar.


If you accidentally knock out Victini, exit the room and reenter it to try again.
 Once Victini’s health is in the red, start trying to capture it. Use strong Pokeballs such as Ultra Balls and Great Balls. You may have to try several times in order to catch it. Once you’ve captured Victini, it is added to your list of Pokémon.

