 Place a covering around the area in which you plan to remove the blackberry plant. This can make clean up easier and minimize the risk of seeds or stems escaping and forming new plants.


Use trash bags or tarps to cover the area to till.;
, Using your hands or a pair of heavy-duty garden scissors to cut the stems of the blackberry plant. This will make it easier for you to remove the roots and source of life for the plant., Using the covering you used around the blackberry bush, bundle the stems together. Then dispose of the stems in your garbage or a place in which they are not exposed to the soil to prevent regrowth.Make sure to get every bit of stem off of the ground because a new bush can still grow even from a short cutting.Check with your community to inquire about local regulations on disposing of organic plant material.
 Once you’ve removed the stems, you can more easily access the root ball. Using a trowel or shovel, dig the surrounding soil until you expose the entire root ball.Make sure to dig around the root ball so that you don’t break it up and potentially release seeds or stems into the soil.Be aware that digging up the root ball will not kill the plant since some plant material may remain, but this does make tilling the soil much easier., Gently take the root ball out from the soil around which you’ve dug a hole. Not only can this ensure easier tilling, but can also remove a major source of rhizomes that can propagate the bush.However, keep in mind that blackberry plants do not form a tight root ball like some other plants and the roots can run a long way underground. Follow the roots to the ends and then carefully dig them up with a trowel.


Use gloves when you remove the root ball to minimize the risk of cutting yourself.
Dig further around the root ball if it doesn’t come out when you pull on it. This may allow you to get most bits of root in one movement.
Dispose of the root ball in the same way you did the stems.
 It’s important to till, or break up and turn over, the soil after removing the stems and root balls.This can help remove or starve any material, including rhizomes, which are also called rootstocks, that can propagate further plants.


Use a cultivator fork or deep spade to turn over and break up soil in small areas.You can purchase these at most home improvement and hardware stores.
Rent an engine-powered tiller for larger areas. You can rent (or buy) these at home improvement and hardware stores.Be sure that you’ve broken up and turned over your soil by examining it. The soil will often look darker if it’s come from under the surface.
If you do not want to till the soil, then you can also just mow over any shoots that do come up. This will weaken the plants and stop the shoots from coming up.
 Use a heavy layer of plastic to cover the soil and minimize the risk of more blackberries growing.Then cover the plastic with 4-5 inches of mulch to further deter growth., Follow up your removal and tilling with frequent care of your soil. Repeating your tilling efforts can minimize the number of plantlets and eventually kill all of your blackberries.Till once a week or any time you see plantlets. Eventually, the blackberry plants will die.

