 Energy can work for dulling, but aluminum oxide and silicon carbide are best suited to hand blunting your blade. You'll want to choose one that has a coarse grit between 40 and 50. The coarse grade will remove the edge of your blade faster.There may be some specially formulated sandpapers available at your local hardware store. You should inquire with staff about a coarse grit paper suited for taking the edge off metal.
 Holding onto your knife while trying to sand by hand could cause you to slip and cut yourself. Using a vise to hold your knife securely in place is the safest method to hand sand a blade. Be sure the knife is firmly secured, with the blade pointed upwards.


You should avoid leaving your knife in the vise unattended. Even if it only takes you a few days to blunt your blade to the point you desire, someone could trip and cut themselves on the work in progress.
 Take each end of your sandpaper in your hands and hold it over the edge of the blade. Lower the paper until you feel the blade pushing gently up against it. Using firm outward pressure and slight downward pressure, run the paper back and forth over your blade.


Be careful not to apply too much pressure to your paper. Doing do can cause the knife to cut the paper.
Depending on many factors, like the kind of metal your blade is made of, the kind of sandpaper you're using, the age of the blade and more, it may take some time before your blade becomes blunt.
 Use caution when doing this, your blade may still be sharp enough to cut. Throughout the dulling process, you should periodically check your blade by running your finger across it crosswise. Never run your finger along the edge of the blade. Once it reaches the your desired level of dullness, you hand dulling is complete.Be sure to test the entire length of the blade. You may have applied uneven pressure to your sandpaper, which could have resulted in uneven dullness.
 After you have dulled the blade sufficiently, apply a coat of metal polish to the blade. Dab the polish on a piece of cloth and apply it to the blade from top to bottom. This will restore the the appearance of your now dull blade.


Polishing your blade after dulling is especially important if you've dulled the blade for use as a household ornament.

