 They can be placed anywhere on the face, but you have to add other features, as well.


If they sit higher on the face, you might have to make them smaller or make the eyebrows smaller. However, this could lend to an emotion like surprise or fright, where the eyebrows “disappear” high on the forehead.
In most cases, you will likely want the eyes to be an even distance apart from each other, as well as level with each other horizontally.



For cartoon eyes with this shape, typically the wider end is placed on the inner part of the eye, close to where the nose will be.
Sometimes the wide end is exaggerated, making the inner part of the eye very large, while the outer part of the eye tapers down to a small point. This is good for conveying concepts or emotions like innocence, surprise, and youth.
Almond-shaped eyes are often used for female cartoon characters to create the ideal of beauty and femininity.
 Almond-shaped eyes convey a slightly different set of emotions from the other two methods above, and they are more human-like. This potentially opens you up to a wider range of emotions for your cartoon face.


Innocence
Sadness
Fear
Surprise
Excitement
Shyness

, Remember to make your iris thicker or thinner based on the emotion you want your cartoon face to convey to your audience.


If you are going for a flirty, feminine character with this eye shape, then it could be fun to use colors such as purple or pink for the iris.
Colored pencils are the most useful tool for this type of coloring, as you can sharpen their tips to keep the coloring crisp and neat.
 It is up to you how you shade in these characteristics, as it will depend on whether your character is male or female.


For female cartoon characters with this eye shape, it is common to place eyelashes only on the outer edges of the top eyelids. This gives off a flirty, feminine vibe.
Keep in mind that you want to match the shape of your character's eyebrows to his/her emotion. With more emotions available with this particular eye-shape, you must take care to match the two together.