 Farm Heroes Saga can be played on your smart gadget or from Facebook.


For Android and iOS, look for the game app on your home screen. Tap on it to launch the game.
On Facebook, on the News Feed page of your account, look for the Apps heading on the left panel. A list of your app’s will be showed here. Click the Farm Heroes Saga link to play the game.;
, Once you’ve completed level 119, level 120 of the game will be accessible for you to play. Tap on the level from the game map to play it.
 Magic Beans are a kind of in-game currency in Farm Heroes Saga, which you can earn by winning levels. When you start a Rancid level, a screen will pop up displaying the three levels “Hard” (no bonus), “Medium” (+1 bonus for every match), and “Easy” (+2 bonus for every match). Medium and Easy levels cost Magic Beans to play.


Click the Magic Beans below the “Easy” level to start playing that level. Each carrot Cropsie in this level will have a +2 bonus, making it easier to beat Rancid.
 You may be able to figure out many unnecessary matches on the board, but the only thing that you’re required to focus on are the carrots, which can destroy Rancid in this level.


Unless really necessary, don’t spoil your limited moves on matching the Cropsies that are not required.
 Be careful of the rabbit that will frequently pop up and steal your carrots, thus making it difficult for you to reach your goal.


To stop the rabbit, make matches alongside of him. Doing so will paralyze the rabbit for a couple of moves.
You can also purchase some Shovel boosters (using magic beans) and use it to hit the rabbit on the head, which will stop him for a series of turns and halt him from taking your cropsies. It costs 250 magic beans to buy a Shovel.
 Boosters should certainly be utilized in levels where you have less number of moves to make. It can make the difference between winning and failing a level. You get free boosters after every 5 to 10 hours. Boosters can be found at the top right of the game screen. There are mainly three types of boosters in Farm Heroes Saga.


Tractor Booster: This booster will delete a full row of cropsies by driving over it.
Magic Shovel Booster: This allows you to eliminate one crop. You can use this booster when you only have less moves left and you only want to collect one Cropsie to complete a level.
Bonus Reward Booster: Every required cropsy will get +1 bonus on the board on utilizing this booster. So when you need enough points to win the game, utilize this booster. It will give your score the boost it requires.

