 Decide if it's actually a good idea to keep your relationship from your parents. Do your parents disapprove of your relationship because they are strict, protective or worrisome? Does culture, religion, or an age difference factor into their disapproval?While your parents have the benefit of life experience, only you know what your relationship is worth.


Talk to your friends and support system. Remember that if you keep your relationship a secret, the greater the potential problems will be when it comes to light. You have a support system to help guide you in the right direction.;
, If you want to pursue your relationship despite knowing that your parents will disapprove, let your partner know why you think that this is the right course of action. Your partner may feel less important and bring resentment to your relationship if you don't clarify your stance. The longer you hide, the more difficult it is going to be.Your partner may have a valid argument if she has been through this situation before. For example, just because it is your first interracial relationship, it may not be the first time for your partner. She may have practical advice to help you understand where your parents are coming from and, above all else, having her support can help ease your stress.
 It may be difficult to hear negative opinions about someone you care about but sometimes your parents may have a better perspective on long-term outcomes. Depending on your dynamic with your parents, they may have trouble articulating their disapproval.


Relationships with parents can be complicated. It may be difficult to be open and honest but keep your communication respectful so as not to escalate the situation. For example, while you may think that you are hiding your emotions, you actually may be coming off passive-aggressive or snarky.
 Whether you are trying to strengthen your relationship with your partner or maintain the relationship with your parents, trust and respect have to be present for a lasting relationship. If you plan on hiding your relationship, ask yourself why sacrificing your parent's trust is the only option.Physical and emotional well-being should not be sacrificed for anyone, including your parents or partner.


Will your parents become physically or verbally abusive if they found out about your relationship? Is any aspect of your relationship a conflict to your parents’ beliefs? If your parents’ disapproval is based on prejudice or if their reaction is abusive, seek professional help. Your mental and physical health is your first priority.

