 Binders are essential.


Gather up all your old ones and scrub off (if possible) any writing or marks. Fix any rips or tears.
Still looking ugly? Buy some cheap colored duct tape (they have every color under the sun) and wrap it. May sound silly but it makes for a cool style and creative trend.
If you just need decorations, see what you can collect for stickers. Bumper stickers, especially, can cover a multitude of sins.;
, Also pockets, dividers, and pouches of all sorts.


Get every folder in the house and erase marks, tape tears, and so on.
If you wrote on it with Sharpie, no problem. Just use some nail polish remover to get most of it off.
Also, get reinforcements if they're paper and meant to put in binder rings. Stapling and decorating work here, too.
 Old notebooks can be given a new lease of life and serve you well.


Gather all old spirals and rip out the used pages, paper scraps, and subject labels.
Write (on the front) the subject, your name, teacher, etc. Decorate it, make it yours.
Use all the pages this year, so that you deserve a new one next year.
 Loose-leaf paper. Call it what you want, but students go through it fast.


Watch for specials and buy two or three packs. This is a good opportunity to look for deals on other items you've used up, too, like notebooks.
Gather together all loose unused paper. Keep together under one big binder clip.
 These don't tend to wear out, but they may need to be cleaned off. Toss any that don't still write.
 Okay, so you have one. But is it usable? If the binder holes (if any) have ripped, staple them. Or if you're up to it, stitch on some reinforcement with a needle and thread. Clean out the inside and put your supplies inside.
 Plan to use these items from one year to the next, regardless of your budget. Therefore, always choose durable ones.


Empty out any old trash.
Wash them if you need to. Most will withstand hand washing, mild soap, cool water, and air drying. Prop it open so that air circulates over all the different surfaces. Allow plenty of time to air dry before you have to refill it.
Learn a bit of basic hand stitching and you can mend most tears. To dress things up or cover holes and worn spots, sew on patches. If you don't have patches showing where you've been, make your own by cutting up jeans that you've worn out or outgrown.
 You can make a basic tote bag out of old jeans. You can make your pencil case out of the same jeans, or out of duct tape. Be creative.