 While pulling the string back farther and changing the weight doesn't change the period, lengthening or shortening the string does. This is how old clocks are made -- if you change the length of the pendulum perfectly you can make a period, or full swing, take two seconds. Count the number of periods and you know how much time has passed. Pendulum clocks are attached to gears so that every time the pendulum swings the second hand of the clock moves.
In a grandfather clock, the weight swinging one way makes the "tick" and swinging back makes the "tock."

, Seismographs, machines that measure the intensity and direction of earthquakes, are complex pendulums that move only when the earth's crust moves. Though calibrating a pendulum to only measure tectonic plates is incredibly complicated, you can turn almost any pendulum into a basic seismograph using a pen and some paper.


Tape a pen or pencil to the weight at the end of your pendulum.
Place a piece of paper under the pendulum so that the pen touches the paper and can leave marks.
Gently shake the pendulum, but not the string. The harder you shake the pendulum, the larger the marks on your piece of paper. This corresponds to a larger "earthquake."
Real seismographs have a rotating piece of paper so that you can see the earthquake's power over time.
Pendulums were used to measure earthquakes as early as 132 AD in China. , Though people knew that the earth spun on it's axis, Foucault's Pendulum was the earliest visible proof of the concept. To replicate it you'll need a large pendulum, at least 16 feet long with a weight over 25 pounds, to minimize outside variables like wind or friction. Put your pendulum in motion, moving enough so that it can swing for a long time.
As time progresses, you will notice that the pendulum is swinging in a different direction than you started it.
This happens because the pendulum moves in a straight line while the earth beneath it rotates.
In the northern hemisphere the pendulum will shift clockwise and in the southern it will shift counter-clockwise.
Though complicated, you can use a Foucault Pendulum to calculate your latitude using a trigonometric equation.

