 This disease is associated with dryness, cracking, or scaling of the lips.This may also affect the skin around the lips. This may be caused by allergies or by excessive licking of the lips.


To prevent or eczematous cheilitis or lip dermatitis, your doctor may prescribe a topical ointment. Your doctor may also suggest an allergy test to seek out potential irritants.
 Cold sores generally appear on the outside of the lips in a cluster of blisters. Canker sores are gray and white surrounded by a red inflamed area, generally located inside the mouth on the inside of lips, cheeks, tongue, or throat.These may be caused by a simple viral infection. Unfortunately, there is no known cure for sores although there are pain relieving options in topical ointments and treatments that may shorten the duration of a cold sore.
You may treat these sores with a cool compress. You can also take an anti-inflammatory to help the swelling.
You can prevent cold sores by avoiding the saliva (drinking after, eating after, or kissing) of a person who has a cold sore. If the sore is caused by a viral infection, it can be transmitted.
 This disease is characterized by white patches on your lips, tongue, cheeks, or mouth.It is most commonly associated with tobacco (smoking or chewing). The best way to prevent this disorder is to stop smoking or chewing tobacco products.


Leukoplakia is usually benign, but can sometimes show early signs of cancer.
 This viral disease is characterized by blisters, ulcers, or sores in the mouth.It is a common childhood infection that can treated with plenty of fluids, rest, and over-the-counter pain relievers.


Herpangina is typically short-lived and resolves on its own.
Herpangina is similar to hand-foot-and-mouth disease (HFMD). Both are caused by a virus in the same family. HFMD causes the same mouth ulcers as herpangina in addition to spots on the hands and feet.
As this is a viral infection, prevent this disease by frequently washing your hands or your child’s hands.

