 Each class of students will be different, and within each class you'll likely have a variety of skill levels. Effective teaching must be done by establishing expectations that the student is able to achieve. Start by assigning several writing assignments that you'll use simply for the purpose of assessing current writing ability.Writing assessments are not graded. They can be brief free-writes, or they can be short formal assignments.
Consider the individual nature of each student, as well as the educational environment they may have come from, to better understand their pedagogical needs.
 Are there a large number of non-native English speakers in your class? Are your students likely to have had a strong writing education? Do they have access to a examples of strong writing? Understanding your students' experiences will help you understand how to teach better writing skills.Some students may come from educational systems that value rote learning over critical thinking.
Be prepared to accommodate different modalities of thinking and learning.
 If writing is difficult for your student, consider whether it may be an issue specific to literacy rather than comprehension of subject material. Learning standard writing styles can be done apart from testing the students' comprehension of material.Check for understanding verbally or through an activity. Students have varied learning styles.
Provide a visual context for writing by having your students draw a picture of what they'll write about. Then, the student can refer to the picture as they write.
When the student is allowed to share his knowledge of a topic verbally, he may be less anxious about the writing process.
 For example, while writing for a class, ask: "I could use either a comma here, or a semicolon. Or I might make this sentence two sentences, by inserting a period. What would be the effect of each?"


Including student discussion regarding writing choices allows you to learn more about your students.
Student discussions also encourage students to learn more about each others' experiences in writing.
For students who are social learners, creating social activities based on writing can help improve the students' writing.

