 Symptoms of stomach ulcers vary from person to person. If you believe you have an ulcer but haven’t had it diagnosed by a medical professional, see your doctor. The symptoms of a stomach ulcer include:Burning pain in the area just below the ribcage in the center of your chest. This pain may get worse with food or go away with some foods.
Nausea, vomiting, and bloating. Nausea and vomiting are rarer symptoms, but they indicate a serious problem. Seek medical attention if they develop.;
, When your doctor diagnoses the stomach ulcer, they will prescribe treatment to help treat it. There are a few different types of drugs that your doctor might prescribe.


Proton pump inhibitors are powerful acid blocking drugs that will reduce the amount of acid secreted into the stomach and can help reduce the pain of a stomach ulcer.
If the cause of the ulcer is an infection with H. pylori, this is generally treated with antibiotics.Histamine-2 (H-2) blockers may be used to reduce acid in your stomach., Over-the-counter medications referred to as NSAIDs damage the wall of the stomach and can cause ulcers to form. Acetaminophen, like Tylenol, is not associated with ulcers. If needed, use acetaminophen to treat your pain.NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), aspirin (Bayer), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), ketorolac (Toradol), and oxaprozin (Daypro). NSAIDs may also be included in combination medications including Alka-Seltzer and sleep aids.
 Over-the-counter antacids can help relieve ulcer pain. They neutralize acids in your stomach. Antacids come in liquid and tablet form.Common over-the-counter antacids include magnesium hydroxide (such as Phillips Milk of Magnesia), sodium bicarbonate (Alka-Seltzer), calcium carbonate (Rolaids, Tums), aluminum hydroxide, and magnesium hydroxide (Maalox, Mylanta)., These “red flags” accompanied by stomach pain are:


Fever
Severe pain
Persistent nausea or vomiting
Diarrhea that lasts longer than two to three days
Persistent constipation, longer than two to three days
Blood in the stools, which may look like red blood, or the stools look black and tarry
Vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Severe tenderness of the belly
Jaundice — yellowish discoloration of the skin and the whites of the eyes
Swelling or visible bloating of the abdomen

