 Many destinations come with certain health risks. This is especially true if you are traveling internationally, but also important for domestic travel as well. You should find out about any health risks at least six to eight weeks before you travel so you can get any needed vaccinations.You can visit your doctor or a travel clinic to discuss any risks associated with your travel destination.
Make sure you vaccinations are current. Find out if you need any additional vaccines for diseases prevalent in the area where you’ll be traveling.
 Before you travel anywhere, check to make sure there are no travel health notices. You can usually find these on news sites or government pages, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Preventon's Travel Health Notice page., When traveling, be careful not to get sick from eating contaminated food. Hepatitis A and typhoid fever are contracted through contaminated food.Depending on where you are traveling, the food may not be safe to eat. Make sure to do research about where you are going and if there are concerns about the food. If unsure, make sure to eat hot food that has been thoroughly cooked.Be careful when eating raw fruit and vegetables. If you are in a country prone to contaminated food, don’t eat it unless you can peel it. You can also boil or cook it.
Don’t eat raw foods, like salads and shellfish.
Be wary with foods from street vendors.
 Drinking contaminated water can lead to sickness and is a major concern when traveling, especially in developing countries. If water is a concern where you are traveling, make sure you to only drink bottled water or water that has been boiled. Sealed drinks, like carbonated beverages, should be fine.Don’t drink ice in your drinks in high-risk areas — remember ice is just frozen water.
In high-risk areas, don’t bathe, brush your teeth, swim, or wade in untreated water. This includes water from the tap.
 Traveling to some countries puts you at a higher risk for certain illnesses. Some of these illnesses require preventative medications that you take before, during, and after your trip. Talk to your doctor about your travel plans to see if you need preventative medicine.For example, if you are traveling to countries that have a high risk of malaria, you need preventative medicine for malaria.
 Infected animals can spread diseases to you through contact with their fluids or eating food from a contaminated animal, like meat, fish, or dairy products. Stay away from any animals, wild or domestic.Don’t pet dogs or monkeys in developing countries.
Refrain from feeding animals.

