 Once you've been doing it a while you can do it anywhere and anytime.;
, Feeling luckily is much more limited in scope compared to the materiality aggregate. The first group to look for is the group of 5. These are:


Pleasant physical feelings
Unpleasant physical feelings
Pleasant mental feelings
Unpleasant mental feelings
Equanimity feelings

, The point behind this is not only will you know them when they happen but you are far more connected in order to develop or let go of each type. It also has the big advantage that you can know when the mind is playing tricks on you, saying this or that is pleasant, when in reality parts of the brain are stressing out.
 Not only see how they change or react to various things but keep an important eye on collective feelings. Is there tension at seeing something, is there a pleasant sensation at seeing something and so on through the senses (touch, taste, sight, smell etc).
 These are:


desirable - so you would want more of them or the ones you have to stay forever etc.
undesirable - so you don't want them to come and the ones you have to go away.
neutral feelings.
 You might be surprised to see that you might desire getting angry, when parts of the mind are showing the whole anger experience is really pretty unpleasant. You can gain some real insights in doing this as pleasant and desirable can make a common pair, but so does unpleasant and desirable and vice versa - Undesirable and pleasant and so on.
 Are your feelings leading you into potential traps?

,


Profitable, beneficial or skillful, (or whatever word works for you)
Unprofitable, harmful or unskillful
Indeterminate.
 Some of them are tricky because what is pleasant and desirable is not always beneficial to you or others. That's the big catch. The only way to work out which is which is to watch and examine each feeling as it comes.
 It might sound crazy that your mind would want to have anything to do with harmful or undesirable feelings, but it does it all the time because it has been let run wild and no one has been watching it to pull it back into line.
,