 Noise from loud neighbors, noisy traffic, or nearby construction can cause stress and make your otherwise tranquil space stressful. Minimizing these distractions and incorporating peaceful sounds helps promote calm and relaxation in your space.


Blackout curtains help eliminate noise, as do double or triple-paned windows. Investing in heavy duty blackout curtains and upgrading old windows (if you own your own home) will help reduce outside noise.
 Studies have shown that playing music promotes relaxation, even in stressful environments. Music therapy is even gaining popularity among pediatricians as a successful means of calming children who undergo medical procedures. To reap the most calming benefits in your space, play calming, lyric-free music. Sounds of nature or a smooth jazz sound are great choices., For a relaxing work environment, invest in noise canceling headphones. If you work in an office or other location that permits the use of headphones, noise canceling headphones will decrease the amount of stressful noise that you will deal with while you work. These come in on/over the ear styles and earbuds. Regardless of which style you choose, make sure that your choice feels comfortable in/on your ears.
 In addition to a comfortable mattress and bedding, a quiet environment is vital for optimal relaxation before bedtime. White noise machines help drown out stressful background noise from loud neighbors or busy streets. Choose a white noise machine with a variety of sound options and volume settings so you can customize your sound.


Premium white noise machines run off an actual motor and internal fan, rather than simply putting out a noise that approximates the sound of a fan or nature. Check product reviews to ensure that you're buying the right white noise machine for your needs.
 If you would prefer to save your cash, an inexpensive way to reduce audible stressors is to buy earplugs. You can find these at any drugstore or hardware store.


Look for plugs that are made of cushiony foam and have a 33 decibel reduction (the highest rate reduction for earplugs).

