 Fenugreek interacts with a variety of medications prescribed for diabetes as well as some blood thinners.For this reason, it is essential that you check with your doctor before adding fenugreek to your regimen. It may interfere with the medications that you are taking to help treat diabetes as well as other conditions.


Always check with your doctor first before discontinuing or adding any medication or supplement.;
, The recommended dosage for fenugreek is between 2.5–15 grams (0.09–0.5 oz) daily, so it is important to talk to your doctor about your intentions and ask for a recommendation based on your weight and other factors. You may also want to consult an experienced herbalist or naturopath.The most common dose used in studies was 12.5 grams (0.4 oz) of powdered fenugreek taken twice daily. However, some studies have shown benefit from taking only 2.5 grams (0.09 oz) twice daily., Some people do not like the taste of fenugreek seeds, so capsules are often recommended.If you choose to take fenugreek in supplement form, make sure that the product you choose is of high quality. The packaging should provide: Realistic information about the effects of taking the supplement
Information such as dosage recommendations, side effects, and ingredients
A label that is easy to read and understand
Company information such as a phone number, mailing address, or website.
 Some people do like the taste of fenugreek and may opt to add the seeds to food. You can seek out recipes that include fenugreek or simply sprinkle the seeds on your food as a garnish. Keep in mind that you should still follow your doctor’s recommendations for healthy eating. When adding fenugreek to food, 15 grams (0.53 oz) was a common dosage in some studies., Making a fenugreek tea seems to produce the best results according to some studies. One study showed no significant results for patients who took fenugreek with yogurt, while those who took fenugreek with hot water experienced significant improvement. Participants in this study consumed a total of 10 grams (0.35 oz) of fenugreek per day.Crush or pulverize 2.5 grams (0.09 oz) of fenugreek seeds using a mortar and pestle or food processor. Then, add the seeds to a mug and pour eight ounces of boiling water over them. Stir well with a spoon. Then wait for the mixture to cool to drinking temperature and enjoy.

