 Ask yourself why you are attracted to girl. For example, she might sense that your interest is purely physical or superficial, and avoid you.If this is the only type of attention she receives from guys, then she might be jaded or feel under-appreciated.Before approaching her, step back and determine what you look for in a relationship. Next, ask yourself if she is good relationship material based on these qualities:


Integrity: is she honest with both herself and others, trustworthy, and dependable. Can you be upfront with each other about your thoughts and fears.Emotional maturity and self-esteem: no one is perfect, but a willingness to reflect on and learn from the past (and demonstrate what you’ve learned) is a key feature of emotionally mature people. Emotionally immature girls are those that are dependent on others for their self-esteem and well-being, and let their emotions control their actions.Supportive and committed to personal growth: she has her own interests and actively pursues them, has a general positive attitude about life (even when face with difficult circumstances), and she maintains good relationships with family and friends and encourages those around her.However, someone that constantly puts their own interests above others, and are overly competitive or judgmental do not make good partners.;
, One of the ways to get a girl to notice you is to make yourself more attractive in how you look and act.By making small changes, you can not only make yourself more attractive to women, but also improve your self-confidence. It is often the little things that will make you stand out, such as practicing good hygiene and doing something nice for others (even when she isn't around).Clean-up your appearance: this shows you have self-respect and take care of yourself. Make sure you wear clean and unwrinkled clothing, shower at least every other day, keep your hair combed, and your beard shaved or trimmed short.Practice good oral hygiene, brushing your teeth twice a day and avoiding foods that cause bad breath (such as coffee or garlic).Avoid wearing too much cologne or body spray – instead, stick with a neutral aftershave or deodorant.
Relax and be confident: don’t let your fear of being turned down overcome your ability to talk to your crush, even if it seems she is at first not interested in you. Girls don’t like being around or interacting with men who lack confidence.Also, girls find laid-back and less stressed men more attractive and enjoyable to be around., Let her know you exist by initiating conversation and establishing a friendly relationship with her. Put yourself out there in a way that shows you are interested without seeming too pushy or aggressive. Ask her a question about herself or a topic you are both interested in, such as: "hey, I just started watching (name of TV show). Who is your favorite character or what was your favorite season".Make a general statement about the weather, school, or something you are eating. Break the ice by asking them a favor, such as help with a project or your homework. Avoid talking about politics, religion, past relationships, or traumatic events.


Catch her attention by making eye contact and smile when talking. Avoid speaking too fast or in a high pitch – this will make you look nervous.If walking next to one another, slow down. This will make you appear more laid-back and approachable – good qualities in both a friend and boyfriend.Remember to be respectful. Respect her decision to stay single. Move on without question her decision. It is important to realize some people are not compatible.
 The term mixed feelings refers to the difference between how others perceive you and how you see yourself.One of the reasons she may be uninterested in having a relationship with you is you send mixed signals. For example, you constantly brag about going on dates or being interested in other women, or you regularly blow off friends.Talk yourself up without bragging. Mention accomplishments you are proud of, or goals you had and how you achieved them. For example: "That English assignment or math test was rough, but my studying paid off" or "my months of training paid off in the half-marathon, maybe I will run the full marathon next year".
Be more upfront and open about your feelings. One of the mixed messages you may be sending is that you are cold or pessimistic. Make a goal of saying one positive thing a day about someone else., If she is truly uninterested in a relationship, or there is something going on in her life (family, school, work, health issues, etc.) preventing her from having a relationship, do not pressure her. The only, and best thing, you can be right now is a good friend and confidant. You want to be supportive, but not overbearing.This is especially important if she is facing a personal problem, such as a death or illness in the family.Create space and respect her privacy. Do not try to fix her problems or constantly offer advice. Simply let her know you are there and are willing to listen.
Be a good listener. Do not jump in with your opinion and resist the urge to fix everything. Let them talk things out and come to terms with things on their own.
Make plans as a group and include her. Offer to pick her up or pay for her. Simple acts of kindness, as long as there are no strings attached, can go a long way.

