 There are innumerable types of video monitoring systems. One of the most important components is the type of cameras you choose to use. Choose a camera based on your location, intended use, and necessary image quality. The higher a camera’s resolution, the greater picture quality it will provide. Some cameras have special features, such as panning, tilting, zooming, and night vision.For deterrence, you’ll likely want to opt for overt cameras, which are designed to be plainly visible.
Covert cameras – such as those hidden within a speaker or smoke detector – can help identify a recurring issue with theft by capturing a crime without the perpetrator knowing.
Discreet cameras may be best for some environments. These are visible to someone who is looking, but will not negatively affect the feel of an environment. An example is a dome camera, covered by an unobtrusive glass dome.
 Box cameras are the most common type of security camera, as they can be fitted with different types of lenses for particular uses. They are often usable both outdoors and indoors. They also usually offer good enough resolution and “noise reduction” – which prevents blurriness – to function adequately as security cameras. Expect to pay between $130 and $470 for each box camera you use., Dome cameras are more popular in office environments, or other places where there is concern about the visual impact of security cameras. Dome cameras also have a variety of capabilities, including infrared and low-light monitoring. These are also especially resistant to weather and criminal tampering.Dome cameras usually have a shorter depth of vision compared to box cameras. #*Expect to pay anywhere from $90 to $1,300 per camera.
Dome cameras offer the best pan/zoom/tilt capability, including the potential to zoom in 60x and offer a 360-degree view. Costs can rise as high as $11,300 each for the highest-resolution models.
 If the main utility of your video monitoring system is deterrence, you may not need high quality cameras. Frame rate, measured in frames per second (fps), is usually 6 to 10 fps for security cameras. However, if you hope to record and identify criminals, you need cameras that will be able to clearly identify perpetrators.Choose a camera with higher frame rate for improved image quality – 30mps is considered “full motion.” These are more expensive and produce video that requires large amounts of storage capacity.
 A camera’s lux refers to its ability to shoot footage in various levels of light. A 10,000 LUX means a camera can take quality footage in bright light, while 0 LUX means that the camera can shoot in total darkness. If a camera will be located in full sun, choose an option with at least a 7,000 LUX. For surveillance areas during the night, opt for an option with as low a LUX rating as possible – ideally between 0.5 and 0.1., A camera’s signal – or the actual picture acquired – can be distorted by outside factors, called noise. The ratio of signal to noise (measured in db) varies from camera to camera, and is especially important when your video monitoring system will be in close proximity to other electrical components.Shoot for at least 40db signal to noise ratio.
Whereas 20 to 30db may result in a grainy feed, 60db would provide static-free video.
 An extremely important component of a camera is its lens. The quality of a lens will determine the camera’s ability to shoot at different distances, or in a wide angle format. Lenses are often sold separately from cameras, especially on high-end models. This allows you to choose the lenses that are ideal for the environment you’ll be monitoring.Opt for a fixed focal length lens for a camera with a stationary point of view. These lenses are the cheapest, at $46 to $400 each.
Use variable focal length lenses if you want to be able to adjust a camera’s focus. Lenses of this sort will allow you to manually adjust your field of view, and will cost between $40 and $660 depending on the range of the focal length.
Motorized zoom lenses allow you to control your video image remotely. Namely, you’ll be able to zoom anywhere from 2x to 60x. Costs for these lenses start around $700. The strongest zoom lenses can cost nearly $10,000 each!

