 Follow the instructions provided with your sewing machine to change out the presser foot, replacing the standard one with a special rolled hem presser foot.


Choose your rolled hem presser foot carefully if you do not already own one. The best and most versatile kind will allow you to make rolled hems using a straight stitch, zig zag stitch, or decorative stitch. For this project alone, however, you only need one that will allow you to make a standard straight stitch.
 Sew a line of standard stitches 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) long, 1/4 inch (6 mm) above the raw edge.


Leave long tails of thread after stitching this line. Both the line of stitches and the attached threads will help you guide the fabric into the presser foot.
Do not fold your fabric in yet during this step.
Stitch along the wrong side of the material.
 Note the guide along the front of your special presser foot. Feed the edge of your material into this guide, bending the raw edge over from one side and under the opposite side.


Keep the presser foot lifted as you feed the material in, then lower the presser foot when finished.
Feeding the material into the presser foot can be difficult. Use the threads attached to your small set of basting stitches to help lift, guide, and maneuver the edge into the presser foot.
 With the edge guided into the presser foot and the presser foot lowered onto the fabric, sew slowly and carefully along the entire edge of the chiffon, stopping only once you reach the end.


If the edge has been fed into the presser foot guide correctly, the presser foot should continue to roll it under as you work. No further effort on your part should be required.
Using your right hand, hold the remaining raw edge taut as you sew, allowing it to feed into the presser foot evenly.
Work slowly and carefully to prevent bubbles or bumps from forming. When finished, your hemmed edge should be smooth.
Do not back tack the material in place. Instead, leave a long tail of thread at the start and end of the seam and knot the thread in place by hand.
You will only see one line of stitching from both the front and back of the material.
 Once your hem is finished, take the chiffon to an iron and gently press it down, flattening the fold as much as possible.


This step should complete the process.

