 It is important to talk to your veterinarian to discuss the skin condition, discover the underlying cause, and to come up with an effective treatment plan.Provide your veterinarian with your cat’s health history and let them know what symptoms you have noticed. If there have been any big changes lately, such as moving, boarding your cat, or getting a new pet, let them know.Your veterinarian will probably do a complete blood profile to check for underlying conditions.
If they think there may be a neurological cause for their behavior and symptoms, your veterinarian will recommend a magnetic resonance image (MRI) or a computed tomography (CT) scan.
A skin biopsy may be performed on any skin lesions.;
, In addition to causing a number of respiratory problems, feline upper respiratory disease can cause skin lesions on the head, feet, or mouth. Some cats are carriers of the virus and only develop symptoms after a stressful episode like moving or boarding.If you notice these lesions, talk to your veterinarian about prescribing an antibiotic or antiviral medication to treat these symptoms., Feline acne may develop due to stress, poor nutrition, or poor grooming habits. If your cat has feline acne, you may notice some bumps on its chin or lips that look dirty.Your veterinarian may recommend that you use an anti-seborrheic shampoo or benzoyl peroxide gel on the area to treat the acne.


Your veterinarian may prescribe an antibiotic or a corticosteroid if there is a bacterial infection or inflammation on the cat acne.Consult your veterinarian. Feline benzoyl peroxide gel differs from the kind designed for humans.
 Obsessive licking, chewing, and hair loss can be caused by stress or boredom. You veterinarian may prescribe behavior modification medicine to help reduce your cat’s anxiety. In addition, you may need to alleviate stress and anxiety at home by engaging in more frequent play with your cat, or you may need to provide several safe spaces for your cat to safely watch its surroundings.If your cat is experiencing widespread hair loss, ask your veterinarian to check for any underlying causes, such as pregnancy.