 You will be more likely to establish and adhere to a daily routine if you genuinely enjoy the activity you are performing. For example, if you enjoy playing a specific sport, join a neighborhood team. If being lonely bums you out, find group motivation in a bootcamp class.You might have to experiment to find things you like, and that’s part of the journey.
 Whatever makes you energized is ideal. Plenty of people are embarrassed by their workout music, but if a particular boy band pushes you to run a couple more miles, who cares? If you're stuck on finding the perfect jams, services like Spotify and IHeartRadio often curate workout playlists, so start with those.
 As you continue to exercise, your routine may begin to feel more like a rut. Don’t let that happen--if you start getting sick of exercise, experiment with something new. Trying different things will challenge your body to move in new ways, which will both make you stronger and keep you from being bored.Build off of something you’ve done before. If you’ve liked Zumba, maybe it’s time to try a salsa dancing class.
Alternately, try something totally different. If you love lifting weights, yoga just might increase your core strength and your mental clarity.
 A certified fitness trainer can help you push yourself, both on days when you see them and on days when you work out solo.Inquire at your gym to find trainers, or ask people you trust if they have recommendations.


Pick a trainer you feel comfortable with. You won’t be able to improve if you feel scared, intimidated, or talked down to.
You don’t need to go every week--a good trainer will help you craft a routine that continues to grow with you., Nutrition isn’t an exact science and different bodies need different things, but if you want to keep working out and seeing good results, you need to power yourself with the right food. Cutting down on both alcohol and caffeine can be helpful, but the food that will suit you best depends on how you like to work out.


Eat carbs if you’re going to be doing lots of cardio. Whole grains, berries and fruits contain slow-burning sugars that will keep you going.Protein reinforces strength and weight training. Grilled chicken and spinach is a classic post-workout snack, but chocolate milk is also great., If you exercise on a daily basis even on days when you are especially tired or sore, you may become resentful of your fitness routine and lose the motivation to work out. Allow your body to rest and recover one day per week. If you feel guilty about missing a workout, or want to maintain a routine even when you are tired, take a walk or go for a hike.

