 Lips at night can, and probably should be, more dramatic than in the daytime. A good choice for night: Bold, dark red lips.First, apply lip balm. Then, use a lip pencil in a red or berry color. You will want to use the side of the pencil, not the tip, so you create a more smudged look.
Use a lip brush to apply bold red lipstick to your lips. Even though it’s night, you might want to go a little lighter on the eye makeup if you choose the darker lip route.
 You will likely want to even out your face by applying primer, foundation and powder.


Finish it off by applying rose blush or bronzer on the apples of your cheeks. You can choose a darker blush or bronze at night than you can wear in harsh daylight. A facial primer will help your makeup stay intact, even through a night of dancing.
It’s also a good idea to start fresh, and use makeup remover or wipes to remove all daytime makeup from your face before you start applying your evening look.
 Although evening makeup can be more dramatic, you don’t want to end up looking like a clown. It’s all about balance.


A good rule of thumb is to pick either the eyes or the mouth to dramatize. Dark smoky eyes? Choose a neutral lip. Dark red lips? Choose a lighter palette for the eyes.
You don’t want your eyes and lips to be competing for attention when people look at you. Choosing one or the other to highlight is a more sophisticated choice, usually.
 Many Hollywood celebrities swear by contouring as their secret for a flawless face. Contouring creates a flawless complexion, and it allows you to alter the shape of your face, such as narrowing your nose or making your face look thinner or your cheekbones starker.


You can purchase kits especially for contouring. Generally, contouring involves using a cream or pencil product that is two shades darker than your own skin to shade and redefine areas of your face. You can find different contouring maps online.You apply the contouring makeup in a pattern to create the face shape you want, and then blend it into your skin. This is known as shading. Apply the darker shade beneath your cheekbones, along your jawline and hairline. After blending it in, set it with powder.
Then, you take a lighter makeup stick for highlighting purposes. Generally, apply it under the eyes, down your nose bridge, on your chin and using upward strokes on your forehead. Blend it in with a brush. You don't want lines to show.

