 Before you settle on a bassoon, ensure that your hands are large enough. Cover the C (third) hole with the ring finger of your left hand. See if you can comfortably reach your left thumb to the speaker keys (A, C and D) and the whisper key, without uncovering the note of C.Bassoons equipped with hole covers for “E” and “C” can help smaller hands.There are models specially made to accommodate small hands, although these may not be as readily available.;
, You’ll need ready access to a bassoon and bassoon reeds, both of which are costly. Even the lower cost bassoons are thousands of dollars, so many students start on school-owned instruments.A bassoon uses a double reed – two pieces of bamboo tied together that vibrate when blown into.The reeds cost about $10-15 each, and you should keep a supply of at least three to four quality reeds on hand.Reeds can break easily. If you care for them well and handle them gently, a good reed can last about a month. If you take a reed out carelessly, it can chip before you ever get the chance to use it. You want to make sure that you keep your reeds inside a special bassoon reed case so that they can be protected from being bumped but still dry out. Also when you use a reed it's good to alternate between 2-3 reeds so that they have time to dry out before their next use.Bassoons come in wood or plastic material. You may be able to achieve a warmer tone with a wood bassoon. Plastic versions tend to be less expensive., Depending on your age group, your peers might view the bassoon as odd or comical.It has a large, interesting shape and can emit humorous sounds. This can especially be an issue in secondary school. However, the bassoon is not a commonly recognized instrument and therefore people of various age groups may crack jokes about it.If you plan to love your instrument regardless of other people’s comments and opinions, the bassoon may be right for you.
 The bassoon is one of the hardest instruments to play – even music teachers struggle with it.Learning to play a complex instrument requires a lot of effort. For instance, expert bassoonists practice one to three hours a day or more.You may want to split up your practice time. For example, two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening.
 The right instrument for you should be enjoyable and practical for you as an individual. There are many other instruments you can choose from! You may even experiment with various instruments until you find the one that resonates with you the most.
 Having good reeds is one of the most important considerations when playing the bassoon. You can save money by making your own reeds, but it is a time-consuming process. Your reeds should not have cracks in them. All of the wires should be intact.You should look for professional, handmade reeds rather than machine-produced reeds.Try premade reeds when you’re just starting out. You don’t want to invest the time it takes to learn about making your own reeds (and invest in the necessary equipment) if you end up deciding not to be a bassoonist.
If you’ve decided to stick with the bassoon, consider making your own reeds. You can purchase reed making kits. Alternately, you can gather the materials for finishing your own reeds by acquiring a reed knife, mandrel, reamer, plaque, small rat-tail file, fine flat file, fine sandpaper, small pliers, small block of hardwood, and cane. Some of these items can be found in hardware stores, and others you can look for at local music stores or online., Your reed case should be ventilated with holes to prevent mildew. If your reeds came in an airtight plastic container, don’t use that for storing your reeds. Avoid cases with plastic foam or cotton cushioning, which can promote mildew.Look for a reed case that can store at least three reeds and has mandrels for mounting them.
Wood or tin cases that hold reeds securely work well.
 A reed soaker is a sealable container that you fill with water and use to soak your reed before using it to play your instrument. You can purchase a container for soaking reeds, or repurpose a container you already have that will suit the purpose. If you don’t want to get a reed soaker, you can use a faucet to wet your reeds instead.


For example, a small lidded plastic container, an empty pill container with a lid, or an empty film canister will all do the job.
If you’re playing in a school band, you might be required to have a reed soaker on hand. Check with your instructor.
 You should use a swabbing cloth to clean your bassoon every time you finish playing it. You will need a pull through swab, so that it can remove the moisture from inside your bassoon. Get a small brush for dusting under the keys. Pick a brush with natural bristles, not synthetic.Avoid wool swabs which shed fibers and can get stuck in parts of your instrument.Silk swabs are a good choice. Don’t use long “pipe cleaner” swabs.For instance, a paint brush that is one inch wide will work as a dusting brush.
 You will need a seat strap to play the bassoon sitting down. If you want to play it standing up, you’ll need a neck strap also. If your bassoon didn’t come with a seat strap, you can either buy one or make one using an old belt.Cut the buckle off the belt. Use pliers to insert a metal coat hanger through one of the belt holes. Bend the wire until it is the shape of a hook.
 Having a hand rest is optional, however you may need one depending on the length of your hand. If you’re going to use a neck strap, you will need some type of hand support. Select a hand rest with a size and shape that is comfortable for you., The tenons of your bassoon will need to be lubricated. Get paraffin canning wax if you have thread wrapped tenons. If you have corked tenons, get cork grease., Always have a pen or pencil with your music supplies. You will want to mark your music as needed. For example, you can mark upside-down arrows at the points where you should breathe in.
 If the instrument has issues, have it checked by a repair person. The instrument may or may not be repairable, depending upon how long it’s been since the instrument was used, and how severe the damage is.Check for cracks in the body or pieces missing.
Ensure that all of the pads seal, particularly the pads close to the bell.
Check the bocal for dents and fissures.
 Rest the boot on the floor. Be careful not to bend any keys while you are assembling your bassoon. Place the tenor joint into the boot. Line up the bridge post on the side with its mate. If there is a pin attaching the tenor and long joints, unpin it if necessary. Then, carefully slide the long joint in.Make sure to align the bridge key mechanism well or the lower register won’t function.
 Press and hold down the low Bb key. Slide the bell onto the top of the long joint. Then release the key.
 If you have a hand rest, attach it to the boot joint on its female receiver. Situate it however is most comfortable for your hand., Don’t hold the bocal at the end with the reed. Hold the bocal at its curve. Use careful back and forth turns to insert the bocal. The whisper key should align with the bocal vent hole., If you’ll be sitting, connect the seat strap to the bottom of the boot joint. Place it so that the bassoon’s weight is resting on the strap.It’s important to position the seat strap two inches from the front of your chair.If you’ll be standing, use a neck strap instead of a seat strap. Connect the neck strap to the hook at the top of the boot joint., Have firm and upright posture. If you’re sitting, your back should be straight against the back of your chair, with the seat strap beneath you and the boot on your right side.Whether you’re using a neck or a seat strap, adjust the strap so that it supports the reed entering your mouth with your head facing forward. You shouldn’t have to bend to reach the bocal., Soak the reed in water for a few moments. You can do this by submerging it in a reed soaker full of water, or by running it under a faucet. Remove the reed and let the water penetrate it. Carefully place the moist reed at the tip of the bocal and attach it., Don’t wear any type of balm or cosmetics on your lips. Either brush your teeth first or gargle with mouthwash before you play your bassoon. Otherwise, food and bacteria residue can build up on your reeds and affect how they play., Keep your instrument at a 45 degree angle across your body. Holding it straight up can interfere with fingering and playing the lower register., Embouchure refers to the placement of your mouth, lips and tongue when playing an instrument. Place the reed in your mouth. Cover your teeth with your lips, keeping your lips relaxed. Don’t bite down on the reed or flatten out your lips. Imagine that there is a drawstring in your lips, and someone is pulling the string towards the back of your mouth, forming a cushion over the reed with your lips.Your upper lip should almost touch the first wire. Keep your chin muscles stretched downward and your cheeks smooth.Practice in front of a mirror to make sure your embouchure is correct.
 Use the tip of your tongue for articulating; for example, accent and staccato. Think of the way you would move your mouth to say the word “dough.”If you are playing very fast, there is a special method for that called “double tonguing.” Repeatedly make the noises of the letters “d” and “g” in succession inside your mouth, up against the reed.
 Breathe in with your diaphragm and out with your abdominal muscles. To better grasp this technique, try relaxed breathing by lying on your back on the floor (without your bassoon). This is a simple way to observe how you properly breathe with straight posture., Consult a fingering chart and keep it nearby for reference while you are still learning. The whisper key is your left thumb’s home base. Don’t rest your right thumb on the bassoon.If you want to play sheet music, you’ll need to learn music notations. You can learn how to read music and play the bassoon simultaneously by taking lessons.
 Practice fast and slow air flow. This will help you to observe how air stream effects pitch. Blow into the bocal slowly. Then increase your air flow without changing your embouchure.Practice vibrato. Vibrato is when you add pulsing to notes. Try not to use pressure from your jaw to make a vibrato effect. Use your abdomen primarily and your larynx secondarily to create vibrato pulsations., Use a damp cloth to clean the keys after every use. Dust under the keys with a small brush. Wash saliva off the reed with water or by using light sandpaper on it. Every week, wipe down your bassoon with a damp cloth, without wetting the pads. Dry your instrument with a swab cloth. If your bassoon has a wood finish, polish it every two months with furniture polish.Polish silver keys monthly. You should have a professional repair person buff nickel keys annually.
If your instruments’ keys frequently tarnish despite regular cleaning, discuss it with the manufacturer of your bassoon. The climate you play in and the way you play your instrument may be contributing factors.
For bassoons with a plastic finish, you can also use soap and water.
 If there are strings on your tenons, you can grease those as well.Cork wound tenons require a bit more maintenance than thread wrapped tenons. Never use cork grease on thread wound tenons.For cork wound tenons, wipe off any old coating of grease. Then apply a thin layer of cork grease every two weeks.
For thread wrapped tenons, warm a cake of canning wax in your hands until it softens. Then add a thin coat of wax onto the threads. Never use cork grease on thread wound tenons.
 Occasionally you will need to adjust your reed when it isn’t sounding right. If the sound is flat, buzzy, or the reed responds too easily, the reed is too soft. If the sound is sharp, muffled, or the reed doesn’t respond well, the reed is too hard.Fix a soft reed by opening the first and second wires carefully with needle-nose pliers. Gently slide the reed through 600 grit sandpaper. Then use 240 grit sandpaper lightly on both sides of the front half.
Fix a hard reed by slightly closing the first and second wires with needle nose pliers. Gently sand both sides of the reed with 600 grit sandpaper. Then use 240 grit sandpaper to lightly sand the back third of of the reed on both sides, while focusing on the reed’s center.
 Every two weeks, apply heavy key oil to pivot screws, and light key oil to long screws. Every week, make sure all screws are tight.