 Exercise is good for beating constant worrying for two reasons. One, exercise distracts your mind and breaks you out of an obsessive thought process.Two, it acts as an antidote to constant adrenaline rushes. It works a bit like an anti-anxiety medication. The release of endorphins after aerobic exercise calms your body, an effect that lasts about 24 hours. The effects of exercise wears off after 24 hours. If you rely on exercise to keep worrying at bay, develop a routine so that you exercise every day.
Aerobic exercise (as opposed to strength training) has worked best for patients in studies, but the important thing is to find a workout routine that you enjoy. That way you will keep it up.
 Some psychologists suggest acknowledging your anxious thoughts rather than trying to get rid of them. The best scenario for this is in a calm, relaxing meditation session. Instead of preparing to fight anxious thoughts, try to see these thoughts from the perspective of someone outside your head. Don’t react to or criticize these thoughts. Stay focused on the present, and you will notice your worries passing away.To help you stay focused on the moment, observe your physical body during this meditation session. Notice your heartbeat, breathing, and what your emotions are.
This method of dealing with worries takes time and practice. Don’t be discouraged when you aren’t able to let your thoughts go the first few times.
 Abdominal breathing combined with a technique called progressive muscle relaxation can help your body calm down. Since anxious thoughts can trigger a cascade of adrenaline, engaging in breathing exercises can halt the flow. Try breathing with your ab muscles. Make sure you stomach is moving up and down when you breathe rather than just your chest. To make sure you’re using your abdominal muscles, try laying down and placing a small book on your stomach. If the book rises up and down, you are using the correct muscles.
This is the opposite of the way you breathe when you are worried, which is rapid, shallow, and all in your chest.
To combine deep breathing with progressive muscle relaxation, breathe deeply and focus on relaxing one muscle group at a time. Do this for five to 10 minutes.
You can add a mental affirmation. Focus on a positive thought, like “I am ok,” as you breathe and relax.

