 Any time you want to bring focus to your eyes, using concealer is a good first step. Create an even palette against which your eyes will stand out even more by using a concealer that matches your skin tone. Dab it on under and around your eyes, and make sure to blend it well. Dab some over your lids as well, since it will serve as a base for your eye shadow to adhere to.









If you have dark circles under your eyes, you may want to use a color that's a shade lighter than your regular skin tone.
Blend it well with your fingertips to create a matte appearance. If your skin tends to get oily, use a little powder to set it.
 Choose black, very dark brown or very dark grey to line your eyes. Create a thick line on your upper and lower lids, sweeping from the inner corners of your eyes to the outer corners.









For a striking cat-eye look, continue the line past the outer corners of your eyes.
Take a step back and look at your eyes. Make sure the lines are even and that your eyes look striking, but not raccoon-like.
 Choose a medium brown or gray that will provide a base for the darker color you'll be applying to your lids. Apply it lightly from your upper lash line to the corners of your eyes, sweeping from the inside to the outside.









Use a shadow color scheme that matches your skin tone. If you have a cool skin tone, choose a bluish-black or bluish gray; if you have a warm skin tone, choose dark brown or a black with some red mixed in.
To figure out your skin tone, use jewelry to help you out. Which makes your skin seem to glow more: silver or gold? If it's silver, your skin tone is cool. If gold works better, it's warm.
 Choose a dark, smokey grey or dark brown that looks striking against your skin tone. It should be in the same color family as the base shadow; you just want it to be several shades darker. Apply it to your lower lids, sweeping from the inner corner to the outer corner. Use your finger to blend it with the base shadow.









Be careful to apply the shadow to your eyelid only. You don't want such a dark color ending up on other parts of your face.
 The smokey eye is not complete without a set of gorgeous lashes. Curl your lashes with an eyelash curler, then apply a coat of volumizing black mascara. For a truly sexy look, consider apply false eyelashes, which are becoming more and more popular as a way to create a sexy smokey eye.
 With eyes this sexy, it's best to wear a nude lip instead of wearing an over-the-top cherry or berry color. Let your eyes stand out all the more as opposed to making them compete with a striking lip.








