 The most obvious thing to do to earn money over the summer is to get a good summer job. There are a huge variety of areas you could work in, so you should keep an open mind when thinking about what you would like to do. There will be things you can do locally, but also jobs that involve you being away for weeks at a time.


Most of the time you will need to begin looking for work before summer comes around. So be proactive and start sending out resumes before you finish school for the summer.;
, Being a camp counsellor can be really fun way to earn some money, do a wide-range of different activities, spend lots of time outdoors, and meet loads of great new people. It’s a big time commitment, but can give you great and experience and be an excellent addition to your resume.You will learn lots of valuable leadership, communication, and organisation skills as a camp counsellor.
If you have specific skills, like languages or sports, there are particular camps that you should keep an eye out for.
 Working in your local mall or shopping centre is one of the most common types of summer work available. Look for positions advertised online, but also walk around your local mall with a copy of your CV and go into shops to ask if they are recruiting. It’s best to be proactive in your search as they will most likely be a good few people looking for work in the same places.


Working in these areas can give you great experience learning personal organisation and customer service skills., Getting an internship or placement over the summer can be a fantastic way to gain experience relevant to your career interests as well as building up some contacts, and earning some money. It's a good idea to contact your school or college careers service as they might have an index of local firms that take on interns.Alternatively put yourself out there and approach places you would be interested to work at.
Do your research before you contact a company.
Don't think of it as a summer job, but a potential trial period for your long-term career. Treat it accordingly and maintain a high-level of professionalism.