 Despite your own attempts, you may need to see a professional to effectively get a handle on emotional eating. This is especially true if these patterns are deeply ingrained habits that you have been reinforcing since childhood. The first step is to bring awareness that you have a problem and that you need help.


You can make it easier to seek help by first talking to someone you trust about your emotional eating. Tell a friend, sibling, or partner: “During the holidays I have a tendency to eat my feelings. I have already gained five pounds this year because of it.”
Talking to someone supportive can help you acknowledge the problem and give you the confidence to see a professional. Ask your loved one to help you find a therapist and join you at your first appointment for support.
 Eating isn’t the core issue here. Rather it is the link you have developed between unpleasant feelings and food that helps numb those feelings. In order to treat emotional eating you must work with a therapist to identify your triggers and develop healthier ways of coping with those unpleasant feelings.


One of the most effective approaches for treating this condition is cognitive behavioral therapy which focuses on becoming aware of negative or unrealistic thought patterns that influence your mood and drive behaviors.Other effective techniques that therapists might use along with CBT include Dialectical Behavioral Therapy, Skills Groups Therapy, or Meditation and Mindfulness techniques.
Research a therapist in your area who has experience with this type of therapy and with people who have disordered eating patterns.
 There are many ways to find healing from emotional eating.Participating in therapy is probably your best option. Still, knowing that you are not alone in your struggle can also lessen the shame you feel about stress-eating. Find a support group in your area directed at bringing people like you together.


Hearing the trials and victories of others who eat emotionally can help you to heal from this issue and find support in the process.

