 Styes will typically go away on their own after two or three days. Before they do, however, they can be quite painful and irritating. To make the wait more bearable, use one or more of the common methods listed below to keep your discomfort under control:


Apply a warm compress. Wet a clean washcloth with hot water and place it gently on top of your closed eye for ten minutes, repeating four times a day.Warm compresses not only ease pain and inflammation, but also speed the healing process.Press very gently - only as hard is as necessary to keep the compress against your eye.
Many traditional home remedies for treating styes use the same basic principles as a warm compress: mild heat, moisture, and light pressure. For example, one traditional remedy is wrapping a freshly hard-boiled egg in a sock, then holding it against the stye.
Over-the-counter pain medications can also be used to reduce the severity of eye pain associated with the infection. Use the recommended dosage of a mild painkiller/anti-inflammatory drug like acetaminophen (paracetamol) or ibuprofen.
 One of the most important ways to keep your pain level down and speed the healing process is to make sure the stye isn't irritated, disturbed or injured in any way. Though you may have an intense desire to take action and "do something" about your stye, know that, with styes, what you don't do is just as important as what you do. Follow the guidelines below to protect your stye:Don't wear contact lenses if you have a stye, as they will irritate the infection. Take any contacts out and wear glasses instead.
Don't press or squeeze the stye in order to drain it. Never poke, prod, or otherwise put pressure on a stye, as this can irritate it. Bursting a stye prematurely can increase your chance of infection, leading to prolonged pain.
Don't wear eye makeup. In addition to the possibility that you may irritate the stye, you may also accidentally spread stye-causing bacteria through makeup use.
If you must touch your eye, wash your hands carefully before doing so.
 Basic pain medications aren't the only over-the-counter options for treating styes. A variety of specially-designed medications are also available for this purpose. These remedies come in a variety of forms, including topical ointments, eye drop solutions, and medicated pads. Visit your local pharmacy to see which options are available to you.Polymyxin B sulfate is an effective antibiotic in treating styes and other bacterial eye infections.Commercial lid scrubs and moisturizing solutions may help keep your eye moisturized and relieve discomfort., Any activities that strain your eyes, like excessive computer use or reading under poor lighting conditions, should be avoided when you have a stye. The additional eye strain can irritate a stye, prolonging pain and increasing the risk of infection. Take occasional breaks when reading or working at a computer. Close your eyes for a few minutes if needed.


If you don't notice any additional irritation from computer use, etc., feel free to continue working. You should still take a break if/when irritation does occur.
 Within a few days, your stye should begin to shrink and disappear. It may also open on its own and begin to drain. If your stye opens, soak up any discharge with a clean rag and clean the new wound with baby shampoo and water. You can hold clean medical gauze to your eye to help soak up any further discharge.Never deliberately lance or squeeze a stye. This can open you up to the risk of a more serious infection that requires stronger treatment.
 If your stye doesn't go away on its own after 2-7 days, or if symptoms seem to be worsening, make an appointment to see your doctor. Doctors may prescribe antibiotics and/or steroid ointments, and, in extreme cases, may need to surgically remove the stye.