 Before administering anesthesia, the anesthesiologist will review the patient’s medical record. This review process helps to ensure that the medications the patient receives is the safest and most effective for each for. The anesthesiologist will look at a patient’s:Age
Weight
Medical history
Current medications including prescriptions, over-the-counter drugs, and herbal supplements
Prior anesthetic records, if available
Recent medical studies or specialist visits relevant to the type of anesthetic planned (for example, recent cardiology notes, echo reports)
Other relevant medical history and details relevant to the type of anesthesia planned
Allergies to medications and to food products;
, Next, the anesthesiologist will speak with the patient. The anesthesiologist will let the patient know what to expect and about the potential side effects of these medications.It is important for the anesthesiologist to know about any past reactions to anesthetics. If a patient has had a bad reaction to any anesthetic agents in the past or if the patient has a significant family history of problems with anesthesia, the anesthesiologist may choose to use different medications.
 The anesthesiologist will ask the patient about the patient's current use of alcohol, cigarettes, and recreational drugs. All of these substances have the potential to affect the way that a patient responds to anesthesia, so it is crucial for the anesthesiologist to learn this information.Cigarettes affect the heart and lungs, which can affect the type of anesthesia chosen and recovery process. Chronic obstructive lung disease can significantly impact a patient’s ability to recover from intubation. It is recommended to quit smoking at least eight weeks prior to any anesthetic to improve outcomes from anesthesia and to decrease the risk of surgical infection.
Alcohol affects the liver, heart, lungs, and blood, which are important in the administration of anesthesia. Chronic liver disease can significantly impact the choice and outcomes of anesthesia.
Current or past use of recreational drugs, such as cocaine, marijuana, or amphetamines, is important information for an anesthesiologist to learn. If cocaine or amphetamines are present in the bloodstream, they can lead to dangerous changes in blood pressure and even death under general anesthesia.
Remember that all conversations between patient and doctor or anesthesiologist are confidential. Not sharing this information it could increase the possibility of negative side effects from the surgery, including death — make sure the patient knows how essential it is that he be honest with you.
 Doctors instruct patients to abstain from food and fluid for a specific amount of time before surgery. However, the anesthesiologist will often confirm this information.Any food in the stomach during surgery increases the risk of aspiration during surgery. This is the medical term for when food and gastric contents rise up into the esophagus and enters the lungs during surgery. Even candy or chewing gum without swallowing can increase a patient’s risk of aspiration
Because general anesthesia also puts to sleep the musculature in your body you won’t have a gag reflex and will not be able to cough to protect your lungs. Do NOT eat or drink anything during the time period your surgeon gives you prior to surgery. Aspiration can lead to prolonged intubation and ICU stays, and sometimes even death.

