 It will help to lessen the likelihood of shock if you can elevate the legs or position the head lower than the trunk. Check the victim's breathing and circulation before proceeding. See How to Treat Shock for information about how to recognize and manage symptoms of shock.
 Raising the wounded limb (assuming it is an extremity that is injured) above heart will help to reduce severe bleeding. If you suspect a broken bone, however, do not attempt to move the limb.
 Clean up any visible foreign body and dirt, but do not clean the wound thoroughly as this can aggravate the wound.Your immediate priority is to stop severe bleeding. Cleaning the wound can wait.


If the foreign object is large however (large piece of glass, knife, or similar) do not remove it. It is most likely stopping a lot of the bleeding itself. Just put pressure and bandage around the object taking care not to push it in further.
 Use a pad of clean gauze, dressing, or clothing. (Even your hand can work if nothing else is available.) Place your hand over the pad and apply firm pressure with fingers or a hand to the wound.
 If the injury is on a limb, you can use tape or a cloth wrapped around the wound to maintain pressure (a folded triangular bandage placed over the wound and tied is ideal). For groin or other parts of the body where you cannot wrap the wound, use a heavy pad and keep using your hands to press on the wound.
 Add more gauze or additional bandages if the original soaks through. Do not over-wrap it, however, as increased bulk risks reducing pressure on the wound. If you suspect the bandage is not working, remove the bandage and pad and reassess the application.If the bleeding appears controlled, maintain pressure until you are sure the bleeding has stopped or medical help has arrived.
 If you cannot stop bleeding by pressure alone, combine using direct pressure to the wound with pressure to one of these pressure points. Use your fingers to press the blood vessel against the bone. The most commonly needed are described below::


The brachial artery - For wounds on the lower arm. Runs on the inside of the arm between the elbow and armpit.
The femoral artery. For thigh wounds. Runs along the groin near the bikini line.The popliteal artery - For wounds on the lower leg. This is found behind the knee.



Use a tourniquet if the bleeding is life threatening. Tourniquets usually stop bleeding instantly if applied correctly, but incorrect tourniquet use can harm the patient.
 Check that the bandages are not too tight - if the victim has cold, pale skin, toes or fingers that do not restore to normal color after compression, or the victim complains of numbness or tingling, it is probable that the bandaging is too tight.