 Pour three or four inches of water into a wok or pot. Make sure the bamboo steamer can sit on top of the wok or pot with some airspace between the water and the bottom level of the steamer. Turn heat to high and bring the water to a boil.
 Here comes the fun part. What kind of flavor are you craving? You can easily season your fish with any of the recommendations below, or create your own seasoning. Don't worry about basting the fish perfectly, just glob your seasoning on!


A few dashes of coconut milk, cloves, a clove of diced garlic, fresh or dried basil, cilantro, sliced chives, and lemon juice.
Lemon or limejuice, sliced green onion, garlic, salt, and pepper.
A pinch of ground cumin, a clove of diced garlic, sliced sweet onion, cilantro, salt, and pepper.
A splash of soy sauce, a splash of sesame oil, grated ginger, a dash of rice wine, and sesame seeds.
For a whole fish (scaled and cleaned), work salt, pepper and seasoning into the diagonal cuts on both sides of the fish.
 If you are making fillets, use one large leaf per fillet and place fish skin-side down. If you are making a whole fish, overlap the cabbage leaves to cover the entire bottom of the steamer.


Drizzle one third of the sauce over the fish.
 Place the bamboo basket with the fish on the top of the wok or pot filled with boiling water. Cover with a lid. Cook time will depend on the thickness of the fish, with a whole fish taking a little longer. A 1-inch thick fillet will take about 10 minutes.


Take care not to overcook or the fish will be mushy.
Check the fish after 10 minutes and then every couple minutes after that until its done.
Fish is done when it flakes easily and is no longer translucent.
The fish will continue to cook after you remove it from the heat.
 For fillets, you can serve the fillet on its cabbage bed. For a whole fish you can either remove the fish from the basket and place on a serving plate, or put the entire basket on a platter and serve from the basket. Drizzle fish with sauce and pass any remaining sauce at the table.

