 Observe its activity. Drive slowly and pay attention to other vehicles and pedestrians., A pedestrian could walk in front of you or another car could back up. This is why it is important to move slowly and proceed with great caution.
 Do not check your phone or turn around to look at your kids while parking. 20% of accidents occur in parking lots, so it is important that parking have your undivided attention. Once your car is safely in its spot, you can deal with anything else., Don’t try to squeeze your car into a tight space because you could hit the car beside you, ding their door, or they could hit your car. Look for a spot that will allow for at least two feet on both sides of your vehicle.If there aren’t too many cars in the parking lot, leave a few spaces between you and other cars.
 Stop your car 6 to 8 ft away from the spot. Slowly come to a halt and turn on your turn signal for 3 seconds when coming to your spot. This will show other cars that you are turning and will give you a chance to check the area around you for traffic and pedestrians. Only begin to move into your parking space after you have carefully looked at the area around you and signaled to other drivers that you will be parking., Carefully position your vehicle within the given space. Make sure your vehicle is in the middle of the space and not too close to either line.


If you have an over-sized vehicle, then consider taking up multiple spaces so that your vehicle is not in the lane of the parking lot. This is a problem with many larger trucks and SUVs. You could park in additional spaces by parking perpendicular to the parking spots.
 Anytime you are parking on a street rather than in a parking lot, be sure to pull over as far as possible. This is especially important when parallel parking. Try to park as close to the curb as you can so that your vehicle will not be hit by cars driving by.If it is a busy road, exit your vehicle on the passenger side of the car rather than into traffic.
 This will keep your car from rolling. You should also turn your tires diagonally so that it won’t move. When parking uphill, turn your front tires away from the curb; when parking downhill, turn your front tires towards the curb., You should be comfortable parking at an angle, parallel parking, and reversing your car into a parking spot. There are situations where these skills will be necessary, so be sure to practice ahead of time.To get comfortable with these skills, you could go to an empty parking lot and practice. If the parking lot doesn’t have these types of parking spots, you could set up your own with cones.
For parallel parking and reverse parking, it is especially important to check all of your mirrors and your blind spot to ensure you won’t hit any cars or pedestrians.
 Cars are starting to come with tools to help you park safely. If your car has technology like a Blind Spot Warning System, Reverse Monitoring System, or an Intelligent Parking System, make use of these. They can help you to safely pull in and out of your parking spot without hitting anything. Be sure to heed their warnings and respond accordingly.