 Most razors come with an added moisture or lubricating strip. These strips tend to be loaded with chemicals and other ingredients—yes, razors have ingredients! However, you can find razors that are more natural.


Look for a razor that does not have the moisture strip. An alternative would be to purchase razors that have it and then peel or otherwise remove the strip yourself.;
, Common store brands for shaving creams and gels are also full of chemicals and toxic products. Look for a more natural brand, or make it yourself.


Brands such as Dr. Bronner's, Garden of Eve, and Kiss My Face are known for making more natural shaving products.
For homemade shaving cream, you can simply use coconut oil or another carrier oil, like sweet almond oil or sesame oil. You can also look into homemade mixtures., There are some body parts that men and women commonly shave:


Women commonly shave their legs, underarms, and bikini areas. Some women also shave their arms.
Men commonly shave their beards, mustaches, and chests.
There are some reports that people should not shave certain areas, like their arms, because the hair will grow back faster and thicker. However, scientists have proven this to be untrue., In a thin layer, spread your shaving product over the body part you are shaving. Be sure you have enough to protect your skin from nicks and cuts, especially since your razor does not have a moisture strip.
 Pull your razor up the body part that you are shaving in one long motion. Continue to do this repeatedly until you have shaved the entire area.


Frequently rinse the excess shaving product and shaved hair from your razor so that you get a clean, smooth shave all around.
Take your time and go slowly. You are more likely to get a shaving nick or cut whenever you rush and forget to take care on areas like your ankles and knees.
 When you are done shaving the entire body part or area that you want shaved, rinse it and then check for any spots you missed while shaving. Dab a little bit of shaving cream or gel on that spot and touch it up carefully with the razor.
 After you shave, run your razor under hot water. Meanwhile, brush both sides of the razor blade with a toothbrush to get off all of the shaving cream or gel and hair. This helps to keep your blade clean and sharper longer.