 Choose the middle of the week or a weekend. Evenings are good for adults, matinees (late morning or early afternoon) for children. In some cases, especially with children, it might be sensible to use the same time as the practice time, as parents will be more likely to have this time set aside in their calendars.


Be sure to ask your actors first if they're happy to perform a show. If they have understood this to be the outcome of all their hard work from the start, then it'll be easy to get them to perform. On the other hand, if your group has never acted before and was only interested in learning the skills, it's important to ask whether they want to put their skills on public display before assuming that this is what they expected. Talking about holding a show from the very start of the practice sessions is recommended as a way to know from the beginning how your actors feel.
 Your practice place may not be suitable for holding the actual show; if not, you'll need to look for a suitable one, hopefully with a stage. If you can get a church to help sponsor you, or a school with a stage, it would be easier on the pocketbook.


Make sure your venue has good lighting, curtains and a bathroom. If you can get tables and chairs for seating, that would be the most comfortable for your audience.
If you want to make it more enjoyable for your audience, serve snacks or a dessert. You'll probably have to charge admission for this, but it will draw more people in. Alternatively, if you're keeping this part very informal and only inviting the friends and families of those participating, ask them to bring a plate for a shared supper. This saves costs and brings everyone together after the show.
Set a time and date and advertise. Get custom made tickets and printed programs for your show. Put another classified ad in the newspaper promoting it and encourage people to share links online through sites such as Facebook and Twitter. For advertising, be sure to include the show's name, the time and date, the location, and if you have passable actors, add a "Featuring" to it, listing the cast.
 If so, include makeup and full costumes for the actors. Given you're most likely on a budget, ask the actors to assist here by bringing their own costume skills to the task. Thrift stores and online auctions are other great places to find cheap costume items. Don't be afraid to experiment with all sorts of things and to use simple sewing, gluing and stapling to achieve the looks needed––nobody will be looking too closely.


If you're directing children, parents and grandparents are often only too happy to pitch in and help with costume and makeup skills. Ask nicely and some parents or grandparents are likely to come forward, and if you're really blessed, you can assign the most enthusiastic one with a title like "Head of Costumes" -- and he or she will take charge for you. This may also work for adult actors, if you work out who is most keen in the costume, creative department!

, Make sure the actors are ready, the venue is ready and everything is looking good. If you only have small props or costume pieces (like hats, scarves, shoes), then use those rather than full costumes. It's a good idea to have some friends help out with the last minute setting up and with ushering in the audience. You can't expect the actors to be involved in this part. Perhaps also ask former colleagues from your old acting school to come and lend a hand; it's all good experience and fun for them.


Hand out programs to people at the doors. Take their money/ticket and have them go in.
Have music playing in the background. Ensure that the music is free to be played in public; if unsure, stick to music that has clearance for playing in public (even old songs may have copyright on the arrangements).
Dim the audience/house lights and start the show!

