 If you want to get elected SPL, you’ll need to show everyone that you’re a responsible scout who can effectively manage the troop. Participate in all troop meetings, events, and activities and follow the Scout Oath and Law.;
, The SPL is the leader of the troop, and your fellow scouts should see you as a leader.


Volunteer often, especially for things no one else want to do. Your troop should be able to count on you to get things done.
Become Patrol Leader or ASPL. Having previous leadership experience will make it more likely for other scouts to vote for you.
 To be popular with your fellow scouts, always be helpful and friendly. That way they'll have no problem with you running the troop.
 You can’t become SPL without first becoming First Class. Doing so demonstrates that you possess experience as a scout and are familiar with the troop.
 When elections come around, you should be prepared with a good speech about why you should be elected SPL.


Talk about traits unique to you or ones that will make you a good leader, and avoid cliches if you can; every scout is expected to follow the Oath and Law, but not everyone has been troop guide or scribe.
 Know the troop structure and understand how you troop functions. This will help you manage the troop appropriately.
 While it is the job of the PLC to plan meetings, having an outline of what you think should occur never hurts.


Try to keep the meetings interesting. It wouldn’t be much fun if the whole meeting consisted of listening to speakers and taking notes.
 The PLC is one of the best resources you can have as SPL. Work with them to plan meetings, events, and deal with other business.


If you need to, you can work with members of the PLC outside of official meetings or even host extra PLCs if some business needs to be dealt with before the next official PLC.
 The SPL is expected to set an example for his fellow scouts to follow.


Always wear your Class A (this includes your handbook) to every event.
Be kind and helpful to other scouts, especially those who need it.
Show up to as many troop events as you can, even if you don’t want to. The troop always needs their leader.
 You may have to occasionally check that everyone who has a responsibility is fulfilling it. Make sure that others in an appointed position are performing their tasks.
 Be enthusiastic and show scout spirit. The SPL’s attitude can affect the whole troop. Keep a good mood and everyone else will follow suit.

