 After the clerk’s initial greeting ask:

How many points do their teasers offer in football? What about basketball?
Up to how many picks can you take in a teaser? The more picks you take, the more it will pay.
What happens with cancellations and ties? Will your teaser cancel, lose, win, or just turn into a smaller teaser with an adjusted payout?


Once you have those questions answered, you're ready to move to the next steps, to call in a regular teaser bet.;
, Ask for the games you’re interested in.

You can make a two-team teaser with only one game, using the total and one of the teams.
Or, you can even take both sides and play for the middle.
You can also combine football and basketball together or professional and collegian leagues. So if you want to hear the complete board, ask for a rundown.

Have a pen and the sports’ schedule with you!



, A complete rundown can vary anywhere between two lines to up to more than fifty in college football or basketball. You’ll want to write the lines down to study them. Remember, you can only tease football and basketball., Most regular teasers go from two teams up to eight teams. It’s important to point out that although they’re called 2-team teasers (or however number of teams in the play), you can take totals in there, not only the teams themselves. And remember, the more picks you add the more it will pay, but it will also be harder to hit., Again, rules will vary, but most sportsbooks offer regular teasers with points going from 6, 6.5 or 7 points in football (with the corresponding 4, 4.5, and 5 points in basketball). This works like this:
You would make a three-team regular teaser, 7 points in football, 5 points in basketball. This is done automatically, if you take a 7 pointer in football, it will be a 5 pointer in basketball. A 6.5 pointer in football will be a 4.5 pointer in basketball and a 6 pointer in football would be a 4 pointer in basketball. You can’t mix and match., You can take a teaser with only teams-to-win, or combined with totals. It’s not unusual for gamblers to take four-team teasers with both sides of the same game, accompanied with the over and under the teased total. Although it is more common in the larger special teasers.
Take a look at this comparison between a 3-team parlay and a 3-team teaser, notice how the lines and the payout differ:
3-team Parlay $100/600
Titans +11 -110
Ravens Over 41 -110
Nets -4.5 -110
3-team Regular Teaser $100/150 - 6.5 pts in football/4.5 pts in basketball
Titans +17.5
Ravens Over 34.5
Nets +2, In a teaser your payout will be affected by two factors:
a. How many picks you’re taking. The bigger the teaser, the better the payout.
b. How many points you’re taking. The more points subtracted from your picks, the less the teaser pays.,, Begin by telling the clerk what kind of play you want and the number of picks in it. To ask for the teaser in the middle column above, you’d say: “I want a three-team, six-and-a-half point teaser in football, four-and-a-half pointer in basketball.” If you were asking for a teaser with only football teams, all you’d have to say is “I want a three-team, six-and-a-half point teaser.”, It is not necessary to give the clerk the lines, for the example above you would say:
"With the Titans, Ravens over, and Nets.”, A simple “for twenty” is enough to let the clerk know that you want to risk twenty dollars on this teaser. If you say nothing after listing your picks, the clerk will prompt you by asking “for how much?” If you prefer, you can wait for this moment to give him or her your amount., The clerk will now ask you if you need anything else. If that’s the only play you want to make, say “no thank you”. The clerk will proceed to give you the read back. Listen carefully and make sure you’re taking the teams, the lines and the amount you wanted. If everything is in order, confirm your parlay by giving the clerk your account number and password one last time. The clerk will then thank you and end the call.,