 Essential oils have many uses. Some might help heal sore muscles. Other may promote better mental acuity. Before you purchase any oils, take some time to think about what you want them to do.Make a list. Write down your motivations for trying essential oils.
Are you mainly interested in making your own kitchen cleanser? Write it down.
Maybe you are interested in reducing tension. Make this one of the top priorities on your list.
 When you are purchasing oils for the first time, do some research. You want to make sure that you are choosing oils that are safe. It is also important to know that they are of high quality, which will make the oils more effective.In the U.S., the term "pure" has no legal meaning. That means that an oil labeled "pure" doesn't necessarily mean anything.
Many oils go through many buyers and suppliers. To make sure you are getting the most pure oil possible, it is best to buy oil straight from the distiller.
You can also buy oils from a trusted retail source. Look for a natural remedies store in your area that has a good reputation.
 Some essential oils should not be applied directly to your skin. These oils are known as irritants. Certain people react differently to different oils.Always use caution before applying any oil to the skin. If the bottle says to dilute the oil, make sure to do so.
Use a test patch. Apply a small amount of oil to a small patch of skin. If irritation develops, do not use the oil elsewhere on your body.
Cumin, lemongrass, and lemon verbena are common dermal irritants. Other people might find that there skin is particularly sensitive to cassia and tea absolute.
 There is some controversy over whether or not essential oils are safe to use during pregnancy. It is best to err on the side of caution and carefully follow safety guidelines. Talk to your doctor before applying essential oils.There are several essential oils that do appear to be safe for use during pregnancy. Among them are sandalwood, rose, and rosewood.
Many oils are generally considered unsafe to be used during pregnancy. Avoid camphor, sage, and pennyroyal.

