 Addiction happens when you start to need a particular stimulant to feel good or fulfilled. Explore other, more positive and healthy alternatives to achieve the gratification you seek.;
, Finding something else to do that will take your mind off all those oh-so-watchable videos is ideal.


Arts and crafts. You’ll find that making stuff, even if it’s just silly paper mache sculptures or origami, will not only help relieve your need for endless video gratification, but will make you feel much more fulfilled. Painting or drawing. Creating is positive; watching endless videos is not. You can gain a sense of real fulfillment by engaging in creative arts, while simultaneously removing yourself from the situation (i.e. having nothing better to do, or even having a void in your life) that is causing your video addiction. , Getting outside and getting physical is one of the best alternatives to engaging in an unhealthy, addictive behavior. Not only will your physical health improve, but getting involved in a team sport is beneficial for your social, mental, and emotional well-being. If you don’t have friends interested in playing, you can always just show up at a local park with a basketball and shoot some hoops.
Find a local intramural league for your sport of choice.
Locate a local establishment for some shuffleboard, chess, checkers, or even “cornhole” if you’re not into the more physical sports.
 Musical creativity is another great alternative that can have benefits aside from helping with your addiction. Get friends interested in playing music with you. This is another way to benefit your social life while eliminating your addictive behavior. Playing music not only can help you treat your addiction directly, but also has benefits such as refining your time management and organizational skills, which can in turn help you manage what you do other than losing yourself in YouTube. If you used to play an instrument, dust it off and start practicing again.
Take music lessons. Always wanted to sing better? There are lots of voice coaches out there. Rather than watching YouTube videos, tape yourself playing or singing and post videos of your creativity.
 When you’re addicted to a something on the web, such as YouTube, it’s a good idea to implement areas in your daily life that are completely free from the internet, or even better, all tech. Leave the phone or tablet at home when you’re going out for a hike or a walk around the lake. Even though we think we’re doing something solely outdoors or generally active, there are usually still opportunities, even, say, camping, for logging on for some of those addictive videos.
When you go to lunch at work, take a magazine or book to the cafe instead of your tablet; even if you're planning to read a book on that Kindle Fire, it’s way too easy to start browsing the videos as well.
 There are actually camps where you can go with the sole purpose of freeing yourself from the need for internet, networking, and social media. Getting out and having a week or even a day or two with absolutely no access can be great for breaking the cycle.
Getting completely away from the ability to feed your addiction can help you control your use, rather than having to live completely tech-free. 