 Cooking proteins and vegetables without a lot of oil or butter can help save calories in your home cooked meals. Try sautéing foods or stir-frying foods in a nonstick skillet to help cut down on the need for oils while cooking.


Sautéing and stir-frying are quick cooking methods. When used with a nonstick skillet, you need very minimal amounts of added fats to cook the foods thoroughly or prevent them from sticking.If you want foods to cook more quickly, you can add a little water or broth to help speed up the cooking process. Neither of these adds extra calories.
Some nonstick cooking sprays can damage the surface of some nonstick skillets. Instead of using these sprays, use olive oil or canola spray instead. This provides a very thin coating of fat that helps prevent sticking without adding a ton of calories.;
, If you're looking for a low-calorie cooking method that imparts great flavor to foods, consider baking or roasting. This high temperature method makes leaner foods or lower calorie foods taste great.Roasting and baking use the dry heat of the oven to cook foods thoroughly. Specifically, this high heat helps caramelize foods on the outside creating a golden brown crust.
This caramelization not only provides a crispy crust, it also helps bring out a lot of the natural sweet or nutty flavors of foods.
Roasting and baking need very little added fat to cook. You can use just a little drizzle of oil over a large tray of vegetables or protein and still have everything cook evenly and thoroughly.
 Another way to prepare vegetables without adding a lot of extra calories is by steaming them. Once steamed you can flavor and season as desired.


Steaming is naturally a no-calorie cooking method. This cooking method uses the steam that's made after boiling water. You're not adding fats or seasonings and you're not submerging the food in any type of liquid.Although steamed vegetables are great, you can also steam foods like fish, shellfish and other proteins.
After you've steamed your foods to the desired doneness you can then add a small drizzle of olive oil or lemon juice or toss with your favorite spice blend.
 Like roasting, grilling is another very flavorful cooking method that doesn't require a lot of added fat or calories. You can use both indoor and outdoor grills for this low-calorie cooking method.


When you grill foods, you expose them to the direct heat of the grill. This sears the outside of the food leaving a crispy, dark golden crust. These charred parts of grilled food are immensely flavorful.Grilling is a great low-calorie cooking method because it requires very little added fat. In addition, fat that has been added to foods (for example, from a marinade) or fat found in the food (as the fat in a steak) drips through the grill grates instead of coating the outside of the food.
Many types of foods do well on the grill. You can cook protein foods (like chicken, steak or seafood), vegetables and even fruit.
 A crockpot or slow cooker will make meat very tender. Again, you control the ingredients, so you can leave out any added fats and choose only lean proteins. Use a crockpot to make soups and stews with tons of vegetables that will fill you up and be packed with nutrients., Microwaving as a cooking method can occasionally get a bad rap; however, it's actually a really great quick cooking method that requires little to no added fat.If you think about it, microwaving is essential steaming foods. It heats and cooks foods by activating the water molecules present in the food itself.
One of the benefits of microwaving foods, especially vegetables, is that this cooking method helps vegetables to retain their color and many of their nutrients.
Depending on the type and power of your microwave, you can also cook protein foods like chicken or fish.
 When you're trying to follow lower calorie cooking ideas at home, you need to make sure the ingredients you're choosing to use are also lower in calories.


Protein foods are something that should be included in each meal. They're essential to your overall health and can help keep you satisfied longer.Some protein sources are higher in fat which makes them higher in calories. Items like fatty cuts of beef, poultry with the skin and full-fat dairy are higher than their leaner counterparts.
Instead choose lower calorie protein sources that are also lean like: poultry without skin, lean beef, pork, seafood, legumes and tofu.
To keep overall calories lower from even lean sources of protein, measure out appropriate portion sizes. Stick to 3 – 4 oz or 1/2 cup of protein per serving., A simple trick to keep meals at home lower in calorie is by making half of your plate vegetables and fruit. Include more of these foods in your meals when you're cooking from home.


Both fruits and vegetables are naturally low in calories. They're also high in a variety of nutrients like fiber, vitamins and minerals.
When you make half of your plate consist of vegetables and fruit you're automatically making half of your meal lower in calories.Although all fruits and vegetables are lower calorie, some are lower than others. For example, a starchy vegetable like corn is higher in calories than dark greens. Instead of starchy vegetables, focus on leafy vegetables, and non-starchy vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, cucumbers, onions, and peppers.
Like lean protein, you need to measure portions to keep calories of these nutrient-dense foods low. Measure out 1/2 cup of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables or 2 cups of leafy greens., Dairy products fall under the protein category. However, this group contains a wide variety of foods that can potentially be higher in calories. Make sure to choose lower fat and lower calorie dairy products.


Dairy products include foods like milk, cheese, yogurt, cottage cheese, butter and sour cream. Many dairy products are high in fat which automatically makes them higher in calories as well.When you're eating or cooking with dairy products, try to stay away from the full-fat versions (like whole milk). Stick to fat-free (skim) or low-fat (1 or 2%) dairy products.
Also measure the appropriate portion sizes. For milk and yogurt your portion should be around 8 oz. For cheese measure out 1 – 2 oz per serving., Many people serve a grain as a side dish when they're cooking at home. Choose wisely when serving grains to keep your overall homemade meal healthy, and choose grains that are minimally processed. This retains the full nutrient value.


It's always ideal to choose 100% whole grains over refined grains. Whole grains are not as processed and are typically higher in fiber, protein and other nutrients.Note that regardless of whether you choose refined or whole grains, they are almost identical in their calorie content. 1 cup of brown rice and 1 cup of white rice are both about 200 calories.Since both refined and whole grains are similar in calories, you want to always measure your portion size of these foods. You should stick to 1/2 cup of cooked grains or 2 oz of grains., Whether you're using ketchup, salad dressing or mayonnaise, condiments can rack up calories pretty quickly. Be mindful of how much you use when you're cooking at home.condiments


Some condiments are overly high in calories. Try to limit or avoid using items like: full-fat mayonnaise, full-fat sour cream, full-fat dressings, honey mustard sauce or BBQ sauce.
Instead, try to stick to lower calorie condiments like: salsa, soy sauce, horseradish, low-sugar ketchup, and low-fat sour cream and salad dressings and mustard.
Sauces, marinades and dressings can also get quite high in calories. Always read the label and figure out what the serving size is and make sure you measure it out appropriately.
If you can choose reduced calorie versions of your favorite items. For example, use light ranch dressing instead of the full-fat or light sour cream instead of the full-fat. Or opt to make your own vinaigrette at home. Many store bought versions include more sugar which makes them higher in calories overall.
 One specific group of dressings, sauces and toppings that are commonly overly high in calories are creamy based items. Whether it's sour cream or Alfredo sauce, be mindful when cooking or using these at home.


Creamy sauces, dressings or toppings are typically very high in fat which also makes them high in calories. This is from being made with cream, butter or whole milk.When you're recreating these items for your home cooked meal, limit the portion size that you use and also choose lower calorie choices.
For example, instead of cream-based sauces or dips, make your own at home using fat-free cottage cheese, yogurt or fat-free ricotta cheese. You can make blue cheese dressing with greek yogurt or sub greek yogurt in the place of sour cream on tacos.
 One of the places where homemade cooking can get high in calories is when you're using fats (like oil), sauces or condiments. Always measure the portion sizes of these items to make sure homemade meals stay low-calorie.


Fats are the most calorie-dense food. Regardless of what type of fat you use, they all have a relatively the same amount of calories since they are pure fat. One tablespoon of olive oil has the same amount of calories as 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil.
When cooking, consider using a spray version of olive oil or canola. They're all natural, flavorful and can provide a very thin coating of fat. It's significantly fewer calories than pouring oil into a pan or pot.
If you need to use more oil or butter always measure your portions. Fats typically should be kept to a one tablespoon serving or less."Diet" fats or oils are something that you should limit. Margarine and low-calorie butters are more processed. They contain fewer calories than their regular, unprocessed counterparts, but not by much. It's better to use a portion controlled serving of unprocessed oil or butter.

