 Often these are the same things that you’re good at or know a lot about. Participating in social activities like this are great because the more comfortable you are when you’re doing them, the more self-confidence you’ll feel. And when you feel comfortable and confident in a situation, you’ll be more likely to participate in similar activities.Make a list of your hobbies and interests. For example, you might list gardening, fishing, bike riding, and basketball as your hobbies and interests.
If your interests aren’t really social activities, think about what you can do to add a social element. For instance, you might join a gardening club or a bike riding group.
Set a goal to participate in at least one activity on your list each week.
 Make an effort to focus on the other person and actively listen when you’re around other people. When you are focused on someone else is it’s much harder to focus on the negative things you think about yourself.Also, it will make the other person feel good that you’re giving them you’re undivided attention.


Focus on what the person is saying instead of focusing on the things that you think they may be finding wrong with you.
Ask questions about what they're saying to let them know you’re listening. For instance, if someone is telling you about winning a contest, you could say, “How did you feel when that happened?”

, You don’t have to think of socializing is attending all of the big parties in major events happening in your area. Instead think about smaller events and get-togethers that you can attend. This will give you the opportunity to build up your confidence in social situations.For example, you might consider attending a small dinner party with friends rather than a large banquet with lots of people you don’t know.
Or, you could go see a friend perform at a local venue rather then attending a large concert.
You may also try to increase the number of one-on-one get togethers you have each week. Consider getting coffee or seeing a movie with a different person once or twice a week, and to alternate between people you just met and your established friends.
 Evidence suggests that volunteering is one great way for people with low self-esteem to become more social.It’s a great way for you to give back to your community and because you’re helping others you may be less likely to have negative thoughts about yourself.


For example, you might sign up to work the registration desk at a local charity event. Or, for instance, you could volunteer a few hours a week at an animal shelter.
Pick something close to your heart or something that interests you, and the rest will follow. You may even meet new people with similar interests.

