 Acupuncture is a part of traditional Chinese medicine that uses needles inserted at specific points on the body to correct energy blocks or imbalances., Find an acupuncture specialist in your area and try this procedure to determine if it helps reduce your symptoms of depression.


One study shows a link between acupuncture and normalization of a neuroprotective protein called glial cell line derived-neurotrophic factor, and comparable effectiveness with fluoxetine (the generic name for Prozac). Another study shows effectiveness comparable to psychotherapy.These studies lend some credibility to acupuncture as a treatment for depression, but more research is needed to support the effectiveness of acupuncture., St. John’s Wort is an alternative medicine that has been effective in small-scale studies, especially for milder forms of depression.If you are not taking SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) or SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors), considering trying St. John's Wort.


In large-scale studies comparable to those needed for FDA approval, St. John’s Wort failed to be more effective than a placebo. In addition, St. John’s Wort has not been shown to be more effective than available therapies (although it may offer reduced side effects).
The American Psychiatric Association does not recommend St. John’s Wort for general use.
Exercise caution when using St. John’s Wort. You should not use it with SSRIs or SNRIs because of the risk of serotonin syndrome. St. John's Wort can also make other drugs less effective when taken at the same time. Drugs that might be affected include oral contraceptives, anti-retroviral medications, anti-coagulants such as Warfarin, hormone replacement therapies and immunosuppressant medications. Talk with your doctor if you are on other medications.
Follow dosing instructions when using St. John’s Wort.The National Center for Alternative and Complementary Medicine recommends caution in using homeopathic remedies and encourages open discussions with health care providers so that homeopathic treatment can be properly coordinated and yield safe results., An alternative medicine is S-adenosyl methionine (SAMe).SAMe is a naturally occurring molecule, and low levels of SAMe have been linked to depression.


SAMe can be taken orally, intravenously and intramuscularly. Follow dosing instructions on the supplement’s packaging.
The preparation of SAMe is not regulated and the potency and ingredients can vary among manufacturers. Whether SAMe is superior to other available treatments has not been established.
The National Center for Alternative and Complementary Medicine recommends caution in using homeopathic remedies and encourages open discussions with health care providers so that treatment can be properly coordinated and yield safe results.