 There are many different routes you can take to becoming a professional and skilled jewelry designer. One way you can help pick your own path is by deciding what you may want to specialize in.Decide if you want to only design, or design and create your jewelry.


If you want to stick with just the design aspect, you may consider focusing on your illustration skills, as well as getting an education in fashion and jewelry design.If you want to create your designs, you will then have to gain practice, knowledge, and expertise in working with medals, jewels, and various raw materials used to create jewelry. Try attending a reputable trade school for jewelers.Many jewelry designers skip school and learn through apprenticeships and on-the-job training they find by applying for work at reputable jewelers.;
, New jewelry designers usually just start out by learning how to adjust, re-shape, and resize jewelry. From there, you can learn more difficult elements such as cutting and setting stones, mold-making, metalworking and engraving. Once you have these basic skills learned, you can focus on your personal style in areas of shape and texture that you can practice mastering.


Jewelers suggest learning about gemology, sales and jewelry fabrication in order to understand the process of jewelry production from beginning to end.While you do not need a formal education, there are certain skills you may want to consider taking classes on. You will need manual dexterity, artistic skills, steady hands, experience with CAD software to design, the ability to visual design ideas to actual jewelry, and a knowledge of popular fashion., Depending on the specific route you take, you may benefit from going to school. Jewelry makers who become specialized or independent tend to be more successful with a formal education. Also, employers find jewelers with a degree more appealing because they do not require as much on-the-job training as a person without a formal education. This will help you stand out against competition. You can take your education as far as a Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts or Masters of Fine Arts in Metalwork and Jewelry Design.There are many accredited universities and art institutes that can give you the opportunity to cut and shape gems and pieces of metal first-hand.
A few of the best jewelry design schools are Rochester Institute of Technology in New York, Istituto Lorenzo De Medici – The LdM School of Design in Italy, and Birmingham City University in England.Advanced credentials and experience can help you one day if you decide to start your own business., Once you decide that you want to become a jewelry designer, you can begin practicing right away by signing and creating you ideas. However, if you are looking at finding a job, it may be helpful to know how many years you will have to put in before that may happen.If you decide to receive a formal education, you can be in school anywhere from two to six years.
You will need about one to two years of experience and on-the-job training to become a skilled designer. Keep in mind, you can receive this experience while you are still in school., When a jewelry designer has an idea for a piece of jewelry, or is presented with an idea from someone else, there are several steps that need to happen before that jewelry comes to life. Depending on the situation, the design phase usually takes about seven days, and the production can take about two weeks. Here is the typical process of design to final product:The designer will start by drawing their ideas on paper with pencils. It has become common to design jewelry with special computer software that can give a better idea of what the piece will look like in 3D.The next step is to make a 2D design into a 3D prototype. This can be done in various ways such as 3D printing, CAD, or clay or wax molds that can be filled with melted metal.Once the prototype is worked out, the jeweler can start casting the metal.A jeweler can then cut, polish, and set precious or semi-precious gemstones into the jewelry.