 Over-the-counter medication is a way you can help pain with a trapped nerve if you don’t have a prescription medication. NSAIDs like ibuprofen and aspirin can help reduce swelling and help with pain.Make sure to read the instructions and follow them carefully.
 You may choose to use a pain-relieving cream or ointment on the area of your back that is hurting. Spread the cream over the sore spot and wait a few minutes for it to start working.Read the instructions and follow them carefully.
You can get these creams at supercenters, supermarkets, or drug stores.
 If you think you have a trapped nerve in your back, you should consider seeing a chiropractor. They will give you a physical exam, evaluate your symptoms, and determine the cause of your pain., Your doctor may prescribe you medication as the first treatment for a trapped nerve. You will be prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs, which may include steroids. You may also be prescribed painkillers like opioids. These pain relievers often help reduce pain associated with a trapped nerve.You may also be prescribed muscle relaxants or anticonvulsants. You may also get spinal injections of pain relievers.
 If your pain doesn’t go away, you can try physical therapy. A physical therapist can give you specific stretches and exercises that will help heal and untrap the nerve in your back. You can perform certain exercises with the aid of a physical therapist that you cannot do on your own., If your trapped nerve doesn’t improve, they may decide to do surgery. They will try to do the surgery that is the least invasive possible. Discuss with your doctor which procedure is best for your particular case.In one surgery, they shave off part of the bone to create an opening for the nerve, which untraps it. Another surgery will completely remove the bone, and another can remove the disc that traps the nerve.
The benefits of the surgery may include reduced pain and increased mobility.
Most back nerve surgeries are minimally invasive and you can go home the same day. As with any surgery involving the nerves, there are risks for neurological damage that can generally be immediately detected.

