 Avoid judging people based on their job (or lack thereof), clothing style, femininity, and other traits. Recognize that there are many different ways to be a woman, and one way isn't necessarily less valid than any other.


Harbor a "live and let live" attitude: your lifestyle is what works best for you, and their lifestyle is what's best for them.
Don't criticize people for being different from you. Erase words like "slut," "bossy," "prude," "welfare queen," "special snowflake," et cetera, from your vocabulary.
 Being a feminist means supporting the equal dignity of all people, and protecting people from unfair treatment and harm.


Many of these instances occur along gendered, radicalized , and other oppressive lines.
 Know what's going on in your local area and your country. Education is critical for political participation, so take the time to read up on what's happening. Read from both left-leaning and right-leaning sources, so you can understand the different perspectives.


Read the facts and the opinions. Do you agree with the opinions? Why or why not? Why do you think people feel the way they do?
Share important news using social media or in person. Help other people stay informed.
If the news is harmful to your mental health, you don't have to make yourself read it. There are plenty of other ways you can stay engaged.
 Why do they think the way they do? What can you learn from them? Could they be right? If they're wrong, why? Listen closely, and take the opportunity to deepen your understanding of various issues.


Obviously, not all disagreements are valid. You don't have to listen to people who disagree with human rights or human dignity, such as people who believe "Muslims are inherently evil" or "disabled people are a waste of space." This is cruel and you don't have to listen to it.
 Sexism may impact a woman's opportunities, self-esteem, environment, et cetera. If a woman you know is having a hard time, support her. Remind her that she's awesome and that any sexism she faces in unfair and undeserved. Support from others can go a long way to helping her feel better.
 Listen to people whose perspectives and backgrounds are very different from yours. What do they say? Why do they think differently from you? What can you learn from them?

, Making mistakes is normal, and it's possible that you'll accidentally say or do something that hurts someone. (Just like how you might accidentally knock over someone's books.) Acknowledge your mistake, apologize, and move on.


Say something like "I'm sorry. I messed up, and said something I didn't mean. I apologize."
Don't beat yourself up. Your mistake is less important than how you responded to it. These things happen, and you're not a bad person.
 You don't know everything, and can't fix everything. Remember that many other people have different perspectives, and it's important to listen to them. Keep evaluating and re-evaluating your beliefs based on new information. Don't be afraid to say that you were wrong.

