 The LEED v3 credentialing process has three tiers for individual certification. No matter what path you plan to take in green building, you must become a LEED Green Associate (GA) before proceeding with certification. The GA exam covers the basics of the LEED Green Building Rating Systems.;
, At minimum, you must be 18 years old. The Green Buildings Council also highly recommends that you have experience with LEED design and green building practices, found through any combination of the following:


Educational background in environmental design.
Work/Internship experience on green building projects.
Volunteer work with LEED or similar green building certifications., Available for free on the LEED website, this comprehensive book covers testing, registration, certification, and frequently asked questions in specific detail, and should be read completely.
 The test is administered at specific testing sites throughout the country. To register for the test, you must apply online here. You will be asked to locate an exam center near your and schedule an appointment to take the test.


The LEED GA exam costs $250. There is a $50 rebate for previous members of LEED., You can attend a class, purchase the official LEED exam book, or take the online course through the Building Council. The GA test requires specific knowledge of building codes, LEED requirements, and Minimum Project Requirements (MPR) of every type of building, and you'll need to memorize a lot of standards and facts to keep them all straight.


The Green Building Council has created a simple primer for the test, complete with practice problems and links to suggested study materials, on their website.You can find tutoring opportunities near you by searching online for "LEED Green Associates Tutoring" plus your zip code. They start around $300 for a 5-hour course.
 The test consists of 100 randomly chosen multiple chose questions, and is taken electronically at your testing site. No matter how you choose to study, you should know the types of questions the test will ask:



Recall: This is simply remembering and reciting facts and building codes taken straight from the exam prep book.

Application: You will be given a problem or scenario and asked to solve it using familiar theories and practices of green buildings and LEED codes.

Analysis: The most complicated questions, these require that you break down complex problems and determine a solution that accounts for multiple relationships, theories, and interactions within a building., Make sure that you bring a valid, non-expired photo ID or you will not be allowed to take the test. At your testing center, you will be seated at a personal workstation and given 100 questions to answer within a two hour window. You must answer all of them, though you can "flag" questions to return to later if you wish. When you are done, you will be given your score instantly.


You must score 170 points or higher to pass.
You will be given a 10 minute break midway through the test.
 When you pass, your Green Building Council account will update to reflect your new certification and provide you with a link to print a copy. You may now also legally refer to yourself as a LEED Green Associate on any official documents or resumes.