 Use this as your main massaging stone. Also find some large stones to put on different points on the body of the person you’re massaging. Look for a few smaller, very flat stones for the face, hands, and feet., Cover their back with a sheet. Place one large hot stone in the middle of their left thigh, one in the middle of the left calf, and one behind their left kneecap. Squirt some massage oil in your hands, and massage their right leg. Take your main massage stone and use it to apply heat and pressure to the back of the right leg.


Switch the stones to their right leg, and use the same hot stone massage techniques on the left leg.
Remove the stones and cover their legs with the sheet to keep them warm after massaging the legs.
 Let the stones rest in place for a minute or two. Next, use the hot stones to massage the buttocks. You can remove the stones after massaging the buttocks or keep them in place as you continue to massage the back.
 Put small stones in the palms of their hands. Squirt some massage oil on your main massaging stone and use it to massage the back. Rub the stones along the muscles and tendons, not across the back. Line more stones along their spine. Let the stones rest in place for a minute., Reposition the sheet to cover their upper body. Set a large stone on each thigh, and use your main massaging stone to massage their arms and legs. Apply more oil to the stone if needed. Next, massage the shoulders and neck with the main stone.Place one hot stone near the heart, one close to the sternum and one on the belly button if you like while massaging the neck and shoulders.
Massage their chest and stomach, using the stones that are in place on their sternum and belly. Rub with a circular motion around their stomach area.
 Add more oil to your hands if needed. Leave the hot stones on their thighs while you massage their face. Place small hot stones on the planes of the face after you massage it.


Let the person relax for a few minutes after you have completed their hot stone massage.

