 Before writing a strategy, it is important to understand your goals, tactics, and strategy.


A strategy defines where you are, where you want to be, and how you’ll get there.
The strategy is composed of tactics -- steps you can take to complete the plan.They explain how to move from where you are to where you want to be. Together, tactics explain a process for action.
Goals are the individual desired outcomes. The strategy might accomplish several goals, or just one.
 The audience you’re writing for will determine the language and content you use when writing the strategy.


For instance, if you’re writing an internal strategy for your marketing department, you will need to focus on marketing-related issues, problems, and concepts. You could use terminology and jargon specific to people inside the marketing industry, since they will be the ones reading it.
On the other hand, if you’re writing a strategy about how to devise a marketing strategy for a general audience, you will not necessarily be able to write a strategy that uses the same kind of language, since your audience will not be marketing insiders.
 Only set goals that can be reached with the resources available.


For a business strategy, this might be "increase advertising presence." For a home improvement project, it might be "paint the house on weekends."
Setting goals you can't reasonably reach is worse than not having a goal. Not only where you not end up where you want to be, you'll also be discouraged by your failure.
 Once you have your goals, you’ll need to figure out how to get there. The tactics are the individual steps that compose a general strategy.Your tactics should be narrow, specific, and achievable. If you need help brainstorming what tactics can help you write your strategy, ask a colleague or a mentor (preferably one who has written a similar strategy).


If you’re writing a video game development strategy, for instance, talk to others who have written video game development strategies, or someone who has contributed to the development of a video game.
Create a plan for accomplishing each goal on time. Set a time frame for each goal based on realistic assumptions about the resources available and the length of time each goal will take to achieve.
 What could go wrong? Make a list of each potential threat, weakness, or obstacle. Include roadblocks to the company or industry as a whole, as well as difficulties related to specific steps.


For instance, a company that distributes movies to theaters might have to address the decline of the movie industry.
A weakness related to a specific strategy suggestion might be a lack of money to invest in new equipment.
 They should not only correct basic errors like misspellings and incorrect punctuation, but also look for content or ideas that are unclear, incorrect, or missing.


Keep your writing clear and understandable for the reader. Be direct and avoid making vague statements.

