 Teens need time to think about what their passions and interests are, especially if they don’t already know. Support them as they try to figure out what enjoy and try new things. You may even brainstorm with them. List all ideas, even if they sound stupid or impossible at first. Sometimes a flippant remark ends up being a brilliant idea!Good ideas for hobbies include fencing, reading or drawing manga, creating movies or music, cooking, playing an instrument, participating in quiz bowl, playing board or RPG games, or crafting.
 After brainstorming, have your teen write down a list of interests they would like to pursue or be curious about. Then, have the teen rank the interests on a scale from 1 to 10, with one being most likely to try and 10 being least likely.For example, your teen might list cooking, basketball, board games, video games, reading, and hiking. After they make the list, have them put them in order based on which ones they want to do the most.
This list can help your teen start figuring out what they are more interested in so they can try the activity. If they don’t like the activity, they can move on to the next activity on the list.
 A person’s personality can help them figure out hobbies or interests. Think about your teen. What are their character traits? What things do they get in trouble for doing? What do they gravitate towards? The answers to these questions can help them come up with ideas.For example, if your teen is chatty, they may enjoy something like debate, volunteer work, or drama. If your teen would rather be outside than doing homework, they may be interested in nature or sports.
 A good time for looking into new opportunities is in a transition phase, like before a new school year or at the start of the summer holidays. These are times that various organizations, clubs, and teams are starting up.You can look for camps or extra-curricular activities. At schools and camps, there is usually a system where teens are exposed to and encouraged to try out various interests.
 If your teen is struggling to find interests, you can gently suggest things they might be interested it. You have likely known your child their entire life, so you will have an idea of what their interests are.For example, you can say, "You like being outdoors. Have you thought about running, hiking, or camping?" or "There's a teen program for crafts this summer. I thought you might be interested."
Remember, it is easy to go from insightful and helpful to nagging and suffocating. Teenagers dislike being pushed into things by parents, and it may take finesse to coax adolescents into action.
Mention possible enjoyable activities, but limit the number of times you suggest the idea.

