 Stand in front of a mirror and tilt your head slightly forward, making it easier to see the upper lash line.


You'll also need to partially close the eye you plan to work on. Otherwise, the upper lash line will remain hidden behind the lashes themselves.
 Gently press the tip of the kajal pencil to the inner corner of the upper lash line. Draw a line directly over that lash line, moving outward toward the outer corner.









Keep the tip of the pencil even, and draw the line using a single motion. Both aspects of your drawing technique will make it easier to draw an even line.
Pause once you reach the outer corner of the lash line, but do not lift the kajal pencil off your eyelid unless doing so is absolutely necessary.
 Once you reach the outer corner of the upper lash line, draw 1








This line should extend just beyond the natural curve of your eyelid. You can connect it to the main line at either a sharp or curved angle; both techniques are acceptable, but they will create slightly different looks.
 Go back over the entire line of kajal, thickening it by brushing the tip of the pencil over the line in short strokes.









Instead of working with the point of the pencil tip, tilt the pencil slightly so that you're working with the side of the point.
From the inner corner to the mid-eye, thicken the kajal without changing the angle or slant of the line.
From the mid-eye to the tip of the outer wing, gradually thicken the line so that it naturally expands toward the wing and meets the wing tip at a point.
 After you finish with the upper lash line, slightly angle your head back to expose the lower lash line.


Closing your eye won't make much difference for the lower lash line. Moreover, since you're applying the kajal to the lash line instead of the waterline, you do not need to pull down the lower lid.
 Draw a thin line of kajal across the lower lash line, moving from the inner corner toward the outer corner.









Draw the line using a single motion and keep the pencil at an even angle. Pause once you reach the end of the lash line, but do not lift the pencil.
Keep this line finer than the line along your upper lashes. You may even wish to start just beyond the inner corner of the lower lash line to create an even lighter appearance here.
 Draw a gently curve off the outer edge of the lower lash line. This curve should be shorter and more subtle than the wing coming off the upper lash line.









The idea is to accent the upper wing, rather than mirroring or competing with it. Drawing a heavy line or a large, angled wing on the lower lash line could weigh down the eye too much and.
Do not thicken this lower wing line. This look is finished once you finish drawing the lower line.

