 With dozens of backpacks on the market these days, it may be difficult to select the best one for your life and travel commitments. Backpack sizes are measured in the number of liters they can carry, and range from 20-80+ liters each. Consider the length of your trip(s), your torso size, and the conditions under which you are backpacking. Whenever possible, choose a smaller and therefore lighter pack to make traveling more comfortable.


If you plan on being gone only a few days, select a backpack that is 50 liters (13.2 US gal) or lighter. This will help you to pack only things that are necessary, as well as limit the weight you have to carry.
Measure the length of your torso and find a backpack that matches. If your torso is 15–17 inches (38.1–43.2 cm) long, you’ll need a small backpack. If your torso is 17–18 inches (43.2–45.7 cm) long, a medium backpack will work fine. For a torso longer than 18 inches (45.7 cm), you will need a large or extra tall backpack., The length of your trip and the weather you’re dealing with will determine the amount of clothes you need. Of course, keeping your back as light as possible is the goal to have in mind, so nix any clothing that isn’t absolutely necessary. Lay your clothes out flat and then roll them up for the most efficient use of space. Separate out clothes that you might need during the day (such as a jacket) from the rest of your clothes.
 One of the most frustrating things about packing a backpack is losing track of small items near the bottom of your pack or under layers of other things. Separate out smaller items and place each category of items into different colored cloth or plastic bags. For example, place all your underwear in a red bag, all your socks in a blue bag, all your toiletries in a green bag, and miscellaneous items in a yellow bag. , If you’re backpacking through a city (like a trip through Europe) you might not need to pack so much food. If, however, you are taking a hiking trip and are camping in the woods, all your food stuffs will need to be packed with you. Keep these separate from the rest of your items, and place in a bag. If you are hiking you may also need to use bear canisters to keep bears and other animals away from your meals.


Keep snacks for hiking and walking around separate, as you will want to place these in easy reach.
 The order in which you place things in your bag is very important: put the things you use the least near the bottom, and keep the heaviest things in the center of the bag. For example, put your sleeping bag or clothing at the bottom of your bag since they are light and you won’t need them right away. Your tent, food, and water are typically the heaviest, and should be kept in the middle of the bag near your back to maintain your center of gravity. Surround these heavy objects with other soft or light items to increase your comfort.


Any fragile items (like a camera) should be placed in the center of your bag and surrounded by other smaller, lighter, and softer items. You can choose to wrap them in clothing as well.
Things that you need easy access to (such as snacks or a jacket) should be placed on the very top of all your things.
Stiff items such as tent poles or water bottles can be slipped into side pockets and under the compression straps on the outside of your bag.
 To maximize your total space and fit everything you need into your bag, fill up all available empty spaces. Use all the pockets you are given instead of cramming everything into the central compartment. Anything concave in shape (such as cups or bowls) can be filled with other smaller items. Layer things so that there aren’t large gaps between items that would allow shifting in your bag.