 Under most circumstances, avoiding strikes is a fundamental aspect of fighting. Evasion becomes even more important when facing a bigger or stronger opponent in a clean fight. A tough fighter will have the advantage of power and may hit you hard enough to end the fight quickly. Make sure to be quick on your feet and move away from incoming blows.
 Tai sabaki are a set of movements found in Japanese martial arts. Fighters use tai sabaki to avoid incoming strikes while putting themselves in the best position to launch a counter attack. When fighting a bigger opponent, counters are your best option to gain the upper hand. Two basic tai sabaki movements are:



Nagashi – This simple move is best used to counter an unexpected frontal attack. From a forward-facing stance, use your left leg as a pivot and slide your left behind you in an arc. Your body should swing like an opening door. As you put your foot into position, raise your arm to strike.

Hiraki – This step is best for an unexpected attack from a short distance. From a forward-facing stance, slide your foot furthest from your opponent towards the same direction. Slide your other foot closer to the first, then turn your second foot towards your opponent. As you move your feet, turn your hips towards your opponent and raise your arms to strike.
 If you're fighting with a style involving kicks, such as muay thai, the most effective technique you can use against a taller fighter is to lean back to evade their higher kicks. When your opponent's kick flies over your head, you will be in a good position to strike back as he or she is momentarily thrown off balance., Another advantage a taller fighter has is a longer reach. There will be a zone between the two of you where your opponent will be able to land hits while you can't. It's important to stay out of this area. Spend as much time as possible either far enough away that your opponent can't hit or close enough that you can, too. When moving between these two zones, be sure to keep your defenses up.