 Staying well-hydrated is one of the best things you can do when you have pneumonia. The water will help to loosen up mucus and flush out toxins from your system. Try to drink about eight to 10 eight-ounce glasses of water every day.


You can also drink warm water with a bit of honey and/or lemon added to it. Drinking warm liquids can help to break up mucus and speed your recovery.You should drink water for the most part, but you can also have a cup or two of green tea or fruit juice each day. These liquids contain antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals that can help to fight your pneumonia.
 Chicken soup is great for viral infections, such as the common cold and viral pneumonia. By eating foods that are easy for your body to digest, you will also ensure that your body has plenty of energy to devote to fighting off the infection. Nutritious soups can provide your immune system with all the nutrition that it needs to fight the bacteria or viruses in your lungs.Eat small, frequent meals. By eating small, frequent meals, you can ensure that your body has a constant supply of energy. Try eating a small meal every three hours instead of eating three large meals per day.
 Quality proteins such as fish and skinless poultry will also help to provide your body with the nutritional energy it needs. Some other good protein choices include:


Egg and mushroom omelet. Eggs contain zinc, and zinc can help to boost your immune system. Eggs also contain a form of protein that tends to be easy for most people to digest. Mushrooms also contain glucans that may help to boost the immune system.
Yogurt. Try having yogurt as a snack or for lunch. Yogurt is a great source of protein. The active cultures can also boost your gut bacteria and may help to boost your immune system at the same time., It is important to make sure that your diet also includes some fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables provide your body with important vitamins and minerals that may help to support your body’s recovery. Some good foods to include are:Red peppers
Oranges
Berries
Leafy green vegetables such as kale, collard greens, and spinach
Carrots
Squash
Sweet potatoes

