 Before you go in for an interview, make sure to spend some time doing research on the company. Go onto their website and read it over carefully. Pay attention to things like their mission statement, their departments and any major events or projects that they are involved in.


Depending on the company or business, read any news articles that have been written about them, either on a local or national scope.
If you know the name of your interviewer, look him or her up and learn more about what they do at the company.
 Make sure that you are wearing clothes appropriate for the interview. Never dress less formally than business casual, even if the company has a relaxed work environment. For women, wear either a professional dress, a blouse and skirt, or a pantsuit. For men, wear slacks and a button-up with a tie, or a suit depending on the formality of the company.
 Even if you are nervous, try your best to act friendly and positive. When you first meet your interviewer, smile and make eye contact while you are shaking hands. You want to seem assured of yourself and confident that you are a capable candidate for the position.


A big part of appearing confident is your body language. Sit up straight, try not to fidget, and remember to smile (when appropriate!)

, During the interview, you want to present yourself as experienced and well-qualified. Whenever your interviewer asks you any question about your job history, always lead with the job most relevant to the position you are interviewing for. Like with your resume and cover letter, try to craft your experience into a story that lead up to this particular position.


Say something like, "My position at Dell gave me a lot of experience in project coordination, a lot of which carries over to this position."
Emphasize your flexibility. Describe ways in which you are both a good collaborator, but also an independent thinker.
Employers want to know that you can work well both in groups and by yourself, and that you are capable of learning new skills and taking on new responsibilities.
 Emphasize the skills, interests, or knowledge that sets you apart from other candidates. Explain how these skills or interests would be valuable to the company, and make you especially well qualified for the position.


For example you could say, "I've volunteered at several non-profits over the years, and it's given me a good understanding of how they work at the ground level."

, At the end of the interview, your interviewer will likely ask you if you have any questions. Make sure to ask at least one question, either about the position or about the company. Doing this will show your interest in the position, and will show you as someone who is engaged and not just there to answer questions.You can ask about the work environment, what kind of training you will receive, how many other people work in the same position or department, or any other question that communicates that you are interested in the company and the role.
 After the interview, email your interviewer a follow-up note. Make sure to thank the interviewer for his or her time, and say that you enjoyed meeting and learning more about the position. Follow-up notes are almost expected in this day and age, so remember to send one!

