 Although some people are opposed to freezing garlic, as it is said to change the texture and flavor, freezing can be a good option for those who use garlic infrequently or for people with leftover cloves that they don't want to go to waste. You can freeze garlic in one of two ways:

You can freeze whole, unpeeled garlic cloves by wrapping them in plastic wrap or aluminum foil, or popping them in a freezer bag, and placing in the freezer. You can then remove individual cloves as needed.Alternatively, you can peel the garlic cloves, crush or chop them finely and place the garlic in a plastic freezer bag or wrap it in some plastic freezer wrap. If the garlic becomes stuck together when frozen, you can grate off as much of the frozen garlic as needed., There has been some controversy about storing garlic in oil, as keeping garlic-infused oil at room temperature has been associated with the growth of the bacteria clostridium botulinum which can cause a fatal illness known as botulism. However, if the garlic oil is stored in the freezer, the risk of it developing this bacteria are removed.To safely store garlic in oil:









You can peel individual garlic cloves and completely submerge them in oil in a glass jar or plastic container. Tightly seal the jar or container with a lid and place directly into the freezer. Use a spoon to scoop out the garlic as needed.Alternatively, you can make a puree of garlic and olive oil by mixing one part peeled garlic cloves with two parts olive oil in a blender or food processor. Transfer the puree to a freezer-safe container with a tight-fitting lid and place in the freezer. This method is very convenient for cooks, as the oil prevents the puree from freezing so it can be scooped out and placed directly on a pan., Peeled garlic cloves can be pickled in wine or vinegar and stored in the refrigerator for up to four months. You can use a dry red or white wine, or a white or white wine vinegar. To store garlic in this way, fill a glass jar with peeled garlic cloves, then pour in your chosen wine or vinegar to fill up the available space. Seal the jar tightly and place in the refrigerator.








To add extra flavor to your pickled garlic, you may add a tablespoon of salt (per cup of liquid) along with any dried herbs, such as red pepper flakes, oregano, rosemary or bay leaves. Shake the jar well to mix the contents.Although the pickled garlic should last in the refrigerator for up to four months, you should discard the contents of the jar if you see any signs of mold forming on the surface of the liquid. Never store the pickled garlic at room temperature, as mold will form very quickly., Another easy way to preserve your garlic is to dry it out. Dried garlic will condense, so a even a large amount of garlic will take up very little space in your pantry. When used in cooking, the dried garlic will absorb water and give great flavor to your dish. There are two ways to dry garlic, depending on whether you have a food dehydrator or not.

You can dry garlic in a food dehydrator by peeling the cloves and cutting them in half lengthwise. You should only use plump, unbruised cloves for dehydrating. Place them on the tray of your dehydrator and follow the manufacturers instructions for best heat settings. The garlic is completely dried when it becomes crisp and brittle.If you don not have a food dehydrator, you can use the same process, using the oven instead. Place the halved garlic cloves on a baking dish and bake at 140ʡF (60ʡC) for two hours. Then turn the heat down to 130 and continue to bake until the garlic is fully dried.., You can use your dried garlic to make garlic salt, which is adds a great, subtle garlic flavor to dishes when cooking. To make the garlic salt, simply blend the dried garlic in a food processor until it forms a fine powder. Add in four parts of sea salt for every one part of garlic and process for minute or two to combine.








Don't process the sea salt and garlic powder for any longer than two minutes or it will clump together.
Store the garlic salt in a glass jar with a tight-fitting lid and keep in a cool, dark kitchen cupboard.

