 For example, if your great grandparent was born in Italy in 1911 but moved to the US in 1920, he is considered your last Italian-born ancestor.You will need this person's information (date of birth, place of birth and US naturalization documents, if applicable).;
, Italian citizenship "jure sanguinis" is passed down through the bloodline. This means that an Italian citizen passes on citizenship to his children, no matter where they are born in the world. If you can prove an uninterrupted line of Italian citizenship--no matter how many generations removed--in accordance with the following general rules, you may be eligible for dual citizenship: Your ancestor must have been...


Born in Italy.
Alive at any point in time after March 17th, 1861 (the date of Italian unification). Prior to this date, there was no such thing as an “Italian citizen” because Italy itself was not a unified country.
Not have naturalized as a citizen of the US before July 1, 1912. Ancestors who naturalized before July 1, 1912 could not transmit Italian citizenship, as per Italian Law no. 555 of July 1912.
Not have naturalized before his or her child was born, if that is the person through which you would be eligible. For example: if your grandfather was your last Italian-born relative, he must have NOT naturalized before your father's birth, as your father is the person through which you would obtain your citizenship (Italian law automatically recognizes the children of Italian citizens as citizens of Italy just waiting for legal recognition of citizenship).
Italian women could not pass on citizenship to their children before January 1, 1948. If your Italian ancestor was a woman who had her child before that date, you may not be eligible for Italian citizenship. For example: If your last Italian-born ancestor was your great grandmother who had her child (your grandmother) in 1940, you might not be eligible. However, this has been successfully overturned in Italian court and it might be worth your while to contact an Italian lawyer.
 You will need all marriage, birth and death certificates regarding your family. For example, if you are applying through your Italian born ancestor, you would need:


His birth certificate from Italy
Your grandmother's birth certificate
Their marriage certificate
Your grandfather's naturalization certificate
Your father's birth certificate
Your mother's birth certificate
Their marriage certificate
Your birth certificate
Any and all death certificates and divorce decrees if applicable

, An apostille is a separate sheet of paper which enables your American document to be legally used in Italy. You obtain them from the Secretary of State of the state which issued each document.
 If you are unable to find your ancestor's US naturalization certificate, you will have to contact USCIS for a "certificate of no record."

, Put your application together in the meantime.
