 Since writing affidavits is a standard part of police practice, your department may have a form that you can use. This form will tell you what information to provide and can usually be filled out online in PDF format.You should check with your supervisor and see if the form is available.;
, Your department might not have a form. If not, then you will need to draft your own affidavit and present it to the judge. You can begin by opening a blank word processing document.


Set the font to a comfortable size and style. Times New Roman 12 point is legible for most people.
 You can title your document “Affidavit in Support of Arrest Warrant” or “Affidavit in Support of Search Warrant.” Put the title in bold and underlined. Center it between the right- and left-hand margins., In the first paragraph, you should state your name and other identifying information, such as your job and department. Also state that you have been duly sworn. Sample language could read:


“I, Abigail Smith, Special Agent, Drug Enforcement Administration, United States Department of Justice, being duly sworn, do depose and state the following:”., You should go into detail about your professional expertise, such as how long you have been employed as an officer and what kind of specialized training you have.


For example, you could write, “I have been employed as a Special Agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) since April 2014. I am currently assigned to Dallas, Texas. I have successfully completed a four-month course at the DEA Basic Agent Training Academy in Quantico, Virginia.”, You should also tell the judge how you know the facts contained in the affidavit. Typically, you know the facts based on your own observation, as well as on what other people have told you.


For example, you could write: “The facts set forth in this Affidavit are known to me as a result of my investigation and interviews with agents and law enforcement officials. These are not all of the facts known to me. However, they are the facts which are essential for establishing probable cause for charging a complaint against Jon Jones for the federal violations listed here.”, You should identify each drug that you think the suspect distributes or possesses. List each one individually, and include the following information along with the name of the drug:The section of the law that identifies the drug as a controlled substance. For example: “Methamphetamine is a Schedule II controlled substance as defined by 21 USC §811(a) and 21 CFR §1308.12(d)(2).”
How the drug is used: “Methamphetamine is an addictive synthetic stimulant that affects the central nervous system and can be ingested orally, by smoking, snorting, or injection.”
The drug’s impact on the body: “Methamphetamine releases high levels of dopamine which stimulate brain cells and enhances body mood and movement.”

, You also have to give the reason why you think the suspect has committed the drug offense. The amount of detail you provide will depend on the complexity of the drug offense.


For example, if the drug offense is fairly simple, you might only want to include what you observed, as well as the dates and times of your observations. You can also rely on credible sources, but you can’t rely solely on gossip or unverified information.By contrast, if you are moving against an international cartel of drug runners, then you might need to provide several pages of detail. You can explain the amount of drugs imported or sold, the dates of the alleged importation, and whether the defendant has faced enforcement activity elsewhere., You need to conclude the drug offense affidavit by explicitly stating that the suspect is breaking the drug laws and that probable cause exists.Your conclusion could read something like this:


“Based on the information in this Affidavit, I believe that Jon Jones illegally produced methamphetamine and distributed it inside the United States. Therefore, I declare that probable cause exists to believe that Jon Jones did knowingly and intentionally combine, conspire, confederate, and agree with other co-conspirators, both known and unknown, to aid and abet in the manufacture of 500 grams or more of methamphetamine, a Schedule II controlled substance, intending and knowing that it would be imported unlawfully into the United States, in violation of the United States Code.”

, Just below the conclusion, you should state that you are signing the affidavit under penalty of perjury. Sample language could read: “I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.”Sign your name underneath this declaration.
 If you are trying to get a search warrant, then you need to explain in detail the person, place, or thing that you intend to search as well as what you intend to seize. A search warrant doesn’t give police the right to search anything they want or to take anything that looks interesting.Instead, identify with particularity what you want to search. You can then add these descriptions as attachments.For example, you could identify a piece of property you want to search. Title it “Description of Property to be Searched” and provide the address.
Your description of the property could read: “The above-listed property to be searched is a yellow, two-story residence, located at the corner of Carleton Street and Sunrise Boulevard in Someplace, Minnesota. There is a two-car attached garage to the left. The number 121 appears on the mailbox outside the home.”
Also identify what you want to seize. In addition to the drugs themselves, you should take other evidence of the crime, such as banking and financial records, communications related to the crime, etc. Be as comprehensive as possible.
 If you’ve never written an affidavit before, then you should show it to a colleague who can check to see if anything is missing. Make any suggested revisions before submitting the affidavit to the judge.
 You attach the affidavit in support of your application for a warrant.Accordingly, you should fill out the application after finishing your affidavit. Ask a colleague for the correct form.


Most applications ask you to list your reasons for finding probable cause. You can type in “See attached affidavit.”

