 Open the app drawer and tap the Traveler app to launch it. You will need to install The Traveler app from the Google Play Store. The app is a free download.
 Enter your Google account and tap on the icon found on the right side of the text box then tap “OK” at the bottom side of the page. A data connection is required for this step, so make sure you are connected to mobile network or Wi-Fi. Wait until you are signed into Traveler. Traveler uses your existing Google account to create your profile.
 A new page will open where you will be notified that Traveler would like to view your basic profile information. In order to retrieve your profile information, Traveler needs to access your Google account. Tap the “Allow access” button at the bottom right to continue.
 Tap the plus (+) icon in the middle of the screen to create a trip and start your run. A new window will open where you will need to enter your trip name, description, start date, and end date. Tap “Save” after entering the required information to proceed.
 Tap the Tr logo to open the menu. The logo is in the top left corner of your screen. The menu allows you to view all your trips, which you can select by tapping on it. You are now ready to start tracking and recording paths.
 The icon is at the bottom left corner of your page. Click on it to take pictures of your current location.


By adding pictures, people whom you share your run with will be able to connect easily with the locations you passed.
 Tap the record button along the bottom of the screen. Once you start recording your run, that button disappears and is replaced by a stop and pause button.
 Once you start recording, you will automatically jump to Google Maps view. Your map will require GPS location. A green “start” marker will appear on the map, and as you run, the path you took will be displayed.
 When your run is finished, tap the stop button. You will jump to a screen where you can provide additional information regarding the run, such as the location of the run and the date and time of the run.
 Your run will be saved on the map, and you can now view the path where you started to your destination.