 A bachelor's degree in hospitality can set you firmly on the path for a career as an event planner. In fact, some hospitality degree programs offer concentrations in event planning, so research each school's offerings closely.


Other degrees, such as communications or public relations, can be a good basis for a career in event planning. One of the strongest skills an event planner must have is communication, so this kind of background can be a wonderful foundation.
While a bachelor's degree typically takes four years to complete, there are also shorter, two-year associates degree programs in hospitality, travel and tourism and event planning that can be a good starting point in your training.
Even if you don't have a degree that's directly related, you can complete an event planning and management certificate program to transition into this field. Some of these programs allow students to specialize and focus on areas such as wedding, sports or entertainment planning.
The kinds of classes you can expect to take as part of your training may include special events marketing, facilities operations, media relations, cost control strategies, event coordination, risk management, economics and professional ethics.;
, A mentor is someone who can teach, encourage and guide you in your career. Mentorship often develops from a relationship you already have in place or establish with someone you admire.


Think about what you want in a mentor. Do you need someone to model professional behavior? Do your financial management skills need work? Are you looking to become a more effective communicator? Approach people you already know who can share their knowledge with you. It may not necessarily be someone in your field; what's important is that you get what you need from the relationship.
You may gravitate toward someone as a mentor because he or she is successful, which also means they're busy. Before you ask someone to spend time helping you, think about how you can help them. Offer to pitch in on a project, organize their calendar, run errands--give something of value so that you can get something of value in return.
Consider peer-to-peer mentoring. You can find support and encouragement from others who have goals similar to yours. Start a Meetup group or create a club on campus where you can join with like-minded people to share information, accountability and successes.
Broaden your search. Alumni groups, networking events and professional organization meetings are all good places to get to know potential mentors.
 Chances are your interest in this field stems from skills you already have when it comes to putting together parties and organizing events. Step up now and volunteer to plan birthday parties, housewarmings, weddings and other get-togethers for family and friends.


Tons of volunteer organizations have annual events--runs, walks, fundraising dinners--that need to be planned. Reach out to volunteer agencies in your community to find out their needs and offer to take a leading role in putting together their event.
Document your practice. Take photos of place settings and decorations to put in your portfolio for later. Make copies of budgets and timelines, menus and invoices. Hold on to everything that shows the work that went into making the event a success.
 After an event, ask participants for their feedback by having them complete a short (key: short) survey.


Make your survey part of your initial agreement. Consider your clients' feedback as compensation for your hard work and have them agree to answer a few questions at the conclusion of the event. Their comments--positive and negative--can be a valuable part of your learning process.
Eavesdrop. Listen to what people at the event are saying to one another in conversation. Make note of what people seem to enjoy ("This food is delicious." "The flowers are stunning.") as well as areas of disappointment ("Why isn't there a place for coats?" "We had to park so far away!")

