 Halocarbons, organic compounds containing one or more halogens, are named using the same procedure. Take the name of the element attached (chlorine) and replace the -ine with -o (chloro). Use the same group prefixes to describe the amount. Ex: CF3CHBrCl is named 2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane.;
, An alcohol is a carbon chain with a hydroxide (OH-) attached. Name the carbon chain, using the suffix -anol. Place a number in front to indicate what carbon the hydroxide is attached to.
Ex: CH3CH2CH2(OH) is named 1-propanol.
 The shorter of the two chains becomes the first part of the name (use a prefix). Then add "oxy". Then add the longest chain, prefixed with the ending -ane.
Ex: CH3OCH2CH3 is named methoxyethane.


The common name is often more commonly used. Name the carbon chains like attached groups. Alphabetize these and place them before the word "ether".
Ex: CH3OCH2CH3 is named ethyl methyl ether.
 An aldehyde is a carbon chain with an oxygen double bonded to the last/first carbon. Use the appropriate prefix for carbon chain and use the suffix -anal. No position number is required.
Ex: CH3CH(=O) is named ethanol.
 A ketone is a carbon chain with an oxygen bonded to a middle carbon. Use the suffix -anone and use position numbers past propanone.
Ex: CH3CH2CH2C(=O)CH3 is named 2-pentanone.
 A carboxylic acid is a carbon chain with an oxygen double bonded and a hydroxide bonded to the last/first carbon. Use the suffix -anoic acid. No position number is required.
Ex: CH3CH2C(=O)OH is named propanoic acid.
 An ester is a carbon chain with an oxygen both double and single bonded to one carbon. Name the group without an oxygen (R') first. Then name the R-C(=O)O part using the suffix -anoate. However, sometimes, there is a multiple bond in the R part. In that case, use -enoate or -ynoate and specify where the multiple bond is.
Ex: CH3C(=O)OCH2CH2CH2CH3 is named methyl pentanoate.
 An amine is a carbon chain with an NH2 bonded to it. Use the suffix -amine and a position number if necessary.
Ex: CH3CHNH2CH3 is named 2-propanamine.
 An amide is a carbon chain with an NH2 and an oxygen bonded to the last/first carbon. Use the suffix -amide (no position number required).
Ex: CH3C(=O)NH2 is named ethanamide.

