 The first step for immediately removing gluten from your diet is to clean out your pantry. You need to get rid of everything that contains gluten.


If you share a house with people who eat gluten, then label foods as "gluten" and "gluten-free.";
, Most processed foods or foods that come in a package contain gluten. A good way to immediately get rid of gluten is to fill your plate with fresh foods. This includes vegetables, fruits, meat, and gluten-free grains, like rice and quinoa.These foods don't have gluten, so you are safe when you eat them.
 Gluten is most commonly found in foods containing wheat or wheat varieties. Wheat starch also contains gluten. The varieties of wheat that include gluten are:Wheatberries
Durum
Emmer
Semolina
Spelt
Farina
Farro
Graham
KAMUT® khorasan wheat
Einkorn wheat

, In addition to wheat, stay away from other grains. Rye, barley, and triticale are grains you should avoid. You should also not eat Brewer’s yeast or oats, unless the oats are labeled gluten-free.Don’t eat breads, cereals, pastas, cakes, and other products made from grains, unless they are gluten-free. You should also avoid breaded meats, and foods that have been fried in the same oils breaded foods are cooked in.
Eliminate crackers, pastries, baked goods, pancakes and waffles, breading mixes, sauces and gravies (which often use wheat-flours as thickeners), and flour tortillas. Know that soy sauce is not considered gluten-free unless it specifically labeled so.
You should also avoid malt products because they also contain gluten. Try to avoid malted flours, malted beverages, malted milk, malt syrup or extract, and malt vinegar., There are some foods that may contain gluten and need to be verified. Before eating these foods, make sure to read the label carefully. Foods to be careful about include:


Candy
Energy bars
Imitation meats
Salad dressings
Seasonings
Soup bases and brothsCertain foods, like gravies, are often made with starch, which can contain gluten. Check before eating gravies and sauces., There are certain products that you could come into contact with every day that contain gluten. If you drink alcohol, look for beers and ales to drink that don't contain gluten. They will be specifically labeled that way if they are gluten-free. Most distilled alcoholic drinks are gluten-free.


You should also look for cosmetics and supplements that are gluten-free. Some cosmetics, such as lipsticks, can contain gluten. Some nutritional, herbal, vitamin, or mineral supplements may also contain gluten. Some medications do as well. , Many processed foods contain gluten. This includes products not normally containing gluten, like meat.Fresh foods are a good bet when eating gluten-free. If you are eating out, choose fresh, unprocessed dishes without condiments.

