 If you're selling a car that doesn't have a title, you'll need to apply for a duplicate before you can sell the car. Visit the DMV in your state and apply for a new title for the vehicle.


Your DMV should have an application you can complete for requesting a duplicate title. The application or form might be available online.
You might not have the title because you haven’t paid off your car loan.In that situation, you need to work with your lender to pay off your loan before you will receive the title. Once paid, you can submit a lien clearance letter or other release form to the DMV to get the lien removed.If the car has a lien, then the duplicate will probably be sent to the lienholder, so it is best to take care of the lien before making the sale.;
, Every state is different, and you need to follow your state’s requirements. Your state’s Department of Motor Vehicles can explain the process.


You can find your DMV online. Type “your state” and then “DMV.” Look for a link that explains transferring title.
You can also find the specific rules and regulations in your state regarding title transfer here: http://www.dmv.org/title-transfers.php. Click on your state. This website isn’t affiliated with any state government. However, they provide links and contact information to state offices.
 Fill out the basic information about the sale of the car. Depending on your state, you will provide the information on the front or the back. Once completed, give the form to the buyer. You generally must provide the following information:names of the buyer and the seller
signatures
notary’s signature (in some states)date of sale
price
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
odometer reading (though in some states this is a separate form)

, In many states, the buyer will need a Bill of Sale that shows the purchase price. You should check with your state’s DMV, which may have a state-specific Bill of Sale form for you to complete.If your state doesn’t have a form, you can create your own. It should contain a description of the vehicle, VIN, final sale price, place of sale, and the names of both buyer and seller.
If the seller made any warranties, those should be included in the Bill of Sale as well.
 You need to notify the DMV that you no longer own the vehicle. This can protect you in the event the new owner gets into an accident while the car is still registered to you. Your DMV may have a Release of Liability or Notice of Transfer form you can use. Fill it out and submit it to the DMV as soon as possible. Typically, you will asked for the following information:VIN
description of the vehicle, such as its make, model, year, and color
date of the sale or title transfer
license plate number
odometer reading
new owner’s name and contact information
your name and contact information

