 If your child suddenly starts refusing breast milk, think about whether you've made any changes to your lifestyle recently. This can affect the taste of breast milk. You may have to adjust your diet or habits to get your child to take breast milk again.Medications, new foods, or changes to your level of physical activity can all affect the taste of breast milk. Lotions and creams applied near the breasts can also affect the taste of breast milk.
If your child is not taking breast milk, try cutting back on any new foods or habits and avoiding lotions and creams. If medication is the culprit, talk to your doctor about switching or lowering your dosage.
 Some babies prefer to snack all day instead of eating one single meal. It is often easier to let a baby eat when they want instead of forcing meal times. However, if your baby does not eat regular meals, break up nutrient-rich meals into small chunks instead of just feeding your baby snacks. Take what you would normally prepare for breakfast, for example, and feed it to your baby throughout the morning in small portions.For example, if you normally give your baby a serving of fruits, vegetables, and carbs in the morning, try breaking this up. Early in the morning, offer your baby fruit. Later, feed them vegetables. Once it's almost afternoon, offer the carbs.
 If your baby is very gassy, diet or eating habits may be to blame. Try adjusting your baby's diet and see if this improves gas. This may be particularly important if your baby gets fussy or uncomfortable in response to gas.Try opting for smaller, more frequent meals instead of three big meals a day. This allows more time for digestion, reducing gas. You might also try burping the baby more frequently.
Make sure that your baby's head is above their stomach when feeding them. If you are breastfeeding in a cradle position, this means that the head should be higher than the rest of their body.
If the baby is fed with a bottle, tilt the bottle when adding milk or formula, and fill it completely to prevent air from being trapped in the bottle. If using powdered formula, give it a few minutes to settle after you shake it., Rashes around the bottom, similar to diaper rash, and around the mouth can indicate a food allergy. Allergies may also be accompanied by vomiting, wheezing, a running nose, and watery eyes. A pediatrician should evaluate your baby is you suspect a food allergy. You want to make sure you properly identify an allergen to keep your baby safe.