 To find silver half dollars, you'll want to find a bank with circulated coins rather than freshly-minted coins. The best banks for circulated half-dollars are big-name banks with businessmen patrons. Corporate banks deal with large amounts of circulated coins and will have more on hand.

Banks that specialize in merchant business will often sell coin rolls to non-account holders. Smaller banks may be more reluctant.
 If your bank says that one person returned a large sum of half-dollars, they have probably been searched. Ask for rolls that have come from a variety of sources. These are more likely to have older coins., The latter are usually from the Federal Reserve and were recently minted. New half dollar coins are useless to you, as any half dollar minted after 1970 will not have silver. Ask your bank teller if these coins were newly-minted before you exchange cash for them., After you've contacted local banks, visit them and trade your money for half dollar rolls. If this is not your personal bank, bring paper cash to trade for the coin rolls. Keep track of the rolls so you can trade them back in after you've searched them.

Ask the bank tellers to give you the rolls that appear to have been sitting there the longest or are at the bottom of their stacks. You'll be more likely to find older coins.
 Remember key markers of a rare half dollar to find coins minted when the Federal Reserve used silver. Take care to search all your coins carefully and thoroughly. If you're unable to focus, consider searching the rolls at another time.

Don't search all the rolls at once. Take breaks in-between rolls to avoid carelessly missing a silver half dollar.
Store unwrapped coins in a specific place so you can return them back to the bank later. Losing track of coins can add up over time, and you do not want to make coin collecting an overly-expensive hobby.
 Frequent the same banks when trading your money for coin rolls. Over time, get to know the tellers and let them know what half dollars you're searching for. Ask them if they'll contact you when new half dollar rolls arrive.