 On the Nook home screen, you should see a "Shop" icon in the bottom right corner. Tap this to visit the Barnes and Noble digital store, where you're able to buy Books, videos, apps, and much more for your device.


Note that shopping requires an internet connection.
 On the Nook home screen, you should also see an icon near the top of the screen that looks like a white shopping bag with a triangle logo on it. Tap this to visit the Google Play store, which is the same store that's available to all modern Android device. Here, you'll be able to browse and download a huge range of free and paid apps and other content.


The Google play store is one of the biggest digital stores designed for mobile devices in the world. Thus, the variety of content (especially apps) that you'll be able to access is typically greater than what you'll get through the Barnes and Noble store.
 The Nook HD isn't just about buying content from digital stores. To add files from your computer, use the following steps:From a PC:
Connect the Nook with the included USB cable. The first time you connect the Nook, you will get a message on your computer that new drivers are installing. Wait for this to finish before proceeding.
Choose "Open Device to View Files..." from the list of options.
Move files into the BNTV400 / Internal Storage folder just like you would move them around your computer. You can further sort the files by type by moving them into the appropriate sub-folder.
From a Mac:
Connect the Nook with the included USB cable. You should see a "MyNOOK" device appear on your desktop.
Run "MyNOOK Setup" from the provided link. After this process completes, you can transfer files into the MyNOOK drive by simply dragging and dropping them.
 Amazingly, some libraries allow you to put books on your Nook just like if you'd borrowed an actual copy of the book! However, this feature isn't available everywhere. Contact your local library's staff or search an online database (like the one at Overdrive.com) to see if your favorite library has a Nook sharing program in place., If you're running out of space on your Nook for more content, you can either delete old, unused content or add more storage to your device. For the latter option, you'll need a Micro-SD card, a special kind of peripheral memory card which is available at most electronics stores.


To add the memory, simply open the slot in the bottom left of your Nook HD and insert the Micro-SD card. It's possible to add up to 64 GB of extra storage this way.