 Because of the hormonal changes and physical pressure of pregnancy, your feet will probably swell at some point. Hormones can cause your body to retain fluid. This fluid and the growing baby can put pressure on the veins in your pelvis and legs, restricting the blood flow to your feet.You may notice swelling get worse in the evening, in warmer weather, or in the third trimester.
 If you have preeclampsia, your blood pressure increases and too much protein is excreted in your urine. You might see swelling on your face, hands, and feet. You may also have headaches, shortness of breath, or abdominal pain. Since preeclampsia can become very serious very quickly you should contact your doctor.If you're diagnosed with preeclampsia, your doctor will consider the specifics of your pregnancy to manage the condition. Once you're 37 weeks, the doctor will probably want to deliver the baby to prevent complications.
 DVT is a serious condition during pregnancy because blood clots can form in the veins of your legs. If you notice swelling, pain, tenderness, warmth, or redness in only one of your legs, contact your doctor immediately. DVT can happen during pregnancy because more clotting factors are produced and there's more pressure on the veins of your pelvis.Your doctor will probably recommend starting injections of a medication that prevents the clot from getting bigger so your body can break it down. You'll need injections throughout your pregnancy and up to six weeks postpartum.
 If your swelling is associated with redness or severe tenderness in your feet, you may have cellulitis. Cellulitis is a bacterial infection deep within your skin. You may also have a fever. Pregnancy can increase your risk for cellulitis, so if you think you may have it, contact your doctor.Treatment for cellulitis usually includes antibiotics. Your doctor will choose antibiotics that are safe for you to use depending on which trimester you're in.
 Always let your physician know about any swelling that you have during pregnancy. You should be checked for more serious conditions. If you see swelling in only one leg in addition to one or more of the following, you should call your doctor immediately:Pain
Changes in swelling
Red streaks on your legs
Swelling that doesn't improve overnight
Swelling on your hands or face

