 Your own beliefs about how happy you are affect your overall well-being.Unfortunately, some people view happiness as something unattainable or something they have not yet achieved. If you think this, then you may have a hard time filling that void. People who are happy simply believe that they are and they don't look for materials or experiences to make them happy; they focus on what they have that is already going well. Hence, if you believe you are happy, you will be.


Instead of looking at a glass as half empty, look at it and instead imagine that it is half full.
Pay close attention to the positive aspects of your life. What contributes to your well-being? For example, people who have a positive well-being and are happy generally have good relationships with others, take care of their home lives, and have some direction in their career (or are working toward it). Think about all of these things and how they increase your well-being.
If find yourself thinking you are unhappy or having thoughts like, "I'm not a satisfied as I want to be," identify all the evidence that goes against this idea. Tell yourself, "I have everything I need right now. I am happy with how things are even though they aren't perfect. They are plenty good enough."

, Hope is strongly linked to happiness and life satisfaction.Hope is associated with thinking things will turn out okay and hoping for the best (not expecting the worst to happen). Focus on what you hope to happen in the future.


Believe that things will work out okay, or the way they are supposed to, even if they aren't exactly the way you planned them.
One way to increase hope is to catch your negative thoughts such as, "Nothing will ever change. I can't fix this." These are very hopeless thoughts that may lead to depressed mood. If you notice these types of thoughts you can immediately say to yourself, "That is a hopeless thought. I am hopeful. I may not be able to completely fix this issue, but I might be able to change something about this situation. I can at least change how I think about it." Focus on changing your thoughts like this and you can become more hopeful overall.
 Many people think of the negative views but not the positive aspects of a situation. Try to persevere through obstacles in life and focus on how you can learn or grow through adversity. With every negative, there is always a positive, and thinking about that will set you on the path in which you can make progress toward happiness.


If you or a loved one has a setback either in a job or in a personal situation, look for the positive effects in that situation instead of the negative effects. For example, identify ways that bad situations can make you stronger by building character, educating you about situations, and creating tolerance to emotional distress.
If your lose your job, then think about the prospect of finding a better job that pays more, has shorter working hours, and can lead to a better and more enjoyable daily life.
 Gratitude may be one of the best indicators of happiness and well-being.If you have your health, then you have everything.Be grateful that you are healthy enough to focus on increasing your happiness.
Make a list (mentally, on paper, a journal, or on the computer) of everything you are currently grateful for. This can include things like: family, friends, job, pets, partner, entertainment, music, government, safety, food, money, and home. When you feel like you are lacking, remind yourself of these things that you are grateful for. You have so much already.
 Even the happiest of people are sad sometimes. Accept that you will sometimes feel emotional pain such as: anger, fear, worry, stress, and sadness.Express your emotions when you need to. If you do this you may feel happier overall. When you bottle up emotions they can come bursting out in destructive ways (such as with anger and violence). However, letting a little bit out in healthy ways, such as boxing when you feel angry, can help you feel more balanced emotionally in the long-run.

