 A gut that never makes noises can be a sign of an unhealthy digestive tract, but so too can an overly noisy intestine. One way to keep your internal ecosystem healthy is to eat probiotic foods that encourage the growth of healthy bacteria in your system.Good choices for probiotic foods include sauerkraut, natural pickles, kombucha, yogurt, unpasteurized cheese, kefir, miso, and kimchi.Having healthy bacteria in your intestines aids digestion, which can cut down on noises that may come from an unhealthy gut.
 Eating too much at a time puts strain on your digestive system that isn't good for your health and can increase the occurrence of unpleasant noises.Instead of eating big meals, try eating several smaller meals throughout the day. This will keep your stomach from going empty, while also giving your system adequate time to digest.
 Fiber helps keep the food you eat moving through the system in a regular, healthy way.


Fiber is good for your digestive system, and actually has healthy, cleaning effect. Beware, however — too much fiber can create gas and contribute to gut noises.Women need 25 grams of fiber per day. Men need 38. Most Americans only eat 15. Whole grains and leafy greens (as well as many other vegetables) are great sources of fiber., Caffeine can upset your gut by increasing acidity and increase embarrassing noises.Alcohol and other chemicals (including those found in some medications) may further exacerbate the problem.


In particular, avoid drinking coffee on an empty stomach. The combination of all that fluid and the potential irritation caused by the caffeine and acidity can lead to a chorus of gurgles and groans.
 Sometimes, an unhealthy (and noisy) gut can be a sign that you have a food intolerance, which may be irritating your stomach and intestines.An intolerance to dairy or gluten (wheat), in particular, is a common problem that can lead to gut noises.Avoid foods containing dairy or gluten for a week or two and see if you notice any improvement. If so, you may have an intolerance. Consider seeing a doctor for formal diagnosis.
Try cutting back on one, then the other, and see if either one has a positive effect. Or you can try cutting both out of your diet and then, after a week or two, reintroduce dairy and notice any changes. After a week, try reintroducing gluten and see what happens.
 Peppermint can have a soothing effect on an irritated gut. Try drinking peppermint tea.For stronger treatment, you can try Colpermin or Mintec. These are natural products that mix peppermint and other soothing ingredients, which some people have found helpful.