 Set up the chess board with only pawns. The goal of the game is to move as many of your pawns to the other side of the board. If two pawns meet and cannot move, they are stuck. Remind the child that the pawn can only move one space forward unless it is capturing the opponent’s pawn. If it is capturing, it can move one space diagonally.An alternate goal of the game can be to see who can move a single pawn to the other side first.
Remind the child that the white pawn moves first and that pawns can take two spaces on a first move.
This helps the child get used to playing the pawns.
 Once the child has a good grasp of pawn movement, add the bishops to the game. The goal of the game remains the same. Remind the child that the bishops can only move diagonally.This game teaches the child to:Use their pawns to protect their bishop.
Decide the best time to let their bishop out in front of their pawns.
Get their bishop behind their opponent’s pawns.
Understand the limitations that come with only being allowed to move the bishop diagonally.
 Place the rooks, bishops, and pawns on the board. The objective is still to get a pawn all the way to the other side of the board. Remind the child that the rook can move any number of squares vertically or horizontally, but it cannot jump another piece.The child should learn the importance of keeping the rook until the end of the game.
At this stage, the child should also begin to see the difference between taking their opponent’s piece and winning the actual game.
 Allow the child to move the knights on an empty board. The “L” movement is very unique and may take a little time. Pick a spot on the board that the child needs to get the knight to. Have them think through the number of moves it may take to get there.


Once the child is comfortable with the knights, add the pawns and play a game as you have done with the other pieces.
 Set up the board with all of these pieces. The goal is still to get a pawn to the other side first. This is a complex game, but your child should be ready for it because of the gradual buildup.The child should begin to learn different patterns and how the pieces work together.
If your child is having difficulty, go back to some of the more simple games. Your child should progress through each stage at their own pace.
 This game allows you to introduce the concept of check and checkmate. Check means the king is in danger. Checkmate means the king can no longer move anywhere. Only add 4 pawns for each player to the game.


Remind your child that the white piece always move first and once they take their hand off a piece, their move is over.
Focus on the movements that the king and queen pieces can make.
 If your child is comfortable with the movements of each piece, have them play a full game of chess. The goal of this game is to capture the opponent’s king. Remind your child that getting a pawn to the other side will only earn them a queen now.Again, if your child want to go back to simpler games, allow them to do so.

