 The rods to hold your window dressing can be placed in several different locations creating a different look for your bay window. Deciding where to install the rods is the first step to getting a great window dressing.You can install the rods on the wooden frame of the window using brackets.
You can install the rods underneath the wooden frame of the window by using tension rods pressed between the sides of the window frame.
You can also install the rods above the window by using brackets attached to the wall. You can make the rods extend a bit wider than the window to create the illusion of a bigger window.;
, To get curtains to look great on a bay window, it’s important to get an accurate measuring of the windows. Use a tape measure to find the length and width of the windows. Start by measuring the width of the window to know how long the rods should be. Then measure the length of the window to determine the minimum length for the curtains. Write down the measurements on paper so can easily access them when you need them.Where you plan to install the rods determines how you measure the width of the windows. If you’re planning on installing the rods on the window frame, measure the width of the top frame of the window. If you’re planning on installing tension rods underneath the top frame, measure the width from the inside of one side’s frame to the inside of the other side’s frame. If you plan to install the rods on the wall above the window, measure the width from where you want one bracket to be to where you’ll want the other. Try to have the rod extend the same amount outside each side of the window if you choose to install brackets on the wall.
Make sure the tape measure runs straight across when you take measurements to ensure you get the most accurate measurement.
 Curtain rods come in many different colors, sizes, and styles. Your window will have a different look depending on the type of rod you decide to install. Think about what look you are going for when you consider choosing the curtain rods.You can pick a rod similar in color to your walls or window frame to create a smooth, blended look.
Choosing a dark colored rod when you have a light colored window frame or walls will give you a bold contrast for an upscale look.
Thick rods can give a playful look, but for a more traditional feel choose a thinner rod around 1 inch in diameter. Rods thinner than 1 inch can sometimes look rather cheap and take away from the nice effect of a dressed window.
 Mount the rods above the window frame using a drill and screwdriver. A laser level helps ensure you are mounting the rod straight.Mark the location where you want to hang your mounting brackets with a pencil.
Drill a hole in the drywall where the brackets will be mounted.
Insert a plastic wall anchor into the hole. Use an anchor that is rated for at least 25 lbs.
Screw the mounting brackets into the wall anchor.
Hang the rod on the mounting brackets.
 Shades can add a look of elegance to a window and are also useful to block out the sun and summer heat. Consider what type of look you want in your window when choosing blinds or shades.


Plastic blinds can be an economical and practical choice.
Wooden plantation shutters give a look of elegance.
Bamboo or cloth blinds can provide a rustic look.
 Choose a color that matches or compliments the color scheme on the walls of the room. The window should be an accent point but you don’t want it to clash with the other colors in the room.
 Many blinds can become easily tangled or damaged with heavy use. If you plan to open your blinds daily and will be adjusting the light in your window using the blinds, make sure you pick blinds that are easy to open and maintain., Blinds and window shades come with mounting hardware when they are purchased. Most blinds are mounted inside the window frame. Use a screwdriver, drill, or hammer to mount the blinds according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Many fabric types can be used to create curtains. Consider how heavy the fabric is to allow it drape properly when hanging from a window.


Hold up a sample of fabric at least 2 yards long.
Crimp the fabric like an accordion and observe how it flows to the floor.
Heavy fabrics may fall flat while lighter fabrics can become overly flared when crimped.
Linen, silk, and, velvet are commonly used for curtains and produce a nice drape when hung.
 A piece of felt can be inserted between the inner and outer layer of the curtain fabric as a bump to provide body and fullness. A lining will also help your curtains maintain the temperature of your home.Have a piece of felt sewn between the front and back of the curtain to create a three layer curtain.
Lining will help prolong the life of your curtains and make them appear fuller.
 Curtains can be solid colors or decorative prints. Let your curtains provide an accent to your room to make the window dressing pop.Be aware that sunlight make make the colors of your curtains fade over time.
Neutral colors can blend with the decor of any room.
Avoid busy prints or your window may look overly gaudy.
Colors complimentary to your wall colors work well. Bring a sample of the wall paint color when choosing fabric colors for your curtains.
 Measure the height of your windows. Decide if you want the curtains to stop just below the window frame or extend to the floor. Curtains can be either length depending on the desired look for the window.Try hanging a sheet and folding it different lengths to test whether you want window or floor length curtains.
Make sure to buy extra length of fabric to account for seams and hems.
 Slide the curtains over the rods to hang them in front of the window. Add one curtain to either side of the hanging rod.


Bunch the curtains along the rod to give them a fuller look.
Tie a ribbon around the middle of the curtains to drape them partially open.

