 Although urination can be painful with a UTI, make sure to urinate when you feel the urge. If you are drinking plenty of fluids, you will probably need to urinate every hour or two. Don’t hold it in.


Holding your urine keeps the bacteria in the bladder, which encourages them to reproduce., To help relieve the pain or discomfort on your abdomen and lower back, place a heating pad on it. Make sure the heating pad is warm and not hot. Do not apply it directly to your skin because it can burn the skin. Place a towel or other type of cloth between the pack and your skin.To make a heating pad at home, wet a washcloth and then warm it in the microwave. After taking it out of the microwave, put the cloth in a plastic bag. Don’t place it directly on the skin.
Do not use for more than 15 minutes. You can burn your skin. Use for less time if you use a higher setting., Baking soda can help reduce the pain of a UTI. Place baking soda in the tub and fill it with just a little bit of water. It should be enough so that your bottom and urethra are covered.


You can also buy a product, called a sitz bath, which is specifically made to place inside your toilet. This is useful if you don’t want to or have the time to take the bath in a normal tub. , Medication containing phenazopyridine can help to alleviate pain associated with bladder spasms, as they can numb your urethra and bladder to prevent burning during urination. One such medication is Pyridium, which can be taken at 200 mg three times a day as needed for up to two days. Another OTC medicine is Uristat. These medications will turn urine red or orange.


Be aware that if you start taking medications containing phenazopyridine, your medical provider won’t be able to check your urine for UTI using a dipstick, as the test strip will turn orange.
You can also take ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen (Aleve) for the pain; however, the pain suffered during urination will persist, as these do not have the same numbing effect as phenazopyridine.
If you have extreme pain, your doctor may prescribe you a prescription analgesic. These are used for a short period of time and are paired with antibiotics, which will eliminate the pain and the need for pain medications quickly after you start taking them.