 If you know certain things about how your child learns, it's important to let your child's teacher know. It can also help to talk to the teacher about where your child excels and where they struggle. Even in a big classroom, having that information can give your child's teacher the information they need to assist your child.For instance, if your child is great at math but has trouble memorizing facts, that's good information for your teacher to have.
Talking to your teacher is especially important in a large classroom because your child's teacher doesn't have as much time to figure out each student's strengths and weaknesses.
 If your child has a major change, that can affect how they do schoolwork. Therefore, it's important to let your child's teacher know about these changes. Those changes can include things like moving, divorce, or a death in the family.If your child's teacher knows what's going on, it can help them understand why your child is acting a certain way and respond in kind, which is helpful when your teacher has many students to care for.
 Ask your teacher if you can put together a weekly email about what's going on in class. That way, you know what's going on, and you can also send out the information to other parents. In addition, that means parents won't be bothering the teacher as much with questions about the classroom.You'll need to get this information from the teacher. The best information is what the kids are learning (main topics) and how parents can help at home.
 Your child's teacher shouldn't have to spend time telling kids about the dress code. Try to make sure your child conforms to the dress code so that the teacher can spend more time on learning and less time on enforcing the code., It's also important to learn the rules of both the school and the classroom. That way, you can help to reinforce the rules at home. Reinforcing the rules is important because, once again, the teacher can spend more time on teaching and less time on discipline, at least with your child. Plus, following the rules should help your child pay attention better in class.