 Since skin irritation is the main symptom of hives, you should treat the skin to help alleviate the hives. Take a clean, cotton towel and soak it in cool water. Squeeze out the extra water and place over the affected areas. Leave it on for 10 minutes, then re-soak the towel to keep the water cool, which will in turn keep your skin cool.


You can use a cool compress as long as you need to soothe away the hives.
Avoid using very cold water because, in some people, this can make the hives worse., Oatmeal is one of the best natural ways to treat the itchy, irritated skin associated with hives. Get a cup of plain, all natural rolled oats and place them in a food processor or coffee grinder. Pulse until there the oatmeal becomes a thick powder. Once it is ground into the fine substance, place one to two cups of rolled oats in a warm or cool bath, which will make the water a white colored, thick consistency. Get into the bath and soak for as long as you want. Repeat as often as needed.


Do not use hot water or cold water, since it often causes the hives to become irritated.
You can add up to four cups of milk for added relief from the irritation., Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapples and can help reduce the swelling of hives. Crush some pineapple, either canned or fresh, and place it on a thin cotton towel. Pull the four corners of the towel together and tie them off with a rubber band. Place the damp, pineapple filled towel over the hives.


When not using the pineapple compress, store in a closed container in the refrigerator. Use as often as needed but replace the pineapple every 24 hours.
You can also place pieces of pineapple directly on your hives.
Bromelain also comes in a supplement, which you can also take to help with the hives., Baking soda can be used to help relieve the itching of your hives. Mix 1 tbsp of baking soda with enough water to make a paste. Try a few drops at first and stir, adding more as needed. Using your fingers or soft spatula, spread the paste over the hives. Use as often as needed and rinse off with cool water.


You can also use cream of tartar if you have it. Make a paste in the same manner and apply as needed., There are many healing nutrients in vinegar. Pick any kind of vinegar. Pour 1 tsp of vinegar into 1 tbsp of water and stir. Using a cotton ball or napkin, apply the mixture to your hives. This will help soothe the itching., Nettles have been traditionally used to treat hives because it is natural antihistamine. You can make nettles into tea, eat it, or take it as a supplement. To make a cup of nettles tea, take 1 tsp of the dried herb and add it to a cup of hot water. Let it steep and allow it to cool. Soak a cotton towel with the nettles tea, wring out the excess tea, and place the damp towel over the hives. Use as often as needed.


For the nettles supplement, take up to six 400 mg tablets per day. To eat it, steam the plant and then eat it.Store unused nettles tea in the refrigerator in a closed container. Make new tea every 24 hours.
 Calamine lotion is a mixture of zinc oxide and zinc carbonate. It can be applied to hives to relieve the itching as often as needed. When the itching subsides or you want to reapply, rinse off the calamine lotion with cool water.You can also use milk of magnesia or Pepto-Bismol on the hives as well. These are both alkaline, which will help relieve the itching.