 Breaking a sweat creates extra stores of energy, but it also has the potential to stimulate deeper sleep. Individuals suffering from sleep disorders, in particular, stand to see benefits from long-term workout patterns.


The key is consistency. Commit yourself to three 30-minute work-out sessions a week and build up from there.Insomnia increases with age. Counteract this by participating in aerobic activity. Join a cycling class at the local gym or begin a DVD kickboxing routine in the privacy of your own home.Healthy sleep also promotes workout recovery via accelerated protein synthesis and muscle growth., Your choices here are: side, back, and stomach. Side-sleeping is the most common with 41% of people preferring some version of the fetus position (side lying with knees slightly bent). Sleeping this way especially benefits anyone suffering from hip issues, including pregnant women.Is it better to sleep on the left or right? You may experience more episodes of reflux with right-side sleeping.Sleeping on your back is better with a pillow placed under your knees for lumbar support.
Physicians are the most concerned about stomach sleepers as this position places pressure strain on the lower back and neck., Write down everything that you eat or drink, along with the time, and how it affected your sleep. Then, you can look back to see any food-related patterns. For example, do you sleep better after drinking a glass of milk in the evening?


You may also find that the more you sleep, the less you eat. A sleep-deprived body produces less of the hormone leptin, which tells your body to stop eating, thus leading to overeating and possible obesity., Altering your diet in a positive way can lead to significant improvements in your waistline via the process of deeper sleep and hormonal balance.


Avoid alcohol and caffeine. These are the biggest offenders.
Examine the timing of meals. Be consistent with your meals both in substance and scheduling. Don’t skip meals early in the day or you could create a hormonal imbalance later, contributing to poor sleep.The digestion of food affects the body as it enters the bloodstream. Ideally, you want to finish your evening meal two to three hours before going to sleep. This allows your body enough time to process the food.
 Drinking water is your safest bet to ensure a good night’s sleep. Caffeine and sugar act as stimulants and should be consumed in limited quantities.
 Try various kinds of herbal teas and drinks such as milk and honey, usually warmed.


Chamomile tea is a favorite herbal beverage. It is best to drink a cup one to two hours before bedtime., Various pharmaceuticals are available to improve sleep quality. However, be sure to understand any possible side effects. It is advisable to consult with your doctor when considering the use of medical sleep aids.