 A PRO is a company that you join and become a member. Then that company works with you and your music, and collects the royalty fees from outside entities that want to use your music.If you are creating your own music, then you are a songwriter and/or composer; if you are performing it or writing it down, then you are a publisher. In either case, a PRO works with you to protect your rights to your music and see that you get the royalty payments you deserve when your music is played.Some of the leading PROs to consider are:ASCAP - American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.
BMI - Broadcast Music, Inc.
SESAC - Society of European Songwriters Artists and Composers
You are only allowed to be a member of one PRO at a time. If you choose to switch in the future, that is possible, but it is best to make an informed decision up-front.
A PRO is not a licensing agency and will not get deals for you. However, joining a reputable PRO is generally considered the first step to be taken seriously. They monitor the airwaves that play your music and ensure that your royalties are paid.
 The companies make the application and joining process very simple. All you need, in most cases, is some general identifying information, along with your social security number, and, in some cases, a credit card to pay an application fee. You can apply online, or by downloading an application form, completing it, and returning it by mail., When you are joining or affiliating yourself with a PRO, part of the process includes signing a contract. While the contracts are generally a fairly standard part of the music industry, and you will likely see names and faces of artists you know and trust, you should always read the contract carefully yourself and understand it. If you do not fully understand what you are signing up for, you should consult with a lawyer before signing., The big PROs make it easy for you to manage your account. You will have secure login access, so that you will be able to see where your songs are being played and how your royalties are calculated.