 It easily filters all spam headed towards your inbox.;
, If you often get notifications from the many online services you use, such as Amazon, WordPress or PayPal and others. When you notice these types of notifications filling up your inbox, immediately create a filter, or rule as it is sometimes called, that will automatically place these into a folder that I had set up, and mark them as read or trash them,depending on what is appropriate for that type of mail. For example, my PayPal notifications can always be located if you set up a payments folder for it, and yet it will not clutter my inbox.
 For specific emails that require quick action, create a filter called batch folder. Once again, they require separate action and require processing a few times a day, and yet they do not land up in the inbox.
 Use this name or something similar for those jokes, chain mails sent by family and friends. Most of the time they are not even read, so why keep them in your major email area. Create a filter that would send them directly into a separate file, named appropriately, then all you have to do is glance at them, and then send them to the trash. If you would rather have them instead go directly to the trash, create a folder that says Pest message, and have them sent straight to the trash. The only problem with having these directly trashed without you gazing over them, is they might just be important mail that should be saved.
 The idea is to separate emails into subjects or uses. A folder for bills could be created, along with a folder for paid bills. Or a folder can be for permission requests sent, and permission granted and each title would automatically receive the proper titled mail. Try to set up as many folders as possible for email to be automatically directed to. This would make it easier for you to check on each easily and daily, deleting those that have already been cared for.
 you should not have most of your email going directly into appropriate folders, and new messages, or messages that do not fit into any specific format received on a daily basis.
 If however, if you receive a daily deluge of hundreds of messages, you should create a temporary folder, similar to the desktop boxes, new mail, outgoing mail', or to be done. this way you can quickly read your daily email, and tag them to go to one of those folders. later on in the day, you can check those folders and take care of them as needed.
 Work your way from top to bottom, one email at a time. Open each email and dispose of it immediately. Tag appropriately as you read the emails.
 Go to the permission requested folder. When email comes in, without permission, tag the folder permission denied', if permission came in asking for further information, tag the folderfurther information sent, and finally if the permission is given, tag permission received, or permission refused. Tags now come in different colors, so you can easily color code the folders.
 Reply with concise responses, short and to the point. Limit your replies to five sentences for each reply (at the maximum — many replies are even shorter). Be concise, choose only the essentials of what needs to be said.

