 Sarongs are generally just large rectangles of fabric that can be wrapped and tied in different ways. They typically measure anywhere from 66 to 72 inches (168 to 183 cm) across,depending on your measurements. Using a fabric tape measure, measure your waist.To measure your waist, measure around the narrowest part of your abdomen between your rib cage and hips.


If the measurement is 33 inches (84 cm) or less, a 66-inch (168-cm) sarong will be plenty.
If your waist measures more than 33 inches (84 cm), consider making the sarong 72 inches across (183 cm).;
, The width of a sarong usually matches the length from hip to foot, so it generally ranges from 36 to 44 inches (91 to 112 cm). To determine the proper length for you, use your measuring tape to measure the length from your hip to your heel.You can use your leg length to determine the length of your sarong, or you can make it longer or shorter based on your preferences. For instance, if you want your sarong to be knee-length, make a note of the measurement from your hip to your knee.
 Sarongs are summertime accessories that are designed to be folded and tied, so they are usually made of thin, lightweight materials, and some of them are sun-protective. Popular fabrics for sarongs include:Cotton voile
Polished cotton
Satin
Nylon blends
Chiffon fabrics

, Use the waist and leg length measurements from the previous steps to determine the length and width of your sarong. However, be sure to add an inch to the measurements of your fabric for the seam allowance.


For instance, if you want your finished sarong to be 33 inches by 66 inches, cut your fabric to 34 inches by 67 inches.
 Starting at the top lengthwise edge of your sarong, turn down the edge of the fabric (toward the wrong side of the fabric) one-quarter inch (6 mm), and use a hot steam iron to press it in place. When you’ve done that for the entire edge, turn the hem down another quarter inch (6 mm) and press it in place again.Repeat these same steps on the bottom lengthwise edge of the sarong.
 Using a basic straight stitch on a sewing machine or by hand, sew a straight line just above the lower fold of the hem. Don’t forget to backstitch at the beginning and end. To backstitch, start at the edge of what you're sewing and sew forward half an inch (1.27 cm). Hit the reverse button or switch to stitch backward over that same line, and then go forward again and continue sewing.


Repeat on both lengthwise sides
Press each hem when you're finished.
 Repeat the same steps for the widthwise hems: press the edges down twice (a quarter-inch (6 mm) each time), and then sew a straight seam just beside the lower fold. Trim the excess thread and press the edges.
 There are many ways to wear a sarong, and they all involved wrapping and tying the sarong in different ways to achieve the desired effect. For a basic skirt:


Hold the sarong lengthwise (horizontally) behind you.
Wrap it around your waist from the back so it opens at the front.
Grab the top lengthwise corners and tie them together in the center of your body or off to one side. Tie the corners tightly enough that the sarong stays up when you walk.
 Hold the sarong lengthwise in front of you with one top corner in each hand. Tie the tips of the corners together behind your neck, leaving the sarong loose. Grab the bottom lengthwise corners and tie them together behind your neck in the same way.


In the front, position the material so it covers your chest and stomach.
Pull the excess material taught, and wrap it around to the back. Tie the material together in a few spots to secure it in place., Hold the sarong horizontally behind you. Wrap it around your body under your arms. Hold the widthwise corners in front of your chest. Twist each corner several times.


Pull the sarong tightly around yourself and wrap the two twisted corners around each other four or five times to close the sarong, but leave the individual corner ends free.
Draw the free corner ends up to your neck and tie them together behind your neck.As an alternative to this, wrap the sarong around your body and bring the ends together under one of your arms. Twist and wrap the ends like before, then wrap the ends around your shoulder and tie them together on top of your shoulder.
 This style works best with sarongs or scarves that are very wide. Orient the sarong widthwise so you're holding it vertically. Hold it behind your body by the two widthwise corners.


Wrap the sarong around your body, under your arms, and over your bust. Tie the corners together above your bust.
Bend down and pick up the other corners from behind you, and fold the sarong away from your body. Wrap the sarong around you, under your arms, so the opening is in the front.
Hold the ends together near your left shoulder. Slip your left arm through the gap, and tie the corners together over your left shoulder (you can also repeat these same steps on your right side). This will give you a loose, draping style.
To give the style more form, pull the fabric taught and tie a second knot in the fabric at your waistline., Hold the two widthwise corners of the sarong in front of you, so the sarong is oriented vertically. Tie the corners together behind your neck. Bend down and pick up the other corners. Fold the sarong in front of you. Wrap the corners around your waist or hips and tie them together behind your back.You can pull the material taught for a form-fitting style, or leave it loose for a more casual look.
 Hold the sarong vertically at your side. Wrap it around your body, under your arm. Wrap it over your chest and back, then tie the corners together over the opposite shoulder. You can either leave it loose as is, or tie the material together again at the waist or hips to give it more shape., Hold the sarong vertically behind you, wrap it around your bottom, and tie the corners together around your waist in the front. Bend down, grab the other corners, and pull the material through your legs to the front. Hold the excess material in front of you and adjust the length depending on whether you want shorts or pants.


If you want pants, leave the material long and loose. To make shorts, pull more material through your legs to shorten the sarong.
Wrap the corners around to the back and tie them together around your waist.If you're making shorts, fold the extra material before tying the corners behind your back.

