 Many items you order online today can be tracked online through a tracking number. You may also be able to sign up for email or text alerts so you have a better idea of when your package is arriving at your home. This way, you don't have to waste your time waiting at home for your item while it's still en route.


Economy mail services sometimes don't give you an option for mail tracking. In this case, you might consider paying a little extra for a premium shipping service. These usually include a tracking number with your mail order receipt., If you've ordered something through your national postal service, like the US Postal Service, you can usually count on mail being delivered on a relatively regular schedule. Private delivery companies, like FedEx or UPS, will likely have a less regular schedule. For these companies, you may not be able to pin down a regular schedule.


If you and your parents don't receive mail very often, you may want to place an order or two that your parents will be alright with first. Stagger these orders so each arrives on a different day. Then keep your eyes peeled for the delivery person to establish a general schedule.
To confirm the mail delivery schedule most precisely, you may need to spend the day at home keeping on eye on the mail. This might require you to faking sick so you can stay home from school.
The day your item is delivered, you might call the delivery service you are using to ask what time your item will be delivered. Simply say something like, "I have some errands to run today but I'm expecting a package/envelope. I was wondering if you could tell me about what time it might be delivered? My address is...", It might ruin your plans to recover your mailed item without your parents knowing if they decide to come home early and beat you to the mail. You should check in with your parents the day your package is supposed to arrive to keep tabs on their schedule. In some cases, you might need an excuse so your parents don't get suspicious as to why you're checking in with them.


You might send your mom a text early in the afternoon saying something like, "Mom, what time are you and dad going to be home tonight? I'm starving already. When are we eating dinner?"
You could order your secret item to be delivered while your parents are out of town to eliminate the risk of having your parents show up unannounced. Even if you find out last minute that your parents are going away for a day or two, next day shipping can help you get your item before your parents get home., Even if your parents are home at the time, quick thinking on your part can still save the day. Of course, if your parents aren't home when your item arrives, there will be little to no chance of them finding out about the package being delivered. However, if you meet the postman at your doorstep or retrieve it before your parents realize, you can tuck your item away somewhere until your parents are distracted. Then you can bring it into your home in a more permanent hiding spot.


For example, if your mother's home when the mail comes and you're worried you won't be able to sneak your item past her, you might hide it under the doormat outside your home, in the bushes around your house, or somewhere else. Later, you can go outside with your backpack so it's hidden when you go back inside.
You might be able to smuggle your item into your home more easily with loose fitting clothes. Hoodie sweatshirts often have large pockets or a pouch where you can hide your item, or you could tuck it into the waist band of your pants.

