 No matter what type of device you use, you can sign up for a Netflix account at Netflix.com. You’ll even get a free one month trial membership when you sign up for the first time.Despite the free trial, you’ll still need to provide a credit card or other payment method, such as PayPal or a prepaid Netflix card.
You won’t be billed for service if you cancel your membership before the end of the trial month. You’ll receive an email a few days before the trial is up so you have a chance to cancel.;
, Now you’ll move through a series of screens that will take you through the signup process., The names of available streaming plans will appear, along with a short description and pricing information., Select Basic if you won’t be sharing your account with anyone else. HD (High Definition) video is not included.
Standard: You’ll get HD-quality video on up to 2 screens at once. If you share your password with another person, you can both watch HD-quality video at the same time.
Premium: Up to 4 people can watch different streams at the same time. Ultra HD is a step above regular HD and perfect for screens that display 4k resolution.
 Enter your email address and a new password into the fields provided, and then click “Continue.”, The available options will appear on the screen.

Netflix accepts major credit cards as well as debit cards with Visa, Mastercard, Amex or Discover logos.In the United States and some other areas, you can use a PayPal account to sign up for Netflix. PayPal allows you to make online payments using your bank account, as well as credit cards.
If you don’t have a credit card or PayPal, you can use a Netflix gift card in many areas. You can find these gift cards at most any retail location where gift cards are sold (e.g., department stores, pharmacies) and load it with cash., Follow the prompts to enter your payment details (or PayPal login information)., Click “Start Membership” to finish creating your account. Now you can browse and stream movies and television shows from any supported device.