 Start by pulling any hair back away from your face. You can do this with a band, clip, or hair tie. Wet your face with lukewarm water. With your fingertips, apply your cleanser to your face in gentle, circular motions. Do this for about a minute.Rinse the cleanser with lukewarm water. Pat dry using a clean, cotton towel.
 Essential oils can be very helpful for treating hard pimples. Many essential oils are either antibacterial, anti-fungal, anti-inflammatory, or antiseptic. This means they can kill bacteria that lead to pimples. These oils may also aid in preventing new pimples and help to dissolve the oil that clogs up the pores.Try spearmint, peppermint,calendula, lavender,or tea tree oil., Prepare the water by boiling it. Fill a pot with one quart of water. Place it on the stove over heat until it boils. Add one or two drops of the essential oil you have chosen. Boil for an additional minute.Remove the boiling water from the heat. You can transfer the water to a bowl and carry it to a comfortable place where you can sit for the steam treatment.
If you don’t have the essential oils, you can substitute ½ teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water.
 Now you will begin the steam treatment. Place a large towel over your head. Lean your head over the steaming pot so that your face is about 12 inches above the water. Close your eyes and relax.Stay over the steam for 10 minutes. The steam treatment helps open your pores and draw out impurities.
Keep the towel over your head to keep the steam trapped so you get the most benefits.
 After you are finished with the steam treatment, rinse your face with lukewarm water. Then, gently pat your face dry. Make sure not to rub your skin since this can cause irritation.After drying your face, apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer. You can find non-comedogenic moisturizers at your local superstore. You may find them in store brands, but you can also check out Olay, Neutrogena, and Clinique.
 Sometimes, you get hard pimples on other places than your face. If the problem area is not on your face, steam your body in the shower. Put one of the essential oils in a bowl of boiling water near the shower.


To turn your bathroom into a steam shower, use towels to cover or block every crack so the steam doesn’t escape. Turn the water onto the hottest setting and let it run. Do not get in the shower, though. You do not want to burn your skin.Take off your clothes and sit on some towels somewhere comfortable. Only stay in the bathroom steam room for 15 to 20 minutes. Turn off the water when you are finished.
If you feel dizzy at any point, turn off the water and drink some water.
After 15 or 20 minutes, take a cool shower to lower your body temperature. Make sure to drink at least one glass of water afterwards so you don’t get dehydrated.

