 Our worst habit as humans is to put off what we can do today for tomorrow but tomorrow never comes. Why not use your lunch break to call that friend or business contact you've been meaning to connect with? Or next time you drive by that Tapas place go inside and ask what is Tapas and how do you really pronounce it? Or how about that French film with subtitles you've been secretly wanting to see? The more often you do what you have been putting off you will find that you will quickly start achieving your dreams.;
, - Our second biggest devil is that we exert ourselves in serving others to the extent that we are exhausted beyond repair. While true joy comes from serving others before ourselves if we allow ourselves to burn out then there is nothing to give. Set aside at least 15 minutes a day, ex. lunch, 4 o' clock in the morning, naptime, to do something you enjoy. It can be listening to one or two songs that make you feel good, write a paragraph of that novel you've been thinking about writing, meditation or prayer, wearing heels or taking a walk.
 Unwittingly we often get stuck in a rut and tend to focus on life as we know it. This leads to frustration, stubbornness & the inability to connect with others outside our sphere. How sad to miss out on what the world has to offer! Make it a goal to read one new book, listen to one new song (try to find a Lady Gaga song to like), or sign up for one new class a week (maybe Pilates is for you).
 We cannot give ourselves happiness by focusing on ourselves and relying on fellow humans. Most find having a spiritual routine gives them inner calm. It can be through church, philosophy, or just finding a path that encourages the best in them is a fine way to keep your life in focus.
 Our fears tend to monopolize us and sap us of our energy and focus. The next time you have that little doubting voice in your head, ex. "You can't wear that dress, Salsa dancing is hard, You are going to fail, No one will read that novel.", do something immediately to prove that voice wrong. Try on that dress, write the first page of that novel, walk into that Salsa class or at least take out an instructional DVD and be amazing!

, We all need something that is our own and only our own. It can be a pair of ridiculously high heels that makes you feel like a million bucks, or that terribly expensive eye-cream that makes you feel posh, maybe you prefer mixing in French with your everyday speech or British slang *my vice*, or sitting up in the middle of the night with chocolate pudding, potato chips and Legally Blond 2. Choose, indulge & repeat as needed.
 The world is hard enough as it is and we do not need Dream Stealers robbing us of our good thing. If your "friend" is always complaining about going to different restaurants, or having to read your new chapter even how he can't understand half of what you are saying perhaps it is time to move on to someone else as a companion. Always accept people as they are and love them for the good they bring but never limit yourself to their vision because their vision is too limited for you. Call that friend for coffee or an office chat but leave your gold for those who deserve it.

