 Part of the reason why the BBB is so respected is because they allow consumers across the country to report businesses through the use of the same complaint filing formats and procedures. Once the complaint is received the BBB acts as an impartial mediator and provides access to dispute resolution tools in order to resolve the complaint.


The additional value of the BBB, aside from just mitigating the complaint process, is the BBB's ability to collect and make public information and data regarding consumer interactions with specific businesses.
 If you have had an unpleasant experience with the company you searched for, it may be a good idea to file a complaint in order to hopefully prevent future consumers from also having a similarly bad experience. The BBB handles complaints between consumers and businesses. They do not handle employment law disputes, discrimination or healthcare claims, nor matters currently or already litigated.The BBB suggests, but does not require consumers to first try to resolve the issue with the business before commencing the official BBB complaint filing process.
The BBB logs complaints in 5 different areas: advertising and sales issues, billing and collection issues, problems with product or service, delivery issues, and guarantee or warranty issues.
 You can submit a complaint through the BBB online website. Within two business days all information that you submitted is forwarded to the business, who will then have 14 days to respond. If the response is not received within 14 days, the BBB will send the business a second complaint. BBB will provide you with an update regarding whether a response has been received or not. BBB complaints are typically resolved within 30 business days.


The BBB cannot force a business to reply to complaint, since it has no legal authority. It can cancel BBB memberships for those business members who do not adhere to the standards all BBB members voluntarily agree to follow.
 The BBB collects information from both parties in the complaint and employs various dispute resolution tactics in order to prevent the dispute from going to court. The different dispute resolution processes that the BBB facilitates includes: The BBB can provide a trained mediator to assist both you and the business with coming to mutually-agreed upon solutions for the dispute at issue.
Informal dispute resolution is provided by a professionally-trained hearing officer who listens and makes non-binding decisions aimed at resolving the dispute.
Binding arbitration is provided by a trained arbitrator who listens to both parties, weighs in on the evidence presented and renders a decision regarding dispute resolution which all parties must follow. In order for arbitration to be binding, both parties must agree to accept the arbitration decision.

