 Since part of the reason for scratching is to sharpen and even shorten claw growth, you can help out with a regular, careful trim of your cat's claws.


If you don't know how to clip a cat's claws, ask your vet to show you how to do this the first time, as it is easy to hurt the cat badly if you don't what you're doing.A cat that is not used to claw clipping can be a little bothered by it initially but you need to persevere until they are comfortable with it. Again, praise your cat while your are trimming their claws so that they know you are caring.
It is useful to "blunt" the tips of the claws of an indoor cat that never has access to outdoor trees. You can do this with toenail clippers (never use claw clippers made for dogs) but you must know the correct cutting line to avoid injuring the cat. Ask your veterinarian or a groomer to show you this for the first time., “Soft Paws” glued to your cat’s nails will prevent the cat from damaging surfaces because the cap covers the sharp nail. You can glue these on yourself, or have your veterinarian do it for you. These caps will eventually fall off in three to six weeks and need to be reapplied.
 If your cat is already able to go in and out of the house, it is highly likely that they have found themselves a tree or two to scratch on. Encourage this (unless it's harming the tree) and continue to let them have appropriate outside time, as using nature for a scratching post will definitely reduce their desire to use your furniture as one.
 Declawing can be a quick and easy way to prevent furniture damage, however, it is a surgery, and like all medical procedures, comes with risks.


While it is still legal to declaw a cat in most (but not all) cities in the United States and Canada, there are some ethical considerations. Declawing is considered to be an act of cruelty, and is thus illegal in Europe and other countries. A significant proportion of cats having undergone declawing refuse to use the cat litter, develop aggressive behaviours (mainly biting and hissing), and show signs of intense stress and fear. It also makes them more vulnerable to predators, and does not allow them to stretch properly anymore. Do your research and make sure that you understand all that you need to know in order to make the decision to amputate the ends of your cat’s toes.The declawing procedure involves amputating the digit at the last joint of your cat’s front paws. Talk to your veterinarian if you think declawing is your choice. Some cats do fine but others suffer from chronic pain and, later, arthritis.Note that if you have a cat that goes outdoors, declawing their front paws may affect their ability to climb and defend themselves.Check the adoption or purchase contract for your cat. Some rescue groups and adoption agencies have “no declaw” clauses in the contract you signed to have your cat live in your home.

