 Applicant and employers can request a 3-year driver record for the purpose of checking the applicant's driving history. This is a snapshot of the last 3 years of the applicant's driving record. It provides information about accidents, tickets, suspensions, demerit points and suspensions. This is the most frequently request type, and can either be uncertified or certified (stamped by the Ministry of Transportation). The uncertified version is usually sufficient for employment purposes.


3-year abstracts also shows all of the information present on the driver's licence and the licence status.;
, When you are applying for or updating your car insurance, your insurance provider may request either a driver's licence history, a 5-year uncertified driver's record, or a complete driver's record. The driver's licence history and 5-year record include G1, G2, and G dates (if appropriate), previous addresses, replacements, and renewals. A version without the previous addresses is also available. The driver's licence history is available only to the driver, law enforcement and certain government agencies.


The complete driver's record includes more detail about violations, tickets, suspensions, and other infractions., You may need several different documents to apply to drive outside of Ontario. For example, you may need a 5-year certified driver's record. It contains Criminal Code of Canada convictions, suspensions and reinstatements for the past 5 years, Highway Traffic Act convictions and suspensions for the past 3 years, and demerit point information for the past 3 years. It is available only to the driver or law enforcement. You may also need a driver confirmation letter, which shows the date your licence was issued, your licence expiry date, and infractions/suspensions. This letter is also used if you are moving to another province., If you are in court for a traffic infraction, you will need an extended driver record. It contains Highway Traffic Act convictions and suspensions for the past 3 years and all Criminal Code of Canada convictions, suspensions and reinstatement's. It is available only to the driver or law enforcement. You may also need a driver's licence history to confirm your address or accident report to use as evidence (if you are the defendant)., You can check if your licence is valid by ordering a driver's licence check. This simply confirms whether or not your licence has expired or been suspended., All types of driver abstract, except for complete driver's records and driver confirmation letters, can be ordered online. Visit the website https://www.ontario.ca/page/order-drivers-record#section-9 and choose the type of abstract you need under "Types of records." Then, following the links under your chosen abstract type to order online., All types, except for driver's licence checks and driver confirmation letters, can be ordered at ServiceOntario kiosks. To find a kiosk near you, go to https://www.services.gov.on.ca/services/start.do?action=locations=., You can order all types of drivers abstract by mail. To do so, you need to print and fill out the application provided online and mail it in to the Ministry of Transportation with your payment. Links to the required forms can be found at https://www.ontario.ca/page/order-drivers-record#section-9.


All orders should be mailed to the following address: Ministry of Transportation, Licensing Administration and Support Office, Data Access Unit, 87 Sir William Hearst Avenue Room 158-D, Toronto, ON M3M 0B4
Checks or money orders included for payment with mail orders are to be made out to the Minister of Finance/MTO., Only the driver's licence check is available by phone. Call 1-800-387-3445 to order this check., Effective 2010, most abstracts cost $12 or $18, while the extended driver record and restricted driver record cost $48 or $54. The higher of the two costs is for certified versions of the documents in both cases. Driver's licence checks are either $2.00 or $2.50, depending on if you order by phone or online. The current costs are listed on the ServiceOntario website., If you are purchasing at a kiosk, you can use a credit card, cheque, or money order. If you are purchasing online, you must use a credit card or Interact Online. If you are purchasing through mail, you must use a Canadian bank-issued money order or cheque., Complete the required application documents fully and submit the required payment through your desired method of communication. Check again before paying to make sure that you are ordering the right abstract type. If you are ordering by mail, make sure that the ministry of transportation has your correct address, as they will mail the abstract to your legal address., Some abstracts, like uncertified 3-years, may be available immediately in the form of an email or download. However, others, like any certified abstract or a Complete driver's record, must be mailed to you. Mailed abstracts can take between 4 and 6 weeks to reach you.