 Plan on using at least three 100 light strings for every foot of height on your tree. So if your tree is six feet tall, you will be using about 18 light strings of 100 lights each., Avoid wrapping the lights around your tree as if it were a maypole. Start from the top and mentally divide your tree into three triangular sections until you get to the bottom of your tree’s cone., Use florist shears to clip any drooping branches or any branches that seem out of place., Place the last bulb of the first string of lights at the top of your tree. Carefully weave your lights back and forth through the top triangle section. Do not cross your cord over itself. Plug in another set of lights once you’ve reached the end of the first and continue weaving until you reach the bottom of the top triangle section.

Use a GFCI circuit for lights outside. These circuits are designed to prevent electrocution and shock.
 Weave lights through each triangular section until you reach the bottom of the cone of your tree. Avoid connecting more than 300 lights to one another as they may burn out., Any dark holes need to be filled. Rearrange your lights to fill in any gaps or until you’re satisfied., Remove the roller from a painters pole and use the metal bracket to string lights on trees that are 10 feet or taller without having to use a ladder.Work your way to the bottom and use another extension cord if needed. Plug any additional extension cords to your main power strip.Wrap your plugs with electrical tape to help keep them together as well as protect them from water.
 Use blue, white, or green lamps. Using yellow, red, amber, or pink can make your tree look a muddy brown., A strong wind can easily dislodge your lights if you use hooks to hang them up. Use plastic gutter clips that you can purchase from your hardware store. You may also find them in your arts and craft store., Test any outdoors sockets to be sure that they are functioning properly before plugging in any lights. Keep cords organized and neat away from any walkways where they can be tripping hazards.