 Flaxseed is a very small seed that is flat and oval shaped. The seeds are much smaller than sunflower seeds. It is found in more than one form and each has different properties.


Flaxseed comes in red to golden varieties. The color of the seed doesn’t mean the nutritional content is different, but the seeds may have a slightly different flavor. You can try the different varieties and determine which one has the most pleasing flavor. Some natural food stores may let you sample them in store so you do not have to purchase several types.;
, Whole flaxseed is the unbroken tiny seeds. The benefits of whole flaxseed are that is has more fiber and a longer shelf life. It can also be used in more applications. The negative aspect to whole flaxseed is that the body may not fully digest the seed and the nutritional components may pass through the body unabsorbed.


You can purchase whole flax seeds and grind them in your blender or coffee mill.
 Ground flaxseed, or flax meal, is the milled seeds. Ground flaxseed is slightly coarser than flour and has a nutty smell and flavor. Ground flaxseed can be purchased or it can be made at home. Ground flaxseed also allows for complete absorption of the nutritional components by the body. The drawback to purchasing ground flaxseed is the short shelf life. It doesn’t last for more than a few weeks once it has been opened and should be stored in a cool, dark place for best quality. Unless stored in special mylar packaging, ground flaxseed loses much of its nutritional potency, or active compounds, within 24 hours.If you wish to store it long-term, make sure you are keeping the flaxseed in a resealable mylar bag., Many natural food stores offer flaxseed in bulk. It is usually cheaper than the pre-packaged flaxseed and you can get as little or as much as you need. Flaxseed generally runs from US$8.00 to $12.00 per lb depending on where it is purchased.
 Flaxseed oil is an easy way to get many of the health benefits of flaxseed. Keep it refrigerated to maintain freshness.Unlike the whole and ground seeds, flaxseed oil does not contain phytoestrogens. It does contain ALA fatty acids, however, which have health benefits.

