 To start, you'll need to gather your pedicure materials. You can find most of the materials you need at a local drug store, supermarket, or beauty shop. In order to do a salon style pedicure, you'll need the following:


Acetone free nail polish remover
Sea salt and a bowl big enough for both your feet
Toenail clippers and a toenail file
A pumice stone or similar device
Foot moisturizer
A cuticle pusher and cuticle clippers
Toe separators
Nail polish and top coat
Q-tips
Cotton balls
Exfoliating gel

, To start, remove your nail polish. As with fingernails, avoid soaking toenails in polish. Dab a cotton ball in nail polish remover. Swab your toenails until they're free of all old polish. If you do not have leftover polish on your toenails, you can skip this step., You want to get the skin on your feet wet and loose in order to remove dead skin. A sea salt soak can help with this, and it can also prep your cuticles for care.Fill your bowl with warm water and add a capful of dead sea salt.
Submerge your feet in the basin for about 10 minutes.
 Take a toenail clipper and clip your toenails straight across. They should be short enough that they're about even with the tops of your toes. Then, take a nail file and to round out the edge of each nail to form a nice curved shape.To file your nails, rub the edge of the file along your nails until they gradually wear down and form your desired shape.
You should use an emery board nail to file down your toenails.
 Use your pumice stone, or a similar object, to rub down calloused spots on your feet. Rub the stone gently over troublesome areas, like the heels and your big toe. Rub until you remove rough, calloused skin and are left with smooth feet., You'll want to exfoliate your skin after removing rough spots. This will get any dead skin cells of your feet. Take your exfoliating gel and rub it over the areas you filed down. Rub gently, but with enough force to dislodge any flaky skin. When you're done, rinse off your feet with tap water and pat dry with a towel., Your feet will be a bit dry after the exfoliating and filing process. You'll want to apply some moisturizer to replenish lost oils. Rub a generous amount of foot cream over your feet, making sure to target the areas that were filed and exfoliated.Do not neglect to get foot cream between your toes. These areas are often neglected when moisturizing.
 Take your cuticle pusher and gently push back the cuticles on your toenails. Like your fingernails, the cuticles are small flaps of skin on the base of your nails. Then, take your cuticle cutter and run the blade along the length of your cuticles to remove them.Make sure to be gentle and move slowly. Toenails are no different from fingernails when it comes to a risk of infection. Pushing or cutting with too much force can result in an infection.
 Take your toe separators and fit them onto your feet. Toe separators are plastic devices with slots for each toe. They're designed to create space between your toes as you work, preventing you from getting polish onto your skin. Once the separators are in place, add a base coat to each toenail.Do not use more than a couple brush strokes to apply the base coat. If there are any uneven layers or bubbles, use a few shorter strokes to smooth the polish out.
Allow the base coat to air dry before you go on to the next step.
 Once your base coat is dry, apply a layer of nail polish. Apply two layers of polish to your toes, working slowly to prevent the polish from smearing. Then, allow your toenails to air dry.It's somewhat easier to allow toenails to dry than fingernails. You should avoid walking too much and try to keep your feet propped up.
You can read a book or watch a TV show to entertain yourself during the process.
 Once your toenails are fully dry, apply a layer of top coat. This will keep your toenails looking shiny and also make your polish last longer. Once the top coat is on, allow it to air dry completely., Take a q-tip and dab it in some nail polish. Then, clean off any polish that got onto the skin surrounding your nails. Make sure to go slowly to avoid accidentally removing polish with the q-tip., Once you're done with your pedicure, apply cuticle moisturizer. Your skin will have dried out some during the process. Take a moisturizer and dab it onto each cuticle. Then, rub the moisturizer into the skin until all the lumps have dissolved.