 Meditation is associated with quiet reflection. First, find a good environment for meditation; this could be a quiet room, a peaceful meadow or sitting near a stream in the woods. Remove yourself from the rest of the world if you can.


You may find this useful to do before you go to sleep.
 Close doors and windows, and dim harsh lights. Limit clutter, traffic and noise levels. Light an aromatic candle if you wish.


Ask others for this time alone. Place a "do not disturb" sign on the door to your room.
If you choose, you can listen to slow, calming music.Songs with harps, guitars or piano are particularly calming. If possible, avoid music with lyrics, as this may cause distraction and make it more difficult to focus.Rest on your bed, in a chair, on the grass or a blanket. You can also choose to sit with your legs crossed., Meditation can be done with eyes open or closed, but for beginners it can be easier with closed eyes in order to limit outside distractions.


When you begin to meditate try not to think of anything else but inner peace (whatever that may mean to you). If images or thoughts stray, use encouraging words to concentrate or simply bring your attention back to the meditation.
It's natural for your mind to wander - do not over-discipline. Brilliant ideas may arise from a wandering mind.
After meditating, record any thoughts or feelings that may be helpful or of interest. Write the date and time to review progress.
 There are other types of meditation such as visualization and imagery that prove useful for some individuals.Try to control what you imagine or think of in your mind. This outcome may help you with everyday life and achievement of goals.


Close your eyes and imagine yourself in a safe place where you can relax and be calm. This might be a beach, your bedroom, or in the middle of a garden. Notice how it feels in your safe place. Is it warm, soft, comforting? What do you hear? What do you see? Think about how it smells in your safe space. You can choose to stay there a while and when you are ready, open your eyes.Reflect on how it felt to go to your safe place. Use this visualization any time you feel like you are not a peace.
Imagine that you woke up in the morning and a miracle occurred - every problem you have was solved overnight. Visualize what you and your surroundings would look like. Where are you? What does it feel like? Who is around you? What do you hear? What are you doing?This visualization helps with goal setting and achievement., Art education promotes inner peace and helps individuals feel relaxed and satisfied. Focusing art while you meditate can help inspire you, and give you a sense of freedom and wonderment.Pick a piece of art (painting, sculpture, etc.) and focus on it for 5 minutes. What do you observe about the art? What emotions come up? Does a story play out in your mind? What thoughts come up for you?
Appreciate the art and what it means to you. Enjoy it.
 There are so many different types of meditation available to you. The more forms you explore, the more of an expert you will become at meditation and finding inner peace.Try mantra or transcendental meditation where you repeat a word or phrase over and over again during your meditation.
Do Yoga. Yoga involves doing poses that require concentration; this increases a sense of calm and presence in the current moment.
Qi gong is a type of traditional Chinese medicine which focuses on creating balance through the combination of deep breathing, meditation, and physical movement.Tai Chi is a Chinese marital art, which combines deep breathing with traditional Chinese poses in order to promote relaxation and wellness.