 If you have thyroid problems, you should adopt a healthier, clean eating diet plan. This generally means your diet consists is one of whole, non-processed foods. Promoting a healthy lifestyle for yourself leads to healthier thyroid function.Clean diets full of unprocessed and whole foods help eliminate inflammatory foods, which can have negative effects on your thyroid.
Many people who have thyroid issues have gluten sensitivities. Try to limit, or eliminate completely, the gluten in your food.;
, To help promote healthy functioning of your thyroid you should avoid alcohol, caffeine, and tobacco products. These products cause stress hormones to increase, which can affect your thyroid and lead to a hormone imbalance.If you don’t want to give up alcohol and caffeine forever, you should cut them out of your diet for a few weeks, then use them in moderation. There are some studies that suggest black coffee may be beneficial for neurological health.
 Certain foods can help your thyroid work better. For any thyroid disease, make sure you include the foods that support your thyroid gland. These foods include:Berries, such as blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, blackberries, elderberries, salmon berries, and blackberries. Berries contain high levels of antioxidants which help boost your immune system and dampen inflammation.
Lots of fresh vegetables. Include a wide variety of colors, such as greens, plus red, orange, yellow, and purple vegetables, and all types of vegetables, like leafy, stem, florets, and tubers.
Fish, like salmon, mackerel and tuna. These fish are high in omega-3 fatty acids. Non-fish sources of omega-3 fatty acids are walnuts, borage, and flaxseed oils. Omega-3 fatty acids are important building blocks for naturally produced anti-inflammatory substances in your body.
Foods with vitamin D. You can eat fish and mushrooms, or dairy products fortified with vitamin D. To increase vitamin D, you can also spend 10 to 15 minutes in the sun.
High-quality protein. Try to get one at every meal. Good sources of protein include poultry, beans, eggs, legumes, and nuts.
 You should increase the amount of foods with nutrients that boost the function of your thyroid. Try to eat at least one serving of food containing these nutrients each day.


Eat more vitamin A. Foods high in Vitamin A include vegetables, like sweet potato, spinach and other dark leafy greens, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash; fruit such as cantaloupe, mangoes, and apricots; legumes, meat, liver, and fish.Tyrosine is essential for good thyroid function. You can find this in turkey or egg whites.
Selenium also helps regulate thyroid production. Brazil nuts are the best source of selenium. You can also find selenium in tuna, mushrooms, beef, sunflower seeds, halibut, and soybeans.Check your iodine. In developing countries, supplementing your iodine intake with iodine-based salt can improve thyroid function; however, in many developed countries, you may be at risk for an excess of iodine, which can cause autoimmune thyroiditis. Talk to your doctor about your iodine intake and if you need to adjust it.
 If you are have hypothyroidism, that means your thyroid works slower than normal. Some foods may interfere with your thyroid’s function by suppressing it, which can make hypothyroidism worse. Limit certain vegetables, such as cabbage, Brussels sprouts, rutabagas, broccoli, and bok choy. These foods can interfere with iodine uptake in the thyroid. If you want to eat them, make sure to steam them and don’t eat them raw.It is recommended to limit peanuts/peanut butter as this can interfere with iodine uptake in our bodies.
You should eliminate foods that have high levels of mercury, such as swordfish, mackerel, shark, and most tuna. These foods interfere with your thyroid.

