 It's basically a tutorial showing you how to play. Here you learn the basics for the game. Here are some controls:


A button: Pass ball, switch control of players when not in possession of the ball. During a mega strike, use A to block the ball.
B button: Charge/Shoot ball. When the Mega Strike meter is activated, the B button also controls your selection (more on mega strikes later).
Analog stick: Move, point in the direction you want to go
Z Button: Chip ball ahead
Z+A: Air pass
Z+B: Lob shot
C button: Use items
Shake remote: hit/tackle players
D-Pad: On offense, use a deke to throw defenders off, on defense, use for slide tackle/steal.;
, Try going to Domination Mode to improve your skills against the computer. Start with the skill level low, and work your way up as you begin to improve.
 All the captains and their sidekicks have their own set of skills, talents, and weaknesses. Each team has one captain, three sidekicks and a goalkeeper (who is controlled by the computer, except during opposing mega strikes and when the goalkeeper has the ball).


Balanced: These characters are average in all aspects of the game which include shooting, passing, defense, and movement (speed). Balanced captains: Mario, Luigi, Yoshi. Balanced sidekicks: Shy Guy, Koopa Troopa.
Power: Players with excellent shooting and defensive skills, but lack in terms of speed and passing. Power captains: Bowser, DK, Petey. Power sidekicks: Birdo, Monty Mole.
Offensive: Offensive characters are great shooters and passers, but are slow and lacking on defense. Offensive Captains: Wario, Bowser Jr. Offensive Sidekicks: Hammer Bro.
Defensive: Players who are quick and play great defense, but are poor on offense and can't do much when the have the ball. Defensive Captains: Waluigi, Daisy. Defensive Sidekicks: Dry Bones.
Playmakers: Players who can pass well and are quick. They are good for setting up goals but don't shoot or play defense well. Playmaker Captains: Peach, Diddy Kong. Playmaker Sidekicks: Boo, Toad.
 It's a tournament that's all about the road to the top...the ultimate prize of the game being the Striker Cup Trophy. You start out on the relatively easy Fire Cup, being one of four teams. Play each team twice, and the top two teams compete in an elimination game. The winner plays the Fire Cup Champion in a 3-game series. The champion is Bowser Jr, and if you win you unlock him as a playable character. You can then move forward to the Crystal Cup. The difficulty level is increased and there are now six teams. Play each team twice, top four teams advance. A two-round playoff system determines who plays the Champion (Diddy Kong) in a 3 game series. If you win, you unlock Diddy Kong an move on to the Striker Cup. The Striker Cup is tough and there are ten teams fighting for the trophy. Play each once, the best eight advance to playoffs. The winner in the playoffs faces the games final boss, Petey, in a series for the Cup. If you win, you have beaten the game and unlock Petey.
 It is possible to score up to six points from a megastrike. To do one, when you are open, charge the ball as much as you can. Then, a meter will appear with different colored sections. A marker will begin to move up the meter. To stop the meter, press B. The farther up the meter goes, the more shots will be fired. The marker then comes back, and most of the meter is gray, with a small orange spot in the middle and green sections just outside the orange. If you get the meter to stop (by pressing B) in the gray, the shots will be fired slowly, giving the goalie a better chance of blocking them. Landing in the green results in a medium speed mega strike, and orange is very fast. Be careful when trying to select a high number of shots, the longer the meter goes, the more time your opponent has to stop you by stealing the ball. If you go too far, the meter will give you a default minimum three shots.
 If the mega striker is successful in completing the move, you then act as the goalie to block the incoming balls. You take control of the goalie's hands with the Wii remote's motion detector function allowing you to point the remote at the screen and block each shot as it comes through. Remember to act fast and once your goalie's hands are over the ball, press A to destroy the ball.
 Press B to charge the ball. The more charged the ball is the faster it moves between players and the more likely you are to score. You can tell how charged the ball is by its color. An uncharged ball is purple and a fully charged one is white, representing the best scoring opportunity. Besides just pressing B, you can also charge the ball by passing it to teammates and chipping it ahead with Z.
 Mario Strikers Charged is playable online. Playing matches against real players can be very fun and challenging, as most online players are very experienced and many have found ways to take advantage of glitches in the game. Be informed that there are many cheaters online. The game keeps track of your wins and losses, and ranks players according to points. You are awarded ten points for a victory, and one point for defeat. You also get a point bonus of the number of goals you scored. So if you won 5-3, you would get 15 points and your opponent would receive four. Every seven days is a new "season". The stats and rankings are cleared every new season.

