 One key way to make your ex jealous is to not let on that you are upset. Even if you are heartbroken, pretend that you are good. Don't talk about the breakup, and don't let your ex see your sad. Make your ex think that you don't care that the relationship has ended.


Don't talk about the breakup on social media. Don't update your status or tweet about how you are sad, refrain from posting sad lyrics, and make sure you don't make cryptic posts. Your ex may see this and think you are talking about the relationship.Try not to be too chipper. There's a line between being okay and over it and being fake happy. You want to seem genuine so as not to tip off your ex. Don't include your ex in your happiness. Don't update things like, "So happy single!" or "So happy without the ex!" Those comments show that you are definitely not fine.
 When you break up, don't stop hanging out with the friends that you and your ex have in common. Instead, go hang out with your friends when invited somewhere, or go to the normal dinner in the city both of you used to attend together.Staying friends helps you remember that these people were your friends, too. There's no point in losing good friends just because you broke up.
Going out with mutual friends also helps information get back to your ex. This is a good way to show that you are doing great and not moping around.
 One way to make your ex jealous is to sever all contact between the two of you right after you split. Shoot for a decent length of time, like 3-4 weeks. This lack of contact may get your ex to think about what you are doing. Have you moved on? Are you dating other people? Are you over the break up already?If your ex texts or calls you, don't respond. If your ex tries to contact you on social media, don't reply. Don't text or call him, especially to talk about the relationship. Get some distance.You want to make it look like you're moving on and not letting the breakup bother you.
The key is to make your ex think about you and start wondering what you are doing because he doesn't know what you are doing, who you are seeing, or where you are going.
Resist the temptation to text with your ex late at night. Late night melancholia may make you do things you'll regret in the morning. Don't give in if your ex texts for a booty call. Be strong and ignore those messages.After the period of silence, respond back with simple comments. Say something like, "hey," or respond to their text with something short and witty. Keep it light and casual.
 A good way to get under your ex's skin is to post pictures of yourself with the opposite sex. It doesn't matter if it's a colleague, a friend, or someone's sibling. Interacting and letting your ex see you with someone else helps show that you are moving on. It also shows that he is being replaced, which helps trigger jealousy.Decide which social media outlet your ex would be more likely to see. Then, post a few good pictures with someone.
Don't overdo it. Don't post pictures with ten different people, and don't post tons of pictures. You want to tease your ex with the idea that you are with someone else. Don't be obvious that you are trying to make him jealous. You don't want to seem desperate., Hanging out and being friends with the opposite sex can also cause your ex to be jealous. Flirt, meet, and have fun with the opposite sex. Try to do it so that your ex finds out about it. This could be accomplished by posting about it through social media, or flirting with the opposite sex when mutual friends are around.Date other people with caution. If the ultimate goal is to get your ex back, then dating someone else can push him away. You don't want to sabotage your chances of getting back together if that is what you want.
 When you see your ex, act nice. By talking to him, smiling, and asking how he is doing, you show that you are moving on and getting over it. This can help make him jealous. He may even think about how nice and great you are afterwards.


Keep the conversation light and natural. Treat your ex like an acquaintance. Ask surface questions, not questions about who your ex is dating. If asked how you are doing, say you are doing well. Make sure not to oversell it. You don't want your ex to think you are faking.Don't be rude to him. That is a classic way of showing you are not over the breakup. If you say something mean to him, it could turn him off and make him glad you two broke up., Don't show your ex that you are interested in him at all. When he posts updates about life events, like a promotion or a trip, don't engage. Don't like the post, don't comment, and don't mention it to your friends. Make it so your ex thinks you are totally off his radar.If someone brings up something about your ex later, claim that you didn't know, even if you did. Make sure it's clear to your ex (even through the grapevine) that you are not interested in his life and are not keeping up with him.

