 It's always nice to have your expectations surpassed. This is why you must plan at least one surprise that you know she wouldn't expect in a million thoughts. Some surprise ideas include:


Mail a handwritten letter and a card the day before (or in as much time ahead as needed to reach the mailbox). Postage is so romantic, simply because so few people use it to send messages now. Insert a handwritten poem as well as your dedication and letter.






Show up with a cup of chocolate mousse in bed as a breakfast appetizer. Beginning the day with something sweet sets the perfect tone for the rest of the day.
Text her a poem. A love sonnet is great, but lyrics to a love ballad from her favorite era works just as well. You can be more imaginative than just taking her out to dinner in the evening, you know you can.






Fruit can be a sweet gift for your beloved wife in place of the usual flowers, provided it has had some effort put into it.






Have a few small gifts piled up at the foot of the bed or arranged on the breakfast tray, consisting of simple joys that you know she likes. Choose things like seeds for growing flowers this coming spring, a new release from a favorite author, a watercolor paint set or vouchers for a massage at her favorite beauty parlor.
 Hey, you're spending a day with a wonderful woman. It's worth throwing some caution aside. Take her out to dessert, and if she can't decide between two desserts, order them both. Try to win her a stuffed animal from the arcade, or buy her a bouquet of balloons big enough to lift a small child off the ground. Take her back to her childhood for a bit of fun, just so that she feels worth it.
 In the morning, have her favorite breakfast with her. In the evening, rent the movie she wants to see. Sit through it and act happy; your suffering will pay off in her gratitude for your fortitude! If you buy chocolates or flowers, make sure they’re her favorite; bonus points if they're ones she rarely has because of their price and exclusivity.


She will adore you if you learn the proper way to put flowers in a vase. Bring home a bouquet and tell her to sit down and talk about her day while you put your new skill to work. She'll be impressed at your handiwork and ability to listen at the same time.
 What did you do when you were just starting out? If you went to Wendy’s all the time, show up at the door with two "Frosties" and the first movie you saw together.
 Visit somewhere out of a book or movie she likes. Take her somewhere cold where she has to wear gloves, then pull off one glove at a time and kiss every finger tip (she will melt at this gesture). Bring home so many flowers it looks like you bought out the flower stand, or pick a bouquet of wild flowers. Wash her hair for her or serenade her––it’s okay to use a stereo.
 Or at least to a few people. Send her flowers at work so everyone can see, or stop her in the middle of the crowd and kiss her. Write your initials in sidewalk chalk. Hire a mariachi band to play outside her window or office.
 Buy her a beautiful vintage hand-held mirror and say a woman so lovely deserves to look at herself in a mirror as delicately crafted as she is.
 Set your alarm early and hold her close in the morning. If she has to go somewhere, walk her out to her car just to open the door. Go rollerblading together. Show up at school to pick up the kids with her. Slow dance to jazz love songs or just sing to her and dance under the stars. Do things that revive the magic in your romance.

