 Unplug the machine so you can handle it safely. Never work on the interior of a machine while it still has power, or you could be electrocuted or injured by moving parts.
 Choose a bucket you can easily lift when filled with water.
 An unpowered machine should not allow more water to enter the system. If you want to be extra safe, find the supply hoses leading from the back of the machine, and disconnect them where they meet the plumbing. The supply hose or hoses are smooth, not rippled. Disconnect them by turning each valve so it runs across the pipe, instead of along it.A cold-only supply is grey or blue. If there is a second supply hose for hot water, it is usually red. Both hoses are smooth.
 The drain hose is grey and rippled, similar to a vacuum cleaner hose. Detach it on the plumbing end by removing the twist tie, or by unscrewing the hose clamp if present. Ease off the hose, which may be firmly attached. Do not lower the hose or let it fall to the ground.


If there's a kink in the hose, this could be the problem. Straighten the hose, restore water and power, and run a spin cycle to see if the machine drains. If not, shut off water and power again and continue to the next step.
 Lots of waste water will flow out quite quickly. When the bucket is mostly full, lift the hose back up and reattach it to its connection again while you empty the bucket. Repeat until no more water leaves the hose.


If you empty the bucket into the same sink that feeds your machine, pour slowly. There's a chance that some water will flow through the open connection to the hoses.
When the water flow slows, tilt the bucket forward so you can bring the hose closer to the ground
If no water comes out, there is probably a blockage in the hose. Clearing this or replacing the hose may fix your problem.
 This next part usually gets messy. Lay a few dirty towels on the floor, against the front of the machine. Tuck them under the machine if possible.


On some machines, a thin baking tray can fit under the gap between the floor and the base of the machine. Use this as well as the towels if possible.
 Some machines have a blank plastic cover over this area, while others have a small "door." On a front-loaded machine, either type is usually located on the front of the machine, near the base. Look up instructions for your model, or search for and disconnect it on your own:


Most plastic covers are attached by plastic tabs. These break easily, so work slowly and methodically. Tug repeatedly until each tab unlatches, without using excessive force.
Square, door-like ports are sometimes attached by tabs as well, but some have a simple handle.
Round plugs often have a retaining screw, which you'll need to remove and set aside. Slowly twist the plug anticlockwise (this may require force). If water seeps out, wait until it's all come out before you remove the plug completely. If necessary, tighten the plug again while you replace the soaked towels.
 Once the port is removed, you should see the pump on the other side. Use a crochet needle, a wire with the end bent back, or a similar small item to reach into the pump. Clean out all the lint and any trapped objects you find. Be thorough, as there may be more than one object.


If you did not find any items, turn on your phone light or torch. Shine it into the pump interior, at the pump paddles. Use a long, thin spoon or other object to gently turn the paddles. If the paddles turn, the pump is probably not clogged.
 Follow the above instructions in reverse to reattach the port panel, retaining screw (if present), and hose. Restore the water supply and power.
 Open the machine door and fill the tumbler with enough water that you can see it above the holes at the bottom. Close the door and put on a spin cycle only. If the water drains, congratulations, you've solved the problem. If it does not, there may be an electrical fault to the pump. This requires a qualified washing machine technician to repair.

