 One major characteristic of an emotionally mature adult is the ability to identify, understand and accept their feelings—both good and bad. Most people won’t have trouble accepting joy or excitement. However, you may have difficulty coping with sadness or rejection.


Realize that feeling negative emotions is just as beneficial to your maturity as positive feelings. Emotions are simply a part of being human. Avoiding painful emotions like sadness can actually lead to bigger problems such as substance abuse or depression. When you accept all emotions, you learn to embrace your full humanity.Strive for acceptance by naming what you’re feeling. Describe it like “Right now, I feel rejected because I was not invited to the party. My throat is tight. I am also slightly angry and embarrassed. The tips of my ears are warm. These feelings will pass.”

, Self-control is at the core of emotional maturity. Just as you need to accept your emotions you also need to exert control over them by learning how to regulate your feelings. When you are not in control of your emotions you are at risk of acting in ways that you later regret.


Emotional maturity involves restraint. Pause and fully identify what you are feeling, pinpoint the reason you are feeling this way, and carefully devise an appropriate action.
For instance, if a friend shares your secret, you may be inclined to return the favor, telling one of theirs. By using self-control, you might rationalize that, although you feel angry, reciprocating a betrayal won’t make you feel any better. Instead you might choose to refrain from confiding in this person in the future., An emotionally mature person is open-minded and able to see the humanity in others, even when they look or think differently. Empathy is vital to becoming emotionally mature because with this trait you learn that your opinions, interests or beliefs are not the only way. Empathy allows you to consider the emotional experience of others, which can help you strengthen your bonds and avoid misunderstanding.


Increase empathy by paying more attention to the body language and temporary facial expressions of others. Consider how these signals fit into the circumstance. Then, become more aware of your own signals. How do you stand when you are angry? What micro-expression (i.e. mini facial expression) do you make when you are embarrassed?, Accepting and regulating your emotions is essential to emotional maturity, but you also need to know how to manage stress before it worsens. Building a stress-management toolbox can position you to have effective and helpful ways to release negative energy so that it doesn’t negatively affect your life. Think of activities that help you to relax and do them regularly to fend off stress.


Consider writing about your problems in a journal, practicing meditation, calling a friend, taking a walk in nature, watching a funny movie, or listening to soothing music.
In addition to adopting healthy practices, leading a healthier lifestyle also fights stress. Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night, eat a diet with an abundance of whole foods, drink plenty of water, and be physically active on most days of the week.