 If you don't already have an account, sign up for a free account. Both buttons are directly next to each other in the top right corner of the page. If you are on a mobile device, you can type a quicker redirect link to the same page by typing rmilk.com instead. If you are on a smaller mobile device (or simple phone), navigate to m.rememberthemilk.com instead.
 Type in the indicated bar which you'll find a few lines below the links for incomplete and completed near the center area of the page and press "Enter" when done. The task will be added as an uncompleted task.
 This feature is called "SmartAdd". You can use the caret (^) key to enter a due-date, ! with a number (1-3 where one is high) for the priority of the task, # to enter a tag, the @ for a location, the * to enter a repeat date or the equals sign to enter a time estimate. These were used more often by the older app, but they carried over but were stashed away under the keyboard shortcuts that can be used in a rarely found location under the gears menu at the top right corner of the screen.
 Although the old system used special characters for some of the changes you'd make (such as d for the due date, f for the repeat cycle, g for the time estimate, s for setting tags, l for the location and u for the URL you may use several characters when you first create the task to trigger special things such as the exclamation mark for changing it's priority and other special characters or words to trigger actions.For those on the new version of Remember the Milk, you can click the box that best suits the information you'd like to change for the item or change it when you create it by typing exactly how you want it to act.


Select the task you just created by clicking on it. Now you can change the settings for it.;
, You can type in a date: 01/01/2010 or just add "Tomorrow" or "Wednesday". For those on the new app website, you can select the day you want to make it due by clicking the button looks like a tear-off calendar with the number one on it and select the date accordingly.
 This is an organizing word that you can choose, for example: writing, reading, call, email. Once you assign a task a tag, you can search your to-do list using the tags.
 Click on the "More Actions" drop-down list to choose the correct action. For those on the new web app, you can

, See "Tips" below for tags that you can type in to make the task repeat. Unless you are using a reoccurring task that happens, this button will rarely be used. For the new web app, you will not find a button that will change the repeat date in the bar below the incomplete/complete links. Instead, look for the "Repeat" option in the right-hand sidebar's list of other fields for the task.


On the older web app, the repeat list listed several repeat types of cycles including Every Monday (or pick a day), every year, every week, every two weeks, every month, or every six months.
 For those on the older app, you will find this listed as "time estimate" instead.
 If you'd like to remember a link to where a to-do list item can be located, set up the URL or location it can be accessed so you can get there in a jiffy. Again, these are also in this drop-down list on the new web app.
 Click on "Settings" at the top of the screen and then on the "Reminders" tab. For those on the newer web app, choose the gears icon in the top right corner then select "Account settings" then click the reminders tab. However, in both cases, make sure you have a contact preference specified in your account to ensure you reminders can be sent somewhere, prior to trying to set your reminders as the options won't be shown until they are set for a reminder to be shown.
 Do this by clicking on the buttons above the list. For the new web app, you can click the button that looks like a calendar with a plus sign on it and select the details in the drop-down. However, on the older web app, you had to keep clicking until the new due date was changed for the date of the week, month or year an exact amount of times you needed and wasn't very suited to those trying to use it. (Instead of postponing for the older web app, just change the due date to the direct date you need if it's more than 2-3 days farther in advance.)

