 Latex is found in many products and even in some plants. Coming into contact with latex is enough to trigger a reaction in someone with an allergy. To help you avoid having an allergic reaction to latex, you'll want to avoid the two most common forms of latex contact:Direct contact with latex is the most common way an allergic reaction can occur. Depending on how allergic you are to latex, even a light touch could cause a reaction.
Latex particles are all possible to be inhaled. Inhaling latex will cause a reaction if you have an allergy and may have an effect on your respiratory system, resulting in a potentially dangerous medical situation.;
, Unfortunately for people with a latex allergy, many everyday products contain latex. Because of this, it's important for you to carefully read product labels and learn which products contain latex. Knowing which products to avoid can help you prevent future allergic reactions to latex. Take a look at some of the following examples of products that commonly contain latex:Some foods may trigger reactions in people with latex allergies. Try to avoid foods like avocado, chestnuts, bananas and kiwis.
Rubber toys, balloons, shower curtains, pacifiers, bandages, elastic, rubber bands and some adhesives are examples of household products that can contain latex.
 Because so many products contain latex, you'll want to find other products with which to replace them. Thankfully, there are many latex free products that you can switch to, allowing you to avoid future allergic reactions. Take a look at some of these examples to get an idea of which products you can replace with latex free alternatives:


Vinyl gloves can be a good replacement for gloves that contain latex.
Use condoms made from polyurethane or polyisoprene instead of latex.
You can try using cotton based bandages instead of ones that may contain latex.
Try to shop for clothing that is elastic free, as elastic usually contains latex.
For a detailed list of products that are latex free, visit http://latexallergyresources.org/latex-free-products


, Tell other people about your allergy to help reduce your chances of coming into contact with latex. Your friends, family or coworkers can all help by keeping latex based products away from you or by providing safer alternatives. Let those around you know about your latex allergy to help prevent a future allergic reaction.Tell your doctor and other health care providers about your allergy.
Talk to those in your workplace about your allergy.
Let your family and friends know about your allergy.
Consider wearing a medical bracelet that informs others about your allergy to latex.

