 In the U.S., bounty hunting is backed up by the 1872 Supreme Court case Taylor v. Taintor, but regulations vary from state to state. In yours, it may be illegal or you may need specific licensure. The professional organization representing this industry is the National Association of Fugitive Recovery Agents . Information can be had online or with a quick call to your local police department, courthouse, or in a visit with a friendly bondsman.


It's a good idea to research the legal requirements for neighboring states or countries too, as you may not be able to follow a suspect there unless you meet those requirements.
In most places other than the U.S., the activities of a bondsman (pledging money or property as bail to secure the appearance of a criminal defendant in court, in exchange for a fee from that defendant) are illegal, which eliminates the role of a bounty hunter. If you cross international borders in pursuit of a fugitive, your acts as a bounty hunter could get you arrested.

In fact, the only two countries that use commercial bail bonds are the US and the Philippines. This is just one of many laws where the US goes it alone.;
, Let's get honest here for a second: In some places, Hobo Joe off the street could be a bounty hunter (he would never be suspected, that's for sure). But in others, you may need to pass a background check. If you're not a convicted felon, this'll be a piece of cake.


You're thinking of Dog Chapman, that felon in Hawaii with that bounty hunting TV show, aren't you? Well, sure, he's a felon -- but did you ever notice how he doesn't apprehend the criminals himself and how he doesn't carry a gun? There. You want to carry a gun, right? And do the arresting yourself?, Again, this all depends on where you live. But if you want to travel across the country, you'd be better off having one. The more "permission" you have in general, the better.


Every state is different, so it's impossible to tell you just how to do this. Rest assured, wikiHow should have you covered. You can get a gun license in Minnesota, in Massachusetts, in Georgia, the list goes on and on. We can cover all your gun toting needs!

, You gotta be 18. 

, Right, so certain states require licensure or certification. You've got that part, yes? If you live in a state that does require certification, beware of schools that are just absolute crap. Do your research beforehand to make sure you're spending money on something that will actually pay off in the long run. Wondering about your state right now? Here's a list of states that do not require certification:


Hawaii
Alaska
Montana
Idaho
Wyoming
Kansas
Minnesota
Michigan
Alabama
Pennsylvania
Maryland
Vermont
Maine
Delaware
Rhode Island

It's straight up illegal in Oregon, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Illinois, and Nebraska, at least currently. Laws are subject to change every couple of years.