 Once you have a web browser open, type “Google Alerts” into your search engine or go directly to the website https://www.google.com/alerts. This will bring you to the Google Alerts home page.;
, Enter the topic you would like to receive alerts on. As soon as you begin typing, a sample of your first Google alert will appear. If you are not getting the results you expected, you can change your input right away.
 Enter a valid email address, which Google will use to send you the results of your query. Then complete the process by clicking on the red CREATE ALERT button. You will receive an email from Google Alerts asking you to confirm or cancel this request. Once you confirm the request, you will begin receiving your alerts. Your first basic Google Alert is now complete.
 There are some additional options available to tailor your search to your particular needs. For instance, you may choose the type of sources you wish to search from. The default is everything, which is a good choice if you're not sure which to pick. The other options are: News, Blogs, Video, Discussions and Books. If you have a look at this screenshot, the same topic is chosen as in the original example, but the source is changed to video. You can see how this changes the type of results you would receive.
 You can now indicate how often you would like the results to be delivered to your inbox. You have the options of once a week, once a day, or as-it-happens. The as-it-happens setting may deliver the results to your inbox multiple times a day, depending on how often the query appears in the news stream. If this is likely to be annoying, don't choose that option. Once a day and once a week will stockpile the results and only deliver them on your schedule. The default for this option is once a day.
 The last choice you have is to set the volume. This allows you to switch the volume between only the best results, in which Google filters your results for relevance to the topic, and all results.
 Enter your details to login.
, While signed in, you can also modify any current searches you have. Beside each alert is an Edit button (see black arrow). This allows you to modify your keywords as well as the volume and frequency of how alerts are delivered. You also have the choice of having the alert delivered to your inbox or directly into an RSS feed (see red arrows). Once you're done, you must either save or cancel the changes you have made.
 If you wish to delete one or more of your alerts, check off the box directly to the left of it (see red arrows). Once a box is ticked, the Delete button will become available (see black arrow). Once you click delete, your search will be removed. If you want it back, you'll have to re-create it.

