 Your odds of revealing too much decrease significantly for every extra inch of length. Here's a good test to try: can you sit down and stand up comfortably without feeling like you've revealed too much? Can you stoop at the knees to pick something up from the ground without having the skirt inch up past the middle of your thighs? If the answer to both questions is "no," you might need to consider a longer skirt.


A skirt that comes past the knees will also make it easier to get into and out of a car without revealing too much.;
, If you're truly paranoid about someone seeing up your skirt, you can try to lessen the potential embarrassment by wearing undergarments with plenty of coverage. Here are a few options to try:


A slip: In addition to preventing static cling, a slip can provide an extra layer of coverage between you and your skirt. Select one that's slightly shorter than the skirt you plan to wear, and is of a coordinating color (that is, a black slip for a dark skirt; a white or flesh-toned slip for a light skirt).Boyshort-cut underwear: This underwear should cover your hips and rear completely, as well as provide frontal coverage from the top of the thigh up to the top of the hips. Even if your skirt accidentally rides up, boyshort-cut underwear will make sure you are still covered sufficiently.Pantyhose: Most pairs of pantyhose should have an opaque "top" section, running from mid- or upper-thigh to abdomen. (This differentiates them from stockings, which usually stop at the mid-thigh.) A black pair of pantyhose makes any upskirt peek more difficult.
 Bike shorts are usually made out of stretchy material such as lycra or spandex, and can be worn over your underwear to provide an extra layer of coverage. Because they're so fitted, you shouldn't be able to see that you're wearing them once the skirt is on., In the winter and fall months especially, leggings can be worn under a skirt or dress to provide extra warmth. They will also help ensure that even if your skirt does ride up, you will not show too much skin.