 It’s important to know if your dog is a high energy breed. This can ensure that you get it enough activity so that it doesn’t get bored or exhibit destructive behaviors. Most dogs in the hunting, working, or herding groups are high energy. These groups include retrievers, hounds, collies, spaniels, pointers, and shepherds. Some specific dog breeds that are high energy include:Alaska Malamute
Bernese Mountain
Norwich Terrier
Shetland Sheepdog
Weimaraner;
, Simply taking your high energy dog for one or two short walks isn’t enough activity, nor is letting it loose in the backyard. High energy dogs need more exercise than low energy breeds. In general, they will need at least 30 minutes of vigorous exercise every day as well 1-2 hours of additional activity. Some great ways to meet your high energy dog’s both indoors and outdoors include:Walking
Running
Swimming
Climbing and/ or running up stairs
Throwing toys
Enjoying time in a fenced-in yard
Obstacle courses, High energy dogs are easily bored if they have nothing to do and destroy furniture, pillows, clothing or other household items as a result.Watching your high energy dog’s behavior can signal if it needs more exercise or activity.Some signs your dog may have energy to burn include:


Barking or whining
Digging
Jumping
Restlessness
Chewing, nipping, or biting
Scratching, High energy dogs need regular exercise as a result of their evolution. Your breed may require as many as 2 ½ hours of activity every day.This may be a lot of time if you are very busy. Setting a daily activity schedule can keep your high energy dog healthy and happy. The routine helps your dog anticipate it and may minimize unwanted behaviors.Establish a specific time every day for 30 minutes of vigorous activity with your dog. For example, set aside 30 minutes every morning to run. If you don’t run, let your dog run in an enclosed yard or dog park for 30 minutes. You could also play fetch or blow bubbles specifically designed for dogs to chase.Incorporate a brisk walk of about an hour every day, too. Break this into two 30-minute walks if need be.
Adjust your dog’s exercise routine as necessary. For example, if you have an appointment and get home early, use the extra time to engage your high energy dog.
 Just like people, every dog has a distinct personality. Your dog may run or play harder in certain place or with specific activities. Take at least one day to do something with your dog that you both enjoy but can’t get to daily. You could do any of the following “doggy and me” activities:Running
Inline skating
Bicycling
HikingSwimmingJumping over obstacles, If it is extremely cold or hot outside, it’s safer to keep your dog inside except for potty breaks. You can still give your high energy dog plenty of activity even if you are indoors.This can also be a great way to give your high energy dog activity if you are worn out or physically unwell. Doing any of the following can ensure your high energy gets enough activity and exercise so that it doesn’t get bored:Running up the stairs with your dog
Playing fetch up the stairsHiding treats around the house or in toysPlaying keep away
Kicking around dog exercise ballsSetting up an obstacle course

, A backyard is a great space to give your dog some activity. It’s not sufficient as a form of exercise, but can help burn off extra energy if you are worn out or otherwise unwell. Make sure to always supervise your dog in a fenced-in yard space.Turn outdoor time into exercise time, even you are unwell or worn out. You can easily do this by sitting outside or in a doorway and throwing you dog a ball, Frisbee, or other item to retrieve for you. Incorporate some games of tug while you’re watching your dog for added activity.Consider a dog park as an alternative to a yard space. This can help your dog get exercise and activity that burns energy—and boredom.
 Your dog may be hungry when it comes in from outside or after an indoor activity. Feeding your dog by using smart toys such as Kongs, Buster Cubes, Squirrel Dudes, and Tug-a-Jugs can provide vital activity and mental stimulation that requires little effort on your part.


Consider giving your dog some of its regular food when you get home so it’s not starving. Then put the rest into a smart toy.
Recognize that this is a great way to keep your dog busy when you are not home, feeling unwell, or unable to provide more activity because of external factors.
 It may be difficult at times to live with your high energy dog. This is true if you are worn out, physically unwell, or stressed out. Enlist the help of family members or friends with your dog. Many people are more than happy to help out with a cute pet. This can give you a needed break and provide your dog with the necessary activity to burn its energy and stay content.


Consider asking friends who have children to give you a hand. Kids often love dogs and have similar amounts of energy to run around and play games.
 Because of this, high energy dogs need more stimulation and are more prone to separation anxiety. This can be especially true if you have to leave your dog for 8-10 hours a day. Separation anxiety can lead to inactivity as well as cause boredom and destructive behaviors. Making a safe space that mimics a den can ensure your high energy dog gets enough activity and doesn’t develop separation anxiety.Put the dog in a dog-proof room or its crate. Make it comfortable with familiar toys, food and water, and other things to keep it busy such as chew sticks.Leave a piece of your recently worn clothing to provide your dog extra comfort.
 Your high energy dog will still need activity even in a doggy den. Providing it toys can help your dog get exercise and entertainment until you get home. Consider putting the following toys in your dog’s space:Hard rubber toys for chewing and carrying around
Rope toys
Balls
“Busy box” toys with hiding places for snacks.
Soft, stuffed and/or squeaky toys
Chew toys, Your high energy dog may have more activity needs than you can accommodate. If you need to leave for longer periods of time, consider putting your dog in day care. You can also employ a professional dog walker. Both can provide attention and activity when you can’t. Your dog should always return home happy and worn out from day care or time with a dog walker.Save the contact information for a couple of dependable dog walkers. They can help you in a pinch or if one is on vacation or otherwise unavailable.

