 To set up a personal bank account out of state, look at the banking options available to you in the other state to find the financial institution that will best meet your needs. Issues you may want to consider include operating hours, locations of branches, and online access.For example, if you have a vacation home in another state and want to open a bank account there, you might want to look at banks with branches near that vacation home that have weekend hours.
Keep in mind that if a bank has branches in your resident state, this isn't truly getting a bank account out-of-state. The branch in your resident state technically will be considered your home branch, although you can use branches anywhere.
This is important if you're trying to open a bank account out of state because you want to shield assets from garnishment after a judgement against you.
While judgement creditors may not be able to garnish assets out of state, if the bank has a branch in the state where the judgement was entered, they are still within the court's jurisdiction regardless of where you technically opened the account.;
, While most national and larger regional banks have similar requirements and types of accounts, smaller local banks may have additional requirements with which you're not familiar.Generally, you must be a U.S. citizen over the age of 18 to open a checking or savings account in any U.S. bank.
If you've previously had a negative banking relationship, including bounced checks or an account that went into overdraft, other banks may not be willing to open a checking account for you.
However, you still may be able to open a savings account even if you aren't eligible for a checking account. Since many banks offer debit cards for savings accounts as well as checking accounts, this option may still work for you.
 Most national and larger regional banks allow you to complete your application and open your account on their websites. Some smaller local and regional banks also may have a similar degree of accessibility, or you may have to visit a branch in person.Opening an account online won't work to establish an account out of state with some banks. The bank may require you to enter your state before allowing you to continue, and may not have the option for you to open an account if you live in a state in which that bank has no branches.
However, in other banks you may be able to open an account online where you wouldn't be able to do so in person. For instance, some banks do not allow you to open an account in person at a branch if you have an out-of-state driver's license.
You will have to enter your home address, driver's license information, and Social Security number on the application to open a bank account.
Depending on the details you enter, the bank may require additional information. You also may have to mail or fax copies of identification documents, such as your driver's license or Social Security card, so the bank can verify the information you provided on your application.
 If you have any problems or don't feel comfortable opening your account online, you typically can complete the application over the phone by calling the bank's customer service line.You should be able to find a toll-free number on the bank's website. Call that number and follow the prompts to speak to a representative.
Keep in mind that some banks may not allow you to open an account over the phone. Those that do may require you to mail or fax copies of identification documents so they can verify the information provided.
 Once your application is approved, you typically must make a minimum deposit to fund your account within a brief period of time after the initial set-up is complete. The amount you're required to deposit depends on the bank and the type of account you've chosen.You typically will need to make this deposit through wire transfer. Since you're transferring to a domestic bank, there may not be any processing fee.
However, be aware that your bank may charge a small fee to initiate the transfer to another bank, depending on the type of account from which you're withdrawing funds to make your initial deposit.
Other options to fund your account include mailing a check or money order to the bank, or visiting a branch in the other state and making a deposit in person.
If you opened your account online, the bank typically will give you options to choose if you want to deposit funds into your account electronically.

