 If your spouse has begun collecting social security, and you’re age 62 or older, you could qualify for “spousal retirement benefits".


If you’re eligible for your own retirement benefits, as well as spousal benefits, the SSA will normally pay your benefits first. However, if the benefits you’d be entitled to as a spouse turn out to be higher than your own retirement benefit, you’ll receive that higher benefit amount.As with collecting one’s own social security benefits (as seen above), if you claim spousal benefits before reaching full retirement age, the amount is reduced from what would be payable at full retirement.
A spouse doesn’t have to be eligible to collect social security on his or her own in order to be entitled to spousal benefits.You can also be entitled to full spousal benefits, no matter what age you are, if:

Your spouse is collecting social security, and
You care for your spouse’s dependent child who is under 16 years old, or is disabled., If you've reached full retirement age, and are eligible for a spousal benefit as well as your own retirement benefit, you might want to opt to take only the spousal benefit.


SSA will allow you to delay taking your own benefits. This means that you’ll still be getting a monthly check based on the spousal benefit, but your individual benefits will still be accruing.
This will result in your getting a higher monthly amount down the road, when you finally opt to start taking your own benefits., Under certain circumstances, you may be entitled to receive benefits based on your former spouse’s social security record. Some things to note are:


Your marriage must have lasted at least 10 years
You must be 62 years of age or older
You must be unmarried
If both you and your ex-spouse are at least 62 years old, and have been divorced for at least two years, you can collect social security even if your ex-spouse hasn’t filed for his or her benefits yet.
The amount a divorced spouse gets as a spousal benefit doesn’t affect the benefits of the ex-spouse or his or her current spouse., When a parent has begun receiving social security benefits, his or her child (biological, adopted, or dependent stepchild) may be entitled to up to half the parent’s full benefit. This only applies to children under certain conditions:


The child must be unmarried
He or she must be younger than age 18 years of age. However the child can still qualify if he or she:

Is between 18 and 19 years old, and a full-time student (but only through twelfth grade), or
Is 18 years of age or older, and was disabled before the age of 22 years., If a grandparent adopts a grandchild, or if that child ‘s parents don’t provide for his or her support because they are both deceased or disabled, he or she may qualify for social security benefits based on a grandparent’s work record. Check with your local SSA office to see if the child qualifies for benefits, and if so—how much.