 Paternity cases can be complicated and emotionally taxing. An experienced family law attorney can help protect your interests as well as the interests of the child.To find a family law attorney near you, try the searchable directory on the Ohio Bar Association's website.
You also may be able to get assistance from legal services or other family law clinics that provide free or reduced-fee services for low-income clients.
Keep in mind that many family law attorneys offer free initial consultations, so it's a good idea to interview several before you choose the attorney you want to hire.
 To have the court determine paternity, you must draft a complaint requesting the court determine the child's parentage and allocate parental rights and responsibilities and parenting time (commonly called custody and visitation).If you've decided not to hire an attorney, you can find a court-approved form to use on the website of the Supreme Court of Ohio.
You also should be able to get a paper copy of the same form by visiting the clerk's office of your county's juvenile court.
The complaint form requires you to enter information about the child and the child's parents.
If you have not yet completed genetic testing to determine whether the man named is the genetic father of the child, the court can order testing be performed.
You also can specify what you want the court to do in terms of awarding custody of the child.
 Once your complaint and other required documents are complete, you must file them in the juvenile court with jurisdiction over the child – typically the court located in the county where the child currently lives.Take your original documents to the clerk's office, along with at least two copies – one for your own records and one to have delivered to the other parent. If you believe more than one man may be the father of the child, you will need an extra copy for each man you want tested.
When you file your complaint, you will have to pay a filing fee, typically around $200.
If you cannot afford to pay these fees, you can file a "motion to proceed in forma pauperis" along with a financial disclosure form. These forms are available from the clerk, and also may be available for download from the court's website.
To qualify to proceed "in forma pauperis," which means the court will waive all court costs associated with your case, you must provide information about your income and assets.
If they fall below the poverty level in your county, or if you are receiving public benefits, the court may grant your motion and you won't be charged any court costs.
 All alleged, presumed, or acknowledged fathers must be provided a copy of the paternity documents so they have sufficient legal notice of the action to determine the child's parentage.Typically service is completed by having a sheriff's deputy of a private process server hand-deliver the documents to everyone who requires legal notice of the lawsuit.
Technically you can complete service by having the forms delivered by anyone over the age of 18 who doesn't have any interest in the lawsuit.
Since professional process servers will charge you a fee to perform service, you can save some money by having someone you know do it for you. However, keep in mind you will be responsible for ensuring they've completed the proof of service form correctly so you can file it with the court after service is complete.
 Typically the court will hold an initial hearing to evaluate the complaint and order genetic testing, if necessary, to determine the child's genetic father. After genetic testing is complete, there may be another hearing during which those test results are admitted into evidence.Keep in mind that if you haven't hired an attorney, this means you must represent yourself in court. You will have to speak to the judge and explain your case and what you want the court to do.
Dress and act respectfully at all court appearances. While you aren't required to wear a suit, you should wear clean, neat clothing of the type you would wear if you were interviewing for a job.
Arrive at the courthouse at least a half hour early so you have time to pass through security and find the correct courtroom.
Check with the clerk or on the court's website before the scheduled date of your hearing for a list of items that are not allowed in the courtroom, and make sure you don't have any of those items with you.
Typically you will want to arrange for child care rather than take the child with you to the court hearing.
 Based on the genetic testing results, the judge will issue an order declaring the child's parentage. This order also may include preliminary orders regarding custody, child support, and visitation rights.While the judge may make a ruling at the conclusion of the hearing, the written order may not be issued until a few days later.
Talk to someone in the clerk's office to find out when the written order will be entered, and whether a copy will be sent to you. If the court doesn't automatically mail you a copy of the order, you may have to go back to the clerk's office to get your copy.
The CSEA typically will be responsible for collection of child support. You may want to contact the CSEA office in your county after the judge's order is issued to make sure they have the correct information to process the order.

