 A woman’s body changes a lot during pregnancy, particularly in her abdomen. As the baby grows, the abdomen needs to expand to accommodate. This can sometimes be difficult to differentiate from belly fat in the same area, but a pregnancy has some subtle distinguishing characteristics. Weight gain in the belly area that looks like a well-defined bump, but little to no weight gain in other areas of the body is most likely caused by pregnancy. If you happen to accidentally bump into her, keep in mind that a pregnant belly is also much firmer than belly fat., Enlarged, growing breasts are a common physical change because breast tissue is very sensitive to hormonal changes. If you don’t know this person, this might not be helpful since you don’t have a pre-pregnancy breast size to compare her current size to; however, some pregnant women in the later stages of pregnancy have disproportionately large breasts to the rest of their body because they swell with milk production., Swollen ankles are also very common in pregnant women, especially around the fifth month. This is because the body retains more water and produces more blood and body fluid when a person is pregnant.She may also be wearing extra comfortable, supportive shoes or flip-flops to help with the pain associated with walking and standing with swollen feet and ankles.
 As her body begins to change and grow, many pregnant women also begin experiencing changes to their mobility. Keep an eye out for these common signs:


A waddling walk and other changes in gait are common as the growing belly and swelling feet cause the woman’s balance to be thrown off a bit.
Many pregnant women tend to hold their belly or keep a hand on their bump as they move around. This is both for balance and because of the bond that is growing between the mother and child., In addition to changes in mobility, many pregnant women also experience shortness of breath in their second and third trimesters. This is caused by the growing fetus needing more and more oxygen and also by the expanding uterus putting more pressure on the lungs and diaphragm.Feeling winded with minimal exertion is very common, and in combination with other signs of pregnancy can be conclusive.

