 Go to the courthouse and get the marriage license. (Note that in some countries you may need to wait a month or more after acquiring a licence to have a legal ceremony.);
, Invite people by email, phone, or (if you trust your delegates) word of mouth. If you have more than two weeks, use a computer to design and print your own invitations, but remember that they'll take time to go through the mail.
 If you don't have somebody in mind, ask people you know. Just about anybody can become an officiant, and chances are that word of mouth can put you in touch with somebody who has, or is willing. Choose somebody you are comfortable with.
 This step is not about haste or budget, but about having a ceremony that is meaningful and comfortable for you.
 Jewelry stores may try to sell you the fanciest, priciest thing, but meaning is far more important here than cost.
 Let everyone know that your wedding is a barbecue, picnic, beach, or luau theme. It is much easier and less costly to orchestrate these gatherings than something more formal or fancy, and nobody will mind that everything doesn't all match. Consider having a picnic or potluck wedding. Local guests can bring a food item, the more the merrier. Have a volunteer maintain a sign up list for the foods so you don't have too many of the same item. Chances are, your parents and/or grandparents' wedding receptions were cake-and-punch gatherings. If you invest a good portion of your budget on the cake, this can be a beautiful option.
 People are a lot more comfortable in casual clothing, anyway, and it will put everybody at ease. Wear clothes you already own, or buy something simple that you can wear again.
, Your guests won't have to stop everything and get lost going from here to there, and you won't have to prepare and clean up two different venues.
 Ask around and get creative. Otherwise, rent from a local party center.
 See if a party store near you has an inexpensive roll of plastic tablecloth material in the color of your wedding. Cut it to length and don't forget to tape it down, especially if you're outdoors. If you decorate further, skip the crepe paper and balloons, which belong at birthday parties. Rolls of tulle or organza are nearly as inexpensive and deliver real wedding appeal.
 A level-headed high school or college student is ideal, particularly anybody who has had experience in band, drama, restaurants, or the like. This person will help you watch timing, direct and assist with setup, run last minute errands, line people up for group photos, and so on. Offer to pay this person, especially if he/she is a "starving student", treat him or her to a nice dinner, or return the favor.
 Avoid making favors that will require much assembly. Enlist a friend who is "crafty" to do this for you!

, A single open rose or camellia floating in a bowl of water can be very elegant. Alternatively, for centerpieces, consider simple candles

, Let your guests know that you'd like copies of their snapshots. You'll probably have dozens of cameras in the crowd, and some will get good pictures. It's easier than ever to share photos. You'd have a hard time stopping people from taking hundreds of photos of your wedding. Do take the time to line up different groups of your guests for photos after the ceremony.
 Many guests will naturally clean up after themselves when given the opportunity.
