 Sometimes, you’ll find large patches of raised soil every now and then when exploring the world, or some headstones lying around in the Forest. Those are graves, and you can dig those up with a Shovel, which you can make for 2 Twigs and 2 Flint in your Science Machine. If you’ve dug up some graves and found some odd little things, you can take them to the Pig King, and chances are, he’ll accept them for quite a few pieces of Gold, normally more than what most Meats can net you.


The items you might dig up from graves include knots, buttons, toys, and a lawn gnome, which apparently amuses the Pig King immensely, judging by the amount of Gold he hands you.
Graves, and therefore items from them, are non-renewable and scarce in the original game, however, and must be considered as a sort of last resort if you need a lot of Gold at once. In the Reign of the Giants DLC of the PC edition and the console edition, these items can sometimes be found by breaking open Tumbleweeds in the Desert, but it’s still not very reliable despite the yield.
 Caverns are found by mining a large, craggy boulder called a Plugged Sinkhole you sometimes encounter while exploring, and going down the revealed hole in the ground. An earthquake would naturally and randomly happen underground, and would normally net you a small amount of Gold once it ends, though you’d have to be careful during it as rocks are constantly falling and will damage the player when hit with a falling rock.


You can sometimes trigger earthquakes by detonating Gunpowder and Slurtle Slime while in the Caverns. You can make Gunpowder by combining a Rotten Egg, Charcoal, and Nitre, and you can get Slurtle Slime by killing Slurtles, which look like an odd combination of turtle and slug, or feeding them plenty of Rocks.
 Sometimes, when exploring the Caverns, you will encounter giant white rabbits hopping around, or a carrot-shaped house. These Bunnymen are the underground equivalent of the Pigs, which means you could befriend them with carrots and they will aid you for as long as their loyalty lasts. You can also kill them by hitting them with a weapon or tool, or by letting them fight monsters for you. Killing them will net you a carrot, a piece of meat, and occasionally, a Bunny Puff, which you can trade to the Pig King for 2 Gold Nuggets. However, it’s an uncommon drop from the Bunnymen despite its worth.
 The Ruins is a layer lower than the Caverns and accessed by mining an orange pile of rock and going down in the resulting hole. When you find a pond and fish in the Ruins, you’ll get an Eel, which is renewable and worth a good 5 Gold Nuggets each when traded to the Pig King, unlike other Meat items. Fishing in the Ruins is reserved for late-game ventures, though, since the area is very dangerous.

