 Once you are licensed as boxing promoter, it's time to start preparing for your first event. One of the first things you'll need to do is find a place to host it. Local bars, clubs, and community centers are often ideal choices.In choosing a venue consider it's capacity. You don't want to rent a place that's too small and will not be able to fit everyone who wants to attend your event. On the other hand, a smaller venue can create the illusion of a packed house with a smaller crowd.
You will need adequate space for a regulation sized boxing ring. The size depends on nature of the event (e.g. amateur v. professional, weight class, and so on). Amateur rings are typically 16 to 20 square feet, while professional ones are 18 to 24 square feet.Your venue will also need to include dressing rooms for participants and medics, and ideally for officials as well. It will also need to include an area that the boxers can use to warm up., In addition to the venue, there is standard equipment you'll need to obtain prior to the event. This includes:The ring itself.
At least four sets of regulation competition gloves. Boxers are typically not allowed to provide their own gloves.
Protective headgear.
Tables and chairs for judges.
Stools and spit buckets for each corner.
A bell, a timer, and weigh scales.
 The person who recruits participants for a match is called the "matchmaker." Some promoters do this themselves, while others opt to hire a professional matchmaker.If you opt to hire a matchmaker, you can visit the BoxRec website to find a database listing licensed professionals.If you are playing this role yourself, contact a boxing club such as Golden Gloves to learn about boxers in your area who would be a good match., There are also legal requirements you'll need to satisfy prior to the event. Most states will require that you have both insurance for the event and one or more surety bonds.An insurance policy will be required to cover your liability in case someone is seriously hurt or killed during the match. Depending on the state, it is not unusual for for the law to require policies covering $10,000 in both medical expenses and life insurance.A surety bond is a bond you purchase to ensure that any payment you are required to make to the state (in the form of taxes) will be covered in the event that you default on your payment or violate state regulations. These bonds may be $10,000 or more, depending on the state., In addition to your own license, in many cases you also need a separate event permit for your match. The boxing commission in your state will have applications for these permits.


These permits will vary from state to state, but will typically require you to provide information about the date, time, and location of the event, details about the boxers (sometimes including weigh-ins and medical history), information about yourself and your business, details about your insurance, bonds, and safety equipment on the premises, and so on., A boxing event also requires you to have a range of staff on hand. You'll typically need to hire people to fill the following roles:Ringside physician (the association of ringside physicians can help you get in contact with someone)DJ/MC/Announcer
Security
Referee
Judges
Note that is common for boxing commissions to require that judges and referees be certified or examined by the commission.
 Let people know about your event and where they can buy tickets. There many ways to do this including:Social media
Flyers and posters
Contacting local media for coverage or advertising

