 If you’re set on doing your taxes on a piece of paper, you can print out a copy of the form from your computer. Alternatively, you can go to the post office or library.


You can actually make changes to the Schedule C PDF in your web browser, making it easy to fill it out an submit electronically at the IRS’ website. If you really want to, you can print it out and mail it in.
 You need to provide them with information on your method of accounting, your level of involvement with the business, and whether you received Form 1099 from anyone you contracted with.You won’t need any esoteric identifying information. All you need to know is the business’ name and address, your EIN, and then your name and Social Security number.
The hardest question to answer is the one asking for your method of accounting, but even this is easier than it seems. While you may not know the name of your method of accounting, you probably know how it works. Cash accounting is simple. You record the income when you get the money, you record an expense when you pay. However, if you run a business that holds inventory and sells goods you’ll use the accrual method. Under that method, you would record income when you got the order and not when you received the cash., Part I of Schedule C consists of lines one though seven, which correspond to the steps you’ll need to follow to find your gross income for the year. Once you understand the IRS’ definitions, determining your income is a matter of simple arithmetic. A few terms to know are:Your “gross receipts” describe all the money you took in during the previous year, before any deductions for expenses are made. So if you sell pies, it’s the sum total of everything everyone paid you for a year’s worth of pies.
“Returns and allowances” are just the value of products that a customer has returned or that you sold at a loss.
Every line won’t apply to everyone. For example, if an attorney ran a solo practice, their gross receipts and gross profit would be the same, because they’re not accepting returns and there were no goods for them to purchase.
 There are about twenty preselected categories of acceptable business expenses, and on the following page, ample room to add any miscellaneous expenses the filer thinks would qualify. Most of the categories are straightforward—utilities are utilities, wages are wages—but a few need further explanation.You are allowed a deduction for the business use of your car, but only after it has met certain conditions. For instance, you can deduct the actual cost of the business mileage, but you’d have to be able to document the mileage was for business and not personal use. The standard mileage rate is $0.57 per mile, but if you take the standard rate, you’re locked into taking that rate in the years to come, can’t deduct the car’s depreciation, nor its lease payments.
As line 13 shows, it is permissible to deduct for the depreciation in the value of your business assets. However, you have to follow a specific formula outlined on Form 4562 in order to determine the value of the depreciation. You can take a depreciation deduction on many different types of property, like computers, AV equipment, and more.
You can also deduct for the costs of business travel and business related entertainment, as long as the cost isn’t extravagant. While you can deduct the full amount of travel costs, including lodging, you can only deduct half of food and entertainment costs.
 If you’re engaged in the business of buying, selling, or manufacturing, you’re going to have to take inventory into account in order to determine your gross profit.Costs of goods sold is a simply the dollar amount it costs you to create whatever you then sell. For example, if I was manufacturing and selling chairs, and the materials cost $10 and the value of the labor to make the chair is another $10, then the cost to sell that good is $20.
Since the Costs of Goods Sold section is meant to be used by both manufacturers and vendors, some of the information the section asks for won’t apply to every filer.
 Part IV is the final portion of Schedule C to ask the filer any specific questions. In this case, they’re asking you to give several details which corroborate you use the car for business purposes. For example, they ask how many business miles the car was driven, if anyone else used the car, if you have another car, and if you have any documentation to support your claim.You should only complete Part IV if you are taking the standard deduction. If you’re taking the actual cost deduction, you will have provided this kind of information anyway.
 Any business expenses that have not been listed in other areas of Schedule C should be documented here.This really is a catch all category. Depending on what applies to them, people will list anything from amortization to start-up costs to retrofitting your office to make it more energy efficient. The main thing is that you have the documentation to back up whatever deduction you’re claiming.

