 Start with something that has vibrato, like classic rock or progressive. The most important technique for performing death metal vocals is to be able to control your breathing, establishing a balance between the force used by your diaphragm and vocal cords. Using only the vocal cords will put undue pressure on them and is sure to damage them. Proper technique is established by using the diaphragm to push air out of your lungs. Practice normal singing for a month first. This will really strengthen drive and make it easier on you when you start doing death growls.;
, Start out by doing normal melodic singing for at least ten minutes a day until you get a good feel for your vocal range. Then you'll want to start doing some alto vocals. (if you are a soprano, then abandon this technique, it requires intense deep vocals which is the opposite of soprano.)

, This relaxes your vocal chords. Avoid cold water, as it shocks the voice, and causes the vocal chords to "tense up." Also avoid hot water, as it can scald your tongue and throat.
 "Warming up" can mean anything from singing mid-tone melodies to delivering your vocal patterns in a clean chest tone. Even humming for five minutes would be more beneficial to you than not warming up your voice at all.


Try doing some deeper monotone vocals to get your vocals warmed up, then throw in a, e, i, o, n, u rapid fire in an alto voice while jumping up and down. This will warm up your throat by quickly moving it in different positions while also getting your chords ready for a deep growl exercise. Also, the jumping helps work your respiratory system which will allow you to work your lungs and diaphragm harder and longer.
 Do this all in one motion, but don't push too hard. Aim the sound higher in your throat to make a "dying old man"-like sound. It should sound something like a black metal raspy voice. From there lower the pitch in your throat the same way you would with your normal voice. At first, it won’t sound like much-- it takes some time to get used to.
 Keep your larynx down also. This technique will not only help your death metal vocals be strong and present, but is also the correct technique for melodic singing. The only difference between them is that regular voice comes from your vocal chords while death metal vocals come from your false vocal chords. (Instead of vibrating your vocal chords, focus your growling sound under your vocal chords, around your collarbone.)

, All of your vocal strength comes from the diaphragm. It also helps if your back is in a fixed position. Don't slouch or leave your spine limp. Inhale and belt out a deep roar by loosening your vocal chords. Your throat has to be relaxed in order for your growl to rumble with intensity.
 Say "ugh" forcefully as if you were annoyed and you will feel a low, slight vibration in the back of your throat. This is the essential sound for false chord vocals; take that vibration and practice drawing it out longer while adding more force to it with your diaphragm. You will find that it does not hurt as long as you are drinking plenty of water and not overdoing it. With practice, it will sound brutal!


If it is your first time growling you'll want to place your thumb and forefinger on the uppermost part of the front of your throat at the back of your jaw. Now open your throat wide, and you'll feel your tongue curl upwards. Now push out an almost "agh" sound from the back of your throat. If you feel your throat vibrating at your fingertips you are doing it right. Your growls will not sound as clean and deep or brutal as your favorite metal artists at first, but with practice you'll soon get there.






If the exercise begins to hurt your vocal chords in any way, then stop what you're doing! Growling, though harsh, is not supposed to damage or cause your vocals any physical discomfort. It should be a solid clean feeling; if your throat is sore, don't be alarmed, your throat will have to adjust to the way you're moving it so simply keep practicing and eventually it will go away. Growling should be performed by pushing air through your throat while distorting your vocals. Do not use your lungs to push out the air! You should fill up your lungs as much as possible and push out your diaphragm, then use your diaphragm to slowly push out the air.
 Take a deep breath and go from your diaphragm. Force the sound out from the bottom of your belly, really imitating the barking sound. Then extend the barking sound and try it with several words. Breathing like a dog, as stupid as it sounds, can help you open your throat and get a guttural sound to your grunts. Don't do it loudly at the beginning--increase your volume as you get better at it.


A good way to practice your grunts is to say the letters a, e, i, o, n, u. As you get better at your grunts, try doing this faster.
Do not practice this exercise for more than fifteen minutes a day unless you are practicing a song for your band or recording your music, as this is an unnecessary strain on your voice. A good solid practice of about ten to fifteen minutes a day will build up your conditioning and the power of your voice, anymore than this is simply overkill.
 Try to choose songs from bands like Slayer, Metallica, Alice Cooper, AC/DC or other bands who do not use the death grunts, as it will be easier to rehearse your grunts. Try singing it normally, then slowly add more "fire" to it, until you can feel your diaphragm really pushing and you're getting that deep sound you're looking for. If you don't succeed in the deep guttural vocals try a raspier approach. Anyone can achieve this, men as well as women.Good slow practice songs with normal vocals: “Black Sabbath” by Black Sabbath, “Dead Skin Mask” by Slayer, "Hard Rock Hallelujah" by Lordi.
Good slow practice songs with death metal vocals: “Death Walking Terror”- Cannibal Corpse, "Festering in the Crypt" by Cannibal Corpse, “I Cum Blood” by Cannibal Corpse, "The Jealous Sun" by Novembers Doom, "Sarcophagus" by Nile
Good fast practice songs with normal vocals: “Aggressive Perfector” by Slayer, “Dittohead” by Slayer, “Jesus Saves” by Slayer, “Necrophobic” by Slayer
Good fast practice songs with death metal vocals: “Disposal of the Body” by Cannibal Corpse, “Homage for Satan” by Decide, “Post Mortal Ejaculation” by Cannibal Corpse, “The Exorcist” by Possessed, "The Optimist" by Skinless, "4:20" by Six Feet Under, "Stabwound" by Necrophagist, "Egypt, the Red Earth" by Necronomicon, "Buried By The Dead" by Bloodbath, "Sick Salvation" by Bloodbath, "Prometherion" by Behemoth, "Scrolls of the Megilloth" by Mortification, "Demon of the Fall" by Opeth, "What Can Be Safely Written" by Nile.



Avoid milk as it increases any existing phlegm or mucus, which will coat your throat, stunting your progress.

