 Male turkeys are larger than female turkeys. If you're watching a group of turkeys, any adult male turkey should appear notably larger than any nearby females.


Adult males usually weigh between 16 and 24 pounds (7.2 and 10.8 kg), but adult females usually weigh between 8 and 10 pounds (3.6 and 4.5 kg).
The size of a turkey can be difficult to judge from a distance, though, especially if the turkey is by itself or if the group is scattered across uneven ground. As such, this is rarely an attribute that can be used to sex turkeys by itself, but it can still be good to know as a method of confirmation when other characteristics are identified first.;
, Adult male turkeys have a beard of modified feathers running down the chest. Female turkeys do not have a beard.Turkey beards look as though they're made of hair, but in actuality, the beards consist of unique feathers that form a stiff bristle.
Note that 10 to 20 percent of female turkeys also grow beards, so this method of sexing is not always accurate when used by itself.
Do not confuse the beard with the caruncle or snood. Caruncles are fleshy growths on top of the head and snoods are fleshy growths hanging over the bill of the bird. Both sexes have these growths, even though the snood of an adult male is usually somewhat larger than that of a female turkey.
 Female turkeys have small feathers that extend over the top of their heads, but most male turkeys have completely featherless heads.


Additionally, a male turkey's head will change in color depending on his current level of excitement, especially during mating season. The head can switch from red to blue to white, and this chance can happen within seconds.
Note that female turkeys generally have gray-blue flesh that might be visible beneath the small feathers on their heads.
 Male turkeys have more brightly colored feathers. Females, on the other hand, have a duller, drabber appearance.


More specifically, males can have feathers that have an iridescent red, green, copper, bronze, or gold sheen. Males use these brightly colored feathers to attract females during breeding season, and more brightly colored males generally have the greatest success.
Females have brown or gray feathers that lack iridescence. The task of attracting a mate falls to the male turkey, which is why brightly colored feathers are not a necessity for females. Moreover, the drab colors help females blend into their surroundings, making it safer for them to sit and guard their nests.
 Male turkeys frequently raise their tails into the shape of a fan. On the other hand, a female turkey will keep her tail down and won't fan it out.


Fanning the tail is an act of dominance. Males generally perform this act when attempting to attract a mate or when trying to scare off potential threats.
 The legs of a male turkey will have spurs or small spike-shaped bumps that should be visible from a moderate distance. Female turkeys have smooth, spur-free legs.


Spurs are used for the purposes of defense and dominance. Male turkeys will use them to attack predators and rivals during mating season.
Aside from the presence and absence of leg spurs, the appearance of the female and male turkey leg is the same. Both genders have reddish-orange legs with four toes on each foot.
 Only male turkeys make the well-known "gobble" noise. Female turkeys will softly cluck or yelp, but they generally don't gobble.


Like fanning the tail, gobbling is an act of dominance. Males gobble to scare predators and potential rivals.
 The lower breast feathers of an adult male turkey will have black tips. Female turkeys have breast feathers that are tipped in either white, brown, or bronze.When checking breast feathers, only look at the lower two-thirds of the breast.
Note that this is only accurate when dealing with adult turkeys, however. All juvenile turkeys have buff-tipped feathers, so the coloration may look like a female feather even when the turkey is male.
 In addition to being bigger overall, male turkeys also have longer legs than female turkeys have.Most males have legs roughly 6 inches (15 cm) long, but female legs are usually only 4.5 inches (11.5 cm).
 The beard of an adult male turkey is longer than that of an immature male. Typically, immature male turkeys have beards measuring 6 inches (15 cm) or shorter.


At the age of two, most turkeys will have a beard between 9 and 10 inches (23 and 25 cm). Turkeys with beard beyond 10 inches (25 cm) are usually older than three years, but most beards do not exceed 11 inches (28 cm).
 More precisely, look at tips of the wing feathers. The white striping that decorates the rest of each feather should extend all the way to the tip of the feather if the turkey is an adult male, but juvenile males have undecorated tips.


The tip of an adult feather is usually rounded, too, but juvenile feathers are more pointed.
For best results, spread the wing out until it is in a fully fanned position and check the outermost feather. The coloration and shape of the other wing feathers can change at different paces, so the outermost wing feather will give you the most accurate results.
 Fan out the tail feathers of the turkey or wait for him to do so himself. The central tail feathers of an immature male are longer than the rest, but all tail feathers arch evenly on an adult male.


Both adults and juvenile turkeys will have banding across the tail. The color of the band will vary based on subspecies and does not typically reflect a difference in age.
Note that adult tail feathers are usually 12 to 15 inches (30.5 and 38 cm) long, while juvenile tail feathers are usually shorter. The exact length of juvenile tail feathers will vary depending on the exact age and overall growth of the bird, though.
 All juvenile turkeys have buff-tipped feathers on the lower two-thirds of the breast, regardless of sex.


Note that juvenile breast feathers also tend to be more slender, and the tips are generally rounded. Adult breast feathers have squared tips.
 Both juvenile and adult male turkeys have leg spurs, but the spurs on a young male will look more like stubs since they are still developing.Immature males will have spurs that are less than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) long.
At the age of two, adult males have spurs between 1/2 and 7/8 inch (1.25 and 2.2 cm). At the age of three, this increases to a size between 7/8 and 1 inch (2.2 and 2.5 cm). Male turkeys over the age of four can have spurs measuring 1 inch (2.5 cm) or longer.

