 Fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place a heat-safe glass bowl on top of the saucepan. If you don't have such a bowl, you can set a glass canning jar into the water instead. Don't turn the stove on just yet!








, A carrier oil is a liquid, food-grade oil. It serves as the base of your lip balm and both nourishing and moisturizing. You can use all one type, or a combination of different types. Great carrier oils and their uses include:








Coconut oil smells and tastes great. It's solid at room temperature, but it melts quickly.
Olive oil is a great, easy-to-find oil. You likely have it at home!
Sunflower oil helps heal damaged skin.
Sweet almond oil is great for making lips silky-soft.
 You can use the same type of oil as before (coconut, olive oil, etc) for a simple recipe. You can also use this opportunity to add a richer oil, such as:








Apricot kernel oil is great for sensitive and/or mature skin.
Avocado oil is very rich and ideal for moisturizing dry lips.
Castor oil helps add a glossy shine to the lip balm.
Hemp seed oil helps condition lips.
Jojoba oil is great for softening and nourishing dry, chapped lips.
Pomegranate seed oil is another rich oil. It helps nourish dry, dull lips.
 Try to use shaved beeswax or beeswax pellets; they will be easier to melt. If you are a strict vegan, use ½ tablespoon (7.5 grams) of candelilla wax instead.
 No, this is not the butter that you put on your toast. Solid butters are any type of oil that is solid at room temperature. You can leave them out if you want to, but they help make the lip balm more creamy. Great solid butters to use in lip balm include:








Mango butter
Shea butter
Cocoa butter with little bit more of your carrier oil. Note that this butter can be drying.
Kokum butter with a little bit more of your carrier oil.
 Turn the stove on and set the heat to medium-low. Wait for the water heat up and for the ingredients to melt.
 Set it down onto a heat-safe surface and stir the ingredients together until the color is consistent. You do not want any streaks or swirls.
 You can skip this step if you want to, but the essential oils will give your lip balm a nice fragrance and flavor. Not all types of essential oils are safe to use on skin, but the following types are:








Vanilla absolute is sweet and delicious, like a pastry.
Peppermint or spearmint are cool and refreshing. You can use up to 16 drops.
Mandarin, orange (sweet), or tangerine are sweet and tangy.
Lemon or lime are safe as long as they are distilled and not cold-pressed.
Lavender and rose have a wonderful scent, but not everyone likes their flavor.
Clove, as long as it's used sparingly (1 to 2 drops)
Camphor or tea tree oil are great for cold sores, but must be used sparingly—only 1 to 2 drops.
 You can buy them online from stores specializing in soap-making supplies. You can also find them in supermarkets, right alongside the other travel-sized items. Some container stores may also sell them. Look for something that is around 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide.









Make sure that the containers are clean.
 Place the jar down, cap off, some place where it won't be disturbed. Let it set and harden. This should take less than an hour. Depending on the size of your container, it may even take 10 to 15 minutes. If you are in a hurry, however, you can pop the jar into the fridge or freezer for a few minutes.

