 Intranasal steroids, such as fluticasone (Flonase) and triamcinolone (Nasacort), which is now available over-the-counter, work by reducing inflammation in the nose. Nasal steroid spray has the benefit of having no major side effects like those caused by many oral decongestants and antihistamines, such as drowsiness and dry mouth. Note, however, that it takes a few days for the steroid to build up to its full effect; this means that you will not experience immediate relief.If you're using Flonase, the typical dosage is one spray per nostril twice daily.
There are also other nasal steroids available with a prescription, such as mometasone Furoate (Nasonex).
Potential side effects include indigestion, nausea, and headaches.
New guidelines have suggested that intranasal steroids should be the first line of treatment for sinus congestion., Some people find antihistamines useful, particularly in longer-lasting occurrences of sinus infections, because they can ease nasal congestion. Oral antihistamines include diphenhydramine (Benadryl), cetirizine (Zyrtec) and Loratadine (Claritin). Note, however, that some older antihistamines can have serious side effects for the sinuses, including the drying up of the mucous membranes of the nasal tissue and thickening the secretions, and can also cause drowsiness.Take 25 milligrams of Benadryl every eight hours as needed for congestion. This drug may prove difficult to tolerate due to its side effects of drowsiness and “fogginess."
Take 10 mg of Zyrtec once daily. Children older than six years of age may take this as well, in doses of 5-10 mg per day, depending on weight. Consult the instructions. This medication may cause some drowsiness.
Take 10 mg of Claritin once daily. Second generation antihistamines such as this one have a much improved side effect profile and are less likely to cause drowsiness.You could also try a prescription antihistamine nasal spray such as azelastine (Astelin, Astepro) or olopatadine hydrochloride (Patanase).
 Using an over-the-counter decongestant or medication can help relieve pressure in your sinuses by unblocking the nasal passages. You can get them in the form of nasal sprays or as oral medication and they can be purchased at most pharmacies. Consult your doctor before using any nasal decongestant sprays or oral decongestants and always be sure to follow any instructions on the label.Nasal decongestant sprays should not be used for more than 3 days at a time. Longer term use has been linked to "rebound" swelling of the nasal passages. Oral decongestants, such as Sudafed or Bronkaid pills, however, can be used for up to two weeks without supervision by a physician.
While the "rebound" swelling is less common with oral decongestants, some people experience palpitations or a rise in blood pressure.
Avoid nasal sprays containing zinc. These have been linked to permanent loss of the sense of smell (though this is rare).

