 The dance frame refers to the shape maintained by couples during the dance. The basic two-step in its most common position will have a traditional, closed frame. Framing is very important as it allows the lead to guide the follower by placing pressure at key points, reducing the likelihood of hurting your partner.


The lead will place their right hand on the followers left shoulder blade. It should not be cupping the bottom of the shoulder blade but rather placed across the middle section of the shoulder blade. The lead’s left hand will hold the follower’s right out at their side. This should be loose and bent slightly.
The follower will place their left hand at the top of the lead’s right arm. The follower’s fingertips should be roughly at the shoulder seam of the lead’s shirt. The follower will place their right hand in the lead’s left, again at their side and bent slightly.
 The distance between the couples will depend on the dance position chosen but the most basic position should leave the couple with a few inches between them. It should be such that you can easily spin your partner and guide them without placing too much pressure.
 There are a number of different positions from which the two-step can be executed. Beginners may want to use the most basic position in order to learn the dance. Other positions can be chosen based on personal preference or based on the positions chosen by surrounding couples if dancing in a hall or bar. Here are three position variations to try:


Standard position variation: One way to stay in the standard position but change it slightly is to stand closer together. It is possible to dance with chests touching but the feet will need to be moved. To dance in this position, place the feet so that they are more side-by-side, with the follower’s foot placed between the lead’s.
Cuddle position: In this position the dancers will be side-by-side. The follower’s left arm will cross their body to hold the lead’s right hand. The follower’s right arm will cross their left and holds the lead’s left hand near the follower’s left elbow.
Shadow: In this position the follower stands in front of the lead. The lead places their right hand over the follower’s stomach with the follower’s right hand placed over the lead’s. The lead and follower will hold their left hands together, out at the side and bent slightly as in the standard position.

