 Anyone can be invited to church, but some people are easier to reach out to than others. The people closest to you are probably aware of your faith, and may even be curious about it.For this reason, you may want to think carefully about which people in your life are most likely to be open to attending church.


Family members are the most likely to know about your faith, and may have questions or a sincere desire to share in your weekly worship.Extended family are a good branching out point after you've reached out to your immediate relatives. This may include uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews, and cousins. These individuals know and trust you, and may be open to joining you and your family for worship.
Close friends are another good branching out point. You most likely have a close bond of intimacy and trust that can help you invite these individuals to share in your faith.
Neighbors may be ideal people to approach. These individuals know and trust you. They also live in close proximity to you, which means they probably live in close proximity to your place of worship.
Coworkers and classmates are a big jump from family,friends, and neighbors. These individuals may not know you very well, which means you may have to work harder to gain their trust and recognize their needs for faith or community.
Strangers will be very difficult to invite to church. These individuals do not know you or have any kind of relationship with you. You may assume someone you meet is in need of faith or a spiritual community, but it can be hard to appeal to that person's needs if they don't already know you on some level.
 The easiest non-Christians to invite to church are those who have undergone a significant life experience recently. Religion and faith bring people comfort during tumultuous life events, especially in the wake of any kind of loss or change.Some life events that may offer an opportunity to invite someone to church include:


the death of a loved one
a recent relocation/change of residency
a new job or school
a recent marriage
the recent birth of a child
a recent divorce
family problems
a major illness (either for the individual herself or someone she knows), As part of your regular prayers, consider asking for God's guidance as you seek out people to invite to church. You may want to ask that God guide you to individuals who are most in need of faith, or you may simply want to ask for guidance in recognizing and capitalizing on ideal opportunities. You can also pray for inspiration and eloquence, so that God will guide you to offer the best invitation you're capable of.Any social event could be an opportunity. For example, attending your children's sporting events could put you in touch with other parents who might be looking for a good church to take their own kids to.
If you spend a lot of time volunteering somewhere (say, for example, a hospital), you may want to consider inviting people you meet at your volunteer site. Let your selfless volunteer work be an example of the faith principles you live by, and be a positive ambassador for Christ.
 If you're inviting a non-Christian to church, it may be difficult to immediately win that individual over. She may have preconceived notions of what church is supposed to be like (which may be unappealing to her), or she may simply have no initial desire to be a part of a faith group. For this reason, it may be easier to invite a non-churchgoer incrementally by first inviting her to social functions and working your way up to mass.


Try socializing with the individual a little. Invite her to coffee or lunch, and show a sincere interest in whatever is going on in that person's life.
Invite the individual to a church function. If your church has a donation drive, ask if she'd like to be a part of the effort. You might also try inviting the individual to a potluck dinner or a bingo event.
Work your way towards inviting the individual to an actual church service. Try using some special occasion for your invitation, like a holiday service, a mass with a children's choir, or a mass with some type of special music (like a folk choir). This can be a good icebreaker for attending church, as it shows the individual something fun and engaging while also welcoming that individual into the community.Remember to respect the individual's choice. If she does not want to go, or if she goes and does not like church, that's okay. You can take comfort in the fact that you extended an invitation to a non-churchgoer, and you've been a good ambassador for your faith. Just be sure to continue to show that individual respect and love.

