 The design, colors, and content you place on each website should be compatible with the level of development and interest for that particular age group.


Develop your website based on one of the following age groups: toddlers up to age 4, children aged 4 to 7, children aged 8 to 11, children aged 12 to 15, and teenagers aged 16 years and up.;
, To keep children engaged with your website, you must develop activities or games that will hold the interest of that particular age group.


Place educational games and activities that meet the development level of the age group. For example, children aged 4 to 7 may enjoy interactive math games that involve addition and subtraction; whereas children aged 8 to 11 may find games that involve multiplication and division more challenging and fun.
Place printable objects or activities on the website for each age group. For example, children up to age 11 may enjoy pages they can print and color with crayons, or cutout patterns for paper dolls or paper airplanes. For websites aimed at teenagers, develop activities such as quizzes that can be printed and handed out at slumber parties.
Place videos or basic animations on websites designed for young toddlers who may not have the motor skills needed to move a computer mouse or to press a series of keys or buttons.
 Bright colors will catch the attention of children, stimulate their minds, and also convey cheer and happiness; which in turn will increase the likelihood of children revisiting that particular website.


Use bold, bright colors in all pictures and text without using an excessive amount of colors such as white, gray, or black.
 Children are more interested in and attracted to images, graphics, and pictures, and are less likely to read and respond to large blocks of text.


Use large graphic buttons for navigational commands instead of text. For example, if a website requires children to proceed to the next webpage, use a large arrow to convey the meaning of "next" instead of requiring children to click on the word "Next" to access the next webpage.
 Sounds and music will help keep children interested in and engaged with the activities they are performing on the website.


Add music to the background during certain games and activities, or allow sound effects to play every time a button or link is clicked on within the website.
 When children interact with happy characters, they may be influenced to revisit the website again in the future due to having a positive experience of their own.


Use animations or photos of real people who are smiling and displaying positive, non-threatening body language.

