 Logic is just reasoning. For example, if Car A was more expensive than Car B, you could argue, "Car B is better than Car A because it is cheaper and it is only logical that a family with a limited budget would purchase Car B instead of Car A.
 Analogy is a comparison. For example, if Car A was more high quality than Car B, you could argue, "Car A is better than Car B simply because it is of better quality. You could compare this situation to somebody shopping for fruits. Car A is like the perfect, red apple at the top of the pile of apples and Car B is like the rotting fruit that's been sitting at the bottom of the pile for weeks. Any reasonable shopper would purchase the fresh, perfect apple instead of the rotting fruit that should be thrown out. Similar to the apples, few people would purchase a poorly-made car that might break down any moment on the highway.



Anecdotes It either happened to you or you know that somebody has done research on the topic. An anecdote could be, "On January 1, 2000, my grandfather drove a car - it was almost identical to car B - and you know what happened? His brakes failed and he crashed off a bridge! However, my parents have been driving a car similar to car A for decades and nothing bad has happened. Any reasonable person would not want to end up like my grandfather - dead because of some really badly-made car!"
A study could be, "Professor did a study recently on cars. In the study of 200,000 people, where 100,000 people drove car A and 100,000 drove car B, 10% of all people who drove car B died in a fatal crash and only 1% who drove car A got into minor accidents! It's obvious that from this, car A is better than car B".
 Prove their logic is wrong. A possible refutation to my previous example could be, "Yes, it is correct that someone with a limited budget may not be able to afford Car A, but think about the value of a life. Does a buyer really want to die? As we have all heard, life is priceless. You cannot buy life and it is therefore worth more than any amount of money! It is obviously better to be safe with Car A's quality than take the risk of dying by driving Car B."

, Prove their analogy doesn't work, or is slightly tangential. For example, one could argue against my previous comparison of the fruit to the cars. One such refutation could be, "Your analogy does not work. The apples are the same price each. The cars are not. You need a better analogy because the price of the cars can also be a factor, while the price of the apples is not."

,


Anecdote. Question the validity of their anecdote, or challenge the significance of their anecdote. For example, a possible response to my anecdote could be, "First, you cannot prove that is true, but let's assume it is. What's the probability that any random person who drives Car B happens to be on a bridge at the exact same moment when the brakes fail? You grandfather was just unlucky. That's all. Taking a tiny chance to save some money can turn out very helpful in the long run. Besides, we can logically deduce that your grandfather had a small budget because Car B is cheap. How do you know whether he got his brakes checked or not? For all we know, he could have been so cheap that he never bothered to go and get them checked." (Notice, don't try to hurt your opponent's feelings if you can avoid it, although it's their fault if they brought up the anecdote and you just destroy it. This wasn't a true story for me, but if it were for somebody, they could be insulted if you insulted their grandfather who died in a tragic car accident.)
Studies. You can't prove these false unless they seem very unlikely, such as in a recent study, 100% of all people who drove Car B died in car crashes. You can only make the contention seem less important. For example, one might say, "Blah! 10% of 100,000. That's only 10,000 people! It makes more logical sense to take your chances to save a ton of money!" Also, emphasize the "only" in the last statement to make a stronger statement.
 You can make any statements you want - even if you personally think they are the dumbest comments in the world and absolutely disagree with them. Remember that you are only arguing for your side - not for what you actually think.

