 These allow you to collect the materials ("mats") that other players use to make items. The best professions to harvest these mats are skinning, herbalism, mining and enchanting (for disenchanting). Make sure to also pick up fishing and cooking which do not count against your two-profession limit. Maybe once you level up your skills, drop a profession and take up blacksmithing, leatherworking, or jewel crafting and create some stuff! However, gathering professions rule all, although a lot of money can be made through trade professions, gathering profs. still remain the key to many of the rich players' success.;
, Because of the enormous costs for flying mounts, Blizzard designed this Burning Crusade world to make you a lot more gold than you can get from Azeroth. However, at this point it may be better to simply stay in Azeroth until you hit level 60 because Blizzard recently upgraded quest money and exp rewards in Azeroth. Once in the Outlands, make sure to begin farming elemental motes. These are used to create primal which are required for Burning Crusade crafting and people pay enormous sums for them on the auction house. The same applies for Northrend, where Eternals will go for a higher price due to people's laziness.


Rather than spending your money on new items at the AH (auction house), go run an instance, you will get new gear, complete quests, and save plenty of gold.
 Instead of completing every quest you can while in Outlands/Northrend/Cataclysm/Pandaria leveling up, run instances to get better gear, a decent amount of money and save the quests for when you are at level 90 when most quests instead of giving a 2 gold reward will give as much as 23 gold per quest. This is very profitable if you have not completed quests in the higher level zones as you can make close to 3000 gold per zone.


At level 80, a good way of making money is getting a character to go to Wintergrasp and farm 2x eternal earth eternal fire and eternal shadow. Then buy some Saronite bars off the auction house and get an alchemist to transmute them into titanium bars, now you have the mats for 2x titan steel bars, these sell for 150g up. So go to Dalaran and /2 "want to buy titan steel CD for mats + 20g" there you have it. Also if you can, take a miner to farm the eternals in wintergrasp because you can find some nice deposits there.
 This can automatically tell you the best price to sell anything at the Auction House. Then run instances, collecting greed loot and sell them at the auction house. You will find that things like shadow gem and malachite can sell for up to 3 gold each for rich characters who need items quickly.
 One of the greatest ways to make gold is to simply work the Auction House. Generally, you always go by the principle "buy low, sell high," but it sometimes takes a bit more than that. You'll need to research what items sell well, what time of day/week they sell the highest, and just how much of an item your server has in stock. Generally, you'll want to invest in trade items. Alternatively, some of the best items to flip for profit on the Auction House are TCG mounts. There are addons that can assist you in your endeavors, such as Tycoon and Tradeskillmaster.
 Then jewel crafting. Then fishing. JC isn't that profitable at first, but once you have a ton of JC cuts from doing JC dailies or prospecting titanium ore the money just rolls in, cutting for tips in trade or buying uncut gems from excess triumphs or since 4.0.1 justice points, the cash just rolls in. Fishing- once you have leveled fishing to 450, find a secluded spot in wintergrasp, and just fish away, all the fish you get, is used for Fish Feast. Sometimes sculpin, and salmon sell for up to 70g a stack at times. Another great way to make dough off fish is dragonfin, those almost always sell at 50g a stack too depending on your server.
 Max level players are always in the market to improve their item level through the use of crafted gear, which is sometimes easier to get, and has better stats than those of raid gear (especially LFR). Advertising in trade can give you quick money.

