 For most varieties of mango, each blossom you see on a healthy tree will produce fruit. You'll see dark green fruit start to form and gradually grow in size over the next three months. Start checking the tree around the 90 day mark to see if they're starting to ripen.
 Somewhere around the three month mark, the mangoes will start to change color to their ripened shade and become somewhat soft. You may also notice some mangoes falling off around the ground. These are signs the mangoes are ready to start being picked.


When you see some that are ripe, all of the other fruit that are roughly the same size are fine to also pick, as they'll be at their peak of ripeness in a day or two, left on the counter. If you plan on selling them at a market, it's probably better to pick them a little early.Fruit-ripened mangoes are much better than mangoes picked green and allowed to ripen indoors. Do what's best and most convenient, but if you can, try to let them become as ripe as possible on the tree before picking them. You'll never taste such a delicious mango.
 The easiest and most simple way to get at those high mangoes is to shake the tree and pick them up, or catch as many as possible. If you're brave, you can stand under the branches with big fruit baskets and try to catch them as they fall to avoid bruising, but it's usually a better idea to pick them up off the grass, where they'll probably fall just as softly.


When a few start falling by themselves, they're probably ready to be harvested, and maybe even overripe. You don't have to wait for them to fall to the ground by themselves before you start picking them.
Young or brittle trees should not be shaken, but the branches should instead be thrashed with lengths of rope, or long wooden dowels. If you're concerned about the thickness of the tree trunk, don't shake it.
 Because mangoes are such a delicate fruit when ripe, some pickers prefer to get at the mangoes in a more sophisticated way, by using a picking basket. Essentially, this is a long pole with a metal claw on the end, perfect for getting high tree fruit like apples, pears, plums, and mangoes. Use the rake tips to coax each mango off the tree and drop into the basket gently. It's a very effective way of getting to high fruit and if you've got a lot of fruit to pick, these make a great investment. They're commonly available at seed suppliers and rural outfitters, though you can also improvise one yourself with the right tools.


Buy the longest, lightest dowel you can find (or of a length appropriate to match the tree). Use a small metal bucket, the like of which is used for golf balls or gardening supplies, and use duct tape to attach it to the end of the dowel. To create a nice claw for picking, take the head off of a metal rake and attach the spines to the lip of the bucket.

