 Here's how:

Close all other windows by My Computer.
Open My Computer if it is not already open.
Start the Halo Trial as usual.
Go to Multiplayer and create a game.
See Slayer and CTF on the select a game screen.
Click on CTF but do not click OK and do not double-click. Just select CFT.
Hold down ALT and hit the Tab key. You should see My Computer again.
Go to My Documents.
Double-click My Games.
Double-click Halo Trial.
Double-click Saved.
Double-click playlists.
Double-click default_playlists.
Go down to the folder that reads 32.
Double-click that and you should see some weird file called blam.lst.
Copy that by right-clicking and selecting Copy.
Open My Computer again.
Go to Local C: and right-click anywhere in the window.
Hit paste to make a back-up copy of CTF.
Return to the place where there are those numbered folders 00-37.
Double-click Folder 34.
Right-click on the blam.lst and select Copy.
Return to the numbered folders list.
Go to Folder 32 again.
Hit paste and when it prompts: "Do you want to overwrite?" click OK.
Press ALT and Tab again. Now you're back at the Halo screen.
Hit OK and select the settings and everything for your new game.

Click Host an Internet Game.
Click on the Blood gulch map and click OK.
Click on CTF but Do not start the game.
Minimize the game.
Go to My Documents/My Games/Halo Trial/saved/playlists/default_playlist

Copy the file from one of these folders. The file should be called blam.lst.

'00' for Classic Slayer
'01' for Classic Slayer Pro
'02' for Classic Elimination
'03' for Classic Phantom
'04' for Classic Endurance
'05' for Classic Rockets
'06' for Classic Snipers
'07' for Classic Oddball
'08' for Classic Reverse Tag
'09' for Classic Accumulate
'10' for Classic Juggernaut
'11' for Classic Stalker
'12' for Classic King
'13' for Classic King Pro
'14' for Classic Crazy King
'15' for Classic Race
'16' for Classic Rally
'17' for Classic CTF
'18' for Classic Invasion
'19' for Classic Iron CTF
'20' for Classic CTF Pro
'21' for Classic Team Race
'22' for Classic Team Rally
'23' for Classic Team Ball
'24' for Classic Team King
'25' for Classic Team Slayer
'26' for Slayer
'27' for Oddball
'28' for Juggernaut
'29' for King
'30' for Crazy King
'31' for Race
'32' for CTF
'33' for Assault
'34' for Team Slayer
'35' for Team Oddball
'36' for Team King
'37' for Team Race


Paste the copied file in the folder named '32'.
Go back to Halo and click on OK.
Start the game and enjoy!
Note that you will have to close and restart the game while in online mode to switch between more than 2 game types.You do not have to save the blam.lst in another folder. The only difference is that one u close the online game, you will need to shut down the game and then restart the game and it will be back to normal!

