 The more details you can add to each day’s entry, the more interesting it will be to read -- and to write! If you’re writing about the events of the day, for example, include who you saw, where you were, what you were doing there.Think about adding sensory information to really make your diary entry realistic. What did you smell? What was the light like? What did you hear during the situation you’re writing about? Was your body cold, or hot? All of these details can be interesting to consider.
If you were outside, think about what details you noticed that let you know what time of day it was, or what the season was like. For example, you might include the jonquils that hadn’t yet started to bloom, and the frost melting on the grass.
 Not only can writing a title to summarize your main point of each entry be interesting, but this practice will help you should you want to come back to your diary for information later. The title can be short, only a few words, and summarize the main gist of your entry.


For example, you might write: Clarke Family Reunion, Day One. Battlefield, Tennessee. If you’re processing your feelings following a breakup, your title might be the date, and a short descriptive phrase, such as “Feeling lonely, but called a friend.”
If you’re writing a travel diary, the title might be the date, and location you’re writing. For example, May 13, 2015. Copenhagen. Fish Market.
 If you’ve included a list of titles for your entries, you can then go back through and write down the titles and page numbers for easy referencing.Diaries may just be a way to process your feelings in the present moment, but you may want to go back to them in the future to refresh your memory on what your life was like.
Number each page as you go, if the pages don’t already have numbers.
 No matter what format you’re using for your diary, it can help your writing be more interesting if you’re focused on writing for an ideal reader. After all, think about how much more interesting it is to tell a story to a receptive friend than it is to repeat it to an empty room.Some people write diaries imagining their children may read them years in the future. If this is the case for you, what details would you want to be sure and include?
Sometimes the ideal reader is someone much like yourself, who may have the same hardships, struggles, and successes that you do. If that’s true, then you might want to include periodic affirmations as a way to encourage your reader (and yourself!)

, If you’re stuck for ideas about what to write in your diary, try looking at a list of writing prompts. You might want to write about the past: What was your younger self like? Where did you go to grade school? Who was your best friend, and what was that friend like? What did you do together? Try writing a letter to yourself as a younger person.You might write about the future. For example, what do you think your life might be like in 5, 10, or 15 years? What do you hope will be different? Are there parts of your life that you hope remain the same? Writing letters to future children or grandchildren can be an interesting topic to write about in your diary.
Be imaginative and creative. Writing about your special superpower (real or imagined!) or imagining your ideal mate can be quite entertaining, but also useful in learning more about yourself.

