 Your laptop should come with a power cable and a battery. Some laptops may have the battery already installed, while other will need to have the battery inserted after you unpack it.
 Most laptops don't have a full charge when you receive them. You may want to let the battery charge completely before turning it on for the first time, but you can plug it in and turn it on anytime.
 Before you can download any programs or start using the internet, you will need to connect your computer to a network. Most laptops connect wirelessly, though some laptops will have an Ethernet port that allows you to connect via Ethernet cable.


See this guide for details on setting up a wireless connection.
If your laptop doesn't have an Ethernet port but you want to connect via Ethernet cable, you can use a USB Ethernet adapter. Plug the USB adapter into a USB port on your laptop and it will be automatically installed.
 Chances are that your installed operating system and programs have been updated since the computer was built. You may be prompted to download and install updates, which is essential for keeping your computer secure and stable.


See this guide for details on installing the latest Windows updates.
You may be prompted to restart your computer to complete the update process.
 Now that you are connected to the internet and Windows has been updated, you can start installing your essential programs. If you're upgrading computers, don't just install all the old programs you used to have installed. Instead, take some time to evaluate what you really need. Only installing the essentials will help keep your computer running smoother.


Antivirus - This should be the first program that you install, no matter what. An antivirus helps protect your computer against malware and other malicious software, and is essential if your computer is connected to the internet. See this guide for details on installing antivirus software.
Favorite browser - Windows comes installed with Internet Explorer, but many people prefer other browsers. There are a variety to choose from, including Chrome, Firefox, and Opera.
Word processor/productivity - Laptops are great for doing work on the go, so you'll want to install a word processor and maybe a spreadsheet program. Microsoft Office is designed to integrate into Windows, and you may have a trial already installed on your computer.
Games - Everyone likes to relax once in a while, so consider installing a game or two! Laptops aren't typically as powerful as desktops, so you may have difficulties running some of the more graphically-intensive games at their highest settings. This certainly isn't true for every laptop though, as some dedicated gaming laptops can keep up with the high-end desktops. Some of the most popular storefronts for games include Steam, GOG, Origin, and Desura.
 Once all the boring stuff is out of the way, you can start making your new computer yours. You can change your desktop background, install new cursors, change the fonts, or even completely change the way Windows is organized using special software.


See this guide for details on completely customizing your Windows desktop.

