 Your friends will be there for you no matter what your relationship status, and it's good to take some time to appreciate them and reconnect. Make a plan to have lunch, go to a club, hit the mall--whatever you enjoy.
 Listening to music causes your brain to release dopamine--a feel-good chemical. Put together a playlist of songs that inspire you, make you smile and cause you to get up and dance.


Choose songs with a message of empowerment. Cosmopolitan Magazine listed these tunes on a list of songs that can help you get over a breakup. "Since U Been Gone," Kelly Clarkson
"Forget You," Cee Lo Green
"Single Ladies," Beyonce
"So What," Pink
"Stronger," Brittany Spears


Sing it loud, sing it proud. For an extra bump of energy and positivity, sing along with your music. If your ex ever told you that you couldn't sing, sing louder! and try not to sing ones that remind you of love.
 The benefits of pet ownership are well documented. Having a furry friend to care for increases feelings of well-being, decreases loneliness, reduces pain, improves physical fitness, adds to self-esteem and can combat depression.


Walking a dog is a great way to get exercise and to meet new people. Creating new friendships with other dog owners can help increase your social circle and strengthen your support system.
Pets offer unconditional love. You won't stress so much about finding the guy that will give you that kind of absolute affection if you're already getting it from your four-legged friend.
 If you've been too bummed out to go to the gym or put your plans for training for the marathon on hold, now's the time to get back to it. Like music, exercise releases pleasurable chemicals in the brain, so you'll not only look good, you'll feel better, too.


Exercise can improve your sleep, increase your energy and boost your confidence--areas of your life that may have taken a hit after your breakup.
If you overindulged your craving for comfort foods after your breakup, you may have put on a pound or two. Exercise can help you take off the extra weight.
 You don't have to do a full-blown makeover (although you could), but making sure you look your best will help you feel better and make you more appealing to the opposite sex.


Page through fashion magazines and websites for inspiration for a new look. It's not just you who craves a change after parting with a boyfriend, you'll see plenty of celebrity "before" and "after" photos documenting post-breakup makeovers.
Consider a small change like getting highlights or switching to a new color of lip gloss. A fresh appearance helps support your fresh, new approach to your life and if he/she dumped you with your new appearance you'll show him what he can't have.
 You may not yet be ready to date, but that doesn't mean you have to avoid guys entirely. Go somewhere you can practice your flirting or at least scope out cuties of the opposite sex.


If you see someone you're attracted to, make eye contact and smile. Remember, a cup of coffee or a conversation isn't a commitment.
If you do meet someone you like, stay away from giving them the lowdown on your breakup and a list of your ex's faults and failings. A potential new guy doesn't want to hear about the old guy so soon and definitely not in negative terms. Talking bad about your ex is a turn-off.

