 In many cases, students may not feel comfortable talking or asking questions. They may be concerned about not appearing smart in front of you or classmates. By directly asking students if they have any questions or coming with prepared questions, you can stimulate more participation in class.Take breaks to ask short questions every few minutes. This can keep students engaged and ensure they understand the material. For example, you could ask: “Does anyone have any questions about why the invasion of Pearl Harbor was so important in American History?”
Have a couple of questions prepared in advance in case students still seem reluctant to answer or participate. For example, if nobody is asking questions, you could say: “One questions I always get about the invasion of Pearl Harbor is whether President Roosevelt baited the Japanese to attack. Historians have used archival sources and oral histories to show that it wasn’t the case. What have you have heard about this story before?”;
, You may not always be able to get a class to participate. In these cases, it can be useful to have guidelines for how much you expect students to participate. Remind students as needed that you expect them to speak up during class, which can help relax the environment and may get even more students to participate.#*Outline your participation expectations in writing, especially with older students. For example, “I expect you to make at least two substantive comments per class,” or “All of you know I expect you to join in the discussion. Why am I the only one talking today?”, Students often take participation and other assignments more seriously if they factor into final grades. Depending on the age of your students and the subject and type of class you’re teaching, incorporate participation into your students’ final grades. This may encourage more participation.Make sure the participation grade fits the age and work. For example, you can easily make participation 30% of the final grade for a college-level seminar. However, for a high school class, it may only be 5-10%.
Inform students that participation counts towards their final grades and ensure they know how much it is worth.
 When all else fails, you can simply call on students to speak. This is called “cold-calling.” It can encourage participation by getting students to speak before they are singled out to talk by you.Consider calling on two students at once. They may be more comfortable and able to come up with an answer that if you only call on one.

