 Because of this, regular consumption of green tea can slow down the signs and symptoms of aging skin.Drinking as little as two to three cups each day can have positive effects. Green tea can be purchased in ready-to-use tea bags or you can buy loose green tea leaves from specialty shops and health markets.

Buy the freshest and highest quality green tea you can. Look for tea that comes in sealed, foil-lined packages.
If you're buying tea from a specialty shop, ask the seller for tea that is less than a year old.;
, Put water on to boil. When it reaches the boiling point, remove the water from heat. Wait until the bubbles created by boiling have completely disappeared before adding the tea. Use one tea bag or one to two teaspoons of loose green tea leaves in tea strainer for each 8 oz. (237 mL) serving. Let the tea steep for five minutes.

Allowing it to steep for longer than five minutes will not increase the antioxidants present in your cup of tea.It will, unfortunately, make it taste increasingly bitter.
Pour the tea over ice if you prefer a cold beverage.
 Although green tea contains a lot less caffeine than coffee or black tea, it still has some. One 8 oz. (237 mL) serving of green tea contains 24 to 45 mg of caffeine. That same amount of regular coffee contains 95 to 200 mg of caffeine. Healthy adults should avoid getting more than 500 mg of caffeine in a 24 hour period. It’s recommended that adolescents get no more than 100 mg of caffeine per day.Keep track of how much caffeine you’re taking in, especially if you intend to drink green tea frequently throughout the day.
Try to drink it early in the day so that it the caffeine won’t affect your sleep that evening.
If you’re sensitive to caffeine or would prefer to avoid it, drink decaffeinated green tea instead. Keep in mind that the decaffeination process makes the antioxidants in the tea less potent., Some green teas can taste quite bitter and not everyone enjoys its taste. If you are having difficulties adjusting to the taste of green tea, consider taking supplements of green tea extract. These can be obtained in most health and vitamin stores.

Supplements aren’t as potent as the tea itself, but they may still provide some benefits.

