 This is more than saying you sell widgets or are a widget-repair company. Defining the scope of your business means identifying all of your customers, both internal and external, and evaluating your relationship and exchange of information with them.


External customers are generally those who pay you for your goods and services. These are the customers outside your business.
Internal customers are the different divisions and organizations inside your business as well as the outside vendors and service providers. For example, payroll, maintenance, human resources, and production are all internal customers. These different parts of your business all exchange information and you need to consider the privacy needs of these entities.;
, Modern businesses thrive on data and information. Whether it is customer identification, product specifications, sales data, or personnel files, every corner of your business has information streaming in and out every day.


You can divide your information streams as customer (contact information, purchase history), financial (profit, loss, sales, taxes), business (vendors, products, pricing, competitors), and human resources (employee records, salaries, pay scales).
 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 strictly regulates what kind of health information is protected from disclosure. If your business is even peripherally associated with the medical industry or patient care, consider consulting with an attorney well-versed in HIPAA for instructions on protected health information., If your business is, in any way, connected to the legal profession or the court system, you may come in contact with confidential client information. If so, consider consulting with an attorney on how to handle and protect this data., Besides HIPAA, your business may be covered by other laws. It is your responsibility to know and comply with these laws as you interact with your customers and potential customers.


If you communicate with customers and market via email, then the CAN-SPAM Act may apply to you.This law requires that your emails be identified as advertisements, include an opt-out provision for recipients, and clearly display your mailing address. Failure to comply can lead to fines and even criminal charges.
Your business and website, or mobile app, may appeal to and target children as potential customers. If your target audience is children under the age of 13, you must comply with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). This law requires that you clearly state your policy, have provisions for parental consent, and provide parents access to the data you collect. It also has strict information retention requirements., A breach in customer trust can irreparably damage your business. On your website and print advertising you need to clearly state you have a privacy policy that includes what personal information you collect and how you use it.The privacy policy for external customers should be written in plain and simple language that is easy to understand. Keep the technical language to a minimum.
At a minimum, your customer privacy policy should state if your site uses cookies (small programs that store customer information to make the site run faster) and how you use their data.For websites that use cookies, add a phrase to the effect of "This website uses cookies for . By using our site, you consent to the use of this technology." Be explicit about your reasons., If your business model includes selling or distributing customer data, this must be clearly stated in your terms of service. A typical policy includes language that by the customer using your site, they are consenting to the collecting and distribution of their contact information. For example, "By entering this site, we will collect data such as and this data may be shared with our business and advertising partners. Use of this site is your consent to this data collection and distribution."


Far more common is a statement that you will not sell or share any customer data. This statement is far more likely to earn the trust of your customers. "We will not sell your personal information to anyone, for any purpose. Period.", If your business or website collects email addresses as a normal course of business, such as requiring an email to complete a transaction, you must have a policy where customers can unsubscribe or stop receiving advertising email from you. This is required by the CAN-SPAM Act. Your email advertisements should all include the opt-out information as well.The opt-out language must be explicit and easy for customers to use. Most email mailing list and advertising programs include an automatic opt-out process. "If you do not want to receive future emails, click here, and your name will be removed from the mailing list." If you manually manage your mailing list, add a hotlink to your email address and delete the customer from your email database., Your website and business advertisements must include a contact point and a complaint procedure.If you receive a complaint about misuse of customer information, you must follow up on it and resolve it to the customer's satisfaction. Otherwise, you could find yourself under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.Your complaint procedure can be as simple as a link to your email address with a statement, "If you don't want to receive communication from us or believe your information has not been handled correctly, click ."

, As technology continues to expand and improve, so do the laws and procedures for protecting customer privacy. The companies that you know and respect are continually refining and updating their privacy policies. Their terms of service can be a guide or template to creating your own.If you have any doubts about the adequacy of your external customer privacy policy, consider consulting with an attorney.


Review your privacy policy and terms of service either annually or when you launch a new website program, advertising campaign, or mobile app.
 If your business does not have a website, you still need to reassure your customer that their names, addresses, and credit card information is secure. This can be a simple document or flyer that you give to a new customer, include in mailers, or have on-hand if a customer requests it.


A statement that you will not sell or distribute their data.
A way to sign up for your mailing list of flyers, catalogs, emails, and other advertisements, along with a simple method of removing names from the list.
A statement on how credit card sales are processed and that information isn't maintained on the premises.
You will also need a privacy policy complaint process. Request your customer put her concerns in writing and submit it by mail or email. This protects you and ensures you understand the customer's concerns.
 As part of hiring and during the course of employment, companies gather a lot of private information about their employees. Not just contact information, but in this age of heightened security and scrutiny, companies may also collect background reports, credit information, and medical data. To protect yourself from legal actions and to foster goodwill with your employees, you need to have an internal privacy policy that addresses security of employee information.


Physically secure your hard copy files. Employee records should be kept in locked file cabinets with limited access.
Make sure the computer access is password protected, has limited access, and adequate software security.
Create a clear records retention policy and stick to it. Pre-employment records such as credit reports and drug tests should be purged as soon as possible. Keep a notation of the results, but dispose of the hard copies unless required by law for the position.
 Older or poorly installed wireless networks may create unintended wi-fi hotspots in and around your business. An unsecured network could allow someone access to your records. If you don't have anyone on staff who can evaluate the security of your network, consult with an IT professional and upgrade as needed. Your network security protocols should be referenced in your privacy policy.


If you are installing a new network or contemplating major upgrades, consider bringing in an IT professional to install, secure, and test the network. Even if you installed for first network yourself, you may not be up to date on the newest threats and vulnerabilities of your network and software.
 In an era of smartphones and instant connectivity, your business needs to have a clearly defined policy for use of social media during work hours. Many companies have a vague policy about using company computers for personal purposes. The truth is, the average phone or tablet is likely faster and has a better Internet connection. An employee may be tweeting about lunch and the photo catches the name of your biggest client or recent sales figures on a document next to his sandwich.


Forbidding any social media usage during work hours is going to affect morale and be difficult to enforce. Unless the employee is in a high security area, understand that email and social media usage is going to happen and craft policies to keep that usage minimal and non-disruptive.
A well-crafted social media policy explains the need to respect clients' privacy and work processes by setting out specific consequences for breaching that respect. Also stress how complaining about work and bosses on social media reflects poorly on the company and, if it happens during work hours, could subject the employee to disciplinary proceedings.
Your social media policy should also list out anything that is forbidden and the potential consequences. Examples of this would be activity that breaches patient privacy, client confidentiality, or violates rules against revealing information about minor children and students. Detailing and enforcing this policy could help the company defend itself against a legal claim.
Best practices for social media policies include The Gap's requirement that employees contact the social media team if they make an error, and Hewlett-Packard makes it clear that they reserve the right to review, edit, and even delete blog and social media posts made on its behalf., The businesses who deal with your company should be able to trust that information including bids, estimates, price lists, contact information, customer lists, and internal processes are respected and kept secure. Your internal privacy policy should have a process for marking vendor information confidential and keeping it secure both in hard copy and electronic form.
 Not all business leaders might recognize that even these kinds of documents are an opportunity to point out what a business has done right. Include any statements of fact that reflect well on the company or business.

