 The point of Zelda is to play the games and enjoy them.;
, Do this not only to help you when you're hopelessly stuck on a dungeon, but also so you can lend to any friend you're trying to bring into the Zelda series or just to collect.
 You can write any story you want about the Legend of Zelda universe and post it on the internet for other devoted Zelda fans to see. The most popular fanfiction site is fanfiction.net, but there are other sites you can post, such as deviantart.com.
 If you don't have much faith in your artistic skills, browse the internet for great pieces instead.
 You can also make one using foam or any other material.
 Few people know of the Legend of Zelda comics and a material copy is hard to find. Places where you can read for free are online manga sites such as MangaPark or MangaFox, since the real deal is pretty hard to find. You might even find some in the library by chance. Knowing about them and reading them will make you an even more unique Zelda fan. You can read them at Zelda Capital, or Zelda Infinite. However, the show has been heavily criticized by fans. See if you enjoy it!

, First, beat the games getting the heart containers, then play through them again getting no heart containers and merely going on three hearts. This will make you a hardcore Zelda player!

, Decorate your room with Zelda things: posters, plush toys, figurines, it's all up to you!

, Try to learn a few of the songs from the game or other popular songs to impress your friends.
 Websites such as Zeldapedia, Zelda Wiki and Zelda Dungeon have a great amount of info on the series. Also read the Legend of Zelda and Philosophy and Hyrule Historia. If you really want to get into Zelda discussions, go to Youtube and look up the Youtube channel, The Zelda Dungeon. This channel offers many great discussions about the series. If you have a Youtube account, send them your own questions about the series.
 Don't let The Legend of Zelda be your entire life. Get friends to hang out with and enjoy the other parts of life while also enjoying Zelda.

