 Because you have chosen to knit a baby hat, you will more than likely select a baby yarn.









Consider buying extra-soft baby yarn, but know that you do not have to buy a yarn that is specifically made for babies.
Know what yarn weight you need. Most baby items are made from lighter weight yarn, either “superfine” (1) or “fine” (2). ;
, Remember that not all parents want pink for a girl or blue for a boy. Consider a gender neutral color or primary color.









Consider choosing a variegated baby yarn instead of a solid color. There are also some new yarns that form a pattern as you knit.
 Many baby hat patterns require size 6 (4mm) needles.









Start with straight needles if you are just beginning to knit. Circular needles are generally used by more advanced knitters.
Determine how big your needles need to be. The needle size determines how big the loops are in your hat, and the wrong needles may lead to the hat being the wrong size. Note that there are metric and US sizes, so you may need to convert the size. , Casting on is the way that you begin your knitting by creating a row of loops on one of your needles. See How to Knit for step-by-step instructions for casting on.









Cast on 60 loops (if using 4mm needles) (more if the hat is not for a newborn).
Hold your needles so that the left needle has the knitting on it, the needle points are facing away from you, and the yarn is leaving the needle to the right, on the bottom side of the needle.
 This will probably be about 50 rows if you’re using a fine baby yarn.









Hold the needle with the cast-on loops in your left hand and pass the needle in your right hand through the stitch and behind your left needle.
Wrap a loop of yarn counter-clockwise around the right needle point.
Pull the right needle off through the stitch on the left side, and push the top stitch off of the left needle.
Each knit stitch will add one loop to the needle on the right and remove one from the needle on the left. When you finish a row, change the needles to your other hands so that you start each row with the knitting on the left needle.
Be sure your knitting trails to the right as you are knitting, towards the (at first) empty needle.
 After knitting for about 5 inches, begin to decrease the length of your knitting.








Instead of going through one stitch with your right needle, go through two stitches.
Continue the 2-stitch decrease until you have only one loop left on your needle.
 Be sure to leave yourself a nice long tail of yarn for sewing the sides of the hat together. Tie the tail in a simple knot where it leaves the knitting before you begin to stitch with it.
 Use a large sewing needle or a bobby pin, sew the hat sides together. Weave the excess yarn in and out along the two sides. Tie off the end and cut off the remaining tail.
 The stitched seam should be on the inside, where it won’t be seen.
 Wrap it nicely or include it in a display that includes other practical baby items, such as on top of a “diaper cake.”








