 You can't do anything until you've got a couple of main characters. You don't have to flesh it all out now, just have enough to build a story around. A good guy. A bad guy. Just make sure you have enough to start your plot.;
, Start with a main idea—the main conflict of the movie. Next, think of some things that could happen along the way. Characters that could be introduced. New plans and schemes that people are coming up with. And remember to throw in a few battles here and there. But don't overdo it.
 Now you have to decide who's playing whom. Here's a good way to do this: Count up all the characters in your story. Say there's 15. Now choose 15 of your friend who are good actors. Then try to think of who would be best as which character. And if there are people you still want to invite that you don't have parts for, either write a new character into the plot or cast them an extra.
 This is the tricky part. You're going to need costumes, props and sets. Be thinking about where you want to film. Sets are essential. So are costumes and props. No big deal. When your friends come ask them to bring any Star Wars costumes they might have, as well toy laser guns or plastic lightsabers. Whatever you need. And if there's costumes that nobody has, you can get used clothes really cheap at secondhand stores and make them into costumes. Improvise!

, Remember: Star Wars is full of extras. Random people and aliens who walk by behind the main action. They don't have to look like anything special. Nobody pays that much attention to the extras, or what they're wearing. But they do add color and texture and interest. So if there's a friend who's not playing a big part, or somebody who's not in that particular scene, throw a wig on them and have them walk around behind the main characters. Bike helmets work well for extras., Get everybody over at once in their costumes. Then get your camera and film away. You can film the scenes out of order, because you can always change them around when you edit., Make sure you don't need to re-shoot anything before putting it on the computer.
 If you don't already have an editing software, you can download one from the Internet. Also, every Mac comes with the free editing system iMovie and a program called iDVD, Upload it to your computer, then edit away. Chop, crop, and add titles and music. Remember to add an opening crawl to make it more like Star Wars. Also, you might want to spend a few dollars on iTunes buying the official Star Wars soundtrack.
 Once you're satisfied, send the movie to a menu-making program, like iDVD or any others that work for you. Make a cool menu design, then burn your movie to a disc. This is your prototype. If you're happy with your movie then burn some more. Sell them on the street or something. Maybe make a trailer!

