 First, you will need to decide on a color for your streaks. If it’s your first time, it’s usually better to go with a color that is only slightly lighter or darker than your own hair color. But, the color you desire is ultimately your choice. You may want blonde streaks, or pink or purple streaks. If you're unsure what will look good in your hair, start small by streaking one piece of hair with your favorite color. If you love it, you can always add more.Some people choose to have one pretty pink or purple streak running down the side. This adds a subtle beauty to your style.
For a punk look, add a lot of streaks extending from the crown of your head down to the tips. Choose blue, green, or platinum blonde.;
, Consider how many streaks you would like to put in your hair. You may want a few streaks for a subtle effect, or a head full of streaks to dramatically change your hair color. It’s important to plan what your desired outcomes is before beginning the dyeing process.If you aren’t confident about dyeing your hair on your own, it’s better to start with only a few streaks.
 The supplies you get will be partially determined by the natural color of your hair. If you have light blonde hair and are planning to streak it with a darker color, you may be able to get away without bleaching it first. If you have dark or medium hair and want a light or unnatural color, you'll definitely need to bleach before streaking to make sure the color comes out looking bright and beautiful. You can buy your supplies at a beauty supply shop, like Sally’s Beauty Supply. The supplies you will need are:Bleach powder, which comes in either packets or tubs. If you're doing just a few streaks, you won't need much.
Crème developer, which makes the bleach work. If your hair is already blonde or light brown, use a 20 or 30 volume developer. If your hair is dark brown or black, you may need 40 volume developer. Never get a volume higher than 40, or you'll damage your hair.
Red Gold Corrector is added to the bleach powder to increase its effectiveness, so you don't have to bleach twice. You will need this if your hair is on the darker side.
"Purple shampoo," which is a special shampoo designed to wash bleached hair.
A tint brush, a bowl, and aluminum foil.

