 It should be water and dirt-proof.


The items you have decided to place in the geocache container will help determine its size and shape. If you only wish to place a small log book in your container, you can make a nano container. If you wish to fill your geocache container with items to be traded, you will need a larger container.;
,


A nano geocache container holds less than 10 ml (.34 fl. oz.)
A micro geocache container holds less than 100 ml (3.4 fl. oz.)
A small geocache container holds between 100 ml (3.4 fl. oz.) and 1 L (34 fl. oz)
A regular geocache container holds between 1 L (34 fl. oz.) and 20 L (676 fl. oz.)
A large geocache container holds 20 L (676 fl. oz.) or more.
 This includes the terrain and mental difficulty.


Larger geocache containers are usually easier to find than smaller containers.
Brighter geocache containers are usually easier to find than ones that blend in with their surroundings.



Film canisters, plastic containers, ammunition boxes, buckets and even birdhouses are often used as geocache containers, but anything watertight can work.
Make sure that the geocache container you choose or construct is watertight and can withstand the wind and weather of your region.
You should consider placing the contents of your geocache within a zippered plastic bag in case the container leaks or someone does not shut it properly.






You may wish to place a string or magnet on your geocache container to fix it in place at your site.
 Never use stickers, they can rot away. Using spray paint and stencils are recommended.



All geocaches should contain a logbook If there is room, a writing implement, preferably a soft lead pencil should also be included.






Common items to place in a geocache container include inexpensive children's toys, a disposable camera that people can take their pictures with and return to the cache for you to develop later, and pre-addressed postcards that people who find the cache can send to you.






Each item should be placed in a zippered plastic bag.
,