 Guard dogs are typically larger breeds, like Doberman pinschers or German shepherds, that have high work drives and are naturally protective. The physical presence of a guard dog can prevent intruders from entering your home, or by attacking an intruder.


Since guard dogs tend to be large and hard working breeds, they require consistent exercise, training, and space to play. They may not work well in small apartments or in homes with small children, especially if they are larger breeds.
Guard dogs can be helpful if you live in a higher crime area where home invasions are frequent, or if you live in a rural area where it would take the police a significant amount of time to reach your home in the event of a crime.;
, A deterrent dog can be a large or a small breed. They typically have a very loud bark and are naturally territorial. They will sound the alarm if someone attempts to enter a home and deter potential intruders by making noise.


Deterrent dogs may or may not be guard dogs. These dogs are known for their loud barks or their “yapping” nature.
A deterrent dog may be sufficient if you live in a low crime area where home invasions are infrequent, or if you have a firearm to protect yourself. A deterrent dog can act as a living alarm system that will alert you to someone’s presence.
 Larger breeds, whether they become guard or deterrent dogs, need more space than smaller breeds. Take the size of your home into account when you are deciding between different sized breeds. You should also take into account the kind of neighborhood you live in. If you live in a high crime area, you may want to select a guard dog that can physically attack or stop an intruder over a deterrent dog.


For instance, a Chihuahua will be more content in a small apartment than a Great Dane will be. Larger breeds, like Collies and shepherds have high levels of energy that do best in homes with large yards where they can run and exercise.
 Guard and deterrent dogs tend to be naturally protective, but training helps them to hone their instincts so they can protect your home better. While all dogs require training to be respectful and well-mannered pets, you can train a dog to become a better guard dog. It takes time and effort to train a good guard dog. Some breeds are naturally more protective and loyal than others and respond better to training, like German shepherds or a Rottweiler.


You can hire a dog trainer that specializes in guard or attack dogs. These experts can help your dog to attack on command and to identify threats. You can also have your dog trained to attack on command.When you are deciding on a breed, take into consideration whether this dog’s temperament and intelligence are responsive to training.
 All dogs need to be socialized to new experiences and new people so they can be happy and well adjusted. Guard and deterrent dogs need to be socialized so they can recognize the differences between potential threats and regular visitors to your home. Guard and deterrent dogs need to be socialized so they can identify potential threats from regular visitors to your home.Many guard dogs are naturally very territorial and protective of their space. This is a good quality in a guard dog, but can make it difficult for owners to integrate a dog into family life. Training and socialization can help dogs reduce this territorial quality while retaining their protective nature against intruders.
 Not everyone wants or can own a dog. There are alternatives to having a deterrent or guard dog that will still act to deter a potential intruder like a sign or an electronic watchdog.


A “Beware of Dog” sign in your yard can inform potential intruders that there is a dog in your home. Whether or not you actually have a dog, this sign can act as a deterrent.
Consider electronic watchdogs. An electronic alarm system “barks” when an intruder approaches the house. Like with the sign, there’s very little cost associated with something that could potentially stop a home invasion or theft.