 You’ll hear different schools of thought on which hand you should read, but there is one main thing which you can keep in mind. Almost everyone has a dominant hand, the one they write with and tend to perform most tricky tasks with. The dominant hand is the best to read in regards to the public self. It reveals things about you that the world sees. Reading the non-dominant hand will tell you things about the private self.Other methods say choose which hand based on male or female, or present life versus future life.
In matters of your work life and career, the dominant hand is the one to read. Emotions, relationship issues, and your dreams are often revealed by the non-dominant hand.
 The way that fingerprints show up on each finger tends to reveal different things about a person, so a shape on the middle finger may not mean quite the same thing as a shape on the pinkie finger. As you get better at analyzing fingerprints, you can learn more about each finger, but for now start with the thumb. It is good to read the thumb because it is thought to be representative of the hand as a whole. The thumb is said to represent the person’s overall identity., When you first start out, it can be good to press the thumb into black ink to reveal the ridges better and make it easier to read. There are three primary patterns of prints, which are the loop (most common), the whorl (second most common), and the arch (least common). There are even further distinctions, which are more rare, but these are what you will typically find.A loop looks kind of like a lasso. An arch looks like a wave or a bridge. A whorl looks like a bullseye.
There are also variations such as the tented arch, which has a much steeper peak, and the composite whorl, which is sort of like a swirl or yin-yang sign.
 There are two types of loop, ulnar and radial, with ulnar meaning the loop opens toward the fingers and radial meaning the loop opens away from the fingers. Ulnar loops are the most common print and tend to be found on likeable people. This print can identify someone who is flexible and goes with the flow and is sociable and easy to get along with. The negatives of ulnar loop people tend to be that they are scattered and have a hard time organizing. They may also be restless, not quite feeling at ease.The less common radial loop represents someone who is open-minded and clever. They often live lives of altruism, giving to those in need. The downside for radial loop people is that if they do not stay centered, focused, then they will start to absorb too much stress.
 This print shows up as a series of closed circles, or a spiral. This print tends to be found on people who may be a little self-centered, having a strong sense of independence and individuality. They are often rigid in their mindsets and can become overly focussed. The downsides of this print type are that they may have a short fuse and become angry easily. They also tend to lose interest in projects once they start them.Variations of the whorl include the peacock’s eye, which resembles a peacock’s feathers, and a composite whorl, which is sort of a series of circles that got smudged on one side.
 This print is often found on someone who is analytical and practical, always trying to figure out the best approach to situations. They are often not a fan of change and may be hard to get along with if they are particularly set in their ways. However, arch people often tend to be exceptionally loyal to the people they care about.This print comes in the variation of the tented arch, which is basically an arch with a much more pointed top. These people may be very open and friendly one day and closed off the next day.

