 Fill a pot with 2–6 US quarts (2,000–6,000 ml) of cold water (per pound of pasta). Then, bring the water to a boil. Make sure that the pot is large enough to hold all of the pasta that you're making.Be sure to place a lid on the pot. This will help retain the steam—the heat and the moisture—and make the ravioli cook more quickly.
Most ravioli recipes call for 4–6 US quarts (4,000–6,000 ml) of water to each pound of ravioli. Extra water quickly recovers the boil when the pasta is added; gives the noodles room so that they don’t stick to one another; and dilutes the starch that they release, so they don’t end up with a “gluey” texture. Feel free to use less water, however, as long as there's enough to submerge the ravioli., Once the water begins to boil, put the ravioli into the pot. Follow the boiling instructions on the package. If there are no instructions on the package: cook at a boil for 4-6 minutes, or until the pasta begins to float. When a piece of pasta floats to the surface, it's ready.Salt the water to taste. As a rule of thumb, add one teaspoon of salt for each quart of water that you use. Consider adding olive oil to the water to keep the pasta from sticking: again, about a teaspoon of oil per quart of water.
 Use a ladle or stirring spoon to swirl the water periodically as the pasta cooks. Separate any ravioli dumplings that are sticking together.
 The ravioli should puff up and become whiter as the dough cooks. Some people like their pasta soft and fully-cooked. Other people like their pasta slightly harder and undercooked, or "al dente". Ravioli dough contains eggs, unless stated otherwise, so it is important to cook it thoroughly to avoid salmonella poisoning. Remember that larger ravioli will quick more slowly, and smaller ravioli will cook more quickly.If the ravioli begins to look bloated, or begins to come apart, then it may be slightly overcooked.
Taste your ravioli throughout the cooking process. This is the best way to tell when it's ready. Nibble on the edge of a ravioli piece to discern whether it's done. If the ravioli is still at all cold or frozen, keep cooking. If the ravioli tastes doughy or floury, it may not be done.
 If you have a colander or a pasta strainer, place it into the sink or any area that will allow the water to drain. Pour the contents of the pot—ravioli and water—into the strainer so that the water flows away, but the pasta remains. Pour slowly, and be careful not to lose any pasta.


If you don't have a pasta strainer, pour the water out of the pot while keeping the pasta within. Tilt the pot sideways so the water trickles out the top. Hold the lid of the pot over the opening to hold back the pasta. Leave a tiny crack between the lid and the rim of the pot so that the water can slip through, but the ravioli cannot.
Pour the water into the sink to dispose of it, or use it to water your garden. If you drain the pasta into another bowl or pot, you can carry the extra water outdoors and reuse it.

