 If you want to make a simple swap that will give your sandwich a dramatically different taste, swap a different nut butter for the peanut butter. You could use cashew, almond, sunflower, or hazelnut butter. Many of these are available in creamy or crunchy varieties.


You could use a chocolate-hazelnut or chocolate-cashew spread for an even richer filling.;
, You can cut out some of the sugar by using fresh fruit instead of jelly. Slice up bananas, strawberries, or pears to place on the sandwich. You can also scatter blueberries, raspberries, or pomegranate seeds for a slightly tangy flavor.For a chewy, sweet taste, you can use dried fruit. Consider using dried apple rings, sliced apricots, dried cranberries, or raisins.
 Most people expect peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to be overly sweet, but they don't have to be. Add a little savory flavor to cut some of the sweetness. Try crumbling bacon over the peanut butter or lay a slice of ham on it. You could also stir a little hot sauce in the peanut butter for a kick of heat.Some stores carry bacon jam which is usually made with bacon and maple syrup. Spread a little of the bacon jam over your fillings.
 If you're not feeling very adventurous about changing the traditional sandwich, just use jam instead of jelly. Unlike jelly, which has the fruit strained out, jam has chunks of the fruit in it. This can also make the fruit flavor stronger.


Don't forget to try fruit butters which are creamy and less sweet than jam. For example, you could make a peanut butter and apple butter sandwich.
 You can purchase or make marshmallow fluff. Make a fluffernutter sandwich by using peanut butter and marshmallow fluff instead of the jelly. This is a great choice if you don't like the jelly seeping through the bread in traditional peanut butter and jelly sandwiches.For an extra decadent sandwich, you could toast the marshmallow fluff under a broiler before you press the bread together.
 You can use peanut butter and jelly as the basic fillings (or just use the peanut butter for a less sweet sandwich) and drizzle a syrup over them. For a robust flavor, drizzle a little molasses over the peanut butter. For a milder flavor, drizzle some honey, golden syrup, or agave syrup over the fillings.If you want to cut some of the sweetness of your fillings, whip up a little cream cheese and spread it over the peanut butter or jelly.
 You can add flavor and texture by sprinkling toasted nuts, pretzels, granola, potato chips, or chocolate sprinkles over the fillings. Try just adding one or two of these so you don't overwhelm the flavors of the sandwich.Try to add the crunchy ingredients right before you eat the sandwich. Some of these (like the potato chips) may become soggy if they sit on the sandwich for a long time.

