 There are many areas in the game map where you can find bodies of water that you can swim in. Several pools can be found inside various dungeons, and small ponds are placed inside cities. The largest body of water you can swim into would be Lake Florida, situated in the southeast corner of the game map.;
, To get into the water, simply walk towards the edge using the analog stick on the left Wii Remote, and Link will easily drop into the water.
 By tapping the A button on the right Wii Remote, your main character can swim on the surface of the water. Link will paddle left or right along the surface, and you can swim towards a specific direction by moving the analog stick of the left Wii Remote while continuously tapping the A button.
 To go below the surface of the water, press the Down button on the directional key on the right Wii Remote, or swing the right remote on a downward motion. Link will dive down, and you can now swim on all four directions—up, down, left, or right—by tapping the A button.


Note that you can only dive underwater once you have the Water Dragon’s Scale, which can be obtained by completing the “The Silent Realm - Faron Woods” quest during the earlier stages of the game. Once you have the Water Dragon’s Scale, you can dive underwater anytime at will.
 Even if you’re in the water, you can still switch to first-person view and closely look around you by pressing the C button on the left Wii Remote. The camera will zoom in and the game screen will turn into a first-person view. To go back to third-person camera view, simply tap the C button again.
 If you find an object underwater that you can target or observe, you can lock into it by pressing and holding down the Z button on the left Wii remote. The camera will immediately lock onto a targetable object near you.
 Enemies can be found even below the surface of the water, so you’ll still need to be able to defend yourself. Link can perform a spin attack with his sword by waving the left Wii Remote in an upward motion. Link will spin his sword around, propelling him upward while damaging nearby enemies. If he’s close enough to the surface, Link will jump out of water while spinning his sword.
 To get out of the water, simply go back to the surface and swim towards a nearby land or solid structure. Link will automatically climb out of water and back onto solid ground.


If you’re trying to get onto a ground that’s higher than the level of the water you’re in, try looking around for any vines or ladders that Link could use to climb up. Swim toward these structures, and your main character will automatically climb up and make his way up the higher ground.

