 In order to help you try to narrow down what the underlying causes of your headaches may be, you can keep a headache journal. You should write in your journal every time you experience a headache, and track the following items:When the headache occurred.
Where the pain was on your head, face, and/or neck.
The intensity of the headache. You could use a personal rating scale from one to ten where you’ve defined each level based on your personal experience.
What activities you were involved in when the headache started, including where you were.
A note on how well you slept the night before you experienced the headache.
A note on what you ate, drank, heard, or smelled in the 24 hours leading up to the headache.
A note on how you were feeling before the headache started.
Any other points that you may find useful.;
, Uncomfortable and improper furniture (such as your desk, chair, keyboard, computer monitor, mouse, etc.) can cause your body to be positioned badly for long periods of time. This bad posture can cause all sorts of long-term muscle problems, which in turn cause headaches. You can either rearrange your office furniture on your own, or employ a specialized company to do it for you.You should never have to turn your head, or look up or down, when looking at your computer monitor. It should be directly in front of you, a smidgen below eye level. If your monitor’s stand won’t allow you to move it to the proper level, use books, boxes, a short shelf, or whatever else you have around that can support the monitor.
You should not have to reach far to access your keyboard and mouse. You should be able to comfortably rest your arms on your chair’s armrests while your hands touch both the keyboard and the mouse.
When you sit in your office chair, no part of your body should have to reach anywhere in order to sit in a relaxed position. Your legs should be at 90-degree angles and your feet should be flat on the ground. You arms should be at 90-degree angles with your arms or wrists being able to rest on either the armrests or desk. You should be able to lean back comfortably, with proper lumbar support. You should never sit forward on your chair with your feel on the castors! In fact, it’s best if your chair isn’t able to move around on wheels.
You should never hold a phone between your shoulder and ear. Use the speakerphone, headset, or a bluetooth device to speak on the phone if you need your hands free., Your pillow should allow your spine to remain straight whether you’re lying on your back or on your side. Don’t sleep on your stomach. Your mattress should be firm, especially if you have a sleeping partner. If your sleeping partner is heavier than you, you need to make sure your mattress doesn’t dip so much that you’re rolling into him or her. If this is happening, you’re probably unconsciously bracing yourself while you sleep to prevent yourself from rolling.If you aren’t sure if your mattress is firm enough, try sleeping on the floor or on a camping mattress for a couple of days. If you find that you get a better night’s sleep on the floor, your mattress is nowhere near firm enough.
 Lift with your legs and not your back!Take frequent breaks when you’re in the same position for a long period of time. Purposely relax your muscles and take several deep breaths every now and again. Don’t clench your jaw.Don’t carry your purse or backpack on one shoulder, wear them across your body (for purses) or on both shoulders (for backpacks). Wear only properly fitted shoes with arch support. Minimize wearing high heels. Use lumbar support on any chair or seat that you sit in for longer periods of time (like your car, work, dining chair, etc.).Make sure your eye glass prescription is up-to-date and that you’re not straining to see your book or monitor., The food we eat every day does contain some required vitamins and minerals, but it is highly unlikely that you’re getting all the needed vitamins and minerals, in the right quantities, on a daily basis. A good multi-vitamin, or a combination of more than one individual vitamin, will help ensure you’re getting what you need. Doctor’s recommend ensuring your getting enough vitamin C, B1, B6, B12, folic acid, calcium, magnesium, iron, and potassium.If you are on other medications, check with your doctor before selecting a multi-vitamin.
 If you’ve ever talked to a doctor, nurse, nutritionist, massage therapist or other practitioner, you’ve probably been told to drink more water at some point in your life! In general an adult should drink eight glasses or two quarts of water per day. And that amount should be increased if your exercising or if it’s really hot and you are sweating.It can be really hard to consume the recommended amount of water, especially if you’re busy and always on the go. If you’re having trouble, force yourself to carry a reusable water bottle with you everywhere you go and refill it at every opportunity. Always have it within reach and always give in to the temptation to take sip!

, Most people don’t like being told they have to cut back on the amount of caffeine they consume! And ironically many headache medications include caffeine as an ingredient. This is because caffeine can help a headache initially, but if you consume too much on a daily basis, the caffeine actually causes more muscle tension and other internal problems. Try to stick to the equivalent of two eight-ounce cups of coffee per day. This includes anything you consume that has caffeine, including coffee, tea, pop, medications, and some chocolate., This may include emotional problems like depression or anxiety, and physical problems like sleep problems, infections, hormone imbalances, thyroid function, blood glucose levels, and more.Your doctor will be able to assess, and if required, run laboratory tests to determine if you have any of these underlying problems and then develop a treatment plan specifically for you.

