 It is a good idea to look for damage on the roof and underneath the camper. If anything is damaged, it may need to be repaired or replaced prior to leaving.
 The area of the awning that the door rubs against is the most likely spot for a rip to happen. Small rips can be patched up with tape. If the rip is too large, the awning may need to be replaced. The awning should also extend and retract smoothly with no binding., If there is a spare tire, check that as well. It is a good idea to always have a spare tire if your camper does not.
 Some campers come equipped with an additional outside shower so be sure to check that as well., Connect the positive (red) terminal first then connect the negative (black) terminal. To disconnect the battery, remove the negative terminal first then the positive terminal.
 This can be done by flipping a switch on the monitor panel that is usually located near the rear of the camper.
, Some campers have built in gauges to do this. If it does not have a built in gauge, just unhook it and lift it up yourself to check.
 Easiest way to check the system is by turning on and off all of the equipment that is connected to the system. These include equipment like lights, plug outlets, air conditioner, microwave, and automatic jacks.
 To check if it works with 120 V, the camper must be plugged in to an outlet. To check if it works with propane, the camper either has a switch to turn and check it or the camper has to be completely unplugged., Some campers come equipped with an additional propane hookup on the outside for outdoor stoves. Be sure to check that as well. This is what the outdoor propane hookup looks like.
 Some campers have an automatic igniter for the hot water tank. If it does not have one, or the automatic igniter is broken, it can be manually ignited., The blackwater tank is where the sewage is stored after being flushed. To prepare the tank, use sanitary chemicals or tablets. These will help reduce odor and promote biological breakdown., A good method for doing this effectively is to put one can on either end in the inside and a third can underneath on the outside., This can be done by using the same method for cleaning a house., The filters are usually located under a sink. Follow the manufacturers recommendation for when to change.
 Unplug camper from wall outlet and plug into vehicle to verify running lights and trailer brakes are functional., These include first aid kit, tool kit, and a road hazard kit. Another item that should be included is extension cords.