 Use white tape that can withstand wind and rain. Place the tape 4” apart vertically on your windows. This will signal to birds that the glass is there and prevent them from flying into it.You can also use black tape. If you use black tape, space the strips 1” apart.
There is specialty tape available at pet stores to prevent birds from hitting windows.;
, Bird decals or bird stickers can be a quick and easy way to bird proof your windows. Always place decals very close together, about one hand’s distance away from each other. You will need to cover the windows with a pattern of decals, as one to two bird decals on the window will not deter birds.You can find bird decals at bird-feeding stores and pet stores. You can often find bird decals in different bird silhouettes, such as hawk or robin silhouettes. Look for decals that are colored in an ultraviolet spectrum, as they will be transparent to our eyes but visible to birds.
 Another way to deter birds from hitting your windows is to put a layer of soap on the outside of windows, creating a film that will be visible to birds. Keep in mind with this method, you may have to soap the windows several times a week to maintain the film.Another option is to apply window paint or tempera paints to the windows. You can make this a fun art project and create bold, bright patterns with the window paint. Make sure you cover most to all of the surface area of the windows with paint so there are no clear or transparent areas that birds can fly into.
 There are window films available that are transparent on the inside but opaque on the outside. Use a film that covers the entire surface of the glass on the outside. Most window films are made to allow light inside while still appearing opaque and reflective to birds.Some films also come in patterns, such as stripes or blocks, that can help to deter birds from flying into the glass. Applying patterned films can create an interesting look to your windows while also safeguarding them for birds.
 There are several bird screens and nets available that can help to prevent birds from flying into your windows. Look for a bird screen that is made of dark mesh that you can hang over your windows. You can customize the mesh so it covers your windows properly.You can use buy bird netting to hang two inches from your windows. Look for netting that is made of durable, lightweight polypropylene.
 If you do not already have exterior shutters on your windows, consider installing them. You can then close the shutters when you are out for the day to prevent birds from hitting the glass. Exterior shutters can also be a good way to conserve energy and keep your house warm without turning up the heat.You can also install sun shades or awnings. They will block the reflection of sunlight and create shade over the windows, making it easier for birds to spot the glass and avoid flying into it.
 For a permanent solution, you can switch out your window glass for ultraviolet, patterned glass. This glass has crisscross patterns that are not noticeable to humans but are visible to birds from the outside. Though this may be the most expensive option, it is also the most permanent one.You can find ultraviolet, patterned window glass online or in specialty home and furniture stores.
If you are planning to install windows in your home, you should go for slightly tilted windows. Ask the contractor to position the windows so they are slightly vertical, facing downward. This will allow the window surface to reflect the ground rather than the sky and the trees. Positioning your windows this way will help to deter birds from hitting the glass without obstructing your view.