 Start with the registry, if they have one.;
, The new baby’s Godparent, of course, is usually expected to give a “bigger” gift than one of the parents’ coworkers. You have plenty of range in the gift you choose, and of course you should stay within your means—the parents will understand—but neither appear too cheap nor too grandiose. Remember, the magnitude of a gift is not solely determined on how much it costs: the amount of time you put into a homemade gift, for example, is just as important.
 For example, a coupon to baby-sit, especially at night, is often a big hit with new parents. So are offers to do chores around the house, run errands, or make dinner. Simply give enclose your “gift certificate” in a card, and let the parents redeem it when they need some help. Be sure, of course, to follow through on your commitment.
 If you’re a songwriter, write a song (or, if you want to stick to registry, get a musical toy), or if you’re the parents’ insurance agent give the new arrival a security blanket. Don’t limit your thinking to your occupation, however. Think of an attribute or experience that one or both of the parents most associates you with and choose a gift that will evoke that.
 Even an expensive gift looks cheap if it’s delivered in a plain paper bag. Choose unique wrapping papers, and take the time to wrap your gift well. Don’t restrict yourself to store-bought papers, of course: you can package your gift in a number of creative ways, such as a diaper cake or a stork diaper delivery.
 A creatively bundled package of small gifts is always memorable. For one thing, many small items take longer to open and thus can appear “larger” than a single gift of comparable magnitude. For another, bundling gifts also allows you to be creative. Put together a "Nursing Survival Kit," for example, with breast pads, Lansinoh cream, frozen peas (to ease nursing soreness), and a copy of a book like “The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding.” Or create a "Sleep Like a Baby" gift basket with a soft baby blanket, a white noise CD, and some herbal teas.
 For example, if your present requires batteries, include a small package of batteries (the correct type, of course) with it. You don't even need to give the whole pack—just the right amount for the item you've given.
 The best baby gifts for new parents are those that require no work on their part to enjoy.
 They may love what you've gotten, but they may have also received two or three baby gifts just like it. Make it easy to return yours, and they'll be grateful.
 This makes it easy for the sleep-deprived parents to keep track of the gifts and write you a thank-you note. Better yet, write your own stamped, self-addressed thank you note! If the new parents are close friends and have a sense of humor, they'll appreciate this trick. Write yourself a Thank You note from them, with humorous options they can check off, such as: “We loved the gift and we think you're the best,” or “Thanks for the gift, but we hate it so we'll be returning it.” Of course, it's all meant in fun.

