 Set the oven to 350 F (177 C). To make this recipe, you will also need:

Sealable plastic bag
Rolling pin or hammer
Small and medium bowls
Electric beaters
Small saucepan
Stirring spoon
Nine-inch pie plate
Food processor;
, To make the cookie-based pie shell, you first need to make cookie crumbs. Pulse the cookies until they become fine crumbs. Make sure there aren't any large chunks left.

Instead of chocolate sandwich cookies, you can use any crunchy cookie, including graham crackers, wafer cookies, or even shortbread cookies.If you don’t have a food processor, place the cookies inside a sealable plastic bag and gently crush them up with a rolling pin or hammer.
 Continue pulsing the food processor and add the melted butter to the cookie crumbs. Process until the butter has been fully incorporated.

When the cookies and butter have been combined, press the mixture into the bottom of a 9-inch pie plate. Use your fingers to pack the mixture down into the bottom and up against the sides of the pie plate to form a pie shell., You only want the crust to bake for seven or eight minutes, which is just long enough to set the pie shell into its form. When it’s done, remove it from the oven and allow the pie shell to cool to room temperature without removing it from the pie plate.Make sure the pie shell is completely cool before adding any filling, otherwise the filling will melt or become runny.
 The peppermint candies for the pie must be crushed into smaller pieces. Place all the peppermint candies in the sealable plastic bag. Place the bag on a hard, flat surface, and with a rolling pin or hammer, crush the candies into small fragments.


Be careful not to roll or hit the candies too much, or they will turn to candy dust.
 Fill a small bowl with the cold water and sprinkle in the gelatin. This will soften the gelatin and make it easier to incorporate into the filling mixture. Set the bowl aside.As an alternative, you can also use a box of unsweetened vanilla pudding mix in place of the gelatin. This is a vegetarian option that will make the filling softer, but it won’t set like the gelatin filling. To do this, whisk the pudding mix into the water and set it aside., Pour ½ cup (120 ml) of the whipping cream into a small saucepan and heat it over low heat. Add 1 cup of the crushed peppermint candies. Continue heating the mixture until the peppermint candies have melted.

When the candies have melted, remove the saucepan from the heat.
You can substitute evaporated milk for this portion of whipping cream, which will slightly reduce the overall fat content of the filling., Pour the gelatin into the hot peppermint mixture and stir to combine. Add ½ teaspoon (3 ml) of the peppermint extract and stir again. Set it aside.

You want the peppermint mixture to cool to room temperature, but don’t let it sit any longer, or the gelatin will set.
 In a medium bowl, use the electric beaters to beat 1½ cups (360 ml) of whipping cream. Beat until the cream forms stiff peaks.

Fold in the peppermint mixture by gently stirring it into the whipping cream. Stir until the two are almost fully combined, but there's still a marbled effect with the pink peppermint mixture and the white whipping cream.
 Spoon the filling into the pie crust and spread it around so it evenly. For an extra crunchy and minty kick, coat the bottom of the pie shell with a layer of crushed peppermint candies before adding the

filling.Place the pie in the refrigerator to chill and set for about two hours.
 In a medium bowl, combine the confectioner’s sugar and the remaining 1 cup (240 ml) of whipping cream and ½ teaspoon (3 ml) of peppermint extract. Beat until the whipping cream forms stiff peaks.Before serving, garnish the top with additional whipped cream and crushed peppermints.