



 Similar Triangles

You can use it to perform multiplication and division. Open a new workbook in Excel and copy the drawing.;
,  Draw HG and construct a line through F parallel to HG.  Let it intersect DG at E. Then DE will have length xy.,  Draw EF and construct a line through H parallel to EF.  Let it intersect DE at G. Then DG will have length y/x., Would this possibly be a way of keeping time and "knowing when to move aside" to attain better light, directly, for the lower leaf or stem?, After all, the roots are in darkness, how do they know what time it is or calculate the proportion of a given chemical admixture to send?, (Almost Any Number)? That is, almost any number may be expressed as a quotient of two other numbers, e.g. 36/2 = 18 and 625/256 = 2.44140625, or 5^4 / 4^4 or 5/4^(1/(5/4 - 1)). See the articles Work with Continued Fractions in Microsoft Excel and Solve aB=a^B in Neutral Operations Using Algebra where it discusses E = mc^n as n approaches 2. Is it possible to "see yesterday" in the memory by seeing slower than stopped Time at light speed squared? Is the "Past" on the opposite side of all electrons facing me, and the "Future" spinning around from that opposed position to greet me too? That would make the immediate Past very much like the immediate Future, resulting in a fairly stable Present. And geometrically, all the rays from all the particles coming through in vibrations would be fairly constantly multiplied and divided as well, so long as one is fairly still, or in a relatively stable environment. Call this "The Supposition About Neurons and Neutrons" if you like.,, That is, can She get reasonable estimates of the square root or of any root of a number? One surmises "any root" from supposing an iterative process (that did not occur to Euclid, Descartes or Newton-Raphson apparently).,,
For more art charts and graphs, you might also want to click on Category:Microsoft Excel Imagery, Category:Mathematics, Category:Spreadsheets or Category:Graphics to view many Excel worksheets and charts where Trigonometry, Geometry and Calculus have been turned into Art, or simply click on the category as appears in the upper right white portion of this page, or at the bottom left of the page.

