 You’ll be lying down during the ear cleaning, so it’s important to gather all necessary supplies and bring them within arm’s reach. Lay a towel on the floor for your head to rest on. Then, about a foot away, set up a small bowl of 3% hydrogen peroxide, a medicine dropper and a hand towel.
 Lie on your back with your head on the towel you laid out in the floor. Tilt your head to the side such that the ear you’d like to clean is facing the ceiling., Before you start cleaning, place the hand towel on the shoulder of the ear you’ll be treating. This will protect your clothes from staining and catch the solution you’ve used to wash your ear.

You may also want to put a piece of plastic under the towel before you get started. This will help to protect your clothes and floors from getting soiled.
 Draw up 1-3ml of 3% hydrogen peroxide solution with the dropper, and drip it into your ear canal.You may hear and feel some fizzing, which is perfectly normal. Though it may feel a little ticklish, try to relax. Let the solution stay in place with your ear still turned up for 3-5 minutes.If helpful, you can pull on the top edge of the ear to open the ear canal more as you insert the drops.
Don’t press the dropper down into your ear canal when administering the drops. Your ear canal is sensitive and prone to damage with too much pressure.
 When time is up, take the hand towel on your shoulder and hold it over your upturned ear. Sit up, turning your head against the towel to drain the solution and excess earwax, which should be visible. Dry the exterior of the ear with the towel as necessary.

Repeat the cleaning regimen on the other ear.
 If you’re running short on time, place a few drops of hydrogen peroxide in each ear 10 minutes before getting in the shower. No need to lie down. The peroxide will soften your earwax, and it will wash out as you go about your bathing routine as normal. Dry the exterior of your ears with a clean towel when you dry off., Earwax is normal and actually has certain antibacterial properties to keep your ears healthy. Most people with normal earwax production will not need to clean their ears with hydrogen peroxide more than twice a week.After two weeks of twice weekly cleanings, then switch to cleaning your ears twice per month, and then after two months of that, switch to cleaning your ears twice per year only.
Talk to your doctor about cleaning your ears as well. Cleaning your ears too often can cause damage, so you may want to discuss your reasons for wanting to do regular cleanings with your doctor.
Ask your doctor about ear cleaning kits, such as Debrox.
 Earwax normally only coats the outer third of your ear canal, but cotton swabs actually push earwax deeper than it is meant to go. Over time, this can cause impacted earwax blockages near your eardrum that actually interfere with hearing.Doctors also advise against using cotton swabs to clean your ears, as well as other objects such as hair pins.
 If you have had surgery to put in ear tubes, do not use peroxide to clean your ears. While tubes may clear up recurrent ear infections, they do so by putting a permanent hole through the air drum to allow air into your middle ear. Peroxide cleanings would leak solution into your middle ear and might lead to complications or infection.To clean your ears with tubes, use a clean tissue to wipe away any excess wax that comes to the opening of your ear canal. You should avoid getting water in your ears entirely.
 While earwax is normal, any excess wax that is accompanied by ear pain or unusual-looking discharge should be investigated by a doctor. An ear that is hot to the touch or accompanied by a fever is also reason to schedule an appointment.