 The laws regarding domestic partnerships and civil unions are different in various locations. Because domestic partnerships are not uniformly created, it is challenging to locate the statutes. Start with the state statutes and search for domestic partnerships or civil unions. If you find nothing, look at codes for your local county/parish and city, again, searching for domestic partnerships or civil unions. If you find nothing in any set of statutes, contact the clerk of courts or the county recorder’s office.Some states do not provide for domestic partnerships or civil unions at all.
In some of those states, individual counties or cities may have enacted domestic partnership or civil union laws for that location.
Some states forbid domestic partnerships or civil unions.
Some states provide for domestic partnerships or civil unions that are consistent throughout the state.
Some domestic partnership or civil union laws are available for use by all residents.
Some are limited to only particular groups of people, such as homosexuals, heterosexuals over age 55, employees of particular governmental units, etc.;
, A domestic partnership is not a marriage, and the partners do not usually qualify for the same benefits as marriage, including Social Security spousal benefits. Be sure you know the effect the domestic partnership will have on your income taxes and future retirement and estate planning. The IRS is clear that:Domestic partners cannot file married, either jointly or separately
One partner cannot file head of household claiming only the other partner as a dependent.
There are also special rules in calculating income from partnership property

, There are a variety of benefits of having a domestic partnership over a marriage. There are also benefits to having a domestic partnership instead of just living together. Some of these include:


The ability to retain separate property to pass to your pre-existing descendents
The ability to visit in hospitals if necessary
The ability to inherit in some situations
The ability to make decisions as the “next of kin” as necessary
The ability to take advantage of employee benefits earned by your partner in many cases

