 These are referred to in Vista as "startup items";
, Click on the button and move your cursor to the "start search" field and click to bring up the typing cursor. Type "System Configuration" then press the "enter"(return) key on your keyboard.
 Select the "startup" tab if it is not already selected and take a minute to scan the list. Some of these programs may not look familiar, but some should. Take a good look at the "Startup item", "manufacturer", "command", and the "location" of the list.
, Once you have selected the programs which you wish to remove from the startup, click "apply".
 Select "Restart" and wait for your computer to restart. (You can check the box if you do not wish to be asked this question if you decide to do this again in the future)

, and the files that are acquired when you visit a website. These files are called "temporary internet files", but are more commonly known as cookies. Cookies are used to help quicken your internet browsing experience by keeping files that you will be using the next time that you visit the site, however these files add up over time and can cause your computer to operate slower over time as they accumulate.
, are located and find the one labeled "tools". It is sometimes replaced by a wrench depending on your browser and configuration.
 It will open a window with checked boxes beside a description of what they represent. *Note Internet explorer uses buttons instead.
 Browsing history is a list of all of the websites you have visited. Download history is an archive of all of the files that you have downloaded from the browser. Cookies are the files that are saved on your computer when you visit a website to make opening that page faster in the future. Passwords are any passwords that you have requested your browser to remember for certain sites. Form data is anything that you have filled into a text box, such as your name.
 Internet explorer is a bit different, it allows you to delete them all individually, or to delete them all at once by clicking the button at the bottom. If a popup comes up and asks you yes or no, select yes.
 Because of the way that windows places files and data on the hard drive, these files get to be quite a mess and because things are harder to locate, it takes your computer longer to find what it is looking for. Also, since a hard drive is a spinning disk, data can be retrieved faster if it is closer to the inside of the spinning disk. Fortunately, windows has a built in program to sort all of this out.
, This will open a new window.
, *Note when choosing a time, it is best to choose a time when the computer will be on, but you will not be using it, since the process will consume system resources and anything that you are doing will run slower. Click "Ok" to return to the previous window.
 This will allow you to select when hard drives you wish to sort, if you have more than one hard drive, or partition. If you only have one hard drive, then it should already be selected, and you can click "Ok" to return to the previous Window.
 This step can take anywhere from about a minute to many hours depending on how often you defragment, how many files there are, and the speed of your hard drive and computer. If this is your first time running this program, it is recommended that you leave your computer on overnight to allow it enough time to finish, because this process can take many hours.
 Your computer should be running more efficiently, and in most cases you will notice a boost in your computer's performance after finishing these steps, enjoy!

