 Different mediums can open your eyes to new styles of art and inspire your current style. If you are always drawing in only one medium, consider switching to one that you don't use often. For instance, if you always draw in pencil or pen, consider changing to something like pastels or charcoal. While you'll have to adjust your technique to draw, it could inspire your overall style.You can also try doing other art forms like sculpture or painting if you feel like you have illustrator's block.
 Sometimes artists can get caught up drawing using a particular technique, and it limits their body of work. For instance, if you're always used to drawing in an anime style, it could be holding you back from discovering other things you like to draw. Think outside of the box and draw inspiration from innovative artists around you.


Other styles include photorealism, surrealism, abstraction, and manga.If you always draw cartoony, try to draw something realistic.
Drawing in different styles can help hone your skills.
 Different illustrators enjoy drawing different things. Some artists prefer to concentrate on the human form while others prefer to sketch inanimate objects or landscapes. In addition, other illustrators like to draw architecture and some like to draw designs for clothes. Think of what you are trying to get out of your illustrations and decide on the subject matter that you like the most.


Some artists are best known for drawing a particular subject, such as Georgia O'Keeffe who is best known for her distinct paintings of flowers., Think of your emotions and favorite themes while you draw and try to translate that into your art. For example, if you want to convey dark emotions, you can portray that in your art by drawing serious subject matter like a violent or depressing scene. Show your frustration by using sharp, jagged lines. If you want to portray a serene scene, using sweeping bright colors and pick subject matter that will inspire people.


Try doing quicker concept pieces instead of obsessing over getting something perfect if you are having a hard time completing a drawing. Try taking thirty or fewer seconds to draw something. Aim to get the form and idea of your subject matter, rather than drawing the minute details.
Many artists stick to similar themes, colors, lines, and drawing techniques which distinguish their style from other artists.If you have a block in inspiration, concentrate less on achieving a unique style and focus more on getting your emotions out on paper.
 Once you've established the medium, you'll be working in and the subject matter, it's time to set yourself apart visually. Think about your line thickness and how you'll be using your lines within your work. Ask yourself if you like drawing thick bold lines or would rather draw more intricate and detailed lines. Also determine if your lines are going to be short, sharp, and jagged, or smooth and long. Will your lines be dark and make the outline the focal point, or are colors and details more important for you?


Vary your line width throughout a drawing, but try to maintain a cohesive style overall.
The way you outline your drawings will influence your style heavily., As an illustrator, color can sometimes play a huge role in the emotions and feelings you can evoke from an illustration. Often, darker tones like dark blue and black and can create an ominous feeling in a drawing while lighter tones like yellow, red, and orange can evoke positive emotions.The intensity and method of application also significantly change the way your drawing turns out.


Decide whether color will even play a role in your illustrations as some artists prefer to draw in black and white.
You may choose to color your drawings with paint, pastels, or colored pens, or scan them and do color edits in a software program.

