 Preventing binge eating can be achieved with planning and support. Follow an eating plan that balances proteins, carbohydrates, sugars and sodium. You are less likely to need to binge for physical cravings when these elements are balanced.


A licensed nutritionist or dietitian can provide you with healthy guidelines.
 Stock up on healthy snacks such as nuts (unless you have an allergy), air-popped popcorn, fruits in season, and yogurt. Check with your doctor or nutritionist for more suggestions.
 Drinking plenty of fresh water will flush toxins and fat from your body. Dehydration can be mistaken for hunger and could lead to overeating. Aim to get 72 ounces of fluids for women, or 104 ounces of fluids for men, every day., Stay away from all fast foods, junk foods, foods with a high fat or sugar content, and highly processed foods. These types of foods fuel cravings and can trigger an eating binge.
 If you have acute or chronic medical conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, infections or other issues, see your doctor. When you begin to take care of your physical health, it is easier to commit to your recovery plan.
 Develop a buddy system with friends or family. Ask people whom you can trust to be your buddy, to help you when you feel the urge to binge by being available to talk things through, and to help counteract any negative feelings.
 Document the feelings that you experience whenever you feel an urge to binge. Identifying the feelings is key to overcoming the triggers that bring on these feelings. Otherwise, you tend to keep associating poor feelings with the relief of food, and that leads to bingeing. Ask your doctor for advice.


Pay attention to when you feel like you are going to start bingeing. Use a journal to write down your feelings at that moment, along with what you ate and if you exercised. Try to track why you’re feeling like bingeing; is it because you are low on protein? Did you have an argument with someone? Journaling your feelings can help you identify potential triggers.Make note of goals that you’ve met, either small or large. This will help you see your progression toward healing.
 Make plans for what to do when you feel a binge coming on. Write down your motivation to not binge, post reminders around that inspire you to moderate your food intake, make weight loss or weight management plans. Doing these things will not only take your mind off of the situation, but they will help you work towards avoiding bingeing in the future and will give you a sense of accomplishment.


Set manageable goals and aim to take steps toward reaching those goals. For example, you might say, “I want to stop eating when I don’t feel hungry.” Break this down into manageable pieces, where you might say, “I’m going to eat one meal every day where I definitely wait until I am hungry and stop eating when I feel comfortably full.”This is an attainable goal that you can build upon once you achieve it.
Decide how frequently you could reasonably achieve goals. Some people just starting out might try for daily goals, while others might strive for weekly or monthly goals.
Use your food journal to track your progress on these goals.

