 The text in question is the starting point for any literary analysis. You will want to read the text at least once and take careful notes to prepare for writing your essay. As you read:Think about what most interests you: imagery, characters, plot, pacing, tone, etc. Note examples.
Consider the context. Is this text influenced by other texts, such as the Bible or Shakespeare or even contemporary pop music? Does it use a style or form popular in a particular era, like the epistolary novel of the 18th century?
Reflect on what you know about the author. How might his or her biography influence the text?
Focus on why certain elements are in the story and how they work. How do characters contribute to the story or theme? Why does the author choose particular a particular setting, image, or tone?Decide what argument you think the text is making or what theme it is exploring. What do you think the main idea is that the author wanted you to understand once you finished reading?;
, A topic is the subject you will focus on. The earlier you choose a topic, the earlier you can begin collecting evidence to support it. Ideally, you'll have an idea of what you want to write about before you finish reading the text. There are two types of essay, each with their own type of topic:Expository essays give information to the reader.

Your topic may be a single literary element of the work, such as character, plot, structure, theme, symbols, style, imagery, tone, etc.Another common topic is how a work illustrates or breaks the forms of a particular genre or school of thought.You may also draw parallels between the work and real-life subject matter such as historical events or the author's life.Argumentative essays take a position on a debatable topic in order to change the reader's mind. Your topic will typically be your thesis.

Your topic can't be factual: i.e. The nobles in Shakespeare's Hamlet talk in iambic pentameter.
And the argument can't be too easy to win: i.e. Nobles speak in formal iambic pentameter in Hamlet to emphasize their class.
It needs to be something people might reasonably disagree about: i.e. In Hamlet, Shakespeare writes noble speech in iambic pentameter not to emphasize their elite status, but rather to underscore how constrained noble characters actually are vis-à-vis the freer commoners.
 A good topic needs to be narrow enough that you can completely address it within the page limit. The key is to start broad and then narrow your focus.Eventually, you'll want to develop an argument regarding the topic. That argument will be your thesis. For example:


Broad topic – The use of humor in Hamlet.
Add words that make it more specific – Hamlet's use of humor in Hamlet.
Turn it into an even more specific sentence – Hamlet's use of humor belies his madness.
 The next step is to transform your topic into an argument – i.e. Hamlet's sense of humor is key to convincing the reader he is in fact sane. While your thesis will likely be revised as you write, it is still important to produce a preliminary thesis regarding the text, what it is trying to achieve, and the techniques the author uses to do so. A thesis will help you organize your ideas.


Be specific. For example: "The technique of allowing the reader the freedom to flesh out sparsely described images reinforces the theme of freedom versus destiny explored in the The Night Circus." This works better than something vague like: "The author uses rich visual imagery to great effect in The Night Circus."

, Now that you have chosen a topic and preliminary thesis, you can focus your research. Reread the work or selected sections, looking for quotes that you can use to develop your argument. You will probably want to search for evidence in conjunction with the next step: outlining your essay.
 It is always a good idea to write an outline. At a minimum, you'll want to include your thesis statement and a description of what each succeeding paragraph is about. For example:


Thesis: The technique of allowing the reader the freedom to flesh out sparsely described images reinforces the theme of freedom versus destiny explored in the The Night Circus.
Paragraph 1: Summary – The Night Circus is a novel about a young man and woman competing in a magical contest they do not fully understand, with a fantastical circus as the setting for their wonders.
Paragraph 2: While the novel is visually compelling, the descriptions are in fact surprisingly sparse, as in this description of the fantastic clock that sits at the entrance to the circus.
Paragraph 3: Her description of the magical snow garden is also surprisingly simple.
Paragraph 4: The simplicity gives the reader the freedom to fill out the descriptions using the guidelines offered by the text, just as the main characters flesh out the circus within the boundaries of the game's rules.
Paragraph 5: The simple yet beautiful descriptions thus reinforce the underlying theme of freedom versus destiny in the book.
 If you write an outline early in the research process, you can use it to help focus on the specific areas you need to explore in more detail. This will save you time, by sparing you research into areas that won't figure in your paper.
 An outline can also provide "container" in which to put information. Once you have an outline, you can start placing evidence and analysis into it as you come up with them to produce a more detailed outline that incorporates quotes and evidence for each paragraph, as in this sample outline.
 Include the title and author of the main works you deal with, as well as your thesis. The goal is to clearly define the issues your essay will deal with.


Don't write something vague like "This story deals with the problems of human civilization."
Be specific: "By the end of the story, Rainsford becomes another Zargoff, another civilized murderer. He has adopted his adversary's brutal attitudes so easily that we are led to question civilization's claim to control human aggression.", If the text is one that the entire class has read, you will not need to summarize it. However, if it is one that your reader might not be familiar with, you will need to give a brief (one paragraph) summary.Be careful that you do not spend too much time on summary, however. If you have more summary than analysis, your paper won't show your ideas about the text.
 If you are discussing a particular aspect of the work – characters, plot, style, etc. – you will want to begin with a representative example of the literary device you will analyze., Each paragraph will provide evidence to support the claim made in your thesis, as well as analysis of that evidence. You will also want to anticipate counter-arguments. A good essay will include:Evidence – Examples from the text under discussion that support your thesis.
Warrant – An explanation of how the evidence supports your thesis.
Backing – Additional reasoning that may be necessary to support the warrant.
Counterclaims – Anticipate arguments that disagree with your thesis.
Rebuttal – Evidence and argumentation put forward by you that negates the counterclaim you introduced.
 Start by considering what you want your readers to take away from your paper. However, a good conclusion will not simply restate the thesis. It will go on to discuss why it is important, to speculate on its broader implications (i.e. is it true for a genre or period as a whole?) or to provide suggestions on how it might be pursued further., Don't worry about style, spelling, or length. Your first draft should focus on the argument you are making and on marshalling evidence to support that argument. It is very difficult to perfect your prose, grammar, essay structure, and argument all at the same time. You can actually save time by writing multiple drafts that focus on these elements one at a time., Once you have your main ideas and supporting evidence down on paper, it's time to move them around to create an essay that flows logically from one point to the next.


Try using a reverse outline to understand the structure of your essay. In the left hand margin, write out the topic of each paragraph in as few words as possible. In the right margin, write how each paragraph advances the overall argument. This will help you see how each paragraph fits into your paper, and which ones might be shifted for better effect.Once your paragraph is in the right order, focus on smoothing out transitions between paragraphs. If your paragraph flows well, you shouldn't need transition words (see https://writing.wisc.edu/Handbook/Transitions.html for a list of such words). The end of one paragraph should logically lead to the start of the next.
 Once you have a paper that you feel makes a clear argument, develops that argument with ample supporting evidence, and which is well organized, it's time to get someone else's opinion. Many universities have writing centers that will provide feedback on drafts. At the very least, let a fellow student take a look. They will be able to point out areas that are confusing or statements that are poorly supported. Use their feedback to write a third draft.
 Now that you have a clear, well-organized paper, it's time to edit it line by line to make sure your prose is concise and it contains no errors of spelling or grammar. It is easier to find errors on the printed page, so be sure to work form a hard copy. It can also help to change the font, as this tricks your brain into viewing the paper as a new document.You can find a list of common errors at http://www.indiana.edu/~wts/pamphlets/proofing_grammar.shtml.
 Watch out for wordy verbs (i.e. "has knowledge of" instead of "knows"), adverbs, unnecessary prepositional phrases, and overly inflated language (i.e. "utilize" instead of "use"). For a list of common unnecessary words, see http://writing.wisc.edu/Handbook/Clear,_Concise,_and_Direct_Sentences.pdf.
 When drafting, writers commonly say the same thing two sentences in a row in slightly different ways as they work through ideas. Delete or combine the sentences to avoid this, as in the example below:


Original text: "Rachel Watson, the protagonist of Paula Hawkin's Girl on a Train, is a classic unreliable narrator. In particular, her inability to remember events in her own life due to alcohol-induced blackouts leaves the reader unable to rely on her version of events."
Rewrite as: "Rachel Watson, the protagonist of Paula Hawkin's Girl on a Train, suffers from alcohol-induced blackouts that leave her unsure what has happened in her own life, making her a classic unreliable narrator."

, How you came to your conclusions does not matter. Present your ideas stripped of "I". It's already clear that the work reflects your beliefs because you put your name on it.Don't write: "I initially thought Hamlet was only feigning madness, but then after a second reading, came to believe that he actually is mad."
Instead, you might write: "Many critics take for granted that Hamlet is only feigning madness, but their analysis relies on a more modern understanding of insanity. If we take the worldview of Shakespeare's audience into account, it seems more likely that Hamlet was in fact mad."
Or, more simply: "A close reading that takes into account the worldview of the time reveals that Hamlet is indeed mad."

, This technique is especially effective for catching run on sentences and other grammatical errors, like the excessive use of commas., Reading one sentence at a time, starting at the end, interrupts the flow of your essay and helps you to see what the sentences actually say, rather than what you meant to say.
 Always run spell check as a last step. Be careful to pay close attention to names and jargon, as spell check may suggest you substitute different words for already correct spellings.
 Writing does not progress at a linear pace. Sometimes you can write a dozen pages in an hour. Other times, you might struggle to grind out a page. In both cases you are doing productive work. However, if you start your paper too late, a period of slow writing can induce panic that leads to writer's block. To avoid this, start early and schedule plenty of time to write.


Work in 2 to 6 hour sessions spread over multiple days. It is hard to stay productive past 6 hours.
Start at least a week before your paper is due.
 A page goal – particularly a large one like 15 or 20 pages – can be intimidating. Don't worry about pages. It is time that matters. Focus on putting in time, not the number of pages you write in a given session.
 Sometimes when your stuck, it helps to change the format in which you are writing. Writing on a computer, in particular, can slow you down due to the easy ability to repeatedly edit each sentence. Pen and paper can help you move through a draft more quickly.
 If you're having a hard time getting started with a part of your paper – thesis, outline, or draft – start a new document and write whatever comes to mind. It might be an analysis of a particular passage, a summary of the story, or just a list of ideas. It doesn't matter. The important thing is to get writing again.
 The challenge of writing well-constructed sentences while also formulating a clear argument and organizing evidence can sometimes be too much. If you're stuck drafting your essay, try writing in detailed outline form: plug in evidence and you analysis of it, and don't worry about the language or even writing complete sentences. This can be a great way to speed through a first draft. You can then focus on fleshing out your sentences in draft 2.
 If none of these strategies work, it often helps just to step away. Take a walk and give your mind time to sort things out. Sit down and focus on your breathing. Take a nap and let your subconscious have a crack at it.