 How else will you find out what looks good on you? Don't worry about having a few fashion disasters, because what you will be left with a style that suits you, and also your personality.;
, It doesn't matter if you have a flat chest, or short legs. As long as you keep your body fit and at a healthy weight, you'll look great.
 Put lotion all over your body to keep it silky smooth. You may also want to try exfoliating, too, otherwise you will just be moisturizing dead skin. Your hands, elbows and knees are especially important to moisturize, as they are prone to dryness.
 Always use cleanser and moisturizer, and perhaps toner. Ask your dermatologist what will be best for your skin. For instance, if you are prone to spots, you may want to try using a top-selling brand of skin care and acne medication . It is also a good idea to exfoliate your face, and use face-masks, but not too much, as this will strip your face of essential oils.
 If you do so every day, you will only have a few hairs to pluck each time, meaning you won't have to go through much pain. If you aren't sure what shape you should be plucking them into, go to a salon and get a professional wax. After this, it will be easier to keep them neat and tidy. Use some petroleum jelly based product to slick them down, and if need be, use some eyebrow pencil to darken them.
 You may look nice in a dimly lit room, but when you go out in the sunlight discover you have made many errors in your makeup application. If you can, buy a lighted makeup mirror and use this. Now for the application of the makeup...


Apply a foundation, preferably liquid and matching your skin tone. Then, for the perfect skin, apply a dusting of powder. This will also seal the foundation in place. Finally, top it off with a bit of rouge to define your cheekbones.






When it comes to eyeshadow, where which ever colour you have discovered suits you (see step 1.) You will also know how you like to wear your eyeliner, if any. However, I do recommend you always wear mascara, even if it simply clear. Beforehand, use eyelash curlers.






Using lip liner gives your lips a much more polished look. NEVER wear lip liner a darker or lighter shade than your lipstick. Apply the liner to all of your lips, not just the outside, and then apply the lipstick over.
 Apply to your wrists, neck, hands, forearms, temples, and the backs of your knees. Do not wear too much, though, as this will overpower people.
 Soaking your hands in a moisturising scented oil will leave them smelling and looking lovely. Match your nail varnish with your clothing, and stay away from the black polish. If you want a dark colour, go for a deep purple, or crimson.

