 You may have already planned events like your rehearsal, rehearsal dinner, or a bachelor/bachelorette party. Enjoy spending time with your friends and family in a more informal environment. Your wedding day will likely be a whirlwind, and you may not get to spend as much time with loved ones as you may like. Take the time to catch up with them now.


If you do not have a rehearsal dinner or other activity planned, consider getting people together for an informal gathering. You may wish to go out for a drink, or do a fun group activity like frisbee golf, billiards, or bowling. Choose an activity you can easily pull together at the last minute, if necessary.
 Stay with your wedding party at a hotel or someone’s house, and just hang out. Watch a movie, play a game, or catch up with each other.


Have a relaxing outing scheduled for your wedding party ahead of time, like a pedicure or other pampering-type activity.If you need people around you to help calm your nerves, consider asking your wedding party to stay with you overnight before the wedding.
 Even though you may be in a celebratory mood and tempted to enjoy yourself with alcoholic drinks, remember that you do not want to pay the price the next morning with a hangover. While alcohol may relieve some pre-wedding jitters, it is not worth it to feel miserable on your big day.


Limit yourself to one or two drinks. Designate someone trustworthy to watch you and cut off your alcohol consumption if you have a tendency to overindulge. You could say, “Could you do me a favor and make sure I don’t have more than two glasses of wine tonight? I know I start feeling buzzed after that and I can decide to drink more pretty easily.”Make sure you also limit your caffeine consumption, so you are able to fall asleep more easily.
Drink plenty of water. You don’t want to be dehydrated for your wedding., Don't eat anything the night before the wedding that may give you indigestion or heartburn on your wedding day. If you know from experience that a certain food may give you an upset stomach, don’t take a chance with it the night before your wedding, no matter how tempting it may look!


Make sure you have antacid or a preferred stomach-calming medication on hand, just in case you may need it.
 Remember why you are here: to marry a person you love, cherish, and want to spend the rest of your life with. Make sure you are finding time to connect with your future spouse and share some last unmarried moments together.


Find a moment to spend some private time with your spouse-to-be before your wedding day. Remember that all of the details that go into wedding planning are not as important as your relationship. Enjoy each other’s excitement before you are joined together in matrimony.