 Set the temperature to your preference, being sure not to set it too hot to avoid burning your hair or your skin.


Allow the curling iron or wand to preheat while you complete the following steps to prepare.
 If your hair is not already dry, use your blow dryer to thoroughly dry it. Your hair will not curl if it is still wet.


Some salon professionals do claim that curls hold better in dirty hair, so it may be beneficial to not wash your hair for a day or two prior to curling it.
 Choose a mousse or gel that is safe to use on dry hair and that will help hold your curls. Look for a product that says it is specifically designed for curls.
 It is easiest to curl your hair in layers so that missed strands of hair are quicker to find.


Part your hair horizontally just above your ears. Lay your thumbs on either side of your head just above your ears, and run them back along your scalp to create the part. Lift all of the hair above your thumbs and clip or tie it up out of the way. Leave the rest of your hair hanging loose.
 Clear away any stray hairs or tangles so that the hair curls properly.


You can apply heat protectant to your hair as your work section-by-section. The heat protectant product will help protect your hair from damage from the hot curling iron or wand.
 Take care not to touch the tool with your fingers as you wrap your hair around it, so that you do not burn yourself.


Especially when using a curling wand, wrapping your hair around the barrel more times results in tighter curls, while wrapping it less times results in gentle waves.If using a curling iron, lower the clamp over your hair and hold it for 10-15 seconds before removing it from your hair.
If using a curling wand, hold the ends of that section of hair a short distance away from it, to avoid burning yourself, and hold the wand in place for 10-15 seconds before pulling it out of your hair.
 Be sure to check for any stray chunks of hair that did not curl well or did not get curled at all before moving onto the next layer of hair.
 The top third of your hair needs to be out of the way so that you can curl the middle layer of your hair.


Set your thumbs at your hairline at slight angle upward from the arches of your eyebrows. Slide your thumbs back along your scalp until they meet at the crown of your head. Clip or tie the top third of your hair up on top of your head.
 Moving just as you did before, separate small sections of hair to curl with your curling iron or wand.


Spray heat protectant as needed on your hair.
Smooth away any stray hairs and detangle any knots before wrapping each section of hair around your curling iron or wand.
Work all the way around your head, and check for missed chunks of hair as you go to make sure it all gets curled. It is especially important now to look for straight chunks of hair, because there is more loose hair hanging down to hide them.
 Part your hair where you would like, either in the center or off to one side, using a comb.


Gently run your fingers through your hair to remove any tangles and to help your hair lie flat.
 Continuing to use the same method, curl 1-inch sections of your hair all around the top layer of your head.


Check for any missed chunks of hair to be sure to get all of your hair curled. Again, be extra vigilant in looking. It helps to have another person help you look for missed strands in the back of your head.
 Extra holding power from hairspray helps your curls to last longer, so you can spritz your hair with hairspray to assist in maintaining those curls.

