 Try acetaminophen, ibuprofen or naproxen sodium.
 Try some of the following exercises to help your ankle ligaments to recover:


Perform ankle circles or write the alphabet with your toes to start to increase the mobility at the ankle. If your ankle is swollen and still painful, the ligaments are still at risk of being further injured. So continue resting.
Sit in a chair with your injured foot flat on the floor. Slowly move your knee from side to side for about 2 to 3 minutes, keeping your foot flat on the floor the whole time.
 After an ankle sprain, the calf muscles often get tight. It is important to stretch these to get your normal range of motion back. If you don't, it could lead to further injuries.


Sit on the floor with your leg extended out in front of you. Wrap a towel around the ball of your foot and pull the towel toward you while keeping your knee straight. Hold the stretch for 15 to 30 seconds. If the stretch is too painful, start by holding it for just a couple of seconds and gradually increasing your time as the injury subsides. Repeat the stretch 2 to 4 times.
Stand with your hands on a wall and place your injured foot about a step behind your other foot. Keep your heel on the floor and slowly bend your knee until you feel a stretch in your calf. Hold the stretch for 15 to 30 seconds, and repeat it 2 to 4 times.
 When you can stand without feeling increased pain or noticing increased swelling, then you can start some strengthening exercises.


Place your foot flat on the floor. Push your foot toward a wall or other immovable object, and hold the position for 6 seconds.
Sit with your feet on the floor. Wrap an exercise band or other stretchy tubing around the outsides of both of your ankles. Keep your uninjured foot on the floor, and gently push your injured ankle away from the uninjured foot, stretching the band as you go.
Sit down and place your feet together on the floor. Push your injured foot toward your uninjured foot and hold the position for about 6 seconds.
Place your uninjured foot on top of your injured foot. While pushing down with your top foot, simultaneously push the bottom foot upward. Hold for 6 seconds.
 Balance is often affected following an ankle sprain, so you'll need to concentrate on improving your balance so that you don't repeat the injury.


Purchase a wobble board or stand on a cushion. Make sure that you position yourself near a wall in case you lose your balance, or have someone else spot you while you're working on keeping steady.
If you don't have a cushion or a wobble board, then you can stand on your injured foot and lift your other foot off of the floor. Extend your arms out to your side for balance.