 Most local comics shops feature bins where you can buy older comics for prices such as 25 cents to $1. These comics are, on average, from 10 to 20 years old. You can also find older comics at used book stores.


Part of the reason these comics run cheaper is that so many comic books were published during the 1980s and 1990s, when collecting comics started becoming popular. Publishers produced large numbers of comics, hoping to capitalize on the craze, and while these comics will eventually appreciate in value, they won't have the value of rarer comics that date back to the 1930s and 1940s.;
, Local comic shops often hold sales. You can keep abreast of such sales by subscribing to your shop's email newsletter.
 At a comics show or convention, you'll often find a dealer's room where a number of comics shops and collectors have tables. Although some dealers may deal in older, rarer issues that will cost you more money, other dealers are looking to unload their overstock, and it is here you can find the best price deals.


There is usually an entrance fee to attend a comics show or convention. Some of the smaller shows, however, allow you to enter for free if you bring the convention ad with you, and they will also offer you a free comic book upon presenting the ad. Usually, you can get on the show's mailing list just by attending a show and registering at the front door, or you can also do so online.
 Unless you're collecting mint-condition comics and keeping them in bags, your comics will degrade in condition as you read them. For that reason, if you collect comics for their stories and artwork instead of monetary value, buying comics in less-than-perfect condition lets you follow the stories without spending as much money as you would on brand-new, mint-condition issues.


Note that many of the comics available in the discount bin are in less-than-perfect condition themselves.
 Just as you can get bulk discounts on grocery and household items at warehouse stores, you can often save money on comics by buying in bulk as well. You can buy in bulk in any of several ways:


Some comics publishers and distributors bundle several issues of the same comic, or issues of different comics featuring the same character, together. The cost is often less than the total cover prices of each individual issue in the bundle.
Some comic book collectors may choose to sell large portions of or their entire collections due to financial difficulties or just to clean house. Depending on the comics in question, you can often strike a deal to buy a large number of comics for less than the cost to acquire them individually.
Some comics shops may let you buy multiple copies of a single issue in bulk at a reduced rate per issue. You can then get together with other bulk buyers to trade duplicate issues with them for other issues you each want.
 An overlooked way of saving money on comic books is the fact that comic books are magazines and can be subscribed to like other magazines. If there are a few titles you particularly like, subscribing to those titles will ensure that you don't miss an issue and usually save you roughly the cost of 2 issues in a year's worth of comics.


Check with the actual publisher for details of subscribing versus buying at the comics store. Subscription arrangements are common with mass-market publishers such as DC and Marvel, but many not be available, or offer as big a savings, with smaller, independent publishers.
 In addition to proprietary digital formats from comics publishers, many older comics are available online as compressed files of scanned digital images. Publishers' proprietary formats require the use of a proprietary digital image reader that usually requires a subscription fee, while the compressed image files can be read with any of a number of image readers available as either freeware or shareware, and the issues are usually free. Also, proprietary comics are usually stored on servers provided by the publishers, while compressed-file digital comics can be downloaded and stored on your hard drive.


Be aware of the legality issues involved with compressed-file digital comics of issues that are still under copyright. Most publishers consider this to be outside "fair use" even when such issues aren't sold.

