 Everyone gets down sometimes, but persistent feelings of hopelessness, despair, loss of interest or anxiety lasting more than two weeks can be indicative of clinical depression. If the symptoms become severe enough that they are disrupting daily activities or your quality of life, a counselor or health professional might be able to get you feeling more like your old self.;
, Although no one knows what causes bipolar disorder, it seems to run in families and is a mood disorder that can severely affect your life. Bipolar disorder can be tricky to diagnose and its symptoms vary. But the main signs to look for are dramatic and unpredictable mood swings. A person with bipolar can have bouts of mania where they become excessively happy, a swell in energy and grand, racing thoughts. This mania is often followed by bouts of depression that can bring anxiety, sadness and even suicidal thoughts.
 Contrary to public opinions on schizophrenia, it rarely comes with multiple personalities and is almost always a non-violent mental illness. If you’re dealing with any of the symptoms of schizophrenia, see your doctor quickly to manage the illness. Schizophrenia is a serious disease and can cause difficulties in distinguishing between reality and the imaginary. This can mean you are seeing things that aren’t there, paranoia, extreme fixations, and other bizarre behaviors that can rapidly erode one’s ability to live a normal life.
 We all feel anxiety from time to time but for some people it can be a crippling experience. If you’re having anxiety that affects your ability to function either at work or socially, you may have a generalized disorder. Anxiety can be marked by excessive worry regularly for at least six months, irritability, sleep problems and other general negative feelings.
There are different types of anxiety that can be brought upon by certain situations or triggers. For example, if everyday social situations trigger anxiety you may have social anxiety disorder. Other types of anxiety include panic disorder, a feeling of sudden terror accompanied by physical symptoms or phobias that are triggered by events like flying or specific objects, like spiders.
 Many times, individuals have trouble coping with a recent trauma, such as a car accident, child abuse, sexual assault or loss of a loved one. Although grief and sadness are normal emotions, a mental health counselor can help make the process easier. If you are experiencing debilitating and persistent difficulties, seeking out help might make your coping easier. Some of these symptoms may include: anger, fear, anxiety, racing heartbeat and difficulty sleeping. It is normal to feel these after a trauma but if they are disrupting your life and months pass with no alleviation, you may need an expert to help.
 Sometimes it’s not just an individual that needs help but partners in an unhealthy relationship. If your relationship with your significant other is increasingly a point of stress and contention, you might benefit from professional counseling. It’s always difficult to recognize and admit problems in your relationship. If you notice you and your significant other having trouble communicating, arguing with increased regularity, and find one another a source of stress, it might be time to seek outside help. Every relationship has issues, but remaining vigilant about early problems could save you and your partner down the road.

