 Graphologists claim to find traces of personality in handwriting. There's probably a grain of truth in this — we can all imagine what "energetic" or "careless" handwriting looks like, for instance. However, since these claims have failed every scientific test, scientists consider graphology pseudoscientific and ineffective.At best these correlations are informed guesses with many exceptions. They're fun to find, but don't use them to judge job applicants or alter friendships.


Never trust anyone who claims they can tell a criminal or adulterer from the handwriting. This is not possible, and the accusations cause unjustified harm to their victims.;
, If possible, ask for a cursive writing sample on unlined paper. This tends to be easier to analyze than printed words or lined paper. Even better, get several handwriting samples at least a few hours apart. Handwriting changes with mood and circumstance, so a feature in one sample could just be a temporary artifact.
 Some people press hard into the paper, while others use a light touch. You can see this by how dark the writing turned out, and by pressure marks on the backside of the paper. Here's what graphologists say this means:High pressure means high emotional energy. The writer may be intense, sensual, or vigorous.
Average pressure means a relatively calm but anchored person. They might have good perception or memory skills.
Light pressure is a sign of introversion, or someone who prefers low-energy situations.
 Writing, especially cursive writing, tends to slant to the left or right. Try analyzing it like this, paying special attention to cursive letters with upper loops (such as b, d, or h):


A right slant shows up when the writer is eager to write, or writing quickly and energetically. If this happens often, the writer might be assertive and confident.
A left slant could mean an unwillingness to write, or a desire to hide emotions. Some say these writers are less cooperative than people who slant to the right.A straight vertical slant might mean the writer keeps her emotions in check.Note —This may not apply to left-handed people.
 When writing on unlined paper, people tend not to write in a perfect straight line. Put a ruler down straight across the paper, and compare it to the angle of the sentences:Upward writing is said to show optimism and a happy mood.
Downward writing may be a sign of discouragement or fatigue.
Wavy writing that moves up and down could mean an unstable or uncertain person, or an unskilled writer.
 Large letters mean the person is outgoing and extroverted. Small letters mean the person is reclusive, introverted, or thrifty.
 Does your friend cram letters close together? If so, he could be self conscious or introverted. If he drags the letters out, he might be generous and independent.Graphologists also like to look at gaps between words; the closer they are, the more the writer enjoys crowds.Others take a different approach and claim that more spacing between words shows clearer, more organized thought., Connections between cursive letters is a rich source of analysis, since there are so many possible variations. Graphologists rarely agree on these, but here are a few common interpretations:Garlands: these curves are cup-shaped, open at the top. It may show people strength and warmth.
Arcades: downward-facing curves are slower and more dignified, but also associated with creative types.
Threads: the pen stroke becomes lighter and lighter at the end of a word, sometimes trailing dots on the page. It's usually a rushed and sloppy style, though there are other variations.

