 It's recommended to take a babysitting course in some states, but not required. Find out your local laws.


Take a babysitting class that includes CPR.





;
, Find out what the going rate is and figure out if it's right for you, depending on the finances of the family, your experience, how old you are, etc. If the family is underpaying you, don't be afraid to speak up. "Mrs. Jones, if you don't mind, I normally earn $____. Is that all right with you?"

, What did they do to make the experience enjoyable? Babysitting isn't an excuse to sit in someone's house watching TV and raiding their fridge. It's about interacting with the children and ensuring they're having a good time before bedtime. What things could you take along for activities and what activities could you do with the children? Working this out in advance will make the event much more enjoyable.


Babysit according to age needs. The age of the child makes a huge difference. While a school-age child will be mostly independent, a toddler will need you to help them and will want more attention. Babies are totally reliant on you, need you for everything so make sure you're focused and prepared. Never leave a baby or infant alone, even for a minute!







, Pack age-appropriate movies, toys, games, books, entertainment for yourself, game consoles for the children and some food yourself.

Bring a kit for yourself containing essential necessities like a small meal, snack, drink, lotion, lip balm, a first aid kit, some money, a cellphone, a list of emergency contact information, a book or iPod, and whatever you might need to survive a night at the baby's house.
 You'll need:

Phone numbers. Make sure you have both of the parents or legal guardians' cellphone numbers and all emergency contacts. Also make sure they have your number and you have your cellphone with you at all times, switched on.






Notification about allergies. If any of the kids have diseases or allergies, know where their medicine, inhalers, and etc. are.






Understanding what security system is in place. Know how to use the alarm system (if they have one). When you get there, after talking to the parents, lock the doors, and windows.






Make sure you know the important things to do for a child. For example, find out when they must be in bed, when they should eat, and when they should be bathed. You will want to know if they take a medicine, and if so, when and how often. Don't be afraid to ask. Children most likely cannot be trusted on such things.
 Any of the following can be fun:


Waitress ( restaurant), when having meals.
Board games.
Hide and seek.
Find different games for different age groups. Any appropriate games you can find online that sound fun.
Try to find a fun way to clean the house with everyone's help. Try sponge skating, its putting sponges on your feet and cleaning the floor. Or pretend you are a princess and you're dancing with prince mop.
Little kids love to play pretend and dress up, so bring costume items like hats and tutus.
Have a coloring contest, bring coloring books and crayons.
Make a life size board game with cardboard and be the game pieces.
 If the parents want you to prepare meals, do so within your ability.


See further How to cook while babysitting.
 Have a contest to see if they can get their bath done (optional), teeth brushed, pajamas on, and in bed in a certain amount of time. If they get it done they get a reward, like watching some television for a few minutes, or they get a coloring book, or a big sticker.
 Most of all, remember to have fun! Kids will sense that you are enjoying it and will join in the spirit. Equally, they also sense frustration or boredom and will play up to these feelings!

, Not all children are the same, so the child you babysit may develop slower than others. Some kids need a lot of help even on what seems (to you) a simple job.

Be aware that not all children have the same skills, even when compared to their peers. Also, remember that things you may deem as simple or easy most likely are not simple or easy for a child. Avoid letting young children pour their own drinks or cut their own food, for example, because messes will most likely result from this.
Listen to what the child has to say, and be understanding. Don't force your own ideas or opinions on them. Let them develop their own personalities.
 Be ready to call the police first, then the parents. Keep the kids and yourself in any of the following if a break in occurs:

Upstairs, in a room, with door locked and a chair ( or any strong object) against the door.






In a closet, locked and be very quiet.






In the parent's room, or any room with a bed you can hide under.






If you become very scared, stay on the line with the emergency line. Or kids become scared, have them talk to the parents on the phone, or have them play a game on any portable device, just keep them and yourself calm. Tell the kids to be very quiet.
 Put up flyers, put an ad in the local newspaper, or even just start off with word of mouth. "By the way, Mrs. Smith, if you ever need me to stop by to take care of Jenny if you want to go out, I'm available." Get your parents to tell their friends or your neighbors that you are looking for a babysitting job.
 If you're looking for a weekly job, the parents will usually ask you a few questions, watch you interact with their child(ren), etc. Make sure you're prepared: If you have long hair, tie it back, and dangle earrings probably aren't such a great idea either. Babies and some toddlers love to pull things. It's a good idea to wear clothes that you aren't going to be upset about if the clothes get a tiny paint stain and/or etc.; kids are kids and accidents happen. Also, make sure you're prepared to talk about your past experience, personality, etc.

