 If you have a study partner that is also learning English, make a point of speaking to one another exclusively in English. This will sometimes be frustrating, but there’s no better practice than actually speaking the language you’re hoping to learn.


Get a part-time job that requires you to speak English. Places that have a large amount of tourist clientele are ideal, as the global use of English ensures its use by many world travelers.Since English is so common, you can likely practice your English in everyday conversations with strangers as well. For instance, when ordering food or buying something from a cashier in a cosmopolitan city, greet the person you’re interacting with in English and see if an opportunity to practice presents itself.
 Outside of any formal coursework, make sure to practice writing in English, ideally about things you’re interested in or find meaningful. One easy option is to keep an English language journal, and simply write in it every evening, briefly describing your day or something you’ve been thinking about.


Without even trying, you’ll end up progressively utilizing new English language skills as you learn more advanced grammar.Correspond with a friend via written letters. Not only will this give you practice, you’ll develop your reading ability without effort – everyone wants to read a letter from a friend., If you don’t have a reliable speaking partner, you can always find one online. People are trying to learn English all over the world, and there are plenty of other people looking for a speaking partner! There are entire websites dedicated to helping people learn languages cooperatively.


Use Speaky. Set up a free account on the Speaky website and find speaking partners based on shared interests. The online environment allows both chatting via text and audio or video calls, direct from your browser. Speaky also offers a mobile app so you can practice speaking on the go.Check out Coeffee. Coeffee is another online language-learning community where you can play cooperative games that will help you learn English words and phrases., Though it may feel silly, practicing your pronunciation is vital to truly mastering a language. Read in English out loud, and look up words you’re unsure about pronouncing correctly.For extra silliness and creative inspiration, read English-language poetry or English translations of your favorite poems or stories out loud. Familiarizing yourself with English rhymes gives you extra clues as to certain words’ pronunciation.
Record yourself speaking English. Listening to recordings of yourself will help you identify words and sounds you’re struggling with. Often, certain things sound alright in your head, but need a bit more work.

