 Use up a piece of fabric that is left over from another sewing project. Or make a special purchase of a fabric you just happen to like a lot.

Either way, covering a book with fabric is a nice way to keep the book in good condition. Fabric can also add a personal touch that makes this book unique and special to you.
 The fabric needs to be fairly substantial to protect the book, so avoid anything too flimsy.


Also get some lightweight fusible interfacing. Fusible interfacing is used to add a rigidity or stiffness to a fabric. The interfacing gets applied to the wrong side of the fabric, or underside to help form your fabric. , Take an iron and smooth out your fabric so that there are no wrinkles.


Any wrinkles that you have when applying the fabric to your book will stay.
Try using a fabric that is made to be wrinkle free to make covering your book easier.
 Place the fabric down on a flat work surface. Center the book on the fabric. Make sure you have plenty of extra fabric.


Draw two horizontal lines across the fabric along the top and bottom edges of the book. Extend the edges of the fabric beyond the book to provide adequate space for flaps on each side.
For best results, make the flaps at least 2 inches/5cm wide. For larger books, add even more width.






Leave a small allowance both above and below the horizontal lines when cutting.
 Cut out the fabric to the new measurements, giving yourself more fabric than the dimensions of the book.


You’ll want to give yourself some extra fabric to work with when cutting. Extra fabric also helps you to apply the fusible interfacing. When applying the interfacing, you’ll want to fold a small bit of the fabric over itself, around the interfacing.
 This will be the side of the fabric that faces into the book.


The fusible interfacing will have a bumpy side, the side that attaches to the fabric, and a smooth side.
Press it into the fabric with a damp cloth. Then take your iron and iron it for 10 to 15 seconds. If you need to move the iron, pick it up and place it down in a new spot. Don’t glide it to heat another spot of the interfacing.
 The interfaced side of the fabric should still be facing up.


The interfacing isn’t meant to be shown. When you lay the book down, it will be against the interfaced side of fabric. This means that when you complete your cover, the interfacing will be inside and not exposed.
 Lay the cover down and bring the left edge of the fabric in.


You want to fold the left edge of the fabric over the book’s cover to create a sort of pocket. Then, using a pin, pin the flaps of fabric together.
The top and bottom edges of fabric should extend past the edges of the book cover slightly. The extra fabric allows you to pin the fabric without pinning the book cover.
 Fold the right edge of the fabric in over the cover.


Repeat the same process for the other cover, pinning the flaps of fabric together.
 You will now have the general shape of your fabric book cover.


Fold down any extra fabric that extended passed the vertical edges of the book covers. You want to fold in any extra fabric and pin it to the rest of the fabric.
 Using a topstitch, sew across the top and bottom of the cover.


A topstitch is a method of stitching that has you bringing the thread over the edges of your fabric layers. The stitch will then bring the layers together. , You will want to make sure to stitch all your flaps together.


The top stitching will allow you to connect any flaps or pockets that have been folded over. The ultimate result will be one large pocket for you to slide your cover into.
Do this for both sides. You should have two pockets, one for each cover stitched.
 It's now ready for everyday wear and tear!


You can also reuse this cover on any other book that is the same size as your original one.

