 Flick up a switch to the back of the presser foot or on the side of the machine. There is a presser bar lever located in one of these positions.;
, Raise the needle to its highest position., These are usually two plastic pins located on the top or near the base that hold your spools of thread. Locate the stool pins and remove them.
 Insert the spool pin on top of the spool. It is required to keep the spool pins in place.


You only need two spools of thread if you are using two needles.
 Draw out a foot of extra thread with which you will thread the upper portion of the machine. Cut the end of the thread so that it is easier to thread through the needle.
 Bring the thread through the first hole and pull it through the partial hole on the other side. It should be threaded from the bottom through the top of the partial hole and then stretched downward.
 If you are threading two spools of thread, the first one should pass through the right side of the upper thread tension disk and the back spool should thread through the left side of the upper thread tension disk. They will attach to two different needles.
 It should catch on the thread guide lightly as you pull it through and continue downward.
 Then, pass the end of the thread through the eye of the needle. Pull at least four inches (10cm) of thread through the needles.


Note that the thread from a second spool should go from the back spool, to the left side of the tension disk and through the eye of the left needle.
, This is the metal compartment in which the bobbin or backing thread is stored.
 Many Necchi machines have bobbin cases and you must pull up on the latch to release the bobbin and pull it out.
 This thread color should be chosen to go on the underside of your project. Pull out two inches (five cm) of excess thread from the bobbin.
 The bobbin must turn clockwise, so ensure it is going this direction when you insert it.
 It will go underneath the tension spring. Pull the thread another two inches forward.
 Hold it open. Place the bobbin case onto the center pin in the shuttle race.
 Check to see if the bobbin case is secured. Close the shuttle race cover.
 Turn your hand wheel toward you until the needle goes down through the floor of the machine and up again.
 Pull this thread out further.
 Now, you can use your sewing machine.