 A standard player contract begins by identifying the player, team, and professional league to which the contract applies. In its original form, an SPK doesn't identify a particular player.As negotiated, the SPK's terms apply to any and every player signed by the team. Some leagues may allow for variation among teams, in which case the team's name would appear on the form contract.
In some professional sports leagues such as the NFL, the league itself is not a party to the contract. However, the league typically still will be identified by name and principal place of business.
In other leagues such as the NHL, the league is a party to every player contract, which must be signed by a league representative in addition to the player and the club signing him.;
, After introducing the parties, a standard player contract then explains the roles of each party and the employment relationship between the player and the club.This section typically is titled "Employment," and typically is general, merely stating that the player has been hired by the club to play the sport for the club's team.
This employment always will be referred to as "skilled employment" or "skilled services." Although of course professional athletes are skilled, the addition of the word "skilled" is a bit of contract language designed to reinforce the fact that the player is performing special and unique services that cannot be transferred to anyone else. #*In other words, while a standard player contract typically allows teams to assign the contract to another team, a player is not allowed to assign his contract to another player.
Generally, the player agrees to play in all regular season games for the term of the contract, as well as any postseason, all-star, or exhibition games.
This section may also include the player's commitment to any preseason training, games, or scrimmages.
 Apart from playing in games, the player may have other job responsibilities required under the contract, including various appearances, participation in publicity campaigns, and appearing at press conferences.Players typically are required to cooperate with the press and participate in press conferences before and after games, or at other times, if their presence is requested.
Standard player contracts also may require players to participate in other team events, such as dinners or receptions for season ticket holders, promotional events, and nonprofit benefits or fundraisers.
 SPKs typically last for a specific number of seasons, defined as the playing season for that particular sport, rather than for a period of months or years like contracts in other industries.The duration section also may specify an exact date the contract begins and ends, typically beginning before the preseason training period and ending at the end of postseason play in the final year.
This section also typically includes a disclaimer that the term of the contract may be extended, or the contract itself may be extended or renewed.
 Each SPK includes a number of provisions, commonly called "boilerplate" in contract law, that address basic matters such as which state's law applies to the contract and party warranties and representations.For example, the NFL contract typically is governed by the laws of the state in which the team is located.
Other league agreements provide arbitration as the exclusive means of resolving any disputes regarding the contract. This sort of provision is essential for leagues such as the NHL, which have teams in both the U.S. and Canada and players from all over the world.
Standard player contracts with arbitration provisions typically include an outline of the procedure for requesting an arbitrator, who will act as arbitrator, and how and when arbitration hearings will be conducted.
 One of the key details that is added to each individual player's SPK is the amount of money the team will pay him or her each year under the contract, and when those payments will be made.Typically, professional athletes are paid either weekly or bi-weekly during the sport's regular season, and aren't paid during the rest of the year.
In some sports, players have the option of having their income divided up and distributed over the entire year, rather than just during the season. If they choose to take this option, their pay schedule will be included in an addendum to their standard player contract.
In addition to the usual tax deductions, players also see deductions from their paycheck for insurance, benefit plans, and players' association dues.
Apart from the paycheck, players also receive compensation in the form of expenses. Since being a professional athlete requires a lot of travel, the team typically picks up the bill for hotel rooms and transportation, as well as many of the meals on the road.
 Annual compensation typically isn't the only money a professional athlete makes under his or her contract. Other payments the team has agreed to pay the player, including a signing bonus and any performance bonuses, must be included in the SPK.For example, many NFL contracts include a signing bonus, which may be one of the most important parts of the contract to the players because unlike the rest of the compensation, the signing bonus is guaranteed.
Leagues and clubs may give other bonuses for performance, or incentives for achieving certain goals based on playing time or beating records. For example, a player might be awarded a bonus if he breaks the record for touchdowns, or for goals scored in a single season.
 Typically, a professional athlete provides a license to his or her team to use his or her name and likeness in the team's advertising and promotion. The terms of this license are included in the SPK.Players in the NHL authorize not only the league and the team, but any firm, person, or corporation to use still photos or video of him in uniform. Even after the contract ends, the club retains the right to those photos and video for use in TV or film, advertisements, promotions, or other media associated with the team and the NHL.
In contrast, licensing of name and likeness under the NFL standard player contract is granted only to the team, the league, the NFLPA, and licensing affiliates. However, NFL licensing also includes the player's signature, voice, and biographical information.
Any payment for licensing typically is included in the regular compensation the player receives. In other words, most professional sports do not grant players any additional income from licensing or merchandising royalties.
 All professional athletes are subject to physical requirements that generally don't differ from player to player, so these requirements are included in the league's SPK.As a general rule, the player represents and warrants to the team when he or she signs the contract that he or she has unique skill and ability.
The player also must represent that he or she has no undisclosed physical or mental defects that could impair his or her performance at the required level.
The standard player contract requires the player to maintain peak fitness at all times, and to undertake such training and fitness regimens as necessary to do so.
Here and elsewhere, all professional sports contracts address the effect of injury on the contract. How injured players are treated contractually differs among sports, but generally speaking, they continue to get paid under the terms of their contracts as long as they are still on the team, even if they aren't playing.
 When entering a contract to play for a team, a player must agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the particular club, as well as the rules and regulations that apply to all players in the league as a whole.Both the club and the player are expected to abide by the rules and regulations of the league with which they are affiliated.
Typically the standard player contract will simply reference the documents that contain the applicable league rules, including the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the players' association, and state that the parties to the contract agree to abide by them and that they are included in the contract by reference.
A standard player contract may cover what happens when a player is found to be in violation of league rules, including whether he or she is paid for time served on suspension and how fines are assessed.
 Many SPKs include additional restrictions on players, which govern what the player can do in his or her free time. These restrictions may be relaxed somewhat during the off-season.For example, the NHL's standard player contract requires the player to agree not to play any other sports that might "impair or destroy" the skills and ability he has to play hockey. Sports such as football, baseball, and boxing are specifically listed.
Players also may be restricted from engaging in any activity which involves a significant risk or personal injury.
 Every SPK includes a description of the reasons for which a contract may be terminated, and the procedure the parties must follow to end the agreement.The circumstances under which a standard player contract can be terminated vary widely among the professional sports leagues. However, players typically have fewer reasons to terminate a contract than clubs do.
For example, an MLB player can only terminate his contract if the team does not pay him, and then only if he provides the team with written notice and it fails to pay him for 10 days after receipt of that notice.
One method of terminating a contract is to trade a player to another team. When this happens, the original contract is terminated and the player enters a new contract with the new team on the same terms.
Each league has a different system for trading, and the procedures for trading a player and the times when players can be traded typically are specified in the standard player contract, or incorporated by reference to the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the players' association.

