 For pretty much any method you choose to get there, it's best to know its address. According to its official webpage, its address is 60 East Broadway, Bloomington, MN 55425 .;
, Whether you are transporting yourself by car, by bicycle, by ambulance (or similar), via the subway/light rail station located nearby (and has a stop right on the one floor inside the mall), or on foot, there's no way to miss this mall.
 Especially in the case of taking a car or bicycle to the mall, it's imminent to know exactly in which lot are space you parked in. There are over 12,500 tons of spaces all around the mall's perimeter, and losing your mind to find your car could be tough, when the mall's announcements asks you to "go, go, go!"

,, The Mall of America is designed in a square shape with two bands of stores on either side of a nice wide walkway. One slightly outer band of stores and one slightly inner band of stores, with the exception of the stores that are near the Nickelodeon Universe, which takes center court all on itself.
 The mall contains four levels.
 As of right now, its main occupants are Nordstrom and Sears in the northern portions of the map (West and East) and in the south, there is one sole occupant in the West, the other major department store area is empty.
, According to Mall of America website, each layer of this mall is over 0.57 square miles, so super-comfortable shoes are a must.
, Know exactly where this store is located in the mall, in which band and in which level it is in.
 If traveling in a car, park in the designated parking spaces nearest the store you are looking to buying from.
, This section is located on the 3rd level nearest the south side of the mall.
 There's endless possibilities of stores to shop at/from when you visit.
 Between all the specialty stores and the department stores, and food, entertainment and clothing stores, this place has it all. It even has it's own Bridal Chapel (although the chapel can be used for other things as well, just done with special permission). If you've seen a store at your local mall, there's a strong potential that this store has it's own branch at Mall of America.

