 Regardless of your state, you need to take a licensing exam to become a medical examiner. You may also want to look into official certification, as some states require this for hiring.


Know the specific requirement of a medical examiner in your state. There is no one exam or one certification program that is accepted nationwide.How to study for an exam or prepare for certification depends on your state. However, if you've completed the necessary education you should be able to successfully pass. Study the basics before the exam and consult study guides specific to the exam you take.
For more information regarding state-by-state licensing and certification, look at the website of the American College of Forensic Examiners Institute. They provide license and certifications that are accepted in many states., Medical examiner positions are usually in high demand, and the position has a high growth rate.You should be able to find positions to apply for in a variety of locations.


Ask your contacts from med school, your residency, and your fellowship. Oftentimes, connections are what are most likely to help us find a job. Let people know you are looking for a job and to pass any relevant job leads onto you.
Go to online job boards, like indeed.com and monster, to browse positions. This is a great way to job hunt if you're looking for a job in a different state or region.
When forming your resume, put your most relevant education and work experience on the top. If you worked or interned in a hospital during med school, mention this information but leave out non-medical related jobs you might have taken during school to make ends meet.
 While waiting to hear back on the jobs you've applied to, brush up on good interview skills. If you get a call back, you'll be prepared to give an impressive interview.


Always listen in an interview. If they ask if you have any questions, always ask a broad, open-ended question to convey interest. Something like "What is the culture of this hospital like?" is far better than "When can I expect to hear back about the job?"Do your research beforehand. Have some sense of the hospital's and the medical staff's accomplishments, reputation, and general philosophy before entering the interview.Use body language that conveys confidence. Sit up straight, make eye contact, and give a firm, but non-aggressive, handshake.
Use specific examples from your past work experience. Have a list of moments, preferably ones that can be told in anecdotal form, that illustrate your strengths as an employee.

