 When choosing a hot cereal, pick one that is “regular,” “plain,” or “unflavored” and is made of 100% whole grains. Whole grains, as opposed to enriched or refined grains, maintain all of their health benefits and fiber content.If possible, buy oatmeal that is not quick-cook; some health authorities suggest quick-cook oats may contain fewer health benefits than their traditional alternative.If time is an issue, you can make a big batch and save it in the refrigerator to reheat later.
 Reduce your intake of added preservatives and empty calories by buying plain, unflavored cereal and adding your own flavors at home. This way you know exactly what goes into your breakfast, and you can add delicious fresh ingredients for flavor that will also contribute vitamins, antioxidants, fiber, protein, or healthy fats to your meal.


Add a handful of fresh berries, banana, or nuts to boost the nutritional value and taste of plain cereal. Even a teaspoon of honey can add nutrients and sweet flavor that is a healthier option than choosing pre-sweetened cereal from the store.
Try experimenting with fresh herbs like mint and basil, or real spices like cinnamon, cloves, or nutmeg. You can also experiment with flavor extracts like pure vanilla or almond extract for added aroma.
 Homemade muesli is another alternative to pre-flavored store-bought cereals. It can contain high amounts of fiber, vitamins, healthy carbohydrates, antioxidants, and nutrients essential for a balanced and heart-healthy diet.


Start with a base of rolled or whole oats, plain bran flakes, or other whole grain.
Soak your base grain in milk, plain yogurt, cream, water, or 100% fruit juice to soften them.
Try adding chopped nuts, fresh or dried (unsweetened) fruits, spices or flavor extracts, seeds, lemon juice, honey, and other fresh ingredients to taste.
 Organic products are required to meet a minimum standard of naturally-produced ingredients. Many times, they will have significant reductions or even total elimination of the added sugars included in their non-organic competitor cereals.


Although some organic cereals may not be more nutritious than non-organic cereals, they may contain considerably fewer preservatives, and less residue from pesticide or insecticide.
 The easiest way to do this is to look for the logo representing the American Heart Association or another nationally recognized nutrition or health association on the cereal packaging.These endorsements indicate that the cereals meet certain minimum standards of quality or nutrition, and may be useful in helping you choose a breakfast cereal with at least minimum recommended levels of nutrition.

