 Don't go full-on Goth because yes, you will look like a poser. Add pieces here and there (you probably already own quite a few that you didn't know about)


Tops. The basic top is, of course, the t-shirt. Black t-shirts with a variety of band logos. You can print your own tee's on the internet, so be original! Use band images, dark anime, horror pictures, pick something you like. Make sure they fit well though, you are not a baggy Mall goth!
Tops again. Apart from t-shirts, try on a mesh t-shirt. If you haven’t got the body to wear it on its own, wear it over one of your t-shirts. Also try on black dress shirts, and Victorian period shirts in black, white, grey, or dark jewel tones. Experiment and layer. Long-sleeve black tees and jumpers are a good option.
Bottoms. Black jeans are the standard it seems. If you can, wear them tight (NOT uber-skinny) just regular skinny. Worn jeans are better than new ones. Tripp pants are the way to go. They may be expensive but in the end, they are worth it Apart from jeans, try leather pants. Not for you? Wear trousers. In the summer wear black shorts or 3/4.
Shoes. Boots, boots and more boots! Boots are the staple footwear of Goth. Doc Marten boots are the original favorites but you are by no means limited to this. Also wear black pointed Chelsea boots, with lots of buckles, black converse high-tops are a good mainstream choice if you don't feel like slugging your boots on.
Coats. Pinstripe blazers, leather biker jackets, wool overcoats, Houndstooth coats. Get a selection for all weathers! Might be a good idea to purchase a black zip-thru hoody (plain or with suitable Goth image) to layer under a jacket for colder weather. Please don't buy a leather trenchcoat. You've seen the types that wear them. Wannabe Goths, weirdo's, and Nazi's. OK, so a German WWII-era officer jacket is a classic item to wear with Goth clothing, but a Gestapo leather trench is bordering on cliché. Leave them to the mall goths.;
, Get a decent belt. Black leather with metal studs, dark imagery, a cool buckle. Fishnet gloves. Rings, necklaces, pendants etc. Silver is the jewelry colour of choice, looks best with black. As for makeup, light-coloured foundation and black eyeliner are standard. DON'T buy white face paint, it looks fake. Buy a pale or white foundation or face powder. And don't overdo the eyeliner. Less is more. You can do your lips and nails, but for a casual everyday look, don't. You are aiming to look darkly ascetic, not shock value. Again, leave that to mallgoths.Use a handkerchief. They are so much more romantic goth style.
 It's ok not to dye your hair, but it may look better. Black is the standard choice, as you can do anything with it. You can also try pale platinum blonde or a really dark red. You can try highlighting or low lighting your black hair with blue or green or pink or purple. Don't overdo it, though. Style it how you want. Grow your hair out so you have more options. Backcomb it, mess it up, spike it, straighten it. Use the internet to help, or be original!

, Of course, now that you are dressed the part, you need to act it. Goths are NOT always depressed,so don't always be moping around! But find new things to talk about. Poetry, the romantic movement, pre-Raphaelite art, vintage horror movies, and of course music.
 Wearing a slipknot t-shirt is not going to gain the respect of elder Goths. Start listening to proper Goth music from the 80's. Bauhaus, Joy Division,45 Grave,Siouxie and the Banshees, The Cure, Sisters of Mercy. Find them out and listen. Don't limit yourself to just Goth rock music. Goths also enjoy gloomy post-punk, Horror punk and neo-psychedelia (Echo & the Bunnymen, Jesus & Mary Chain) New Wave/Synthpop and New Romantic, Shoegazing/dream pop, Industrial, ambient. Explore darker bands that have some refinement (Not Manson for god's sake)

