 Learning simple signs is generally fairly easy for most people, though sign language has its own grammar rules (and even varies from country to country). While it can take up to a year to learn basic signs and feel comfortable communicating in sign language, the payoff of being able to communicate face-to-face with other deaf people will greatly enhance your quality of life.Sign language classes are offered in many different places, including community colleges, churches, and libraries.
Learn how to fingerspell (spelling out individual letters to form words using hand symbols) so you can spell words until you learn all the signs for them.
Signers are generally patient with those new to sign language and will slow down signs and repeat them.. Don’t worry about being slow at first. It’s better to be slow and communicate your message effectively the first time, rather than growing frustrated at having to repeat yourself!;
, While commonly known as lip-reading, it is more accurate to call this technique speechreading because it includes watching the cheeks, throat, eyes, and nonverbal cues.This is a useful skill if you are communicating with a hearing person who doesn’t sign. Keep in mind that it is best utilized in a distraction-free, well-lit environment where you are able to clearly see the speaker’s face.


Because we cannot see most sounds formed (many are formed without movement from the lips or teeth), even expert speech readers only get about 20-30% of what’s being said.Therefore, it is important to have some context about the conversation before it happens.
For example, if you were relying on speechreading for a meeting, you could get the agenda and notes ahead of time. If you were relying on speechreading for a lecture, you could ask the professor for their lecture notes beforehand.
Pay close attention to the speaker. Watch gestures and facial expressions. Look for visual cues (for example, the speaker pointing to a bar graph at a meeting). Let others know when you need a break, as “listening” with your eyes can be very draining.
 People may not be conscious of how they are speaking, or their body language, and may not be aware of how they are making it harder for you to understand them. Be polite and direct, and let them know how they can help you. You might wish to tell people to:


Get your attention before speaking to you, perhaps by waving or a tap on the shoulder.Keep a pad of paper and pen nearby to write things down.
Use pantomime, facial expressions and gestures.
Have the speaker face you directly and talk to you directly, instead of through an interpreter. Tell the person to maintain eye contact with you, and not talk to the interpreter. For example, you could let the person know, “I don’t like it when you talk to the interpreter instead of me. It feels like you are talking about me instead of with me when you say, “Can you let Jim know that I said…?”
If you are lip-reading, make sure the speaker has nothing in their mouth (like food or gum), or covers their mouth when speaking.