 You can also paint some white cardstock using red, brown, or orange paint. This will give you a streaked, fur-like texture.


If you can't find cardstock, you can also use construction paper. Cardstock will simply give you more support.
If you already have a mask at home that fits you, you can trace it onto the cardstock, cut it out, then skip to the next section.;
, Place the paper widthwise across your face, from temple to temple. Gently feel where your eyes are through the paper. Lightly mark the spots on the paper with a pen or pencil, then lift the paper away.
 Set the paper down on a flat surface. Draw two almond shapes where your made the eye marks. Next, draw a basic mask shape around the eyes. The mask will cover the forehead, eyes, and part of the nose bridge. It should look a little like a peanut or jellybean.


You can look up a template online, use an existing mask, or freehand it.
 Start with the outside shape first. Next, poke a hole in each eye, then cut the eyes out. If you want the mask to be more symmetrical, fold the paper in half first, then cut along one of the lines that you drew. When you unfold the mask, it will be symmetrical ., Cut a piece of thin elastic. Tie a knot in each end. Staple each end of the elastic to each side of the mask. Make sure that the knot is inside the mask so that it holds. If you can't find thin elastic, do the following:


Punch a hole and each side of the mask.
Cut two long pieces of ribbon.
Tie a ribbon to each hole.
Use the ribbons to tie the mask on the back of your head.
 Use the same type of paper as you did for the mask body. You will be cutting both ears out at the same time.


If you decide to use painted paper, make sure that you paint both sides.
 Rotate the paper so that the folded edge is on the side. Cut out a large triangle that is almost the same height and width as the paper. This will give you some extra-large ears.


You can cut smaller ears if you prefer.
 Hold the ears together and cut them at the same time. Separate the ears when you are done. Your ears will have two flaps at the bottom., Take your first ear. Pull the left flap over the right flap until the ear curves. Secure the flaps with a glue stick.Repeat this step for the other ear.
 Take your first ear. Coat the overlapped flaps with glue. Slide the ear behind the top corner of the mask. Run your finger across the mask to seal the mask against the flaps.The ear will sort of flop forward.


Repeat this step with the other ear.
 Take a look at you mask. If the flaps are covering part of the eye hole, trim them away with a pair of scissors., Hold the paper widthwise, then roll it into a narrow cone. You want the tip to be about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) wide. You want the base to be a few inches/centimeters across. Secure the cone with tape or glue.


The paper needs to be the same type that you used for your ears and mask body.
 Flatten the cone so that it has two folded edges. Open the cone up and flatten it the other way. When you open the cone up again, the openings at the base and tip should be shaped like squares., Cut a 2 to 3-inch (5.08 to 7.63-centimeter) slit into each folded edge. Only do this on the wider end of the cone, not the narrower one. You will be turning these into flaps so that you can attach the muzzle., Fold all flaps down towards the outside of the cone. Use the slits you cut as a guide. Choose a side to be the underside of the muzzle, then cut that flap off.
 Position the muzzle so that bridge of the nose is just below the eyes. Once you are happy with the position, secure the flaps with glue. Part of the muzzle will be hanging below the mask body.
 If there are any flaps covering the eyes, be sure to cut those away too.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but it can give your mask a nice touch. Tear short strips of red, brown, or orange paper. They need to be about ¼ to ½ inch (064 to 1.27 centimeters) wide and about 1 inch long. Curl them around a pen or pencil, then glue them around the edges of the mask.You can use just one row, or add more rows until you reach the eyes.
 Cut two circles out of tissue paper. Fold them in half, and cut a short fringe into the curved edge. Glue each folded circle to the bottom of each ear. Use a dab of glue to keep the circles flat.If you don't have white tissue paper, a plain tissue or coffee filter will also work.
Alternatively, you can paint the inside of the ears white instead.
Consider adding some black to the tips of the ears. You can do this by lightly shading them in with crayon, pencil, or paint.
 There are a few ways you can do this. The simplest way would be to paint the area around the eyes using white paint. You can also tear more short, thin trips out of white paper, then glue them around the eyes for a feathery look.You can use regular white paper or tissue paper for this.
Consider outlining the eye holes with black marker to make them more expressive.
 Use white acrylic paint and a paintbrush to apply some paint to the sides and underside of the muzzle. Extend the paint up the angled side flaps.
 Run some hot glue around the inside edge of the narrow opening at the top of your cone. Quickly press a small, black pompom into the opening.


Match the pompom to the opening size. If the opening is around ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), then use a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) pompom.
Alternatively, you can cover the opening with two strips of masking tape, then color the tape black with a permanent marker or acrylic paint.,