 Remember, this icon looks like a "T." Click on the T and hold the mouse down to reveal the following alternate text options.



Horizontal Type Tool: used most frequently, the horizontal type tool lets you type solid letters horizontally from left to right. This is the one use if just normally click the Text tool.

Vertical Type Tool: Allows you to write your words up and down, instead of left to right.

Horizontal Type Mask Tool: This turns your text into a mask, which can be used for a variety of fun Photoshop tricks. Off the bat, it will basically map the layer beneath the text and use it to "color in" your type.

Vertical Type Mask Tool: Works just like the Horizontal Type Mask, but writes letters up and down instead of left to right., If you need complete control over your text, the Character and Paragraph menus are the place to go. The Character menu's logo is an A followed by a vertical line. Paragraph resembles a P with a double vertical line and circle filled in, but you can also click "Window → "Paragraph" if you can't see it.


Click and drag the icons in each menu to test them. You can actually seem them function in real time. Most deal with line spacing.
The Character menu generally has more to do with the actual type, where Paragraph adjusts the overall block of text and it's alignment.If you can't access the Paragraph Options, right-click the text and select "Convert to Paragraph Text.", The Blending Options allow you to add shadows, outlines, glows, and even 3D options, each of which is fully customizable. While you should experiment freely in the Blending Options menu, some key effects for good text include:Bevel & Emboss: This will make the text 3D. It reassembles turning the lines of the text into 3D cylinders, like pipes.

Stroke: This outlines your text with the line of a color, thickness, and texture you get to choose.

The Overlays: These will change the color of your font, placing a gradient, pattern, or new color over the shape of the text. You can even lower the opacities of these overlays, allowing you to do some fun shading and blending.

Drop Shadow: Puts a moveable, short shadow behind your text -- like there was a wall a foot or two behind it. You can change the angle, softness, and size of the shadow., Adding fonts to a photoshop is incredibly easy. You simply download the fonts, then drag them into the program to link them up. You can search online for "Free Fonts" to find anything you need.


Fonts are typically .ttf files.

