 Typically postponing your audit date will work to your advantage, as well as give you more time to gather your records or talk to a tax professional. If you believe you need more time, contact the auditor at the phone number listed on your notice.Keep in mind that your auditor will have to get managerial approval if your initial meeting must be scheduled more than 45 days from the date on your notice.
As much as it may seem attractive to continually delay your audit, generally speaking it will be less stressful – and less of a distraction from your normal activities – if you get it done as soon as possible.
If the audit notice specifies a field office rather than an office audit, call the auditor and ask if you can meet him or her at the IRS offices rather than hosting the audit in your home or place of business.
Although it may seem more convenient to have the agent come to you, going to the office enables you to control the information the agent receives and avoid questions about your business or home office set-up that might trigger additional problems.;
, The notice and all documents that come with it give you important information about what the auditor needs and what your rights are. The notice also specifies items covered by the audit and information you will need to prove those entries, as well as the date and time of your audit appointment and how to contact your auditor.Your notice should be accompanied by IRS Publication 1, "The Taxpayer Bill of Rights." If you didn't get this document, or if you've lost it, you can download another copy at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p1.pdf. This document contains important information about the examination process and your rights as a taxpayer.
If you filed Schedule C listing deductions for a small business you are operating as a sole proprietorship, the IRS often will want proof of these deductions – particularly if you realized a high income from your business, or if you have significant large deductions that don't comport with your income.
You will only receive an audit notice through the mail. If you receive an email, it is not from the IRS and could be a phishing attempt. Do not respond to an email, and don't provide any personal information in response to an email request.
 Using the list on your notice as a guide, pull together all your receipts and other documents that support the statements you made on your tax return.If you no longer have copies of receipts or other documents necessary to prove an item, attempt to reconstruct those records with bank or account statements.
For large deductions, you may want to gather additional evidence to support your amounts, including insurance reports and photos.
 A CPA, tax attorney, or other tax professional can help you interpret your notice and understand what documents you need to provide the auditor.Many online tax preparation services have audit protection services. If you used one of these services, check and see if audit protection was included in your package.If you had someone else prepare the tax return that is being audited, you should definitely contact him or her as soon as possible after you get your notice for support and to find out if he or she should or is willing to attend the audit with you.
Consulting a tax professional early on the process is a particularly good idea if the items included in the audit are extensive, or if there is a significant amount of money at stake. He or she also can advise you on how to handle your actual audit appointment, and explain the benefit of bringing a professional with you to represent you during your audit examination.
 Talking to the IRS agent handling your file before your audit appointment can help you feel less intimidated as well as learn more about the audit process and what to expect.The auditing agent can give you basic information about the audit procedure as well as answer your questions about the types of documents you'll need to bring.
Ask detailed questions about the documents you're required to produce so you don't inadvertently bring more or less than is necessary.
Documentation is especially important with certain kinds of business deductions, such as deductions for food and travel. In addition to receipts, you may need other information to prove that the deduction is a bona fide business expense.
For example, if you deducted travel expenses when you attended a professional conference out of town, you might need to bring information such as a schedule of events at the conference and proof of your attendance to substantiate your deduction.
 Turning in neat and orderly documents makes the auditor's job easier and may impress him or her that you are conscientious and taking the process seriously.Keep in mind that the auditor is just a person hired to do a job. Not making the auditor's job more difficult can go a long way toward helping your case. If you present detailed and organized records, the auditor may not go out of his or her way to find a problem.
Invest in a binder and folders or a similar filing system you can use to organize your documents, rather than bringing in a shoebox full of receipts.
If your documentation is extensive, section your documents according to the item for which they apply. You also might consider quickly creating an index for each section that lists the documents included.
If you're unsure what documentation is necessary to prove a particular item, you may need to do a little research on the IRS's website about that issue so you know you're only providing the auditor with what is necessary.
 Arrive at your appointment with all documents related to the issues or entries listed on your notice. However, don't provide any documents that were not specifically requested, such as past years' tax returns or evidence that backs up deductions or credits that weren't listed as being in question.As a general matter, you'll need primary records such as bills and receipts for the tax year in question. You also may need secondary records such as mileage logs or account summaries you produced for your business.
If the agent asks you questions during the answer, keep your answers as brief as possible and stick to the facts asked, so you don't volunteer irrelevant information. If a question is difficult or if you sense you're getting in trouble, you can ask the agent to stop the audit and reconvene at another time after you've had the chance to consult with a tax professional.
 During the audit, keep an open line of communication with the IRS agent who is handling your file, and make every attempt to understand the documents the auditor requires and how he or she is interpreting those documents.Be careful how you're asking questions, and avoid volunteering information or bringing up some other issue or aspect of your returns that are not part of the audit.
Keep in mind that if you do bring something up that is outside the scope of the audit, this invites the agent to look into that as well.
If the auditor is considering a disallowance, however, you should ask him or her why. Feel free to negotiate or argue your position as to why the deduction should be allowed, but your argument shouldn't include a statement that you can't afford to pay the tax bill a disallowance would create. The auditor's job is to determine how much you actually owe, not how much you can afford to pay.
 If you're too nervous or intimidated to represent yourself well, and worry you might say something that hurts your case, you may want to have an attorney or CPA handle the audit appointment for you.Keep in mind that the agent is a person just like you who is only trying to do her job to the best of her ability – she isn't out to get you.
Mental preparation is critical to dealing with an IRS examination. When you first got your notice, you may have thought you wouldn't have any difficulty handling it on your own, but as they date grows near you become more nervous.
If you consulted someone earlier when you were gathering supporting documents for your audit, you may want to talk to him or her about the possibility of representing you at the audit itself.
Having a professional at your side can increase your confidence as well as keep you from inadvertently saying something you shouldn't say.
IRS agents are accustomed to taxpayers having a representative at audits, and having a representative won't make it look like you've done something wrong or have something to hide.
In many cases, you can complete a form and have your representative attend the audit meeting for you, so you don't even have to go.
However, keep in mind the audit typically will proceed quicker and more smoothly if the auditor can speak directly to you and ask you questions. No matter how extensively you brief your representative, there still may be questions that only you can answer.
 Stay alert, particularly if you're attending your appointment on your own without the assistance of a tax professional. If serious issues such as tax fraud are mentioned, ask the auditor to stop the audit and reconvene at a later date.If the auditor is considering fraud or other penalties, you should consult an attorney immediately. Be open and honest with the attorney about your situation, so he or she knows how to formulate a plan to best serve your interests.
Keep in mind that any conversations you have with your attorney are confidential and protected by attorney-client privilege. If you misreported your income or took deductions that you knew weren't legitimate, come clean with your attorney so he or she can determine what you need to do next.
 Read the written report the auditor sends to you carefully. Arrange a meeting with the auditor (or his or her supervisor) if you need help understanding the auditor's decision and the options available to you.Keep in mind that any tax deficiency the auditor finds is also subject to 9 percent interest for each year that has passed since that return was filed.
In many cases, your auditor will tell you the amount he or she thinks you owe at the conclusion of the initial interview.
If the auditor is proposing any penalties, such as for late filing, make sure you understand why those penalties have been assessed and what you can do to avoid similar penalties in the future.
 The IRS typically will enable you to set up a monthly payment plan that fits your budget so that you can pay the total amount owed.If you're concerned about accruing interest, you can make a partial payment early – even before the audit is completed. That payment will be credited against whatever deficiency the auditor finds.
Auditing agents have the authority to approve reasonable payment plans. If your proposed deficiency is more than $10,000, you will have to fill out an IRS financial disclosure statement.
All installment plans are subject to a fee of $43.
Making partial, or even complete, payments doesn't deprive you of your right to file an appeal. You can make a payment to stop interest charges and still appeal the auditor's decision.
 You may be able to downsize the amount you owe by writing a protest letter appealing the auditor's determination. Your examination report will include instructions on how you can appeal by sending a protest letter, which must be sent to the appeals office within 30 days of the date on your examination report.Your letter should include identifying information about you, a statement that you wish to appeal the auditor's findings, and the reasons you dispute those findings. Attach the letter you received from the auditor and any supporting documentation.
If your audit report includes items that fall in the gray area, or where the auditor's decision was legally debatable, you should definitely consider appealing those decisions.
For example, suppose you deducted travel expenses for a professional conference you attended at a ski resort. Although you participated in some recreational activities, which were included in the price of your package, the bulk of your time was spent in professional lectures and seminars.
Because you participated in recreational activities, your auditor disallowed the entire deduction. However, you have an argument that at least part of those expenses were legitimately deductible business expenses, since your primary reason for travel was to attend the professional conference.
Unlike an auditing agent, appeals officers have the authority to settle disputed deficiencies.
You have the right to be represented on appeal. However, if the proposed deficiency is less than $10,000, it typically isn't worth the money you would have to pay an attorney or CPA in fees to appear at the appeal on your behalf.
You can waive the internal appeals process and go directly to tax court, but in most cases there's no advantage in doing this. The tax court often remands cases back to the appeals office to see if a settlement can be reached.
 If you're still not satisfied with the result after appealing within the IRS, you might want to file a petition in tax court.When you receive the decision from the appeals office, you'll also receive a 90-day letter. If you want to appeal the decision to tax court, you have 90 days to file a petition.
Keep in mind that tax laws are extremely complicated. Additionally, the tax court has its own rules of practice and procedure that differ from state and other federal courts.
If you're thinking about filing a petition in tax court, you should hire a licensed attorney who specializes in tax law, and specifically represents taxpayers in appeals of audit findings.

