 Although it can be a wonderful way to see the world, there are some considerations you should take into account.


Determine if you suffer easily from seasickness. Some light seasickness can be expected amongst even the seasoned pros; however, cruise crew and staff generally sleep at the bottom of the ship where there are few windows and tight spaces. If these are problems for you, then a cruise ship will probably not be a good environment for your work.
Consider if you are up to working 7 days a week. People who work on cruise ships work varying hours every day of the week for the duration of the contract. You may get 2 to 4 months vacation between contracts, but you can expect to work up to 14 hours per day.
Decide if you are able to spend months with little communication with the outside world. Cruise ship jobs are often taken by young, single people because they must work for months away from home. Some Internet is available on board, for a fee.;
, If you are not an experienced cruise patron, you may need to do your research to get an idea of the general hierarchy of cruise ships. They are run similarly to hotels; however, there are many differences that separate them from normal company jobs.


Officers are employed to run the ship. The captain is in charge of navigation as well as hotel/hospitality duties. The officers generally come from the place of the cruise ship's origin, such as Greece, Norway, Holland or the United States. These are coveted jobs usually given to people who have worked in seafaring industries for years. The officers interact regularly with passengers, while it is discouraged outside of work for other employees.
The staff is responsible for the management of the ship's day to day activities. The crew can include some entry-level and other management jobs. The crew usually stay in their own room or have 1 other roommate. They are often native English speakers because they interact with the passengers. Included in the staff are the hotel managers, entertainment, technicians, photographers and fitness instructors. Much of the staff can enjoy some port privileges.
The concessionaires are people who are often hired by outside agencies to run casinos, gift shops and other stores. Cruise ships often, but not always, contract these services to outside companies. In this case, it is likely you will need to seek employment with that outside company and discuss the frequency of cruise ship assignments. Many concessionaires must close their shops during port calls, so they get to enjoy the cruise destinations.
The crew are often considered the lowest in the chain of command. These are the cooks, busboys, bar staff, waiters and cleaning and maintenance staff. The wages for this work are lower than other positions, so most workers come from countries with a lower cost or standard of living. Crew live on the bottom decks and work the most hours. Some crew do not get to leave during port calls.
 Visit websites for "the big 3," Royal Caribbean, Carnival and Norwegian Cruise lines, to look for job opportunities. They should list a wide variety of staff and crew positions.


Looking for more than 1 position will increase your chances of getting a cruise ship position. People from around the world apply for jobs on these ships, so you will be facing hundreds or thousands of competitors. Choose positions that directly apply to your education and/or work experience.

