


Avoid direct sunlight and heat sources.
Avoid locations where gas may leak or where oil mist or sulphur exists.
The indoor unit requires at least 6" (15 cm) of open space surrounding its top and sides. The unit should also be mounted at least 7 feet (2.13 m) above the ground.
Install the unit at least 3.3 feet (1 m) away from antenna, power or connecting lines that are used for television, radio, home security systems, intercoms or telephones. The electrical noise from these sources could cause operational problems for your air conditioner.
The wall should be strong enough to hold the weight of the unit. You may need to construct a wood or metal frame to provide added support.;
,


Hold the mounting plate against the wall where you want to install the indoor unit.
Use a level to make sure the plate is both horizontally level.
Drill holes into the wall at appropriate spots to affix the plate to the wall.
Insert plastic anchors into the holes. Secure the plate to the wall with tapping screws.



Find the best spot for the hole to the exterior based on the opening in the mounting bracket. You should also consider the length of the pipe and the distance that it needs to travel to reach the outside unit.
Drill a hole that is 3" (7.5 cm) in diameter through the wall. The hole should slope downward toward the exterior to ensure adequate drainage.
Insert a flexible flange into the hole.



Lift the unit’s front panel and remove the cover.
Be sure the cable wires are connected to the screw terminals. Also, make sure that they match the diagram that comes with the unit.



Run the piping from the indoor unit toward the hole drilled through the wall. Minimize bending to ensure that the unit performs well.
Cut a length of PVC pipe 1/4" (6 millimeters) shorter than the length between your interior and exterior wall surfaces.
Place the pipe cap on the interior end of the PVC pipe. Insert the pipe into the hole in the wall.
Bind the copper pipes, the power cables and the drain pipe together with electrical tape. Place the drain pipe on the bottom to ensure a free flow of water.
Secure the pipe to the indoor unit. Use 2 wrenches, working in opposite directions, to tighten the connection.
Join the water drainage pipe to the indoor unit’s base.
Run the bound pipes and cables through the hole in the wall. Make sure that the drainage pipe allows water to drain in an appropriate place.
,


The outdoor unit’s location needs to be away from any heavily trafficked, dusty or hot areas.
The outdoor unit needs 12" of space surrounding its perimeter to ensure proper functioning.
 The pad should be high enough so that the condenser will sit above the level of winter snows.


Set the outdoor condenser on top of the pad. Use rubber cushioning under the unit's feet to minimize vibration.
Make sure that no antenna of a radio or television is within 10 feet (3 meters) of the outdoor condenser.



Remove the cover.
Refer to the unit’s wiring diagram and make sure the cable wires are connected as the diagram suggests. Following the manufacturer's instructions for wiring is crucial.
Fasten the cables with a cable clamp and replace the cover.
,


Remove the caps from the 2-way and 3-way valves and from the service port.
Connect a vacuum pump hose to the service port.
Turn the vacuum on until it reaches an absolute vacuum of 10mm Hg.
Close the low pressure knob and then turn off the vacuum.
Test all of the valves and joints for leaks.
Disconnect the vacuum. Replace the service port and caps.
,,