 The longer your hair is, the heavier it will be, which explains why long hair often lacks volume. Therefore, one of the fastest ways to add volume is to get a haircut. Some well-placed, expertly cut layers, or even a blunt-ended cut can immediately make hair lighter and fuller -- not to mention healthier looking.


Go to a hair stylist who you trust and who listens to exactly what you're asking for. A good, professional haircut will give more life to your hair than any product or styling method.
 Well-placed highlights and lowlights can give the impression of depth and thickness to your hair, making it appear more voluminous than it actually is. Dark colors will also make your hair look thicker than lighter ones, so consider going a shade or two darker to give the illusion of volume.


A professional color job or set of highlights will do much more for your hair than a home dye kit. This is due to the fact that trained hairdressers can mix different shades and tones to find a color that's just right for you, giving your hair an added dimension that just cannot be achieved out of a box.
 An extremely effective way of adding volume is to tease (or backcomb) your hair. Teasing may seem intimidating at first, but it really is so easy to do and can be used to give some extra oomph to any and every hairstyle. Teasing works best on one or two day old hair, and requires a fine-toothed comb. Special teasing combs can be found at most beauty supply stores. The correct method for teasing hair is as follows:









After washing with a volumizing shampoo and using a volumizing mousse or lifting spray, leave your hair for a day or two before teasing. Part your hair as normal, then take a one to two inch section of hair from the crown of your head. Comb through it to remove any tangles.
Hold the hair vertically, grasping the ends. Insert the comb into the mid-shaft and comb the hair backwards, towards the scalp. No need to be gentle -- teasing works better when you're a bit rough. Repeat two or three times then move onto the next section of hair, working your way around your head.
You can backcomb your whole head, or just do the top sections -- it's up to you. Don't worry if it looks like a bird's nest -- it's supposed to at this point. Next, take the comb and very lightly smooth down the top layer of hair, leaving the under-layers untouched. Spritz with some hair spray to hold and voilà! Volumized hair that's perfect for any hairstyle!, If your hair naturally lies flat once it settles in it's normal parting, you can give it an instant lift simply by changing the parting. Go for something different than usual, whether it's straight down the middle, a dramatic side parting, or even a zig-zag one! Use a fine-toothed comb or hair pick to make it look precise, then brush the hair into place before spritzing with a little hairspray to hold.
 Hot rollers are an excellent way to add bounciness and volume to your hair, with a touch of pin-up girl glamour. If you're not looking for tight curls, don't worry -- bigger rollers will add volume and life, but won't give a huge amount of curl to hair. When using, make sure the rollers are heated to the correct temperature before putting them in.Use the hot rollers on day old hair, if possible. Start with the front sections, rolling the the hair away from the face rather than underneath. Once all of the rollers are in, let them sit in the hair for 10 to 15 minutes or until they have cooled completely.
Liberally apply hairspray all over your head before removing the rollers. Once out, use your fingers to shake out the curls and remove any tangles. Lightly brush through the hair if you want a softer look.
 Even though most people associate the word "perm" with crazy, fuzzy 80s hair, perms are actually coming back into fashion and can be a great way to add volume and texture to hair (minus the poodle effect). Modern perms can provide any thing from corkscrew curls to soft beachy waves, depending on your personal preference. They are extremely easy to maintain and can last anywhere from two to six months.


Just make sure to have a consultation with your hair stylist first to determine if you have the right hair type and that the two of you are on the same page with regards to how the final result will look. Bring pictures for inspiration.
Perms are not a good idea if your hair is heavily colored or highlighted, as the perm will dry out your hair even further, causing it to look frizzy and damaged. Getting layers cut into your hair is a good idea however, as these will prevent the perm from turning your hair pyramid shaped.