 You can dip raw almonds in chocolate just as well, but toasting them creates extra flavor and a crisper texture. Preheat your oven to 325ºF (160ºC). Toast your almonds on a lined baking sheet for 6–8 minutes, or until they turn golden brown and release a strong aroma.Let them cool while you move on to the next step.;
, This will hold your chocolate-covered almonds later, while they harden in the fridge.


For a perfect presentation, place a fine mesh cooling rack on top of the sheet.This will leave a more even coating of chocolate, without the impression where the almond rests on the sheet.
 Chop 6 oz (170g) bittersweet or semisweet chocolate into small, roughly equal pieces (~¼ in / 6mm) and add to a double boiler.Heat over low heat, stirring slowly with a rubber spatula, until the chocolate is fully melted. Keep it away from moisture and high heat, which can cause chocolate to seize and turn grainy.You can use other types of chocolate, but lighter chocolate burns more easily. Prevent this by taking the chocolate off the heat when there are only small lumps left, then stirring until it finishes melting.
If you want the chocolate to look glossy on the almonds, temper it instead or follow the ganache recipe in the "Variations" section below.
 Mix in a large bowl until the almonds are covered in melted chocolate.
 Scrape the almonds onto the baking sheet (or mesh cooling rack), then quickly separate them with a fork so they don't get stuck together.For a professional look, get finicky: lift the almonds out one or two at a time with a fork or dipping tool, tap gently against the bowl to remove excess chocolate, and place on the baking sheet., A generous sprinkle of sea salt is an excellent complement to dark chocolate. Large grains of raw sugar are another great addition, especially if the chocolate is very dark., Un-tempered chocolate will "bloom" if left to solidify at room temperature, forming a layer of white fat solids on the surface. To prevent this, let it set in the refrigerator until the chocolate is completely hard. Cover the tray with plastic wrap if there are any strong scents in your fridge.


Condensation may gather on the chocolate after you remove it from the refrigerator, causing a "sweating" appearance. You can reduce this effect by covering it, so most of the condensation gathers on the lid of the container instead.If you tempered your chocolate, you can let it set at room temperature.
 Some people prefer the cocoa powder look to the sometimes dull appearance of once-melted chocolate. This is particularly useful if your chocolate has "bloomed" — it's still good to eat, so dust it thoroughly and serve it without shame.
 Ganache is an emulsification of melted chocolate and heavy cream that hardens into a glossy, attractive coating. Ganache will also coat the almonds more evenly, adding to the visual presentation.
 Chop 4.2 oz (120g) bittersweet chocolate into even pieces less than ¼ inch (6 mm) across. Place it in a large, heatproof mixing bowl.


You may use milk chocolate or white chocolate instead, but the ganache will be too soft unless you increase the amount of chocolate. Try 5.25 oz (150g) of milk or semisweet chocolate, or 6.3 oz (180g) of white chocolate., Pour 3½ tbsp (50 mL) heavy cream into a pot and heat until it just begins to boil. This ratio of 1 part cream to 3 parts chocolate will create a thick ganache that sets into a hard shell.
 Let it cool undisturbed for about a minute.
 Beating too fast can make a grainy, "broken" ganache. Stir at a steady pace until the mixture is smooth. Do not pause, as you can only form smooth ganache in a limited temperature range.
 Toss 1.5 cups (360mL) almonds in ganache and transfer them to mesh cooling racks. The storage life depends on the type of chocolate and many other factors, but it's generally safe to leave ganache at room temperature for two days., Classic pastel Jordan almonds require a more specialized approach, but this rougher riff on the sweet only requires basic supplies:1.5 cups (360mL) toasted almonds

10 tbsp (150mL) granulated sugar
2 tbsp (30mL) water
½ tsp (2.5mL) salt
½ tsp (2.5mL) cinnamon

, The almonds are done when the coating starts to look dry and sandy, about 8–10 minutes., Let cool on a parchment-lined baking sheet in the refrigerator for 20 minutes.
 Melt 6 oz (180g) chocolate in a double boiler over low heat, stirring constantly. Once smooth, pour over the almonds and stir until well-coated.
 Place the almonds back on the baking sheet. Spread them out with a fork so they don't end up stuck together. Store in the fridge until ready to eat.

