 Physical signs of fever include sweating and chills, body aches, headache, fatigue or weakness, low appetite, and your skin feeling warm to the touch. Take your temperature at home. Avoid exercise if you have a temperature over 100F (37.8C) or if you have any signs of fever.A fever is your body’s way of fighting infection, and is telling you that you need rest. Fever is technically anything over your normal body temperature of 98.6F (37C), though there is some variation in individual baseline body temperature, so it is helpful to monitor yourself for symptoms.
A high fever is considered anything over 103F (39.4C), and may be cause for concern. Seek medical attention.;
, There is a general rule of thumb called the Neck Rule – if you’re sick above the neck, a little exercise is okay, but if you’re sick below the neck, skip the workout.An Upper Respiratory Tract Infection, or URI, is often what we think of as the Common Cold, though there are many causes. Symptoms include sneezing, stuffy or runny nose, and mild sore throat.Unless you also have a fever, light to moderate exercise can be tolerated.When you’re sick “below the neck,” what some think of as a "chest cold" although it differs from the common cold, you may have a deep or hacking cough with chest congestion or tightness. This is often accompanied by a fever.These are more serious illnesses that require rest, and sometimes medical treatment, to get better.
 If you have stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, skip the workout. Drink lots of fluids to avoid dehydration.
 Consider exercise alternatives such as yoga, qi gong, t’ai chi, walking or dance. Avoid high-intensity activities like heavy weight or endurance training, sprints, team sports, or exercise in extreme temperatures.Just 20 minutes of walking or light jogging gives you those exercise benefits, and may help clear up your sinuses and alleviate sinus pressure.The stress hormone cortisol depresses your immune system, and relaxing activities like yoga, gentle martial arts, and dance have the bonus of being stress tamers to boost immunity.Your endurance and strength will be lower when you’re sick and fatigued, so you will tire more easily if using weights or doing high-impact exercise. This increases your risk of injury, and uses up energy your body needs to recover., Even if you have a simple cold, be sure to drink lots of fluids before and during exercise. Working out when dehydrated can cause dizziness, light-headedness, elevated heart rate, and even passing out. You might be dehydrated if your lips, tongue or skin feel dry, your urine is darker than usual, or your heart is beating very fast., Many cold and cough medicines make you drowsy or dizzy, which may make it unsafe to use exercise equipment, weights, or go running., Stay home and out of the gym if you are coughing, sneezing, or have any sort of contagious illness such as chicken pox. Germs are spread easily on hard surfaces of exercise machines and in locker rooms.You are generally contagious the first 5-7 days of feeling ill., Once you feel back to your old self, continue to take it easy for 24-48 hours. It’s okay to work out, but ease back into it.


Start at 50-75% of your normal routine, such as running for 15 minutes if you usually run for 30 minutes, and gradually increase back to baseline over about a week.Avoid alcohol, which suppresses the immune system.

