 Focus on the milestone the recipient has reached. For kids, birthdays are exciting celebrations during which they get gifts and have pool parties. Teens have a couple of milestone celebrations like sweet sixteen or eighteen. For anyone over 22 or 25, birthdays indicate you’re just getting older.


For people who are in their twenties or older, you can be funny by acknowledging their age. For example, for somebody’s 45th birthday, you could say, “Only ten more years until you can start using senior discounts.”
When writing cards for younger kids, it doesn’t matter as much what you tell them. Try saying something funny in kid humor, like “rock your tail off, Cody!”
Another approach is to recall a moment you’ve had with this person. Say you met after you dropped your lunch tray and she helped you pick it up: “I can always count on you to help me pick up food.";
, Holidays like Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, or Christmas usually warrant a more heartfelt message. For these types of cards you can write about what the holiday means to you. For example: “Thanksgiving is centered around turkey and gravy, but I’m just thankful to spend it with you.”


You can also take the slapstick approach to a holiday card: “When grandma starts drinking eggnog, it’s family time,” or “All I want for Christmas is New Year’s Eve. I’ll settle with an afternoon with you.”
You might find it difficult to be unique for a holiday occasion, but if you add some of your personality, it will be distinctive enough for a greeting card.
 Greeting cards for religious events are almost always cheerful and full of love. Whether it’s a card to celebrate a Baptism, Yom Kippur, Eid, or Confirmation, you can make your message unique by writing from your heart.Describe your relationship to the celebrant in a sentence or two, and finish by noting how happy you are for the person on their special day.
These types cards rarely involve humor, but if you think of a joke, try it out. The key to adding humor to a religious celebration is being tasteful. Never shame or belittle anyone in this type of card.
 Get well cards are often written in a large format from a group of people. You can also send out a personalized get-well greeting card. Learn about the recipient’s condition briefly before writing the card. Focus on making this person smile. A good way to write a unique message is by explaining a trait of this person that makes you happy.Try something like this:


”John, lunch is my favorite part of Tuesdays, thanks to you!”
"Steph, remember when you made me laugh so hard I almost peed?”
"LaTisha, you are one of the most caring people in the office. This place feels drab without you!”

