 Candidates for Congress must meet certain conditions required by federal and state governments. At their most basic level, these requirements are outlined in the United States Constitution, state constitutions, and federal and state election laws.


All candidates for Congress must be 25 years of age, hold citizenship for 7 years, and live in the state they will represent.
Some states require candidates to collect a certain number of signatures. For example, Florida requires candidates to gather 2,298 signatures.
All states require candidates to pay some sort of filing fee. The average state fee to run for the House of representative is $1,465. This fee runs from $100 in states like Alaska to $10,440 in states like Florida. A candidate's political party may be responsible for paying their filing fee.;
, There is a variety of paperwork any candidate and their campaign must fill out and submit to various governmental authorities. This paperwork settles legalities and formalities associated with running for Congress. The most important paperwork includes:


Registering with a political party. If you intend to run with No Party Affiliation in states like Florida, you must file appropriate paperwork and inform the state’s electoral commission.
Providing signatures and other required paperwork to the state you intend to run in and represent.
Reporting finances to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) after you raise $5,000 for your campaign.
Registering with the FEC within 15 days of raising $5,000 and formally campaigning. In addition, you must name a treasurer for your campaign.
Providing financial reports to the FEC every quarter and before primaries and general elections., After verifying that you meet basic requirements to run for Congress, you need to raise the money needed to fund your campaign. Without raising money, your campaign will never get off the ground and you’ll likely meet electoral failure. To raise money:


Establish a campaign fundraising committee. This committee could be small or large, but must have a designated treasurer.
Use direct mail to fundraise. For example, put together a flyer announcing your candidacy and requesting donations and mail it to potential supporters.
Hold fundraisers, such as benefit dinners. For example, charge $100 per person to eat at a banquet you will attend.
Use the internet to fundraise. Create a website, use social media, and request financial support through emails., Before campaigning, you’ll have to take a position on issues that are important to people who live in your congressional district. This is important, as your opponents, the press, and voters will want to know where you stand. While every district has key issues that are extremely important to voters there, many issues transcend districts. Some include:


Taxes. Do you support higher taxes, lower taxes, or do you think they should remain the same?
Foreign policy. Do you support intervention in global conflicts?
Social issues. Key issues like abortion, gender issues, and marijuana legalization may be of interest to your constituents.
The environment. Depending on your district, you may need to take a stand on climate change and government regulation that protects the environment., Without an organized campaign, you won’t be able to get the word out about your candidacy. Thus, you need to spend time, effort, and money putting together a campaign organization and apparatus that will be able to get you votes and spread your message.


Establish a campaign headquarters. This is where you, your staff, volunteers, and others will meet to plan and execute your campaign. You’ll likely need to rent some sort of office space.
Recruit volunteers and hire staff. Depending on your election and resources, you may need dozens or even hundreds of volunteers and paid staff. Volunteers, including interns, may help with office tasks such as copying memos or going door-to-door informing voters of your candidacy.
Line up experts, polling companies, and others who can provide important advice about running for election in your community.
Pick people who will head, lead, and manage your campaign., Campaigning is perhaps the most important part of running for Congress. This takes a lot of work, though, as you’ll have to visit different groups of constituents in your district. In the end, active campaigns that can reach many people are those that are most likely to succeed.


Visit churches, synagogues, and other houses of worship.
Talk to civic groups like the Rotary Club, the League of Women Voters, the Lion’s Club, and more.
Hold town halls and meetings where voters can ask you questions about your policy positions.
Go door-to-door introducing yourself to voters.
Have your volunteers and staff put up campaign signs and buy advertising time on radio and television.
Convince local civic and political leaders to endorse your candidacy.