 Your dog needs a collar, so you can attach an ID tag that will help identify your dog if it ever gets lost. This is a preventative measure that is necessary for the safety and well-being of your dog. The collar also allows you to easily attach a leash so that you can take your dog on walks.Getting your dog used to a collar early (around 6 weeks or so) will be good training that makes walks and taking your dog places easier later on.
Remember that leashes are necessary any time you take your dog out of the house – for walks, trips to the vet, outings to the dog park, etc. This will help keep your dog safe by minimizing the chance it will be able to run away.;
, You should buy a personalized identification tag with the dog’s name and address on it at a local pet store or veterinarian office. Most pet stores have machines that allow you to insert the information you want engraved on the ID tag and have it personalized as you watch.


On the ID tag, you should include your pet’s name, your phone number, and (optionally) your home address.
 Dogs typically have a lot of energy. They need things to keep themselves occupied so they don’t become restless or destructive towards your furniture or other things in your home. Purchase some toys for your dog that are just for the dog. Let it play with them and keep them in a place where the dog can access the toys when it wants.Your dog needs to stay active and healthy, so buying toys for your pup like boomerangs, frisbees, and tennis balls can help them stay active.
Make sure you find out the dog's favorite types of toys from the previous owner if you acquired your dog at an older age. Some dogs like soft toys (like plush teddy bears) whereas others may like toys that they can chew and work their teeth into (like rubber bones, Kongs, or rawhide bones).
 Your dog will need a dedicated space in your home that it knows is his and that it can feel comfortable in, especially if the dog sleeps in the house at night. Purchase a comfortable dog bed for your pup and put it in the room where you spend the most time. Make sure that the bed is comfortable enough and not too hard for the dog.Just like us, dogs need a bed too, They need a regular place to sleep, so they know where to go when they want to sleep.
You can even purchase several dog beds – like one for the living room for during the day and one for your bedroom for the dog to sleep in at night.
Be certain that you are buying the right size. If it is too small, the dog may sleep somewhere else and it may develop a habit of sleeping there. If that happens, then it can be hard to get the dog to sleep where you want it to afterwards.
 If you plan on leaving your dog home alone for longer periods of time – like when you go to work or school – you may want to consider crate training your dog. Purchase a crate for your dog that is big enough for it to stand up and turn around in.Dogs can get bored or anxious when they are home alone and often expend this extra energy by chewing on your furniture or other things in your house.
This destructive behavior can be frustrating, but dogs usually grow out of it after the first couple of years, especially if you begin crate training them.
Be sure not to leave your dog in the crate unattended for more than a few hours at a time.

