 If you're able to determine when you transfer schools, try to begin classes at the start of the school year. This way, everyone is adjusting to the new school year and classes at the same time you are. If you can't start at the beginning of the year, at least try to start when a new term or period begins.


If you have no control over when you start and you have to start during the school year, try to meet with your instructors. This way, you can find out their requirements and whether you need to catch up on what the classes have already covered.;
, If you're a transfer student, it's incredibly important that you visit orientation. Orientation is your chance to meet representatives from the school, instructors, and some fellow students. The goal of orientation is to reduce your anxiety, make you feel welcome, and answer questions you have about making the switch to the school.Schools may have separate orientations for new students and for transfer students. This way, you're getting information specific to your academic situation.
 You're probably transferring some academic credits from your old school. Check your new school's academic requirements so you can fulfill credits without repeating courses. Decide what areas of study you'd like to focus on and try to enroll in classes that you'd really enjoy.You may want to make a timeline of goals, especially if you'd like to graduate within a specific time frame. This can be helpful when scheduling classes that have prerequisites.
 Your school will give you a handbook when you sign up for classes. Take the time to read it so you understand the schools policies on anything from attendance, tardiness, grading scales, to graduation requirements. If you're unsure about anything in the handbook or still have questions, talk to a guidance counselor or school administrator.


The handbook will also list important dates for the school year (like holidays, exams, and teacher meetings).
 Once you know what classes you'll be taking, you should find out materials you'll need before starting class. Ask the instructor what supplies you'll need for the class. For example, you may need a textbook, supplemental readings, art supplies, or math supplies.


If you won't be able to see the instructor before starting the class, try to email the instructor in advance. This way, they can tell you what supplies you'll need immediately.

