 Ask the big questions that are so often left unanswered. What are your goals? What do you want to attain in life?


"My goals are ... " (choose yours: health, wealth, having friends, a good job, being loved, travel, a big house, helping those in need, promoting love and peace, alleviating poverty and hunger, etc.).;
, Research shows that 90 percent of happiness comes from inside, with only 10 percent derived from external things like a great partner, a lot of money, or a big career.Consider investing your energy in a healthy life, meditation, positive thinking, and working for a happier world.
 Enlightenment is the greatest form of happiness. Find your personal way of spirituality. Center your life in God or in a higher reason like truth, love, inner happiness or enlightenment.


What are the spiritual exercises you want to do daily? Some suggestions include: yoga, meditation, reading, positive thinking, walking, praying, doing good, etc.
 In yoga there are four phases of a full life: good learning in childhood; good work as adult; a good relationship or family; and good self-realization. If you're enlightened, you're happy at a high level. You know how to master the crises of life and to grow in your inner happiness despite such moments, and at all times. You live in love, peace, unity and happiness. And you need no outer things to be happy. If they come it is good. If they don´t come, it is also good. You're independent from other people and outer wealth. But you can have it, if you want. You only must know how to manage wise inner happiness and outer pleasure.
 Desire inner happiness. You can go the fast way to enlightenment like Diogenes (live like a yogi), the middle way to enlightenment like Epicurus (live inner and outer happiness at the same time) or the way to unenlightenment like Aristippus (outer pleasure and inner suffering). It is likely that one or other of the suggested ways resonates with you, or maybe even a combination. It is recommended that you apply each philosophical approach to your own life and experiences, to work out what fits you best.
 This is the essence of philosophy. Buddha, Diogenes, Epicurus, Socrates and also Jesus showed us the path. We have to go the way of inner happiness by ourselves. Let us all succeed. May we all find our path of wisdom, love, peace and light.

