 Release your feelings. This is the best thing to do, to vent out whatever you feel and just have some alone time. Don't suppress any emotions - confront the things upsetting and angering you and release them, whether it be by crying or screaming into a pillow., Use your next day to talk it through, and sort things out. Talk to a friend or someone trusted about what you thought about your ex, but think more about why you broke up. Talking to someone else means there's someone to verbalize your issues with, rather than trying to cope with everything on your own.Remind yourself why you can deal without this relationship, and list ways to help you start moving on.
This day is for clearing your head and setting yourself a clear sketch of the future without your ex.
 If you keep anything at all, be sure to think of it a token of friendship, not of your relationship. If they bring bad memories, then throw them out or dispose of them in any way you desire.


Take down photos. If photos linger, it shows you are still thinking of your ex, and some studies show it can actually cause physical pain.Be sure to return anything to your ex that you know could cause issues. If you have something valuable, and it was not a gift, it may be best to give it back. It’s possible to be found civilly liable if the gift can be deemed as exploitation of your ex., You’re nearing the end of the week; so, use this day for relaxing and enjoyment. Going out with a friend is a good idea. Company can keep your mind off of any lingering feelings. Make sure you don't go somewhere that will bring memories of your ex. If you opt to spend the day alone instead, make sure you keep your mind off your ex and firmly on you.


Pamper yourself by going to the spa.
Go somewhere and do something your ex never wanted to do.
Read a novel and immerse yourself in a different world.
 Quite a bit of research indicates the key to recovering from a breakup is focusing inward on yourself.Spend some time re-working your goals, values, and reminding yourself who you are. Brush up on your independent skills and do whatever you can to make yourself strong.


Cook a good meal for yourself, something your ex didn’t like. Think about how nice it is to eat this meal without any issues.
Go to a lecture or reading on something that sparks your interest. Analyze the message and see how it reflects upon your current situation.
 Use this day to really stop thinking about your ex. This is where you plan your next steps. Lay the groundwork for what you’re going to do next. Putting pen to paper will not only provide you with a plan, but it will be something to which you can self-motivate and hold yourself accountable.


Include the next day you plan to go out. Even if you don’t want to go out, force yourself to stick to the plan.
Determine what kind of person you desire. Think about who you want, and ways in which you will not settle. Find your soulmate this time.
Set a date by which you’ll go on the next date. Don’t let your ex dictate your happiness. Find the next person who will help you forget about your ex., The final day can be thought of as the graduation from your breakup. Essentially, you've done all the hard work. Do what makes you happy. Try one of the following suggestions:


Go watch a movie. Shoot for a genre other than drama or romance, so you’re not reminded of your breakup. Be sure to splurge on all the popcorn and treats you desire.
Sleep in. Wake up whenever you want. Plan on being lazy all day with PJs, a cup of coffee, and a marathon of your favorite show.
Soak in the rays. Lay out – on the beach if possible – and just enjoy a sunny day. Listen to nature wash away any last vestiges of your ex.

