 Finding the best place in your yard to plant tomatoes is an important step in the planting process. Tomatoes are sun-lovers who require exposure to direct sunlight 6-8 hours a day. When possible, look for areas that have good drainage, as buildup of water will weaken the flavor of your tomatoes and produce weak fruit.
 Create the best soil conditions for premier tomato growth. Test your soil pH to determine if any additives should be mixed into the soil; tomatoes have a preferred pH level of 6-6.8. Mix in compost and fertilizer to add nutrients to the soil, and break apart any large clumps. The soil should be well mixed and loose for 6–8 inches (15.2–20.3 cm) deep.


If you know you are going to be planting tomatoes several months in advance, then add compost and adjust the pH level several months prior to planting. This will give time to allow everything to absorb into the soil.
 Space your plants apart based on your preferred maintenance; if you are going to cage or stake your plants, each hold can be dug 2–3 feet (0.6–0.9 m) apart. If you prefer to let your plants sprawl, the spacing should be a bit wider, closer to 4 feet (1.2 m) apart each. Dig the holes to be about 8 inches (20.3 cm) deep so that the entire root ball and bottom of the stem are buried.
 Sprinkle the bottom of each hole with a tablespoon of epsom salts to increase the magnesium levels, which helps to produce healthier plants. You can also choose to sprinkle in a bit more compost at this time.
 Transplant each tomato plant from its container to the holes you have dug. Squeeze the carton it is in to loosen the soil and root ball, and gently lift the plant out by flipping it upside down over your hand. Bury each tomato plant in the soil, pressing firmly to remove any air bubbles. Cover the plant up the stem to just underneath the first row of branches, but don’t worry about planting your tomato plants too deep. This allows for a stronger root system and gives your plants a healthy start.
 If you plan to have your tomatoes caged, add them at this point. Make a tomato cage out of the wire used for laying concrete, or a similarly large-spaced wire grid. Avoid tying the plant to the cage or stakes until after it has flowers.
 Water your tomatoes more frequently at first (daily), and reduce the watering frequency as they mature. Always give them a thorough watering so that water penetrates the soil. Frequent, shallow waterings will lead to shallow roots and a weak plant. Watch your plant's leaves for signs of drying out and water accordingly.If you don’t have time for daily waterings, look into installing a sprinkler or drip system in your garden.
 As your plants grow, keep them healthy by pruning regularly and harvesting the fruit. Use pruning shears to cut off any suckers (small branches that come out of major branch intersections) and any branches that are hidden underneath and in near constant shade., As fruit begins to appear, you are ready to harvest! Pick your tomatoes when they reach full ripeness, often on a daily basis. The fruits can be picked early and allowed to ripen indoors in sunlight if you are expecting bad weather or you have too much fruit. Eat your tomatoes fresh, can them, or freeze them whole to use in the future.

