 There is no substitute for a doctor's advice. Your general practitioner will be happy to see you with a common cold, if you pay them! If you want to waste money going to the doctor for a nasal head cold, do it. If you want to waste the time of a National Health medical professional, you can go to your GP too. You may prefer to go to a chemist or pharmacy, especially as nothing but time can cure your cold! All that can be done is lessen the symptoms. You don't need a doctor to tell you to keep up your fluid intake, take decongestants if you find them helpful and use appropriate pain killers if you feel the need. Of course, as a doctor about this if you find that you do require professional advice.;
, As well as using garden plants, you can try fresh air circulation. It gives your body less chance to re-contaminate itself and continue the infection from bacteria suspended in the water particles blown out when you exhale. Change your sheets every couple days, if you feel up to it.
 Don't be afraid to absolutely max out on the advised amount on the side of the box. If your pain is not alleviated with the maximum dose suggested on the packaging, the pain is not "minor" and a doctor should be consulted, but you can supplement with acetaminophen or aspirin. If you don't choose to take ibuprofen, you can substitute with naproxen, but don't combine naproxen with ibuprofen. It is both more expensive and less effective. If you are taking any of these, alcohol can not be used for a topical analgesia.
 Don't just stick to herbs, unless you are doing this for religious experience. Diphenhydramine is an OTC antihistamine that can also be used for head colds, and produces marked drowsiness. Effective (also) to help you sleep, especially where pain interrupts. It is not excessively expensive. Other antihistamines may help (read the label and decide if so), but again cost money. Guaifenesin and DMX are common medicines, the primary ones in many OTC symptom relief medicines, however they are minimally effective for acute head colds, especially at OTC dosage levels.
 Take showers often. Hot, moist air is itself good for nasal infections. Menthol will help clear the nasal passages, and stimulates nerves, producing an numbing effect like the "icy-hot" patches that athletes use (although nowhere near that strong when drinking a simple tea). Chamomile has a topical analgesic effect from glycine, and both plants (and in fact almost all plants) have some antibacterial effect. These numbing effects can be seen to have a further anti-septic effect in that the numbed tissue will produce less mucus to carry and spread the disease within your body.
 Blowing your nose and wiping it rubs the skin raw, which inflames the surrounding tissue and causes further mucus production. If you feel like throwing up from all the "post-nasal drip" (and/or guaifenesin), you might try gently and patiently wetting the tissues before wiping your nose with them. The amount of water needed depends on the tissue, and sufficiently but not overly wetting tissues is a subtle science that by the time you have mastered you will want to give seminars on its nuances, although the only people who are likely to listen are the few in the back of the crowd who look on with awe and remembrance of their recent head cold.
 You can drink sage tea but a simpler/arguably more effective remedy exists for nasal infections. When you can breathe through your nose, take a fresh, clean leaf of sage, roll it once or twice, and insert stem-side-first a little into your nose, on the side more infected. Breathe in through it and out through your mouth for ~5-15 minutes. Do this 3-4 times per day (after showers or tea is sometimes best for being able to breathe). You can also crumple the leaf and use it to stop up your nose when you want one nostril or the other to stop. Sage leaves have antibacterial, and antibiotic (the chemical Salvin) and antiseptic qualities and can greatly reduce recovery times.

