 Many schools hold spirit days when everyone sports their school colors, and many universities encourage students to attend sporting events while wearing the school’s jerseys and colors.Whatever the occasion, showing up decked out in your school’s colors will let everyone know how strong your school spirit is and what a good team player you are.;
, Perhaps the most important element of your school-themed ensemble is your top, as it’s often the first thing you’ll notice about someone’s outfit. This is especially true if it has some kind of text or graphic emblazoned on it, so if you have a t-shirt, hoodie, or sports jersey touting your school’s name or insignia, wear it!


If you don’t have any school merch, don’t worry! Just use a shirt that features one or more of your school colors prominently, such as a solid long sleeve tee or a plaid shirt showing two or more hometown hues.
Keep an eye out for any pro sports merchandise you might have that features colors similar to those of your school. For example, if your colors are black, silver and red, you could wear a Chicago Bulls or Blackhawks jersey, or you could sport a Team Britain, Australia, France, or USA—all of which boast the colors of red, white, and blue on their flags—if your school also uses these colors.
 Unless you own sweatpants or basketball shorts from being on one of your school’s teams, you probably don’t have any pants which include all of your school colors. It’s probably easiest, then, to find a pair of sweatpants or track pants—bottoms which tend to feature brighter colors than everyday ones—in a school color. If you don’t own any, you can probably find some affordable options at a general merchandise store such as Walmart, Tesco, or Costco.


Brightly colored jeans and trousers have become a trend in recent years, so if you’re willing to purchase new items for your school spirit ensemble, check out the denim department at trendy retailers such as the Gap, Target, and Forever21.No flashy track pants or jeans and no time or money to buy them? No worries! If black or blue feature in your school’s emblem, just wear leggings, jeans, or trousers in blue or black. If black doesn’t feature in your colors, a pair of black bottoms will still be a neutral base to highlight your school-spirited sweater or t-shirt.
 Although sneakers and running shoes often come in loud color combinations, you might not have a pair which fits your school palette. In this case, you can find a pair of cheap flip flops in one of your school colors. Superstores such as Target and Costco often have bins of basic flip flops available for rock bottom prices, and you might as well go for a low-quality pair since you won’t be using them for long.You can also spruce up a pair of basic black or white sneakers with some colorful socks. Roll your pants up or pull the socks over your pants so the socks are visible, and you’ll be screaming spirit from head to toe.
If you have socks in both or all three of your school colors, wear them all! Roll them up to different heights so that they create a tiered sleeve of school spirit.
 While it can be difficult to find jewelry in shades aside from classic silver and gold, you can add school spirit to other, non-jewelry elements of your wardrobe. For example, you can wear ribbons or a matching headband in your hair, don a baseball cap in school colors, or wrap a scarf around your neck.
 Seemingly small details like nail color and face makeup can make a big difference to the overall impression of your outfit, so mind the small stuff if you want to make a big splash in the school spirit arena! Most drugstores carry affordable, bright eyeshadow palettes and nail polishes—many of which don’t differ drastically from their high-end equivalents—so you don’t have to break the bank in service to school spirit.Some schools don’t allow loud makeup or nail colors, so double-check with your institutional dress code before going crazy with cosmetics.
If you’re not confident in your makeup mastery, consider popping some sparkly star stickers or glitter onto your cheek bones or at the corners of your eyes. Even if silver or gold aren’t in your school’s repertoire, it will jazz up your look and make the other colors pop.

