 Shortcuts may be faster, but they can also be more complicated! If the person is lost or has poor navigation skills to begin with, give them directions with minimal turns. For example: Make a left on Baker street, then a right at the light, and go straight all the way down that road until you get to the highway.;
, How far along a particular road does the person need to go? There are several different ways to tell them:



How many blocks or streets they'll pass. This works better in a city than in the country, because in the city there are more cross-streets to count, whereas in the country the space between them makes it easier to lose count, and some driveways look like roads of their own. For example: "Continue down that street, passing 4 side roads along the way."


How many traffic lights they'll pass. This is good, but you must be right about the number! For example: "You are going to pass three traffic lights before the turn."


Distance in miles or kilometers. For example: "Go 3 miles (5 kilometers) on Holypoke Road"


How much time it'll take. This is better for when they'll be spending a short time on that path; any longer than that, and your directions will become inaccurate depending on how fast the person drives. For example: "It should be about five minutes on the highway."


Give them a drop dead point. A drop dead point is a landmark that tells them that they've gone too far and have missed their turn. For example: "If you see the library, you have gone too far."


, If it's not a simple, four-way intersection, give a few extra details. Otherwise, tell them to make a left or right. Give them a street name and one landmark (a traffic light, a particular store). If the person you're giving directions to is good with cardinal directions (north, south, west, east) and/or the city you're in is laid out like a grid (with all the streets perpendicular, running east-west or north-south) indicate the direction, too. For example: "Turn a left at the traffic light onto Foster, heading east."

, For example: "Turn left onto Baker Street" instead of "At Baker Street, turn left."

, For example: "My house is on the left."

, For instance, if a lane ends or is right turn only, or a road they need to turn onto is small or hidden, you might want to mention that. If there's a turn that you know people tend to miss, tell them how they'll know they've gone too far. For example: "The lane is going to merge before the turn, and Baker street will become Forest Street. But you will want to keep traveling down it once it becomes Forest Street."

, Remember to be concise. Detailed directions are useless if you give so many details that the person driving gets confused. For example: "Make a left on Baker street, then a right at the second light, and go straight all the way down that road until you get to the highway, it should be about three miles (5 kilometers). Stay on the highway for three minutes and then get off on exit 7. We are the third house on the left. If you see the library, you have gone too far."

, Whether or not they've written them down, make sure they heard you correctly and understand the route you laid out for them. For example: "Did you said left on Baker street, then a right at the second light, and go straight all the way down that road until you get to the highway? Get off on exit 7. And it's the third house on the left. But if I pass the library, I went too far." do not shout at them if they are confused.

