 In order for the FTB to run, you will be needing Minecraft. You can purchase the game through their website which will be listed in the Sources below.


Make sure to log in first or create an account before you click the "Buy" button found at the navigation menu.;
, After logging in and clicking “Buy,” they will ask for your payment information.


You can purchase the game using PayPal. If you want to get the game for your friend, click the "Gift" option instead.
Mojang will give you a Minecraft gift code that can be given to your friend which they can use in order to download and register their very own Minecraft account.
 After purchasing, download the game to your computer.


For Windows, make sure to run the .exe files as administrator. After installing, run the Minecraft to make sure that it's up to date and then close it before you proceed to installing the FTB.
 You can get Feed the Beast for free; it's very safe and approved to many mod players in Minecraft community. Simply go to their website (listed in Sources below) and then press download.
 There's no need for you to register on their website. Just download the launcher right away which can be found at the first page of their website and then open the launcher to start.
 As the launcher starts, do not close the console window as this will also close the launcher.


Right after the Feed the Beast update, you can now create a new profile and then type in your Minecraft account and password. This is needed as you have to use the Minecraft client in order to play.
 Remember that each modpack will create different directories. This means that when you run your Minecraft without using Feed the Beast, you won't be able to see your saved files with a certain modpack.


Each pack has different saved folder, data folder and many others to safely ensure that your original Minecraft copy will remain untouched. To get a Modpack, click "Modpack" tab on your Feed the Beast Launcher. You will be able to see a long list of modpacks that was gathered into one game. The most wanted game will be listed from the top.
In order to see the mods inside that pack, simply click on the name and then scroll down from the window along with its brief description.
Each modpack will give you tutorials by the time you spawn in the game, introducing you with new items and ways on how to craft it.
Simply click on the modpack name then press Launch to download it and automatically log.
 Many users want to install texturepacks to make Minecraft game experiences feel all brand new. Using Feed the Beast, you can also get the texturepacks you wanted and it will be installed directly in the game.


To do this, simply click on the "Texturepacks" tab at the upper right of the launcher window and then choose the texturepacks you wanted. If you wish to install it to a certain modpack, look for the modpack name at the bottom right of the screen, right next to the install button.
Keep in mind that not all texturepacks are compatible with certain modpack, as some has lower versions of Minecraft. You can see the compatibility under the description of each texturepacks.
Once you're done choosing, simply click on "Install."

, In order for you to play Minecraft with these modpacks, always start your game using FTB, otherwise you will get the normal Vanilla Minecraft. Log in using the FTB and then click on launch to start your game.


FTB can also run in multiplayer but make sure that your friends are using FTB as well with the same modpack.

