 Farm Heroes Saga can be played on your smart device or from the Facebook website.


For Android and iOS, look for the game app on your home screen. Tap it to launch the game.
On Facebook, on the News Feed page of your account, look for the Apps heading on the left panel. A list of your app’s will be displayed here. Click the Farm Heroes Saga link to launch the game.;
, Once you’ve finished level 63, level 64 of the game will be available for you to play. Tap on the level from the game map to open it.
 In order to gather flowers, you need to make them bloom by making matches next to them. Utilize your first few moves on blooming and gathering the flowers.


It will be a great bonus if the matches you make next to the flowers are the ones in the requirements (water drops, suns, and carrots).
 Gathering water droplets can make your game a challenge since there are water buckets on the board. If water buckets overflow, it will cause water droplets to randomly appear on the board. The randomness might create problems for your planned matches; however, it will help you gather water droplets.


If water droplets don’t appear on the board, make water buckets overflow by making matches next to them. Water droplets will randomly appear on the board, replacing other cropsies so you can try to make a match.
 In between making water buckets overflow and flowers bloom, it would be a good idea to match suns and carrots to reach the goal. Try to make matches next to flowers to help them bloom and buckets to make them overflow; this way you can get all requirements in just a few moves.
 The best moves you can make is at the bottom row of the grass. This is where you can use the flowers and buckets to your advantage.


This will also help you trigger cascades, allowing you to gather enough suns, carrots, and water droplets to beat the game.
 Boosters are very useful when you can’t make fruit matches. It can make the difference between winning and failing a level. You get free boosters every 5 to 10 hours. There are three kinds of boosters in Farm Heroes Saga.


Magic Shovel Booster: This allows you to remove one crop. You can use this booster when you only have a small number of moves left and you badly want to collect one crop to complete a level.
Bonus Reward Booster: Every required cropsy will get +1 bonus on the board when applying this booster. So when you need more points to win the game, apply this booster. It will give your score the boost it needs.
Tractor Booster: This booster will remove a full row of cropsies by driving over it.

