 Typically, men are at a higher risk for gout than women and the level of risk increases with age. So, older men are definitely at an increased risk for gout. The risk for gout increases significantly for women who have already gone through menopause.Men are at highest risk of developing gout between the ages of 30 and 50., Figure out whether your father, mother, grandparents, or great grandparents experienced gout. You could ask your parents or other family members if they know of any family history of gout. If you have a family history of gout, you are more at risk of getting it., If you are too heavy, your body makes more uric acid and your kidneys have a harder time getting rid of it. These factors make you more susceptible to gout.


Use a body mass index calculator online. This index is a measure of body fat based on height and weight. Enter your height and weight into an online body mass index calculator, and then hit “calculate.” You can then compare your body mass index to the healthy index projected for your age and sex.Ask your doctor to determine whether you are overweight. Your doctor has a number of different measurements and tools that they can use to determine your current and healthy weight.
 Once you have tracked your level of consumption of these items for one week, you should review your patterns of consumption (e.g., how often you drink sugary soft drinks and at what times of the day). If you regularly consume a lot of meat, sugar, and alcohol, you are at a higher risk for gout.Findings suggest that if men maintain a diet that has a lot of sugar from soft drinks they are more likely to get gout. Drinking soft drinks on a daily basis will greatly increase your risk.Eating a diet with a lot of meat and seafood (high-purine foods) is a risk factor for gout.
Alcohol consumption is a trigger for gout attacks. Drinking will likely trigger an attack within 24 hours and your risk increases relative to the amount you drink.If you are unsure of your diet, you could go see a dietitian or doctor. It can help to bring your food diary with you, so they have an idea of how much sugar, meat, and alcohol you currently consume., Medications used to treat hypertension as well as drugs that suppress the immune system, such as those prescribed to people to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, or who have undergone an organ transplant can sometimes increase the risk of gout., If you have recently experienced surgery or trauma, you may also be at a higher risk for gout.If you have any kind of surgery, you are at an increased risk.Undergoing chemotherapy can also be a trigger for gout.