 If you suspect termite infestation, cut away a piece of wood at the site, if possible. Different types of termites leave distinctly different patterns of damage in wood.


Subterranean termites devour soft wood and eat along the grain. This produces a distinct honeycomb pattern in the wood. It is crucial to stop subterranean termites as soon as the infestation is discovered. One type, the Formosan termite, is especially voracious, due largely to its massive numbers. Formosan termite colonies can number in the millions. Left unchecked, these pests can inflict considerable damage on homes, fences and utility poles.
Drywood termites excavate large sections of wood by chewing along and against the wood grain. Their appearance is serious, but less so than most subterranean types. Drywood colonies usually number only a few thousand members and usually take several years to reach that number. Even when they reach such numbers, the entire colony eats only about 1/2 pound of wood per year.;
, If you look carefully, you may be able to find clues of termite infestations, even if you're unable to see the insect itself. Visual signs of a termite colony can include floors that buckle or sag, loose tiles, pinpoint holes in drywall, damaged wood crumbles easily, or wood that sounds hollow when tapped. Shelter tubes running from the soil to above-ground wood. When subterranean termites exhaust their natural sources of wood, they will move to structures. They do this by building small, enclosed passageways, or tubes, to ensure safe access to the building. The tubes are made from soil, saliva, fecal matter and other material. The tubes indicate that termites are active.
Drywood termites live inside wooden constructions, including structural timber, furniture and hardwood floors. Because they live inside the areas they feed on, they're almost never seen outside the colony. But they do leave signs of their presence. Drywood termites push fecal pellets, called frass, outside their tunnels and chambers. These wood-colored mounds accumulate on flooring under infested sections of wood. , When conducting a periodic inspection of your home, tap sections of wood with a large screwdriver. If the wood sounds hollow, it might have been damaged by a wood-boring pest. Inside your home, hold a stethoscope or other device against different walls. You won't be able to hear termites, but carpenter ants make soft, rustling sounds as they rummage around in their chambers., Termites are just one of several types of wood-boring insects that damage homes. Carpenter ants and certain beetles also devour wood. It's important to determine which pest has infiltrated your home in order to chart the proper course of action against the colony. The easiest way to figure out if your home is threatened by termites or another pest is to closely examine the insect. Termites have certain characteristics different from ants and beetles.Worker termites often are pale yellow in color and have soft bodies. Carpenter ants and beetles are usually much darker in color and have hard exoskeletons.
Termites have straight antennae, very different from the elbowed antennae of carpenter ants.
Because termites usually are hidden from view, it's easiest to determine the type of infestation by examining the winged version of the insect. When a termite colony gets large enough, winged reproductive termites will emerge to create a new colony. Termites have 2 sets of wings of the same size. In carpenter ants, the front wings are much longer than the rear set. Beetles have a set of hard wings that protect the delicate wings used for flight. The hard wings are part of the insect's exoskeleton and fold out from the body during flight.
Termites have no discernible waist along their segmented bodies. Carpenter ants have a very distinct pedicle that joins the thorax to the abdomen.

