 In a small bowl, combine 1 tablespoon of snipped fresh thyme, 1 tablespoon of snipped fresh sage, 1 tablespoon of snipped fresh rosemary, 1 teaspoon of black pepper, 1 teaspoon of salt, ½ teaspoon of crushed red pepper, and 2 cloves of minced garlic. Rub the mixture over the chicken before you bake or grill it.


This recipe makes enough rub for about 3 pounds (1.36 kilograms) of chicken. If you don't plan on using all of the seasoning, consider storing it in a small jar in your fridge. Use it within the week.
 Fill a large pot with ½ cup (120 milliliters) of honey, ½ cup (140 grams) of salt, 1 quart (950 milliliters) of water, 2 cloves of sliced garlic, and ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil. Pull the skin away from a while chicken, and tuck 6 sage leaves and 6 thinly sliced lemon wedges underneath. Place the chicken into the brine and let it sit for in the fridge for several hours. Once the time is up, brush the chicken with olive oil before roasting it.For skinless chicken breasts, let it sit for 2 hours.
For bone-in pieces, let it sit for 4 hours.
For a whole chicken, let it sit for 4 hours to overnight.
 In a large pot, combine 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of cold water, ½ cup (140 grams) of kosher salt, and 2/3 cup (135 grams) light brown sugar. Soak the chicken in the brine for up to 2 hours, rinse it, then cook it as desired.If you don't have kosher salt, use ¼ cup (70 grams) of regular table salt instead.
 In a large pot, combine 1 quart (950 milliliters) of buttermilk, 4 teaspoons of kosher salt, and 1 teaspoon of freshly ground black pepper. Add the chicken, cover, and leave in the fridge for 4 hours. When you are ready to cook the chicken, drain the buttermilk. This is enough for one, whole chicken.After you are done brining, consider baking your chicken with 2 thinly sliced lemons, 4 finely grated garlic cloves, and 2 cups of chopped fresh dill.
 In a pot over medium heat, combine: 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of warm water, ¾ cup (210 grams) of salt, 2/3 cup (150 grams) of sugar, ¾ cup (180 milliliters) of soy sauce, and ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil. Stir everything together until the sugar and salt dissolve, and then allow the brine to cool to room temperature. Place the chicken into the brine and leave it in the fridge for 2 to 4 hours. Rinse and pat dry the chicken before baking it.