 Get in touch with yourself by writing down your thoughts and writing about events in your life. This introspection will be therapeutic and get you to be comfortable with yourself.


Write down anything and everything you want. You can't write anything that's wrong. Write the first thing that comes to your head.
Write your most personal thoughts and ideas. Don't be self-conscious about what you write. You're the only one that will ever see it.
Write about yourself. Get to know your thoughts and actions more intimately. Instead of going through life without thinking about what you do, be conscious of your actions and why you do them. If you don't like what you do and think, you'll learn that about yourself. You'll also find areas of yourself that you love!
List things you like and things you don't like about yourself. For every entry, write a way to keep doing the positive or a way to improve the negative.
 One of the biggest challenges to being yourself is lingering negative thoughts. These negative thoughts are almost always baseless and self-destructive. Once you're aware of your negative thoughts you can overcome them. Work on replacing them with positive thoughts!


Write down you negative thoughts as they happen. Once they're written down, you can work on changing them.
Analyze those negative thoughts. Why are you having them? Are they even true? Are there any counter-examples? Are they productive or destructive? Do you fixate on those thoughts? Answer these questions and more about every negative thought you have. Before long, you'll start to realize how absurd and counterproductive your negative thoughts are.
Replace negative thoughts with positive ones. Instead of "I'm always left out of conversations," think "I had a great conversation earlier" or "I had all these interesting and funny things to say, but I chose not to." Instead of "Nobody thinks I'm clever" think of that one time you made a great pun and everybody cracked up. Make a habit of focusing on the positive.
Laugh at yourself. Laughter really is the best medicine. Once you can identify your negative thoughts, you'll start to realize how baseless they are. After a while, those thoughts can be funny. Once you can laugh at your negative thoughts, you've conquered them.
 Actively seek new relationships and work on building your current relationships. Initiate meet ups with friends or strangers. Finally, reflect on your relationships and your communication skills and shortcomings. Notice patterns in the people you choose to hang out with, and seek more people like that. Take note of the way you talk and interact, and work on improving that.


If you prefer people who do active things with you like skiing or bowling, that means you're probably an active person too. Keep having active social meetings.
If you have problems maintaining relationships or starting conversation, practice those skills with friends. take social skills classes. These are often offered at local adult education centers, and they can be enormously beneficial.
Play to your strengths. If you find people laughing at your jokes often, have your communication center around jokes.
Ask your friends about yourself. Have an honest conversation with them about your personality. Ask what you can improve on and what you're already good at. One of the best ways to learn about yourself is through other people.
 Over time, you get socialized to be someone you're not. This happens to everyone. But when you're young, social norms haven't instantiated themselves on you. Remember what's it's like to be young and carefree again, and channel that pure version of yourself in social scenarios.


Within reason, try acting on impulse. Your intuitive actions are more likely to represent your true self rather than your socialized self.
Don't worry about being judged. Just do what you want and forget the haters.
Appreciate the moment. Don't dwell on the past or focus on the future. Love each moment and get caught up in the present.
When you were young, you didn't care what other people thought. You listened to the music you wanted, you read what you wanted, you said what you wanted, and you did what you wanted. Try to recapture that mentality.
Read old books you used to like or do things you used to like as a kid. Do cartwheels or build a sandcastle!

