 Lap blankets can range in size from very small to very large. If you are knitting this project for yourself or for someone else, then consider what the ideal measurements might be. You might even consider measuring the width of someone’s lap and the length of their legs to decide how large your blanket should be.For a small lap blanket, the final measurements may be about 24 to 48 inches.
For a medium lap blanket, the final measurements maybe about 30 to 50 inches.
For a large lap blanket, the final measurements may be about 50 to 60 inches.;
, You will need between five and 10 regular sized balls of medium weight yarn to complete a lap blanket. The larger you plan to make the blanket, the more yarn you will need. However, you can also get extra-large balls of yarn that are meant specifically for knitting blankets.


Check the yarn label to determine how many balls you will need to complete your project. If you are in doubt, then it is better to get an extra ball or two.
Use any color or colors you like. You can choose just one color, a couple of colors, or make a rainbow-like blanket with several colors.
 You can use regular knitting needles or circular knitting needles to make a blanket. If you opt for regular needles, just make sure that they are long ones so that they will be able to hold all of the stitches. You can also use a pair of circular needles. The length of nylon suspended between the two circular needles will easily hold all of the stitches.


A pair of size 10 regular or circular needles (32 or 40 inch) is a suggested size for medium weight yarn.However, if you decide to go with a bulky yarn, then you might want to use larger needles, like size 13 needles.
Circular needles are usually meant for knitting in the round, but you do not have to knit in the round when you use them. If you decide to use circular needles, knit across all stitches as you usually would and then turn the stitches around and knit across the row in the opposite direction.
 Before you get started you will need to gather a few more items. You will need:


Pair of scissors. Having a good pair of sharp scissors is always a good idea when you are knitting. You may need them when you switch colors and you will definitely need them when you finish your project.
A large eyed needle for weaving in ends. You can find plastic needles in the knitting sections of craft stores. These are useful for weaving in ends and finishing projects.
Something to keep your yarn in while you knit. If you have a knitting bag, then this is ideal. If not, then you can use an empty box or a bag (canvas or plastic). This will help to keep your yarn from rolling all over the floor while you knit your blanket.
Pattern (optional). If there is a pattern that you want to follow or use as a basic guide, then this may also be helpful as well. However, you do not need a knitting pattern to make a simple lap blanket.

