 Pick any search engine and plug in what first comes to mind, such as "cheap hotels Napa Valley," see what comes up, and follow the most appropriate links. This general search might not provide too much information, since Napa Valley is known for being expensive. Nonetheless, starting out in a general way and then becoming more specific and creative as you continue your hunt will probably lead to the best results. Whatever you do, don't get discouraged by the initial search!;
, If you are traveling by air, look into the package deals these sites offer for both air travel and lodging by clicking on "flight and hotel." If you are not traveling by air, click on "hotel." These kinds of websites often offer deep discounts on hotels looking to fill rooms. You might even find yourself able to afford better lodging than you expected.
 This way, you can get a better understanding of the area--from lodging possibilities to a map of surrounding areas. The more knowledge about the area you are armed with, the greater your chances of success in your search.
 If you go to the classified section of each publication, you may find a listing for a short-term sublet, which might provide a great alternative. Many local residents seek refuge from the tourist season. By subletting, you may be helping out a budget-conscious Napa Valley native.
 Even in the age of the Internet, books can be valuable resources, not to be overlooked. To do so "on the cheap," it might be best just to begin with the Internet, peruse book-selling websites for guides on traveling cheaply, and then go to your local bookstore, grab the book and a seat, soak in and take notes on the information, and put the book back on the shelf.
 Lodging is often less expensive when it is located on the outskirts. If you are willing to travel a bit further from your hotel to your desired destination for the day, this is a great solution.
 Are you interested in four-star accommodations for half the price or are you content with a hostel? Adjust your search accordingly.
 This is when hotel proprietors are on the hunt for business.
 Let friends, coworkers, family, and acquaintance know about your quest. Tips can come from all sorts of places. You never know who might have a recommendation or experience with Napa-on-a-budget.
 Persistence often pays off. Possibilities exist even in one of the most sought-after tourist destinations. You just have to find them.

