


Buy nostalgic “old school” comic books either as collectible investments or as merchandise for a comic book selling business. Characters considered classics date back to the early 1930s Action Comics, the Marvel Comics of the early 1970s and run the gamut from superheroes (Superman, Batman, The Green Hornet and Stan Lee’s Spiderman) to more cartoonish characters like the Archives or Hi-Jinx.
Opt for graphic novels that became popular in the early 1960s.
Invest in the more unusual underground comics. First popular in the 1960s and 1970s, these comics included profanity, drug culture, counter culture and even pornography. These were more often found in youth-oriented “head shops” than in comic shops.
Find newer options, like alternative comics that started in the 1970s into the 1990s that not only include superheroes, but also detective and science fiction stories.;
,,



Mint refers to a near perfect comic showing no signs of cover wear, only slight printing imperfections, a tight and flat spine, clean staples and bright, clear ink colors.

Near Mint refers to a comic that has only minor imperfections, no corner or impact creases, tiny bindery tears (if any) and clear, bright ink colors.

Very Fine comics possess top eye appeal with sharp, clean surfaces, a relatively flat cover, little if any edge wear, and good cover ink with only slight imperfections.

Fine conditioned comics are above-average with minor wear, slight surface defects and small stress marks.

Very Good refers to an average comic book that shows some wear, has a slight crease, not enough defects to reduce eye appeal and having some minor fading or discoloration.

Good refers to a comic book that isn’t missing any pages or cover with only small pieces missing on the inside of the book, scuffed, soiled but fully readable.

Fair condition grading refers to a comic that has all its inside pages with most covers, as long as the story isn’t affected with prevalent creasing.

Poor condition comic books are worn to the point that there is basically no collectible value with pages or sections of the cover missing, stained pages, mildew and inks that aren’t clear or clean.
 This will help you show a buyer exactly what you have and allow for a quicker assessment.
 Craigslist is of course widely-used for all types of products, while comics classifieds allow users a very specialized and controlled marketplace for your comic books.
