 "Yes, ma'am" and "No, sir" should always be in your vocabulary, right between "please" and "thank you." Don't talk southern if that's not your real voice—it'll come off as fake and possibly insulting. A girl from Alaska can be just as country as a girl from Alabama, even without the accent.
 These all should be household names to you.


Concerts are great places to listen to live music and hang out with friends. Try to go to a few shows to get a feel for what country music sounds like up close and in person!

, Country girls are mild-mannered, polite, and easy-going if you had to generalize; but they don't tolerate foolishness and they certainly aren't afraid to tell things like they are. Learn to trust your convictions and stand by them.


Faith is a cornerstone for many country girls, but it doesn't need to be. Many country girls are devout believers who go to church every Sunday and have a strong relationship with their congregation. If this is you, that's great; keep doing what you're doing. If that's not you, don't feel like you need to force it. Be yourself and good things will come.
Country girls respect their boys, but don't let them take advantage of anything. Country girls are sweet, sensitive, self-sacrificing. But they also demand loyalty and respect back from their men.
 Be proud of who you are and where you come from. People will respect that. If people say, "I hate the country," don't get flustered or upset, but be friendly and act nice, so others will have nothing to hold against you. If you find out that they are putting you down, then still try to act nice, but don't act rude.


Country girls are bubbly, bright, strong-willing, funny, and down-to-earth people. Plus country girls are all full of fun and they love goofing around, especially if they're around sand, water and a sunset with a few beach chairs.
Be humble. Don't be arrogant. Country folk are kind, warm-hearted, and generous. Practice giving to other people not expecting anything in return. Practice giving people the benefit of the doubt.
Be fun and funny. Humor sure can keep you happy if you’re blue. Crack a funny joke every now and then! And don't be afraid to crack one about yourself sometimes; it shows you don't take yourself too seriously.
Be adventurous. Spend time outside and get to know the world.

