 Make a conscious effort to love yourself and others on this day. Avoid waiting around or hoping that someone else will fix everything and make you feel better. Whether you're single or not, you are the best judge of what matters to you. Focus on how you can take an active role in making yourself feel better on Valentine's Day.
Avoid seeing Valentine's Day in simple terms as only about romantic love.
Remember that this is a made-up holiday. Much of what you see and what you're told about Valentine's Day is through advertising. You are welcome to make your own traditions for this day.
 Redirect your negative thoughts about being unloved or unappreciated to thoughts about who does care about and love you. Often the harshest critic on a holiday like Valentine's Day is yourself. You may certain unrealistic expectations about how the day should be.


Instead of focusing on your faults, remember those who care and love you.
Be kind and generous with your words. Tell those around you what makes them special.
Most likely there is more than one love in your life. Love doesn't need to be defined by your partner. Love can be shared with friends and family too. Spend more time with them. Make an effort to show that they mean as much to you as this romantic person you're looking for.
 You may feel like you want to retreat into your comfort zone when you don't have a valentine on Valentine's Day. Instead of feeling sad, remember those who have had tough times and are lonesome too. Giving back and thanking those around you will make you feel better about this day.Give food or your time to those in need.
Visit patients at a hospital or older adults at a retirement community. An unexpected visit may boost their spirits. Make sure to ask permission before visiting.Help an acquaintance at work or school with something challenging.
Be present and think about the good things in your life. Take a few minutes to clear your mind and remember three things that you are thankful for at this moment in your life.

