 There are a number of hands-on methods that you can use to encourage – and teach – your baby in the motions of rolling over. You can try these on their own or in addition to play. One is to guide your baby in lifting and crossing the legs.First, lay your baby on the back on the tummy-time blanket and gently lift one leg. While holding the other leg down, move the raised leg in slow circles. Switch legs and do it again.
Next, with your baby still on his or her back, gently raise one leg again, cross it over the other, and roll the child in one movement onto the tummy.
Babies are hardwired at birth to keep their bodies aligned and only start to move by “segment” at around 4 to 5 months. This exercise is encouraging the movement your baby needs to roll over at the hips., This method is easy to do. It’s also something that you can incorporate into your daily routines like changing and putting your baby down to rest. So, you can practice this move many times per day.All you need to do is sit your baby on the bottom and roll her onto the side when laying her down. Babies, as said, are hardwired to keep their bodies aligned and will try to keep their heads over the rest of their body.
Just reverse the motions when you pick your baby up again. This will help your baby strengthen the muscles in the sides of the neck muscles and also get used to pushing against the floor on the way down.
 One final method is to guide and encourage your baby through rolling over with the gentle aid of gravity. For this, you’ll need a raised surface on a very slight incline. Be careful and make sure that the surface is soft, not too high, and not too steep.Take a surface like a small mattress and place it on the ground. To get the proper incline, place a small pillow under one end of the mattress.
Start from the top and (very gently) help your baby roll over. Repeat this two or three times down the incline and then, once you’ve reached the bottom, do it from the top and roll her on the other side of her body.
In all cases, keep smiling, talking, encouraging, and interacting with your baby while you help the child turn over.

