 Geminis value communication and honesty in a partner. He will appreciate that you are willing to be honest and upfront about how you are feeling and what you are thinking. Geminis also need to feel valued and trusting with their partner. Being honest will make you a more attractive partner to a Gemini.You can demonstrate this by not hiding your feelings or thoughts when you speak to a Gemini. You can also show honesty by being true to yourself — don't try to be someone you are not just to attract a Gemini.
You can show a Gemini that you are loyal by sticking up for a friend in a tricky situation or by supporting a family member during a difficult time. Showing the Gemini you are loyal can show him that you are willing to stand by your friends, family, and partners.
 Geminis are an adventurous, fun loving sign. Your Gemini may be playful and interested in learning new things. If you want to succeed in seducing a Gemini, you may need to demonstrate your adventurous side and show her that you can try new things with enthusiasm.This may mean ordering a strange dish on the menu at dinner or being willing to try a new drink at the bar. You may also suggest something off the beaten path for your date with a Gemini, like hiking to a waterfall for a picnic or going on a ghost tour and getting a tarot reading, to show her you are interested in new, exciting experiences.
 When you become intimate with your Gemini, be willing to try new things in the bedroom together. You may try different sexual positions in bed and use techniques to make sex last longer. You may also use sex toys and role playing in bed to keep the sex interesting and adventurous for the Gemini.


Make sure you and your partner are on the same page, and everything you are doing is consensual. If you aren't sure if your partner is adventurous, but he's a Gemini, that doesn't mean you should just try something crazy in bed without asking him if it's okay. Be respectful and communicate about trying new things.
You may try basic sex toys if you have never used them before, such as a sex toy for clitoral stimulation or vibrating pleasure beads. You can also try a vibrator or a couple's ring in bed.It may also be fun to try role playing games in the bedroom in which you act out your fantasies together in a safe space. You may tell each other your fantasies and work together to act them out. You should establish limits and boundaries for the role play and then get into character with costumes and props.