 Change your image to something that is totally unique and totally you. Being an indie kid or a hipster means that you are openly quirky and you don't care what others think.;
, Clothes are important for an everyday lifestyle, so let's start with them. Indie kids always have that "I really don't care" look, but they actually do put thought into their clothes. Here are good examples of Indie threads to get.


Of course, the Indie tops. Stock up on t shirts with your favourite band name, cool artistic pictures, or just plain ironic sayings. Your shirt should describe who you are. Stay away from t shirts from Hollister, American Eagle, Delia's, Abercrombie, and mainstream places like that. However, Urban Outfitters and American Apparel are great, but expensive. When it's cold, oversized sweaters are the way to go. Any colour, any pattern, anything. Cardigan sweaters are also great for fall, but also get them bigger than your normal size. Flannel button ups are really versatile for any season, too.
Next step is the bottoms. These are easy, basically the tighter the jeans, the better. Own many different skinny jeans as you can, in colours like dark blue, black, and grey. If you want to switch it up, a pair of corduroys also is great for the Indie/Hipster look. If you're into skirts, high waisted skirts on the shorter side. Same goes for shorts.
You can't be Indie, without the proper Indie footwear. Girls can pretty much pull off any kind of shoes, but the following are the best. Vans (slip ons or lace ups), boat shoes, moccasins, colourful flats, equestrian style boots, converse (hi or low tops), Tom's shoes, colourful heels. It's actually pretty hard to go wrong with shoes.
 Now that you've got the basics, it's time for accessories. Indie girls love to ornate themselves in accessories. Long, dangly earrings in any shape or size will work. Stock up on bracelets, with a cool watch and maybe some things you made yourself. Headbands no longer go across your crown, it's all about the forehead. When it's chilly, tie a scarf around your neck. Any kind of rings, if you really want unique jewelry, buy off of etsy.com. Also, the independent designer name will definitely score you Indie points. Thick rimmed, huge glasses. You don't wear glasses? You're about to start to. You can buy fake glasses almost anywhere.
 Most Indies like to rock the pea coat, double breasted is better, but single breasted is okay if that's all you have. Member's Only jackets are definitely vintage, and therefore cool. Sweatshirts with something ironic on them are acceptable too. When it's not that cold outside, a good hoodie is a need.
 Don't go dying it every week or straighten the living daylights out of it. If it's straight, keep it straight, if it's curly, keep it curly. Makeup should also be pretty natural.
 Homemade, naturalistic. Rings are a must.
 Make clothes at home. Alter stuff you already have.
 Well, because its good for you.
 Books make our brains work harder than computers...pick up a book!!

, Blog. Blog. Get a blogspot, tumblr or whatever. Write!

,, But choose friends wisely.

