 Before you contact the person to tell him or her that you want to end the relationship, take some time to plan out what to say. Try writing out what you want or need to say ahead of time. There are several different ways that you can start this conversation. Some potential opening lines that you might use include:


"I need to talk to you about something important..."
"Do you have time to talk about something important? I want to discuss…"
"I don't know the best way to start, but..."
"I'm heartbroken about this, but..."

, This is probably the least personal way to end the relationship, but it does allow you to write your thoughts out carefully and choose your words intentionally. Ending the relationship via email also gives you an opportunity to speak without interruption or rebuttal. This method also gives the recipient time to reflect on what you’ve written before they respond.Don’t write extensively about what went wrong. Instead, simply say that you need to end the relationship and what it is you expect going forward, be it no communication, limited communication, or a thriving friendship.
 Ending a relationship over chat is a bit more complicated because you need to make sure that you and the other person are both able to chat at the same time without interruptions. You’ll still tell the other person that you are ending the relationship and what you expect going forward. The difference is that chat or direct message facilitates a conversation, which will allow the other person an opportunity to respond to what you’re saying.If you think that they won’t take your ending the relationship well, you might consider writing an email instead of allowing them to respond to you in a direct message.
 You may decide that you want to speak to the other person, either on the phone, or over video chat, so that you can have the closest conversation possible without being face-to-face. On the phone or in video chat you’ll still need to focus on your decision to end the relationship and your expectations. Don’t be accusatory or rude because that’s unproductive and will just provoke anger or hurt in them.If you are nervous that they will try to talk you out of ending the relationship, opt to send an email instead of the more personal routes of conversation.
 When ending a relationship, especially with someone who you love, obtaining closure can be an important step in the healing process. Closure lets you both know that you appreciate your experiences together, but that that it’s time for both of you to move forward without one another. Communicate with the person that you love and tell them not only how you’re feeling, but that you need to restrict or cut off communication, and that you wish them the best.Sometimes it’s not possible to have a conversation that brings you satisfying closure. That’s okay. That lack is a closure in and of itself. Move forward and focus on healing yourself.

