 Splinters that are deeply embedded under a nail, or are too small to grip with tweezers, may be able to be coaxed out using warm water and baking soda.Soak your finger in warm water mixed with one tablespoon of baking soda. You may need to do this up to twice a day for it to be effective.
It may take several days of this treatment before the splinter is close enough to the skin to be removed with tweezers, or for it to fall out on its own.
 Another removal option to consider is the use of tape. This method is rather simple. Place tape over the exposed portion of the splinter and then remove the tape quickly.The type of tape used is not important, however clear tape will allow you to see the splinter better if needed.
You may need to cut back the nail in order to get better access to the splinter.
 Very fine splinters may be difficult to grip with tweezers. Another option to remove these types of splinters under a nail is to use hair removal wax. Because the wax is in a viscous form, it should be easy to mould around the exposed portion of the splinter.You may need to cut back some of the nail involved in order to obtain better access to the splinter.
Apply the heated wax to the area around the splinter. Make sure all exposed portions of the splinter are covered.
Apply the fabric strip on top of the wax before it dries.
Grip the end of the fabric strip firmly and tear it off quickly.
 Otherwise known as ‘"ichthammol ointment," black drawing salve can be used to help remove splinters under your nail. You should be able to purchase the salve at a drug store (or online). The salve works to soften the skin around the splinter, which then helps to expel the splinter naturally.You may need to cut back some or all of the affected nail in order to gain better access to the splinter.
This method is also good to use on children, as it usually causes less pain and discomfort.
Apply a small amount of the salve to the area where the splinter is located.
Cover or wrap the area with a bandage and leave on for 24 hours. Black drawing salve can stain fabrics (clothing and bedding) so ensure the bandage covers the area such that the salve will not leak out.
Remove the bandage after 24 hours and inspect the splinter.
The purpose of the salve is to expel the splinter naturally. If the splinter still has not been expelled after 24 hours, but is more accessible, you can use tweezers to remove the splinter.
 Making your own baking soda paste is an alternative option to using black drawing salve. It is best to use this option only if all other options haven’t worked, as the paste may also cause swelling which will make the splinter harder to remove.You may need to cut back some or all of the affected nail in order to obtain better access to the area with the splinter.
Combine ¼ teaspoon of baking soda with water until it forms a thick paste.
Apply the paste to the area with the splinter, then apply or wrap a bandage around the area.
After 24 hours, remove the bandage and check the splinter.
The paste may be sufficient enough to allow the splinter to be expelled naturally. If 24 hours wasn’t enough time, you can apply another dab of paste for an additional 24 hours.
If the splinter is exposed sufficiently, you can use tweezers at this point to remove it.

