


A "Slot 1" cartridge, sometimes still referred to as No Pass, may work in many different ways. Original Slot 1 carts extend beyond the casing. However, more current cards now look very similar to official DS cartridges and have a small usb port, a microsd tf card slot, or both. Most Slot 1 carts now support SDHC microsd tf cards, which increase read/write speeds up to 10mbps and increase capacities up to 16gb.
A "Slot 2" cart can look like a variant of a Game Boy Advance cartridge (sometimes called "fat") or most recently resemble the dust cover cart included with DS Lites. These typically use embedded memory for expanding RAM, storing data, or adding rumble features. However, some still can be found that you can add additional media on your own, such as microsd cards. Be careful not to get the second "flat" type of card if you have an original DS!
You typically need additional media, usually microsd tf cards, to attach to your Slot 1 carts. Some Slot 2 carts still have microsd support, but most or all produced now do not. Nintendo appears to be phasing out Slot 2 with the DSi.
Slot 1 and Slot 2 carts are generally only available online, from specialty retailers.
Usually, getting a Slot 1 solution by itself and using a spare microsd card is the cheapest and simplest way to archive your games, or to run homebrew on.
Most Slot 2 carts also require an additional battery to function properly, which not only increases cart costs, but increase overall maintenance of your potential solution. However, some applications cannot run without a Slot 2 cart.;
, Due to limitations, note taking or even browsing the internet may not be an optimal solution.
For additional ideas, you may want to search online for homebrew software.

All Slot 2 carts function best if you have some type of configuration utility or DLDI patcher. This is very important because Slot 2 has been utilized in several ways (rumble pack, extended ram, or as a GBA). There is no known auto configuration utility. However, you may want to research in depth your final choices. For instance, if you use a backup of your NDS Browser Cart, it may be difficult to get it to run in combination with the latest EZFlash Slot 2 version.
If you have to patch your ROM files individually, it is recommended that you back up each file before patching.
 If not, please discuss your issues on your solution manufacturers' forums, or in the discussion tab here.
Any specific application can be considered as NDS files or GBA files, as far as your DS is concerned. However, there are applications of homebrew that allow you to do more with several other file types. This means that your DS can use your media while running a nds rom file, so not only does this let you have the opportunity to unlimit your save file bottlenecks but it also lets you use your DS almost like a small pc.

