 Glass aquariums are a popular type of enclosure for red ear slider turtles.Acrylic aquariums are also available, but are not ideal because acrylic scratches easily.A general rule of thumb for tank size is 10 gallons of tank per inch of shell length.Be mindful that adult sliders can grow up to 12 inches in length. Consider buying a large tank initially to avoid purchasing multiple tanks as your slider grows.If large glass aquariums are not within your budget, you can also use a plastic storage container, plastic stock tank, or wading pool to house your slider.Whichever type of enclosure you choose, it should be clean, sturdy, and durable.
A screened mesh top is helpful to prevent your slider from climbing out.These work well on aquariums.
A large enclosure is necessary for your slider’s health and well-being. He could suffer from poor mental health, illness, and injury if his enclosure is too small.Turtle-specific tanks are usually poorly designed and should be avoided.;
, Red ear slider turtles are strong swimmers and spend the majority of their time in the water.Therefore, it is important for your slider to have plenty of water to swim in. Tap water is suitable to use, but you should test the water for chlorine, hardness, and pH before adding it to the enclosure.


Depending on the test results, you may need to use a filter that removes chlorine or add a water-softening agent. In addition, you may need to lower the pH (ideal pH levels are six to eight) using such substances as peat or bogwood.A helpful rule of thumb is to have 10 gallons of water per inch of your slider’s shell length., Your slider will need a dry, warm area above the water in which he can bask under a heat source. Materials on which your slider could bask include cork bark or driftwood.Use large, smooth river rocks to create a sloped pathway from the water to the basking site.The basking area should be 85 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit (29 to 32 degrees Celsius).If you do not want make your own basking dock, you can purchase a commercial basking dock at your local pet store., The light from fluorescent and incandescent light bulbs are not only good for your slider’s health, but also provide an important heat source. Your slider’s enclosure should be kept at about 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius).


The full spectrum ultraviolet light (UVA and UVB) from fluorescent light bulbs will help your slider produce vitamin D3.Use an incandescent light bulb (75 watts or lower) directly above the basking area.Situate the light bulbs directly above your slider (about 18 to 24 inches up).Consider purchasing a light fixture to secure the light bulbs.
Although direct sunlight provides UV light, it can make your slider’s enclosure too warm. Avoid placing his enclosure in the path of direct sunlight.Replace the bulbs every six months., Red ear slider turtles are relatively solitary creatures and enjoy their privacy.Structures such as live aquatic plants and caves can allow your slider to hide if he feels threatened (common in younger sliders).Be mindful that your slider may eat the live plants. You may need to replace them regularly.Caves are good choices for smaller sliders. However, a small slider could become stuck in the cave as he grows.If you choose to provide extra places to hide, make sure the objects are nontoxic and sturdy., Substrates such as sand and river rocks can be added to the bottom of your slider’s enclosure to enhance its appearance. The substrate could also pique your slider’s interest and give him something to sift through.Keep in mind that adding a substrate may create more work for you, in terms of keeping the enclosure clean.Do not use gravel as a substrate. Your slider’s digestive may become impacted if he eats it. Gravel can also trap food and waste, making the enclosure harder to clean.Marbles, pebbles, and beads should also be avoided. They can break when your slider steps on them, resulting in sharp debris that could injure him.