 People with pets have better health outcomes and live longer. Turns out, people with PTSD can benefit even more from having an animal friend—particularly one of the canine variety—around.


Dogs help those affected by PTSD relearn trust, feel protected, and reestablish feelings of love. If you don’t have a pet in your life, it may be a great idea to adopt one from a local shelter. It doesn’t matter the breed. If you can’t afford to adopt an animal, simply take up a volunteer role at a community animal shelter., The hyperarousal symptoms of PTSD are detrimental to concentration and focus. You might have trouble getting work done, stopping negative thought patterns, or slowing down your thoughts to get to sleep at night.One way to improve cognitive strength and promote relaxation is by developing a meditation practice.


It may help to receive mindfulness training from a mental health professional who can properly guide you through an exercise. However, one quick way to develop mindfulness is simply being aware of your breathing. Focus your full attention on your breathing for 60 seconds. Breathe in for a few counts, and then release the air. Repeat. Do this exercise several times throughout a day.
 This exercise is great for becoming more aware of tense areas of your body and teaching you how to relieve that tension. Try performing this technique when you are sitting or lying down in a comfortable position. It’s also best to remove distractions so you can fully focus on the exercise for several minutes.


Start by taking a few deep, cleansing breaths. Contract the muscles in your toes, clenching them as tight as you can for about five seconds. Release the tension and notice what that feels like. Wait for about ten seconds and move on to the next muscle group. Go through your entire body. Try to focus completely on your body. If your mind wanders, just return your attention to the muscle group you are on., Anxiety is central to what fuels your PTSD symptoms. So, finding helpful ways to manage anxiety is key to coping with the disorder. Massage is an alternative treatment that has been shown to be effect at easing stress and helping the body release tension. It is an easy and natural way to combat the symptoms of PTSD. Plus, you can take advantage of its benefits at any time.Book an appointment at a nearby spa for a professional massage. Ask a friend or partner to give you a relaxing massage. Or, learn the skill of self-massage to knead your own tension away.

