 Whether you’re a beard-styling champion or first-timer, your face is your canvass - start fresh. Shave completely and then wait a week for your hair to even out. Your face is ready for the Van Dyke when your stubble has grown out to about ¼ inch.For some people it may take more than a week for the hair to grow back in. If you’re patient, you’ll be rewarded with a better-looking Van Dyke.






If you’re reluctant to start from scratch, you can create the Van Dyke from facial hair that already exists. However, it’s much more difficult to control the final outcome when you aren’t working with fresh hair.;
, Go ahead and apply it all over your chin, above your lip, and up to your sideburns.
 Begin by shaving your sideburns and cheeks. Start near your ears and remove your sideburns, as well as most of the hair on your cheeks, leaving approximately 2 inches (5.1 cm) to both sides of your mouth. Shave the hair from the bottom and sides of your neck, stopping just above your Adam’s apple. Leave your mustache and soul patch intact. The end result is what’s called a “circle beard,” a still common style that was popular in the 90s.
 Wash away any excess hair or shaving cream. The precision work is about to begin, and you need to be able to see what you’re doing. At this point, it’s helpful to use just enough shaving cream to guide your razor, without covering up all your hair.
 Carefully trim the hair from your neck until you are left with a small, neat beard, resembling a goatee. Scissors or an electric razor will help you control the overall shape and definition of your chin hairs. Classically, the Van Dyke beard is somewhat pointed; wax will help your hair retain its shape.
 Leave the skin around your soul patch (if you grow one) completely smooth.
 Measure twice, cut once, as a single errant swipe could force you to start clean. Like the chin beard, the classic Van Dyke mustache is pointed and very neat.
 Make sure you didn’t miss any visible hairs. Run your hand over your cheeks and around your beard to feel for rough spots, and go back over any you find with a razor.

