 In other words, schedule time for casual play as well. Even if it feels like you don’t have the time to spare, it’s important to take a break to let your mind recuperate. You can’t always work and study! Ideally, plan social activities with friends – the more physically active, the better.Even on especially busy days, take breaks. Go for a walk around the block, and leave your phone at home. Try not to think about what you’re working on. Instead, appreciate the way the sun and air feel on your skin, the color of the leaves, the angles of a building you’ve never noticed before.
Try working for about 50 minutes, and taking a 10 or 15 minute break before hunkering down for another 50 minute session of focused studying or working.
Plan a trip – whether to Vegas, or a campsite just out of town – to follow an especially busy period of time. Not only will the trip allow you to decompress, it will provide something for you to look forward to in the meantime.
 Your body requires maintenance to be able to run on all cylinders, and to allow your mind to stay focused throughout the day. In particular, make a point of scheduling three to four 30 minute cardio sessions every week. If you don’t know when to schedule them, try getting up a bit earlier and going for a jog before you start the day.Though it may be challenging to include exercise in your routine initially, stick with it! You’ll soon be looking forward to each session!

, It’s often tempting to stay up later, cramming in a bit more study time or a final prep session to prepare for work the following day. However, it’s often more important to ensure you’re getting enough sleep. Specific requirements vary from person to person, but shoot for eight hours a night.Learn the specific amount of you need by sleeping without an alarm for three days in a row next chance you get. The amount of time you naturally sleep for on the second and third nights is likely what your body requires.
Try to get at least seven hours a night.
If you find yourself sleeping in on the weekends, this is a sign your need more sleep during the week.
 Another trap of busy work and study lifestyle is eating grab and go meals that may be quick, but are often unhealthy. Instead of hitting a fast food restaurant for lunch, slip into a grocery store and grab some hummus with veggies or a pre-made salad. Grab a few pieces of fruit as well, to eat later in the afternoon, both as a healthy treat and an energy boost.Eat breakfast. Not only will this help sustain you throughout the day, it keeps your metabolism in a healthy rhythm. Try whole grain granola with Greek yogurt, sweetened with honey or fruit.
Keep healthy snacks with you. Raw or lightly salted nuts are a great option.
 If you’re constantly stressed, tired, or otherwise not feeling well, you may need to slow down a bit. Whenever you’re feeling overworked, talk to your boss about taking a week off from work. Use the time to catch up on rest and focus on your school assignments. On the other hand, if the amount of coursework you have is detrimentally affecting your standing at work, talk to a school counselor about your options or plan to take less credit hours next term.

