 Avoid blowing problems out of proportion in your mind. Catastrophic thinking, blaming yourself, and jumping to conclusions all undermine your mental strength. Instead, try to take a realistic view of the situation.Stay in perspective by conducting reality testing against such thoughts. Ask yourself whether you have clear evidence to support the thought. Or, decide if there is a better, more realistic way of viewing the situation.
For instance, if you give a bad talk in front of 100 people, you might think, “I’m a terrible speaker. I should never speak to a crowd again.” If that happens, take a mental step back and remind yourself, “Lots of people have given one bad speech. It’s not the end of the world.”
Try consulting a trusted friend or advisor in order to gain some perspective. This person is not as emotionally invested and can be more objective, which may give you new things to consider.
 Strong-minded people are confident and resilient no matter how other people are performing. If you are going to compare, it should be against goals you have made and achieved in the past, to show how you’ve grown.Although strong-minded people are often in competitive fields, such as sales, athletics, politics and academics, they win by being able to move past competitive pressures.
Pay attention to your social media use and determine whether it’s causing you to compare yourself, feel inadequate, or suffer from any other negative impacts.
 Avoid feeling sorry for yourself or telling yourself a situation is hopeless. Look for ways you can take control instead. Dismiss your negative thoughts and ask yourself, “What can I do about it?”Your self-talk can be a sneaky source of negativity, so keep an eye on it. If you notice that you’re giving yourself unhelpful feedback, change it to something positive instead.
For example, you could change “Why do I even try?” to “I’m going to make one little improvement to the way I do this today.”
This can be heavily impacted by the people you spend time with. If you notice that people you’re around a lot tend to speak negatively, you may want to spend less time with them for the sake of your own personal growth.
 Pushing past the limits of your comfort zone takes strength and determination, but that’s the only way to achieve new things. Stretch yourself by doing things that are a little past your skill level. Accept the inevitability of failure and practice making peace with not knowing how things will turn out.Discomfort, failure, and uncertainty are okay, important, and useful for growth.


For example, you could increase your tolerance for discomfort by joining a public speaking group like Toastmasters or signing up for a challenging workout class.
 If something is important to you, don’t give up on it, no matter how hard it is or how many times you’ve failed. Stay determined, even if you don’t see how things will work out right now. Look for a way to take one small step forward every day.For example, if you can’t get hired for the kind of job you want, you could try working a different job temporarily while taking night classes in your chosen field.
If you decide that a goal or task is not worth your time anymore, it’s okay to stop pursuing it, but make sure you’re honest with yourself about your motivations. Quit because your goal is no longer in line with your goals or values, not just because it’s hard.

