 You may dislike small talk or talking about popular culture and long for something deeper, but you may not be able to have that kind of conversation with them. You may have a short amount of time in which to talk, or you may need to develop a rapport with the person first.

You may be able to have a deeper conversation more easily with someone you have known for a long time. For example, it will probably be easier to talk to your aunt about her views on religion than your seatmate on an airplane.
You can test the waters for a deeper conversation by talking more deeply about yourself. For example, you could say, “I have been so heartbroken by the news lately.” If the other person responds with a more emotional comment like, “Oh, me too. I’ve had to turn it off,” you know they may be willing to have a more in-depth conversation. Someone who responds with, “Well, not much we can do about it!” may not be willing or interested.
Keep in mind that conversation is a two way street. If you share openly and honestly, then the other person might do so as well. It can also open up opportunities for the other person to ask you questions about things you share.
 Empathy means the ability to imagine what another person is feeling and the ability to sense others’ emotions. In short, it is the ability to “put yourself in someone else’s shoes.” Showing empathy in a conversation helps the other person feel heard and validated, which leads to feeling more comfortable to have deeper, more revealing conversations.For example, if you are listening to someone describe their busy day, rushing around from one place to the next, an appropriate empathic response might be, “Wow, your day sounds really stressful! When do you get to take a break?”
If you are able to sense what the other person is feeling, name the emotion to show you empathize. For example, if the person you are talking to is telling you about how angry something made her, you could say, “I can tell how mad you are just by hearing this story. You must have been really angry when this happened.”

, Listen closely to what the other person is saying to you, and repeat the essence of their message, using different and fewer words. Reflecting back and paraphrasing are forms of active listening, an intensive way of listening that requires you to really focus on what the other person is saying.Reflecting back is a way to let the person know what they are saying is understood, and that you are paying attention. When a person feels listened to, they are more likely to be willing to have a deeper conversation.For example, if a person says, “I can’t wait until George comes home from college. The house has been so quiet with him gone, it will be so nice to have him back!” you could say, “It sounds like you miss him.”
Reflecting back helps both the speaker and the listener clarify their thoughts and feelings, and can be easily corrected. For example, a speaker may say, “I am waiting until the last minute to get all these things done,” prompting the listener’s response of “That sounds stressful!” The speaker could respond, “No, I’ve just been so lazy. I know it will all get done.”

, To help take the conversation to a deeper level, ask your conversation partner open-ended questions that will help you better understand their thoughts and feelings. Don’t be too pushy, however; they may not feel like discussing their feelings with you.For example, the speaker is complaining about their child’s school. You could ask something like, “That sounds so frustrating. It sounds like an ongoing issue. How long have you been dealing with this?”
Ask questions to clarify feelings. For example, “When you said, ‘It’s been a lot of work taking care of my grandma,’ it sounded like you were stressed out by it. Did I get that right?”

, Keep an open mind to what the person is telling you. Listen without interjecting your own opinions or advice. You run the risk of shutting the other person down and being unable to continue on a deeper-level conversation.If you are having a tough time understanding why someone would do this or choose that, try to be empathic and understand where the person is coming from. The man who can barely afford his pets may be lonely, for example, or the sleep-deprived mother may stay up late because it’s the only time she has to herself.
Be aware of your facial expressions if you feel judgmental, to avoid giving the person any clues as to what may be going through your head.
 Give the speaker visual cues that you are listening to them by using body language. You can use your face, your eyes, and your body position to help convey interest and attention. This will help the other person know you are interested in what they have to say, making them more likely to have more in-depth, meaningful conversations with you.Make eye contact with the speaker while they are talking. You can look away occasionally, but look at their face or eyes most of the time.
Use appropriate facial expressions when the person is talking to convey your emotional reaction. For example, you don’t want to be smiling when the person is talking about their dying dog.
Have a relaxed, open posture when listening to the other person. Don’t cross your arms in front of you. If you are sitting, lean slightly forward toward the other person to convey interest.

