 If there is an issue that needs to be worked out, set up a time that you will meet to talk. Tell your sibling how you feel and then listen to their side. Try to stay as calm as possible.

If you and your sibling are not good at working things out on your own, ask a parent to be there during the talk. Your parent can make sure that things do not get too heated.
Try to stick to the specific issue you are having. For example, if the problem is that your sibling is spending too long in the bathroom before school, do not bring up how your sibling never lets you pick a show on the television.
 When you are fighting, it can be hard to understand how your sibling feels. For example, maybe your sibling kicked you out of their room because they wanted to be alone. You may feel that your sibling is being mean to you and does not want to spend time with you. However, your sibling may have had a bad day and need some alone time.


Instead of jumping to conclusions, ask your sibling, "Why did you say that?" or "are you feeling ok?"

, If you and your sibling are not getting along, calling them a name or putting them down, will only make things worse.

This can be really difficult if you are upset. If you are too mad too talk, get away from your sibling until you calm down.Tell your sibling, "I'm really mad right now. I want to be alone. I'll talk to you later."
Even if your sibling calls you a name, do not say something mean back to them.
 To resolve a conflict, both people involved should get something that they want. If the solution is one-sided, only one person will be happy and the fighting may continue. You may have to give up something or offer something in return.


For example, if you want to play with your sibling's phone you may say, "You can play my video game if you let me borrow your phone." You offer something you have that your sibling wants, so you can get something that you want.
If you are not sure of a good compromise, ask your sibling, "What would make you happy?" or "Is there anything I can do for you/give you?"

, If you and your siblings are fighting, try to work it out on your own before you get your parents involved. Try to talk and find a solution that works for the both of you. Solving problems on your own will strengthen your relationship and show your parents that you are responsible.


If your sibling refuses to compromise with you, physically hurts you, threatens you, or bullies you, let your parents know.
Deal with problems as they happen. Do not let things build up.