 If you're using the photos themselves to decorate your home, you have plenty of options when it comes to printing them out. Have your photos printed professionally in a variety of sizes if you like, either by bringing them to brick-and-mortar stores like Walmart, or by signing up for online services that will ship them to you once you upload them, like FreePrints or PrintStudio. Or simply invest in a photo printer and either upload your photos to your computer or use a wireless printer to print them directly from your phone through WiFi.
 First, decide where to hang or mount your photos. Your options here are really only limited by your living space (or office space, or work space, or really anywhere you're free to decorate), so punch up your walls, shelves, end tables, bureaus, desks, or wherever else you please. You can always tack them up as is, but for a more elegant look, frame them, mat them, or do both to make them pop out that much more., Save money, space, and materials by uploading your photos to digital displays instead of printing and framing each one. Buy one or more digital frames that can store hundreds of different images apiece. Additionally, create slideshow screensavers on other devices, such as computers and smart TVs., Photo albums have long been a popular way of filling table space, but an advantage of smartphone photos is that you can easily upload them to online services that will custom-make a printed photo book for you. Compile archival photos covering your whole photo history with a nice hefty volume for your coffee table. Celebrate specific events or people with smaller brag books for your end tables.Online services offering these include:

Rag & Bone
My Publisher
Books to Me
Mosaic
Keepsy

, A major advantage of smartphone cameras and personal photo printers is being able to print countless new photos without having to finish a roll of film and then wait for someone to develop them. Incorporate this speedy aspect into your decor by dedicating a few frames to a steady rotation of brand new photos. Instead of (or in addition to) displaying permanent keepers, create timely displays celebrating recent events, which can then serve as instant conversation starters for guests. Examples include:

Activities that you or your family are involved in, like sports, performances, or church events.
Day trips, nights out, or whatever else you did last weekend.
Holidays and family gatherings.
 Another way to take advantage of the instant gratification of taking and printing smartphone photos is to adopt the old Polaroid technique of taking a picture of each new guest and adding them to a collage in your home. Make people feel even more welcome by celebrating their dropping by with an immediate portrait. For a more unified collage, consider:

Designating a certain area as a backdrop for each photo, like a blank wall or the front door.
Incorporating the collage itself into the photo by using that as the backdrop to create a visual chronological record of its growth over time.
 The internet offers a wide array of companies that offer new ways to display your photos through other means than picture frames. Upload your photos and use them to decorate your home through custom made items like:Beverage coasters
Throw pillows
Shower curtains
Photo blocks
Wallpaper

