 Manic depression (bipolar disorder) is not the same as clinical depression, although clinical depression is one of the symptoms. Someone with bipolar disorder may experience manic “highs” with increased confidence or extreme irritability. They may also have periods of clinical depression. Some people may go from manic to depressive periods rapidly while others will have a “normal” period in between.There are three main types of bipolar disorder: bipolar I, bipolar II, and cyclothymia. To be properly diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you need to see a psychologist, psychiatrist, or clinically licensed therapist or counselor. Additionally, diagnosis will require the presence of three or more symptoms, including:

Inflated ego and self-esteem, and delusions of grandeur
Increased goal-directed activity, or excessive planning of new ideas and ventures without considering the risks
Racing thoughts or flight of ideas (rapid flow of thoughts or ideas)
Decreased need for sleep
Pressured, rapid speech
Reckless and promiscuous behavior
Increased distractibility;
, Almost 3% of the US population is affected by bipolar disorder. Men and women are equally at risk and are usually diagnosed between the ages of 18-25. Having one or more family members with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder will increase the risk.An individual's genetics and the environment they live in can also affect their risk.

There is a higher rate of bipolar diagnosis in developed, high-income countries.
Various environmental and personal stressors can also trigger onset of bipolar disorder.
 People suffering from mania feel very energetic despite the fact that they are not getting enough sleep. Your loved one may sleep only a few hours each night, or they may go days without any sleep at all.


In fact, if you have a younger loved one with chronic sleep disturbance, this could be an early indicator of bipolar.In order for these symptoms to meet the criteria for mania, they must occur for at least one week.
 During a manic episode, people talk very quickly. They also change topics so frequently that others are unable to follow the conversation. If your loved one exhibits such speech patterns that are remarkably different from their usual speech, they may be in a manic episode.


This symptom, known as pressured speech, happens because the person has racing thoughts and excess energy. In a sense, their speech patterns are a sign of what’s going on inside their heads.Keep in mind that you are checking for dramatic changes in a person's speech. Some people speak in a fast, pressured manner naturally, so be aware of any noticeable changes.
 Delusions of grandeur and exciting though far-fetched ideas occur in individuals with mania. People in the throes of mania may believe themselves capable of virtually anything, and they won’t be subjected to the reasoning of others.


They are euphoric and energized. The person may stay up all night brainstorming projects or goals. They may view themselves as especially destined for greatness by God., Mania also shows up in a person’s choices. This is sometimes seen through impaired judgment, recklessness or impulsive behavior. If a person is manic, they simply won’t consider the consequences of their actions.


They may engage in risky activities like unprotected sex, drug and alcohol use, gambling, or excessive spending., Although psychosis is generally seen in people with schizophrenia and similar conditions, people with bipolar disorder can experience a break from reality during extreme manic episodes. Psychotic symptoms exhibited in bipolar include the experience of hallucinations or delusions.Hallucinations are sensory experiences, such as hearing, feeling or seeing something that no one else does.
Delusions are persistent yet false beliefs like believing that TV characters are sending you special messages.
More often than not, someone with psychosis will need to be hospitalized. This will prevent the person from harming themselves or others. The hospital can also provide mood and sleep stabilization and medication for their symptoms.
 Bipolar II disorder is a condition that involves a milder form of mania along with an episode of depression. This less severe form of mania is called hypomania. Hypomanic episodes are shorter in duration, usually lasting about four days or more. It involves the general symptoms of mania in a more subtle form. Because symptoms like increased energy and flight of ideas may not be as extreme as in full-blown mania, hypomania symptoms are often overlooked.Psychosis is not present during hypomanic episodes.
Hypomania can be a characteristic expressed within all the Bipolar subtypes, but the full manic episodes only occur in Bipolar I.

