 A beach wedding is typically free or fairly cheap. If isn’t free, you will probably have to purchase a permit that could range from $30 to $300. Once you’ve committed to beach wedding, plan the exact location. Some of the most affordable beach wedding destinations are in Mexico, Hawaii, and Jamaica. If you live near a beach, then the decision is easy!If traveling is necessary, consider if the people you’d like to invite to your wedding will be able to afford the expense and time off required for travel.;
, Booking a reservation at a resort might sound expensive, but it could actually be a cheaper option. At some resorts, like Sandals, Beaches, and Dreams, the wedding ceremony is free if you book a minimum number of nights for enough guests. Once you’ve booked the rooms, the resort will handle just about everything., Having quite a few guests at your wedding can lead to big discounts. You may get airline, room, and various freebies if you book for enough people. The company may not offer discounts, but it definitely doesn’t hurt to ask., Once you’ve decided on the location, research what the peak season at that location is. You, of course, don’t want to have the wedding in the middle of hurricane season, but try to plan as close to the off-peak season as possible. One or two weeks before off-season is ideal. This will save you money, but the weather should still be good enough to enjoy., Having a smaller wedding will of course be cheaper than inviting hundreds of people. If you and your partner have big families, a very small wedding may be impossible. Try to trim down the guest list as much as possible. It should be easier to cut out co-workers and acquaintances of your mom if you are traveling for your big day., Did you know that just about anyone can be certified to officiate a wedding? Hiring someone can cost anywhere from $100 to $400 or even more than that. Ask a friend or family member if they would be willing to get an online certification. You should offer them some money, but they may want to do it for free just for the honor of being able to marry you and the love of your life.
 Fresh flowers can often take over wedding decorations. A lot of flowers are beautiful, but not necessary. Instead, think of flowers as accents rather than your main decoration. Save some money on flowers by going to the local flower shop, flower mart, or even the grocery store.Custom flower arrangements usually won’t stand up to the heat and wind on the beach anyway.
 Don’t worry about buying expensive wedding décor, like an ice sculpture, that likely won’t last. Get crafty and create some of your own decorations. You could find and paint an old wooden board, make flowers out of paper, or make your own candles.Invite your friends over for a crafting party. Have some wine, food, and create decorations that everyone can enjoy on the wedding day.
 You don’t have to have an expensive wedding dress to look absolutely stunning when you walk down the aisle. Look for a dress that fits you off of the rack without the need for alterations. For even more affordable options, rent the dress or buy a used dress from a friend.A shorter, more casual dress will be ideal for the beach. This type of dress will usually be cheaper than a long, elaborate wedding dress.
 The ceremony won’t last very long, so it’s not necessary to put out nice seats for everyone. Place aluminum folding chairs on the sand right before the wedding. Or, if you aren’t traveling for the wedding, have guests bring their own folding chairs.


It’s also an option to have everyone stand for the wedding—unless they are not able to stand. Then, you will need to have some seats available.
 You will probably want a professional photographer there for the ceremony or part of your ceremony. After that, take advantage of technology. Have your friends take photos and upload them to photo sharing websites, like Eversnap.If some of your guests have mobility impairments, recognize that it's nearly impossible to push a wheelchair in the sand. Many beaches have walkways or platforms. Check on this before the ceremony.
 Minimize your reception expenses by planning by a simple but elegant wine and cheese reception right on the beach. You won’t have to move far for the reception, and it reduces the cost of the wedding even more. Remember that public beaches seldom allow alcohol to be served and police may become unwanted guests. Ask to rope off a part of the beach to avoid problems.You could also ask a friend that is a wonderful cook to make appetizers. It would probably cost less than a caterer.
It’s also an option to only have the ceremony and forego a reception.
 You, your partner, and your guests may be too hungry for just cheese after the ceremony. A way to reduce to cost of catering is to hire a food truck. A pizza truck is one option. Who doesn’t love a good pizza? It would be hip, delicious, and way less expensive than a fancy meal that people may or may not like.Remember to attend to peoples allergic needs. Have some options available for common allergies.
 You don’t have to spend a lot of money to dance the night away at your ceremony. Create a playlist on a computer or iPod, put out some good speakers, and get your hands on a mixing deck if possible. Offer money to a musically inclined friend to play DJ for the night., It’s a good idea to have a canopy to protect your reception area from rain showers and uninvited seagulls. If you want to buy a canopy, you can find them for fairly cheap online and at many supermarkets. For a tropical flare, decorate the canopy with tulle, twinkling mini-lights, and silk flowers. Use hurricane candles for lighting.Remember your guest's comfort and safety. Provide seating for the elderly as well as sunscreen and insect repellent just in case.
 Thank your guests for attending your special day by putting out favors that they can take home. Present them with beach wedding favors such as personalized sand-dollars, seashell candles, or Hawaiian Silk Leis.