 Perfectionists have a tendency to have an “all-or-nothing” mindset in which they view themselves as either successes or failures. There is no middle ground between the two, which can lead to extreme emotional swings. This can push you to achieve your goals, but also result in intense depression and frustration if they are not met.Because of this all-or-nothing mentality, people suffering from extreme versions of perfectionism are more likely to be displeased with their bodies and develop eating disorders., Because you have such high expectations of yourself, you tend to project those same expectations onto other people. This can lead you to be overly critical of others and denigrate them. Because of this, you may find yourself unable to work with others and socially isolated. This can lead to severe loneliness and depression.This may also make you highly critical of romantic partners, making intimate relationships difficult to maintain.
Because of this critical outlook, you may also find yourself taking pleasure in the failings of others.
Try to catch yourself if you find yourself judging people, even if the person you are judging is yourself. Keep track of these moments throughout the day so that you can stop this thinking in the future.
 Most people do not appreciate criticism. However, perfectionists have a particularly strong reaction to it. Because doing well is tied so closely with a perfectionist’s sense of self-worth, you may have a tendency to be extremely sensitive to most forms of reproach or criticism. If you become extremely angry or depressed when you receive even minor criticism, your perfectionism may be more problematic.If you find yourself having regular and strong reactions to criticism, consider visiting a therapist or counselor.
 Because the anxieties of perfectionism can be overwhelming, you may find yourself abusing drugs and alcohol to numb those feelings. Substance abuse is a common symptom of maladaptive perfectionism. If you believe that you have a substance abuse problem, talk to a counselor or therapist.Remember that substance abuse can lead to addiction.
 One of the most common traits of more severe – or maladaptive – perfectionism is an irrational tendency to delay or avoid completing tasks. This might seem counterintuitive, but an intense fear of failure, which is a common trait associated with perfectionism, can prevent you from completing tasks. If you find yourself dreading completing projects and waiting until the last minute to complete them, this may signal a more maladaptive response to perfectionism.If you find that your anxiety is so intense that you miss deadlines or fall behind, be sure to talk to a counselor or therapist.

