 Many people do not understand that this is a legal issue. Specific Federal laws regulate the display, maintenance, and disposal of the flag.


The American flag stands for freedom. Burning the flag is a major sign of disrespect, and is seen as intolerable by many Americans. However, burning damaged flags to retire them in a manner allowed by the United States flag code, as mentioned in a later step, is acceptable.;
, From its origin, believed to have been designed by Francis Hopkinson, a Congressman from New Jersey and patriot, to the present day flag, it has seen the development of this nation through many dark and perilous times, as well as good times.
 The flag is made up of three elements, the red and white stripes, which represent the original thirteen colonies, and the canton or union with white stars on the blue background, numbering fifty, which represents the current fifty states.
 How do you salute it, and when. Military persons in uniform, Boy and Girl Scouts in uniform, and military veterans salute it with a military salute when it is paraded, when the Pledge of Allegiance is said, or when the National Anthem is played. Civilians remove their hat with their right hand and hold it over their left shoulder, or if they are not wearing a hat, they hold their right hand over their heart.
 When flown in the United States, the flag of the United States of America flies higher than other flags, and it is the largest flag of any group it is in. If the flag is flown at night, there needs to be a light to illuminate the flag.


Notice if there has been an Executive Order to fly the flag half-staff, and do so.
At governmental buildings, the flag is flown near the center front in a position of prominence.
On military bases, the Commanding Officer's Headquarters Building will have the highest flagpole.
When the flag is displayed hanging from a wall, the Union (the blue field with stars) is at the upper left side.
When draped on a coffin for a military burial, the Union is at the head of the casket over the left shoulder of the departed.
, When raising the flag, it is hoisted quickly, as if it were charging an enemy, when lowering, go slowly, as if reluctant to retreat.
 If it does touch the ground, dispose of the flag simply wash it and continue using it., Fold the flag according to the prescribed folding procedures.
, It is considered disrespectful of the flag to display it when it has become damaged, faded, or otherwise worn.
 The idea is that a flag should not be seen in a trash heap or mixed with garbage. Contact your local fire department or the Boy Scouts of America to have your worn out flag retired in a proper ceremony.

