 This technique may be impossible for radiators that are especially tall. However, smaller radiators usually fit neatly beneath regular sized desks and vanities.


This is an especially good idea if you work at your desk frequently and suffer from coldness in your feet and toes.
If your radiator is of the tall variety, use a tall accent table, like one intended to display photos, knickknacks, plants, and so on, to hide it.;
, Multi-purpose radiator covers really help to optimize space in your home. Some radiator covers have built in shelves for displaying personal items or holding books. Storage bench radiator covers, sometimes called banquettes, will give you extra space to stash items while creating a cozy sitting area.If there’s an avid reader in your household, a banquette can be a warm and pleasant place to wind down with a book.
When looking for a multi-purpose radiator cover, try doing an online keyword search for things like, “radiator cover bookshelf,” “radiator cover storage bench,” and “radiator cover banquette.”, There are companies that use lasers to cut designs into metal radiator covers. Some designs are stock varieties, while others are made-to-order. These designs range in complexity.


Some examples of these kinds of designs include simple line motifs, repeating diamond patterns, or more elaborate classic screens.
When searching for these kinds of services, try a keyword search for “laser cut radiator covers.”
You may be able to find a non-laser based personalized radiator cover provider by searching instead for “personalized radiator covers” or “made to order radiator covers.” These may be expensive., Especially if your household has wood flooring or accents, choosing a similar kind of wood radiator cover will allow it to blend in seamlessly. Two common kinds of wood cover you might want to look into include:


Bamboo, which matches many kinds of light colored wood well. Staining this wood is a good way of modifying its color, should you need to.
Oak, which is naturally darker than bamboo. Oak can also be modified to better fit the tone of your existing wood with proper staining.