 During the first few weeks after delivery, you may experience the feelings of sadness, irritability, and anxiety characteristic of the “baby blues.” You may find yourself crying more than usual and having trouble sleeping. If you have these symptoms, know that they are normal, and they are frequently exacerbated by the exhaustion and stress that new mothers experience. They do not constitute postpartum depression, as long as they improve after 2-3 weeks., Normal “baby blues” typically begin to improve within a couple of weeks. If yours feelings are not improving by then, you may have postpartum depression., As a new mother, you will probably be very tired – your body is still recovering from pregnancy and childbirth, and your baby probably isn't sleeping well yet. If your fatigue is overwhelming, though, and does not seem to be alleviated by rest, that could be a sign of PPD., Hormonal changes, new responsibilities, and severe fatigue can all contribute to mood swings. If yours are severe, especially if they involve intense feelings of anger or sadness, you may need treatment for postpartum depression., If you don’t seem able to connect with your newborn after a few weeks, you may have postpartum depression, especially if this problem is combined with other symptoms.
 Women with postpartum depression often lose their appetites (or, in some cases, notice that they are eating more than usual). A change in your appetite does not always indicate PPD – hormonal changes may be to blame, and breastfeeding can also make you hungrier – but in combination with other symptoms, it could be a warning sign.
 If you find yourself losing interest in people or activities you usually like, you may have PPD. Postpartum depression often causes women to withdraw from friends and family and to lose interest in activities they used to enjoy., In severe cases, PPD can make women think of hurting themselves or hurting their babies. If you have these symptoms, seek medical care immediately.In these cases, treating your postpartum depression naturally may not be the best or safest route. Talk to your doctor about whether you may need antidepressant medication, or another treatment, such as electroconvulsive therapy or ETC., There is no reason to keep your feelings secret. If you have postpartum depression, you should try to talk to someone who will listen to you without judging – your spouse or partner, a trusted friend, a friend who is also a new mom, or a close family member. Tell this person how you are feeling and what your concerns are. The simple act of getting your feelings off your chest can be therapeutic., Studies have shown that many women with PPD benefit from therapy. A sympathetic therapist with experience treating postpartum depression can help you identify your feelings, avoid mood swings, and take steps to start feeling better. For women with mild or moderate PPD, finding a therapist may make it possible to avoid taking antidepressants or other medications.You can find a therapist who specializes in the treatment of PPD by asking your OB/GYN for a recommendation or by searching the internet.
To find a specialist that is right for you, try searching on http://locator.apa.org/. At the bottom of the webpage linked here, you can enter your city name or zip code to find therapists near you. You can then search more specifically for therapists who specialize in the treatment of PPD by searching with the keywords depression and pregnancy/childbirth.
You can also reach out through support groups listed here: http://www.postpartumprogress.com/ppd-support-groups-in-the-u-s-canada; they may be able to provide recommendations based on their own experiences.
 Seek out family members and your partner to help with the baby. Your baby is not solely your responsibility even if it feels like it is. Reach out to those around you; tell them that you are feeling depressed and overwhelmed and that you need their help!

, Get specific in what you need help with. It’s fine for you to focus, in these first postpartum months, on taking care of yourself and caring for your baby. PPD can make you feel exhausted, emotional, and overwhelmed; it’s absolutely okay to let others ease your burdens a bit. If you have a spouse or partner, this person should be helping you with household tasks and with baby care. In addition, you can ask friends, neighbors, and relatives for help. These people can:


bring frozen or prepared meals for you and your family.
take care of household chores like cleaning and doing the laundry.
run errands for you.
entertain and care for older children.
watch your baby for short periods so you can shower or nap.
 With all your new responsibilities finding time to rest is easier said than done. It’s easy to get caught up in the endless cycle of feedings, burpings, and diaper changes, especially if you have other responsibilities as well. That said, do your best not to neglect your own well-being. Make sure you get plenty of rest. There are a few tips to keep in mind that may help you get the rest you deserve and need.


When your partner or family member is taking care of your baby, and you want to turn to another task instead of resting, ask yourself how important getting that job done is relative to your health. There will likely be times where you can put off tasks for later to get much needed rest.
Learn to power nap. Try taking short naps in a dark room when you find yourself with a bit of downtime. Aim for 10 to 30 minutes, no longer. You may find yourself benefiting the most from naps in the afternoon.Relax your mind by playing a casual video game on your phone. Playing a mindless game can improve your mood and reduce stress. As long as you are cautious, you can do this while keeping an eye on your baby. Keep your phone and your baby in sight at the same time if you can't get alone time.
 A nutritious diet, complete with fruits, vegetables, lean protein, low-fat dairy, and whole grains will help you feel better.If you are breastfeeding, eating well becomes even more crucial as your nutrients pass their way to your baby.


Avoid high-sugar foods like soda, caffeine, and alcohol. All of these can aggravate postpartum depression by altering your mood in certain ways. For example, caffeine can make you anxious and alcohol is a depressant , As exhausted and overwhelmed as you may feel, physical activity can help with postpartum depression. This exercise does not have to be strenuous – and, in fact, it shouldn’t be strenuous during the first few weeks postpartum. To start, simply try to take a walk with your baby every day., Although trying to stay positive alone is unlikely to completely solve your PPD, it can help to alleviate its symptoms. Remind yourself that postpartum depression is temporary and that you will feel better soon. Although maybe easier said than done, try focusing on things that make you happy.


Put a stop to mental filtering. This negative thought trap occurs when you give more weight to negative information than positive information. To combat this, try thinking about your situation like an outside would; that is to say, try to be as objective as possible. You may end up finding that there are more positives to your current situation than you would have thought.Try to avoid overgeneralizing. When we do this, we treat one instance of something as indicative of how things are in general, or how they will always be. For example, if you aren't getting much sleep lately and you feel this is contributing to your PPD, try to remember that this won't always be the case; you will have some nights of full rest!Try thinking about how amazing it is that you have brought a new life into the world! This is truly magnificent thing.
 Some evidence suggests that the omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil can combat depression. You can buy these supplements over the counter. Look for one with EPA and DHA.Fish oil should not be taken during the two weeks before or after surgery. If you had a cesarean section, wait until two weeks postpartum to begin taking your supplements.
 In addition to eating healthfully, consider taking a folic acid supplement – folic acid is available on its own or as part of a B-complex vitamin. Getting enough of this specific B vitamin may make you less susceptible to PPD., Discuss the potential benefits of 5-HTP, a natural supplement that may boost your serotonin levels, with your doctor. Some studies suggest that 5-HTP can reduce symptoms of depression.
 Light helps your body produce serotonin, a neurotransmitter, low levels of which are associated with depression; this is why some people experience depression during the winter, when less sunlight is available. If you live someplace sunny, take a walk outside. Otherwise, consider bright light therapy, using lamps designed to mimic natural daylight. They are available online.Be sure to do your research first by reading reviews online or asking your doctor about a specific product.
 Acupuncture involves inserting very thin needles into various parts of the body and has been used in certain parts of Asia for thousands of years. There is some evidence that acupuncture can be used to treat mild to moderate depression, though these studies are somewhat controversial and did not directly test for efficacy in treating PPD.Because this is an understudied area, be sure to consult with your doctor about the safety of using acupuncture for treatment of PPD. Be sure to ask about effects on lactation, and anything else that you may be worried about.It is very important, if you are considering acupuncture for treatment of depression during pregnancy, to avoid the use of needles in areas that may harm your baby or cause issues with your pregnancy. Consult with your doctor before use of acupuncture during or after pregnancy. , These change dramatically after childbirth. If you want to treat your postpartum depression naturally, it can help to understand the causes. The most common of these is a drop in estrogen and progesterone, which is normal during the postpartum period but can nevertheless make you feel moody and depressed., In addition to influencing your hormones, having a baby can affect your blood volume, blood pressure, immune system, and metabolism. These changes can make you feel fatigued, moody, and emotional.
 Because you spend so many sleepless nights tending to your baby, you may feel fatigued, emotional, overwhelmed, and less capable of handling routine problems. This exhaustion can play a role in PPD., Having a baby is, in and of itself, stressful – even under the best of circumstances. You may worry about your abilities as a mother; in addition, you may feel physically depleted, and you may worry about losing your pregnancy weight and feeling like yourself again. If, on top of all of that, you also have job stress, financial concerns, relationship conflicts, breastfeeding problems, or issues with other children, you may feel very overwhelmed. High stress levels can also contribute to PPD.