 Conversationally fluent allows you to just focus on speaking Spanish rather learning how to also write and listen. It can be overwhelming to undertake the Spanish language in its entirety. Being conversationally fluent allows you to connect with others while expressing the gist of your ideas., Everyone will have a different motivation for learning the language but you do not want to make it feel like work. Whether you are learning the language for a trip or your career, you want to have fun and motivation to fuel your drive.Learning Spanish may be difficult and frustrating so find any motivation you can to get you through any mental blocks. Don’t limit yourself to just one thing. Find as many reasons to feel impassioned as you can.
 Based on your motivations, think about what the most important phrases you will need to start than work out from there. Think about expressions and words that you need to immediately master to best describe yourself and connect with others. Start with phrases about your personal history, family, friends, hometown, education, or career.Continue to add to your list as you begin to speak spanish and encounter situations that will help you in the future.
The first 100 words of your list will be words that you will always use like yes, no, where, when, etc. Fill out the rest of your list with words specific to you and your experience., Conversational Spanish is different from the written language. Conversational connectors add space and let your bridge ideas with phrases. Only use one or two connectors to begin with as it is extremely difficult to memorize all of them at once. Simply use enough to get you through a conversation and, as you begin to gain more confidence with the language, incorporate more into your everyday vocabulary. They can range in a variety of categories but focus on:Filler ex “well, as a matter of fact…”
Quoting ex “recently, I heard that…”
Apologising ex “Don’t be upset, but...”
Agreeing/Disagreeing ex “most certainly”
Passing ex “and what do you think?”
Closing ex “to sum up...”
Elaborating ex “to be more precise…”
Opening ex “that is a good question…”
Qualifying ex ”to tell the truth…”
Switching ex “by the way..”

, Chat with people who speak Spanish as their first language. You need to speak as much as you can so try to limit how often you use English when speaking to native Spanish speakers. Even if you don’t have access to native speakers, you can simply speak to yourself. Whenever you find yourself drifting in your head, try to do so in Spanish. Whether you’re waiting for a coffee or thinking about tv, try to perform your inner dialogue in Spanish., Whether you’re speaking to a native Spanish speaker or using an online resource, list to the sounds and try to mimic them. Not only should you be trying to comprehend what is being said but you should also be focusing on how it is being said., Determine what makes the language easy to learn and don’t get overwhelmed by any of its complexities. There are a lot of things that make learning Spanish easy including:


Spanish is phonetic so learning the pronunciation of a word you read should be easier than learning English.
While other language have exceptions to their language rules, Spanish has none. For example, Czech has 14 ways of saying a lot of their words whereas Spanish will not have an exception. The word “casa” in Spanish will always be “casa”. When you learn a word you will never have to learn another variation of it.
Spanish does not utilize tones. For example, Punjab can change the meaning of the same consonant depending on your inflection when you say it or whether your tone is high or low. Spanish has similar intonations as English so it may seem familiar.
There are thousands of Spanish words that you already know because Spanish is similar to French and many English words originated from French. The ends of a lot of English words can give you their Spanish equivalent. These are known as cognate rules. For example, change “-tion” to “cion” for words like assocation. This will give you “asociación” which sounds virtually the same but is Spanish.
 Have an optimistic and inquisitive mindset. You should have a positive approach when learning how to speak Spanish fluently. Be patient and immerse yourself in the language as much as possible.

