 Kyphoplasty (sometimes called balloon kyphoplasty) is a minimally invasive procedure used to treat compression fractures. During this procedure, a needle is inserted into the spinal bone. Then a balloon is inserted into the needle, into the bone, and then inflated. This helps to restore the lost vertebral height. Finally, cement is inserted into the space to ensure that this space does not collapse again.This procedure aims to reduce or eliminate pain by addressing spinal deformity.
Kyphoplasty may be done with general anesthesia (meaning you go unconscious) or local anesthesia (meaning you are awake, but not feeling pain).
Although you will be able to walk, you should rest for at least 24 hours after the surgery. The surgery may be minimally invasive, but you’ll still need to take a little time to properly heal.
You will need to avoid lifting and strenuous activity for at least six weeks after the surgery.
While kyphoplasty is generally safe, complications may include bleeding, infection, allergic reaction to medicine, nerve injuries, breathing or heart problems related to general anesthesia.
 Vertebroplasty is another minimally invasive procedure similar to kyphoplasty, but no balloon is used. During this procedure, low-viscosity cement is injected directly into the collapsed vertebral area to stabilize the bones.This procedure works to reduce or eliminate fracture pain.
Unlike kyphoplasty, this procedure does not address spinal deformity.
This can be done with either general or local anesthetic.
Recovery is similar to kyphoplasty and the patient typically goes home the same day or after a 24 hour hospital stay.
 If there is evidence of serious and sudden instability of the spine or if other treatment options have failed, more invasive surgical options may be explored as a last resort. For example, if a compression fracture leads to a loss of 50% of the vertebral body's height, anterior/posterior reconstruction may be a good option. This may also be explored if bone fragments in the spine are interfering with recovery.”Anterior” reconstruction surgery means that the incision will be made into your chest. This approach is used when there is pressure being placed on the spinal cord.
”Posterior” reconstruction means that the incision is made in the back.
In both types of procedures, the patient is given general anesthetic.
After the incision is made, bone fragments may be removed.
The spine is then stabilized using a combination of bone grafts from the patient or a cadaver, metal screws, metal plates, and/or metal rods.
The patient usually stays at the hospital for 3-4 days when getting these procedures.
These are serious surgical procedures and will require a recovery period of several months.
Natural movement of the two fused vertebrae is eliminated by spinal fusion, which limits movement and increases stress on the surrounding vertebra.
Even after full recovery from a spinal fusion, the patient will have to avoid certain lifting and twisting activities.

