 Since hiatal hernias cause acid reflux symptoms, the first method of treatment is to prevent reflux, reduce acid production, and increase esophagus clearance. This can be done by reducing risk factors and implementing lifestyle changes.Smoking can make your hiatal hernia symptoms worse. Studies have shown that smoking tobacco relaxes this sphincter, a band of muscles around where the esophagus meets the stomach. The sphincter squeezes to prevent stomach contents from coming back up.



Quitting smoking can be challenging. Speak with family, friends, and your doctor if you are seriously considering it. They can motivate and guide you to treatment options such as medications, nicotine patch, nicotine gum, and other healthy choices.
 Certain types of foods can lead to stomach irritation and increased acid production. In order to prevent and control your symptoms, avoid or limit foods such as:Chocolate
Onions and garlic
Spicy foods
Fatty foods such as fried foods
Citrus foods such as oranges
Tomato based foods
Alcohol
Peppermint or spearmint
Carbonated beverages like sodas
Dairy products, such as milk and ice cream
Coffee

, In addition to avoiding certain foods, there are foods you can eat which may help you prevent further symptoms from your hiatal hernia. Try to include healthier options for your stomach to handle, such as lean meats like skinless chicken, red meat with little visible fat, ground turkey instead of ground beef, and fish. Lean beef cuts include round, chuck, sirloin, or loin. Lean pork cuts include tenderloin or loin chop. You can also improve your diet by:Baking or broil foods instead of frying.
Skimming off fat from meat during cooking.
Trying not to use too much spicy seasoning.
Eating low-fat dairy foods, such as low-fat yogurt instead of ice cream.
Steaming your vegetables with water instead of broth.
Limiting butter, oils, and cream sauces. Use cooking spray instead of cooking oil when sautéing.
Choosing low-fat or nonfat ingredients over full-fat products.
 There are other food-related concerns that need to be considered when you are dealing with a hiatal hernia. When purchasing food items, always check the content or ingredient lists. If you are unsure if other food products may be triggering symptoms, take note before eating them and compare to it to how you feel after eating them. Also try eating smaller meals throughout the day rather than large meals. This gives your stomach an easier time to digest and produces less acid than larger meals.


Do not eat too quickly either as this may give a similar effect., Increased abdominal pressure can put more pressure on the sphincter, leading to acid reflux or hernias. To reduce pressure on your stomach, try not to strain when passing stool. If you do strain or feel more constipated, add more fiber based foods to your diet such as fruits and grains. Try not to lift heavy objects because this puts pressure on your stomach and can aggravate symptoms or cause a hernia.


Avoid lying down on your back or side after you eat.Think of it as tipping over a glass of water — if you are flat and the sphincter isn't functioning the stomach contents will easily enter into the esophagus causing symptoms. Being upright will help to minimize the risk.
 If you are overweight or obese, this can cause problems related to your hiatal hernia. Studies have shown that excessive body weight is a risk factor for hiatal hernias.Try walking for about 30 min after meals to help you digest and possibly lose more weight. A study has shown that walking for 30 min after eating reduced weight over a month when compared to walking after waiting an hour after mealsAs you go along, gradually increase your workouts. Perform more cardio based workouts such as running, jogging, jumping jacks, and biking, to help you burn more fat and calories.
If you do this in addition to changing your diet to help your hernia, you are more likely to lose weight.

