 To have perfect skin it is important to wash your face regularly, preferably twice a day. However, you want to wash your skin gently to avoid irritating it. Simply use your fingers to gently rub in a non-irritating cleanser and then rinse it off with cool or warm water.








With skin cleanliness in mind, try to avoid touching your face throughout the day. Touching your face transfers dirt and grime onto your face. This can cause breakouts.;
, Once you have cleaned your face, apply a moisturizer to replenish it. Pick a moisturizer that is right for your skin type. If you have oily skin, you will want a moisturizer that is really light as well as non-comedogenic. If you have super dry skin, you will want a moisturizer that is a bit thicker.








Apply moisturizer right after you wash your face, while your face is still a bit moist. This will help to trap in the water, hydrating your skin even more.Use a moisturizer on your face that contains sunscreen, so that you get double protection. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a sunscreen with an SPF of 30., Toners, exfoliants, and astringents can be too harsh on many people's skin, causing more damage than help. For example, exfoliating your face can remove dead skin cells and brighten your complexion, but it can also irritate your skin. Instead, a regular practice of gentle cleansing should keep your skin in tip top shape without having to strip your skin.








If a product immediately burns or irritates your face, take it off immediately. This is a sign that it is too harsh.
If you feel like you really need to exfoliate, try a gentle one. For example, use an exfoliant with a soft silicone exfoliator pad, as opposed to the rough seeds, husks, or pits used in many exfoliants. This will be more gentle on the skin. However, gently rubbing a gentle cleanser onto your skin with a washcloth is probably all you actually need., If you have a breakout in a specific area, cleaning the area with a gentle cleanser and then treating it with an over-the-counter medication is often the best course of action. Choose an acne medication that is gentle on the skin and is formulated for your specific type of skin, whether it is oily, dry, or sensitive.









For example, medications with salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, or alpha hydroxy acids are often useful for people with moderate acne breakouts.Use “non-comedogenic,” “non-acnegenic” and oil-free cosmetics, toiletries and sunscreens., There are a whole range of specialized creams that you'll also want to add to your inventory if you want perfect skin. For example, serums are perfect if you have that one small spot on your face that's always a little dry and flaky. They're basically a heavily concentrated moisturizing spot treatment.









Under-eye gels may work wonders for dark circles and bags.
 If you have skin problems that you are unable to clear up on your own with over-the-counter products, go to a professional for help. A dermatologist should have a variety of treatments that they can suggest for your particular issue. They can prescribe you a prescription medication that is made specifically to address your skin problems.There are some skin issues that can be treated but may never be totally cleared up, such as the chronic skin condition psoriasis. While conditions such as this cannot be totally eliminated, dermatological care is very important to keep symptoms at bay.See your doctor if your blemishes, or acne, do not clear within 4-6 weeks or if it becomes painful or infected., You don't need to go on an extreme diet just for the sake of your skin, however, simple changes can make a lot of difference. Try to include more fruits and vegetables in your diet. Drink lots of water every day. These things can really help to keep your skin in good shape.


If you're eating a lot of greasy, fatty, and unhealthy food, this can affect your skin tremendously.
Foods like white grains (bread, rice, pasta) and sweets have been linked to acne.Foods with lots of antioxidants, vitamin C, or omega-3 fatty acids can help improve the health of your skin. These include, but are not limited to: dark chocolate, pomegranates, strawberries, blueberries, olive oil, avocado, and fish. , Taking care of your overall health can have a really positive effect on your skin's health. Take the time to get enough sleep, as this helps your body to rejuvenate itself, helps to put more moisture in your skin, and creates new healthy cells. Exercise is important because it releases endorphins and elevates the amount of energy your body has to complete essential processes.








Remember, if you get all sweaty from exercise, take a shower or bath afterwards and gently wash your face. This will help to keep your skin in great shape by removing any bacteria that has built up in your pores., One of the most important things you can do to keep your skin in perfect shape is to limit sun exposure. Wear sunglasses, a hat, long sleeves, and long pants in the sun if you can. Try to cover up as much skin as you can. Even better, if you have the choice between staying in the shade and going into the sun, choose the shade.Not only will the sun age your skin, sun exposure is the biggest preventable risk factor for skin cancer.
 If you need to be out in the sun, use sunscreen. It is advised that you use a sunscreen that is at least 30 SPF in order to keep the ultra-violet rays of the sun at bay. Remember, sunscreen needs to be reapplied every so often, so look at the directions for reapplication on your particular sunscreen and follow them.








Some people worry that they will not get enough Vitamin D if they keep out of the sun, as sun exposure does give you Vitamin D. If you are worried about this, consult with your doctor about supplements or eat more foods high in Vitamin D, such as fish, milk products with added Vitamin D, and fortified cereals., If you do accidentally get too much sun, you should care for your skin afterwards. Take a bath or shower to cool down your skin and then take the time to heavily moisturize.Drink lots of water following a sunburn. This will help to moisturize your damaged skin.
Keep a sunburn out of the sun. It's important to allow this skin to heal completely without damaging it further.
 Using less makeup decreases the chances of blocking your pores and causing breakouts. This does not mean that you can't wear any makeup. It just means that you should balance your need for makeup with your skin type.


For example, try not to use thick, all over foundation. It can clog your pores. Instead, try a lighter coverage, such as mineral-based powder.
There are makeups that are formulated to help skin breakouts. If you choose to use one of these, make sure that the one you use is created for your skin type, whether it be oily, sensitive, or dry.Going to bed with makeup on is especially bad for your skin. Nightly removal clears makeup build up.

