 With the help of the good old Pokédex (accessible inside the game), you can identify which Pokémon types Luvdisc is strongest and weakest against. This will help you win Pokémon battles easily and more effectively.


Luvdisc is a water-type Pokémon, so it’s severely weak against grass (like Bulbasaur and Chikorita) and electric types (like Pikachu and Jolteon).
Luvdisc will take twice the normal damage than it will get from other types and could even get knocked out instantly when hit with pure-type attacks like Thunderbolt and Solar Beam.;
, In contrast, Luvdisc is super effective against fire, ground, and rock types.


Luvdisc can deal twice or, if the Pokémon has two types that are weak to water, four times the normal damage to Pokémon like Charmander, Geodude, and Diglett compared to other Pokémon types. In some cases, Luvdisc can even take down these Pokémon with only one shot using pure water-type attacks like Hydro Pump.
 Once you get to understand how to effectively use Luvdisc’s type, go out and do Pokémon battles to gain XP. Battle Pokémon types that Luvdisc is most effective against for easy wins, and avoid types that can inflict severe damage.


There is no specific kind of battle you need to do, but fighting trainers, which can be found anywhere in the game, gives off more XP compared to defeating wild Pokémon.
 If you don’t like to grind just to level up Luvdisc, you can always use in-game items like Rare Candies.


Rare Candies allow your Pokémon to gain one level instantly without doing any Pokémon battles. This is the quick-and-easy way, but each game only has a limited number of Rare Candies that you can get, usually from side quests.
 As Luvdisc levels up, it will naturally learn new moves and attacks.


Powerful attacks like Water Gun and Water Pulse can be learned when Luvdisc reaches specific levels (level 7 for Water Gun and level 22 for Water Pulse). These moves are very effective and strong enough that it can knock down an opponent with one attack, provided it’s a fire, ground, or rock Pokémon (types that are weak against water Pokémon).

