 Keep a work diary/journal and write down everything you do.


List concrete tasks that you perform, whether on a regular or occasional basis.
List skills that you use in the course of your job. These might be computer skills, skills that you use to accomplish tasks, or general skills, such as the ability to manage money or projects.
List "soft" skills, such as communication skills. Do you deal with difficult people or touchy situations? Do you manage people? Can you help a customer to decide what she really wants and transform that information into a product specification? Write that down, too.
List knowledge that is valuable to the company. Do you remember the history of a product or process or why something is no longer done a certain way? Do you know exactly where to find information in a file or database?;
, Your extracurricular activities can give you ideas about skills and interests you may not yet be using on the job.


Classes, whether in person or online.

Websites and what you do on/for them

Volunteer activities.
Hobbies and pastimes.
 Look at your job description with a critical eye, both for what it currently says and what you might like it to say. Think ahead to what directions you would like your career to take.
 Ask your colleagues and, if possible, your supervisor, what strengths and weaknesses they see in you. Be prepared to accept criticism gracefully.



Take on newer or more advanced tasks.
Take a class or attend a training.
Read manuals, procedures, instructions, or any other information associated with your career goals.
Get more practice at a partially developed skill.
Learn from others who do similar jobs or tasks that you wish to attempt.
If you look on the internet for job openings in your field, you will be able to make a list of the 3-5 skills that you are lacking in. Once you learn these, you will become a much more valuable employee.
Incorporate skills you have learned outside the workplace or skills from previous jobs into your current job.
,, When you can demonstrate growth and, ideally, an increased worth to the company, use your journals to summarize that growth and value. Then, take your case to whoever.
 If your job has grown or changed a great deal, or if your responsibilities have increased substantially, ask for a new title as well as a new salary. This could get you the respect of your colleagues as well as put you into a higher salary scale.

