 As you face your fears, you may experience feelings of anxiety. When this happens, make sure that you take a moment to calm yourself down by using a relaxation technique, such as deep breathing, meditation, yoga, or progressive muscle relaxation.


You may want to teach yourself one of these relaxation techniques before you start facing your fears so that you will know how to use the relaxation technique when you need it., If you start to feel anxious when you are exposing yourself to strangers, there are things you can do to calm yourself down. The first signs of anxiety are often physical: quick breathing, sweating, and other physical symptoms that can end up making your anxiety worse. However, you can relax yourself quickly by taking some deep breaths.

If you find yourself becoming anxious, sit in a chair and focus on your breathing for a few minutes. Inhale through your nose for four seconds and then exhale slowly through your mouth.
 Meditation is another good way to calm yourself down when you are feeling anxious.When you meditate, your goal is to bring your focus into the present moment and clear your mind of worries about the past or future. Learning to meditate takes time and practice, but it is a good skill to learn that may help you to calm down when you are feeling overwhelmed by exposing yourself to new people.


Try taking a meditation class or use a guided meditation CD at home.
 Yoga is also an effective way to reduce anxiety.Yoga uses strength building stretches and breathing techniques to help you relax.


You can learn a few yoga poses on your own and do them whenever you are feeling anxious, or you might even try taking some private yoga lessons. Then, you could progress to taking yoga classes when you are feeling more comfortable around strangers.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is also a good way to calm yourself down quickly.To do a progressive muscle relaxation exercise, you will need to lie down somewhere comfortable and quiet. Then, start to tighten and release your muscles in a sequence, starting with your toes and moving up towards the top of your head.