 Write out an initial rough outline of the screenplay's story. Depending on what the theme is, you'll need a dramatic point that the screenplay hinges on, something that needs to be resolved by the end of the film and that seems pressing throughout the film.
 Consider how many children you want in the film, as well as all of the other characters. Make the children the stars. The more it is the kids who are in control, who solve the problems, who find the problem creator, who save the day, the more empowering the screenplay will come across to them.


Don't speak down to the kids, ever. Children may be little but they're not daft.
Avoid gender generalizing. Children like to see themselves as capable of doing all the fun and exciting stuff, whatever their gender. Avoid the standard "boys do this, girls do that" by ensuring that all the kids do this and that. Don't recreate social conditioning that's already well past its use-by date.
Don't make parents or adults extremely stupid. Stupidity is a cliché; if you must have adults who haven't got a clue, make it for a real reason, such as being preoccupied, being too busy dealing with the house plumbing problems or having visitors over who are in the way all the time. The really dumb adult is hackneyed.
 Read How to write a screenplay for starters. When writing for children, bear the following things in mind:


While children are smart, they are not "little adults"; they have their limitations, their fears and their need for adult support. Avoid making them all good or all bad or all-knowing. They're as complex as you are, just more frank about it.
Teens are very complex characters and should be portrayed sympathetically. It can be a time of turbulent emotions, both good and bad, so avoid creating shallow teen characters and never beat up on them.
Be careful about how you portray heavy adult issues as a problem weighing on the child. Children know that adults around them have problems but usually get piecemeal information and don't see the whole picture. This means that there is often confusion or mistaken understandings, and it is likely that these emotions would color a child's outlook, not a worldly or mature understanding of mom and dad's divorce or house foreclosure, etc.
 Using a screenplay as a vehicle to train children how to comport themselves better in society is unlikely to be a successful movie. It smacks of bossiness and children will see right through it and hate it. Again, think about the complexity of human beings, and seek to convey this in your screenplay for children too.
 If you want to improve the children's dialog in your movie, ask children around you if you're using a style of language that makes sense to them. Don't be surprised if they laugh and say "nobody talks like that these days". Listen to what they have to say and be humble––use their suggestions whenever you want to convey the kinds of things kids do say at this point in time.

