 Regular veterinarian visits are required, even for aging cavies. Many people avoid bringing their aging guinea pig to the vet because they assume health issues can’t be fixed. Schedule regular vet visits to help your guinea pig live a strong, healthy life and help them during this time when they need you the most.


Search for an exotic vet or one that specializes in guinea pig care. Also, find a vet that has 24-hour care in case of emergency.;
, Dramatic changes in weight can be signifiers of a health issue so be sure to check your guinea pig’s weight regularly. Purchase a home scale and weigh your guinea pig at the same day and time once a week.One ounce fluctuations from day-to-day are normal. Any fluctuation more than 2 ounces and you should go on alert.One ounce weight fluctuations are fine. Fluctuations of 2 ounces and you should be alert. A change of 3 ounces and you should be extremely alert. Changes of 4 ounces or more and your guinea pig needs a trip to the vet.
You should weigh your guinea pig daily anytime a health problem is suspected.
Seek veterinary attention if you notice weight fluctuations. Bring any documentation you have of your pet’s weigh-ins.
 Their diet and appetite is likely to change slightly as they age. Vegetables that were eaten in seconds may remain at the bottom of the bowl. Try adding a few new fruits and veggies that they may have previously not enjoyed. Also try adding some new treats to playtime. Overall, avoid drastically changing their diet.Try adding a Vitamin C supplement to their diet. This can help your guinea pig fight off illnesses as they age. Speak with your veterinarian about adding this to your cavy’s diet.
If your guinea pig is eating less in a single sitting, try breaking down larger meals into smaller, more frequent sittings.
 Keep your senior’s water fresh by replacing it once a day. Monitor how much water they intake on a daily basis because drinking more or less water than usual can be a sign of a medical issue. Examine and replace water bottles that are old, broken, rusted or difficult to use.Most cavies need about 100 ml of fresh water daily. However, many drink less than that because they get water from fresh vegetables such as cucumbers.Your cavy’s water intake will differ from others. If your guinea pig’s water intake increases drastically, take them to the vet for a check-up. This could be a sign of diabetes.
Avoid using distilled water and avoid adding salt and sugar to water.
 Normal guinea pigs should be given a bath no more than once or twice a month. However, as cavies age or become frail, they can find bath time stressful which can lead to panic and even heart attack. Instead of baths, wipe your guinea pig clean with vet approved wipes or a warm, damp, cloth.Try distracting the guinea pig by giving them some fresh vegetables. Then, begin to slowly sponge warm water over them. You can also use shampoo and conditioner, gently massaging it into the coat and then sponging off with warm water.While bathing your guinea pig, you can also take note of anything out of the ordinary such as lumps, thinning fur, urine stains, bald patches on their feet, dry nose, or lip sores.
When done, wrap your pet in a towel and pat them dry. Avoid using hair dryers and heating pads. Make sure your cavy is dry and comfortable before returning them to the cage.
Many guinea pigs enjoy the massage and attention received during the drying process so don’t be surprised if they purr or vibrate their entire body.

