 Add 5 ounces (142 g) of boneless pork loin that’s been cut in ¼-inch (6-mm) thick strips and 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of dark soy sauce to a bowl. Mix the two together well so the pork is fully coated and let the meat sit for 10 to 15 minutes.You can omit the pork from the soup if you want to make a vegetarian version.;
, Add 4 small Chinese dried black mushrooms and 12 dried tree ear mushrooms to a large bowl or pot. Pour 3 cups (710 ml) of boiling water over the mushrooms, and let them soak for until they are softened, which should take approximately 30 minutes.You can usually find Chinese dried black mushrooms and dried tree ear mushrooms at Asian grocery stores.
Make sure that the water completely covers the mushrooms.
Use a large bowl or pot that has plenty of extra space because the tree mushrooms will expand significantly as they soak.
While the mushrooms are soaking, turn them over every so often to ensure that they soften all over.
 After the mushrooms have softened, use a knife to remove the stems from the black mushrooms. Squeeze the mushrooms over the bowl to extract the excess liquid, and slice them thinly. Set them aside on a plate for the moment.If there are any hard portions of the black mushrooms, remove them with the knife.
 After you’ve removed the black mushrooms from the bowl, lift out the tree ear mushrooms. Use a knife to remove any hard portions, and set them on the plate with the black mushrooms, reserving the soaking liquid.If the tree ear mushrooms are very large, you should cut them into bite-size pieces.
 Once you’ve removed the mushrooms, mix ¼ cup (59 ml) of the liquid that the mushrooms have soaked in with 1 ½ tablespoons (12 g) of cornstarch in a small bowl. Whisk the two together until they’re fully blended and smooth. Set aside the mixture for the moment., Place 12 dried lily buds in a small bowl, and pour 1 cup (237 ml) of warm water over them. Allow the lily buds to soak for 20 minutes to soften them, and then drain the water.Lily buds are sometimes known as golden needles. You can usually find them at Asian markets.
 After you’ve drained the lily buds, use a knife to cut off the tough tips. Next, slice the buds in half lengthwise and then tear each half into two or three pieces., Add ½ cup (115 g) of canned sliced bamboo shoots that have been cut lengthwise into ⅛-inch (3-mm) wide strips to a small saucepan. Next, pour enough cold water into the pan to cover the shoots by about 2-inches (5-cm).A half cup (115 g) of bamboo shoots usually amounts to half an 8-ounce (230 g) can.
 Place the pan with the bamboo shoots on the stove, and heat over medium-high heat. Allow the mixture to just come to a boil, which should take about 5 to 7 minutes.Boiling the bamboo shoots helps remove some of their bitterness.
 Once the bamboo shoots come to a boil, remove the pan from the heat. Pour the bamboo shoots through a sieve or colander to drain, shaking well to remove the excess moisture.After you’ve drained the bamboo shoots, set them aside for the moment.
 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of red-wine vinegar, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of rice vinegar, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of light soy sauce, 1 ½ teaspoons (6 g) of sugar, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of kosher salt to a small bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully combined, and set aside.Be sure to use unseasoned rice vinegar for the soup.
 Place a large wok on the stove, and heat it on high until a drop of water vaporizes on contact with it within a couple of seconds. Next, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of peanut oil and swirl it in the wok to coat all of the sides.If you don’t have a wok, you can use a large pot for the soup.
 Once you’ve oiled the wok, add the marinated pork loin pieces. Cook the pork until it just changes color, which should take about 1 minute.Be sure to stir the pork with a wooden spoon to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 After you’ve stir fried the pork for a minute, mix the mushrooms, lily buds, and bamboo shoots into the wok. Stir fry the mixture for another minute., Once you’ve stir fried the pork mixture for a couple of minutes, add 4 cups (946 ml) of reduced-sodium chicken broth to the wok. Allow the mixture to come to a full boil, which should take approximately 5 minutes.It’s best to use reduced-sodium broth for the soup because some of the other ingredients, such as the soy sauce, are high in sodium. However, you can use a homemade broth if you prefer.
If you want to make a vegetarian version of the soup, you can substitute vegetable stock for the chicken stock. You can even use water in place of the chicken stock, though your soup may not have as rich a taste as a version with the stock.
 After the broth mixture has come to a boil, add 3 to 4 ounces (85 to 113 g) of firm tofu that’s been rinsed, drained, and cut into ¼-inch (6-mm) thick strips to the pot. Allow the soup to return to a boil.You can use semi-firm tofu instead of firm if you prefer.
 When the soup has return to a boil, add the vinegar mixture. Mix well to blend it into the soup, and then bring it back to a boil, which should take about 3 minutes., Once the soup is boiling again, add the cornstarch mixture that you made earlier. Allow the mixture to return to a boil once more, stirring the whole time to help thicken it.Before you add the cornstarch mixture to the soup, make sure to stir it well. It can clump up while it sits.
 When the soup has returned to a boil, lower the heat to medium. Let the soup simmer for 1 to 2 minutes., Crack 2 large eggs into a small bowl and beat well. Add just a few drops of sesame oil and stir together until they’re well combined.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 When the eggs and oil are mixed, pour the mixture into the soup in a slow, steady stream. Stir the soup in a single direction to mix in the eggs.The eggs should cook almost immediately when you add them to the soup.
 Once you’ve mixed the eggs into the soup, stir in 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of sesame oil, 1 ½ teaspoons(3 g) of freshly ground white pepper, and ¼ teaspoon (1 ml) of chili oil. Stir well so the ingredients are fully incorporated.Adding the chili oil is optional. Your soup will have plenty of heat from the white pepper alone.
Taste the soup after you’ve mixed in the seasonings. Add more pepper, chili oil, and/or salt if necessary.
 When you’re ready to serve the soup, spoon it into 6 to 8 individual bowls. Use 2 tablespoons (13 g) of thinly sliced scallion greens and 2 tablespoons (3 g) of whole cilantro to garnish the soup and serve.