 You will need to sit down if you're showering with a broken leg. Many people advocate lawn chairs as a good option, but you should check with your doctor beforehand. Get a suggestion from a medical professional about the type of chair to put in your home shower.Make sure your chair is secure. If a chair slips and slides in the shower, this could cause further injury.
You may have to lay a bathmat down to prevent sliding.
Have someone without a broken leg test the chair's security before you attempt to get into the shower.
 If you have a cane or walker, use that for support as you walk towards the shower. Turn your back to the shower stall and lower yourself into the chair.Use whatever you can hold onto for support. Try holding onto the sides of the shower, or the shower bar if it is secure. Keep in mind, some shower bars are not actually drilled into the wall. Test to see if the bar is secure before attempting to use it as support.
Gently sit down in the chair and situate your leg away from the shower's running water. Turn your body so you're facing the shower controls.
 This will give you a lot more control when showering seated. You can help direct the water on the body parts you want, and keep it away from your cast.If you do not have a detachable shower hose, you can try showering with the main shower head and a wet wash clot. Just be extra cautious to keep water away from your cast. You should always wrap your cast in protective covering prior to showering.
 Make sure there is a towel nearby before beginning your shower. You should dry off while you're seated. You do not want your hands and feet to be slippery as you attempt to raise yourself out of the shower., Face the opening of the shower wall and grab onto your cane, crutches, or other sources of support. Gently lift your body out of the stall.If you have a wheel chair, gently lower yourself back into the wheelchair after getting out of the shower stall.
 While this method can be safe, it's vital to talk to your doctor before trying it. Only he or she will know enough about your current condition to assess whether it's safe for you. If your doctor recommends you not lower yourself into a chair in your shower, he or she may offer other advice on safe showering practices while you're in a cast.

