 Put on an eyelid primer before starting--goth looks can get very messy! Primer helps your makeup stay on. This is especially important if you have hooded eyes or live in a humid area.
 Using white shadow as a base will help your black makeup stand out even more. Put it on over your entire eyelid with a sponge or eyeshadow brush, from your brow to your lashes. If your skin is darker and you don’t like the contrasting effect, put it on the lower part of your lid only. You can also put it on under your eyes or in the inner corners of your eyes if you want., Put black eyeshadow on your eyelid with a small sponge or eyeshadow brush, starting along the lashes and working upward. How much you put on is up to you--you can put on only one layer just above your lashline for a smoky effect, or you can put on multiple layers across your entire eyelid. The more layers you put on, the darker it will be.Black is the classic color, but if you aren’t allowed to wear black shadow, try gray or purple.
 You can use liquid, pencil, or gel eyeliners--whichever you are most comfortable with. Start at the inner corner of your upper eyelid and move the liner slowly until you’ve reached the outer corner. For your lower eyelid, do the same thing while lifting your lower lashes with your other hand. It’s okay if you make a mistake--simply wipe it off and start over., Put black mascara on both your upper and lower lashes. Use your fingers to gently remove any clumps. Layering the mascara will create a more dramatic effect. You can also try false eyelashes, but this is optional., Black eyebrows will bring your whole look together. You can use brow liners, gel, or pomade., Many goths like to create elaborate makeup art next to their eyes. Some common designs include spiderwebs, swirls, crosses, flowers, or butterflies. Pick out a design you like!, It’s best to practice your design on your hand before drawing it on your face--you’ll save time! Practice it a few times until you feel confident., The classic black eyeshadow look is the foundation to this style!

, If you usually wear primer, foundation, or white face makeup, put it on before beginning this look. You’ll be drawing directly on your skin, so you won’t be able to go back and put makeup on over it. If you don’t usually wear face makeup, it would be a good idea to put some primer on in the area you plan to draw.
 This is optional, but if you want, you can add a little bit of colored eyeshadow to the edges of your black eyeshadow. Some good colors to complement a goth look are purple, silver, dark blue, and red. You can even use glitter if you want! If your design has color, you should match the shadow to it.
 Take your eyeliner and put it at the corner of your eye. Following the shape of your eye, pull the liner outwards towards your ears until there’s a little line of eyeliner poking out of the corner of your eye. This will be the foundation of a design on the side of your eye. If you want your design under your eye or on your cheek, this step is optional., You can use your regular eyeliner, or a brush and facepaint. Draw the design you practiced on the side of your eye, connecting it to the eyeliner line you just drew. It should look like the design is extending out of your eyeliner. It’s okay if you mess up--just wipe it off and start over!, If you have a larger design, especially one with lots of color, using a small makeup sponge to paint it will give you more consistent coverage., When your design is finished, use translucent finishing powder or setting spray to lock it in place. That way, your design will be much less likely to smear., Make sure it’s totally dry before you start your makeup!, You can use one color for this look, or a whole rainbow of pastels! Pink, baby blue, and butter yellow are very popular for this look, but any pastel is fine., You want to create a pastel base all along your eyelid, up to the crease. If you want to use more than one color, try putting one color along your lashes, another right above it, and a third along the upper corner of your eye. Put a thin line of one color under your eyes, connecting it to your upper lid at the corner., Black eyeshadow will help keep this look goth. Put on a line of black shadow along your upper lashes., Using a clean makeup brush, gently blend the black shadow into the pastel shadow to create a smoky effect., Add a little bit of light pastel shadow in any color you want to your browbone., The pastel goth look goes great with glitter! Try a hot pink or silver glitter along the corners of your eyes., Put on any black liner you want all around your eyes. You should have a ring of pastel color around a ring of black., Carefully put on your mascara--if it smudges, it’s very noticeable on pastel colors!, Finish your look by using black brow makeup to frame your eyes and give them a dramatic effect.