 If you wait to talk about your bankruptcy until lenders or potential investors have found out about it on their own, you lose the opportunity to spin the situation as a positive one that made you more responsible with your finances.Traditional lenders or business investors are going to check your credit, so they will find out about your bankruptcy.
If you tell them about it before they check your credit, you can present it as a growing experience and explain how much you've learned about managing your finances since filing for bankruptcy.
You also have the opportunity to explain what happened and why you chose to file for bankruptcy. Often people who file for bankruptcy have perfectly legitimate reasons for doing so – reasons that you might even find a lender has sympathy for.
 If you want to start a small business, a well-researched and organized business plan is essential. It sends a message to potential investors that you are serious about your business and have evaluated the risks involved.Particularly in light of your credit history, most traditional lenders will want to see a business plan before they are willing to give you a loan.
Your business plan covers details about your business and its organization, your analysis of your industry and the demand for your products or services, as well as projections of your operating expenses and potential profits.
If you've never created a business plan and don't know where to start, you can find excellent resources online at places like the SBA website.
You also may be able to get ideas by looking at sample business plans created for other existing businesses.
 After going bankrupt, you may not be able to find an investor who's willing to fund the entire start-up costs for a small business. However, you may have more luck asking for smaller amounts, since the investor has less to lose.If you (or a partner) is able to provide part of your start-up costs, it may not be as difficult to find a lender who is willing to chip in the remaining amount.
When you put your own money into your business, however, take care to structure it as a loan and require the business to pay you back.
Otherwise, if the business runs into financial trouble, the courts may see your personal investment as a sign that the business really isn't separate from your personal finances and shouldn't be treated as such.
This would mean business creditors could potentially go after your personal assets to recover the money you owe them.
 For personal expenses, you may be able to get back on track by using micro-lenders or starting a crowdfunding campaign online. These options also can work in the business context, particularly if you're skilled at selling and marketing your product or services.For example, there are micro-lending websites where you can present your total funding need and get small loans from many investors. These sites can work well if you have a personal shortfall after your bankruptcy, since it can be difficult to obtain a personal loan from a traditional lender.
Particularly if you are offering an innovative product or service, starting a crowdfunding campaign can help you get the money you need to get started. Some of these sites require you to have a business motive, while others allow fundraising for any reason.
Keep in mind that to be successful with many of these alternative financing options, you typically have to have a sizable and active social network with whom you can share your project.
Without being shared far and wide, a crowdfunding campaign has little chance of getting off the ground.
 Many small business loans, such as those offered by the Small Business Association (SBA), require you to make a personal guarantee or to pledge personal assets such as your home.While you don't necessarily have to avoid these options, consider carefully whether you want to risk losing your home or other valuable personal assets if your business doesn't go according to plan.
You also should keep in mind that with personally guaranteed loans, you run the risk that if you end up going into default, the creditor may be able to come after other personal assets as well.

