 If you're going to write a wish list for Santa, have your teddy bear help you. Remember to ask your teddy what it wants for Christmas so that you can put a present for it on your list too.;
, If you're going to go gift shopping with your family, bring your teddy along too. Your teddy can help you pick out some good presents, and it might even see a present that it wants for Christmas in the store. If you want, you could even buy a present for your teddy (but make sure your bear doesn't see, or it will spoil the surprise).
 If you're going to be wrapping gifts for your friends and family, have your teddy bear help you. You can even put your teddy's name on the gift tag so that everyone will know your bear was part of the gift-wrapping too.
 Bears love helping out with Christmas decorations, so when you and your family decorate the house, remember to include your teddy bear. It can pick some of its favorite ornaments to put on the tree, and you can lift it up and down so that it can reach the higher branches.
 Take some red, green, or white paper and write a nice Christmas message on it for your bear, and include a Christmas drawing if you'd like. Teddy bears love nothing more than knowing that their owner loves them back.
 If you're going to drink some eggnog or hot cocoa, give your teddy a mug so that they can pretend to have some too, or if you're eating a special Christmas cookie, let your teddy have a fake cookie.
 If you're watching a Christmas movie, bring your bear along so that they can watch it too. You could even get them all cozy by dressing them up in their favorite pyjamas before you start the movie.
 If your teddy has a Christmas or holiday outfit, make sure that your teddy is wearing it on Christmas day (or even throughout the Christmas season). This will make your teddy feel very festive.
 When you go to bed on Christmas Eve, tuck teddy in beside you. This way you can both wake up together on Christmas morning and then go see what Santa has left you underneath the tree.
 On Christmas day, bring teddy along with you and keep it by the tree so that it can watch you open presents, eat Christmas dinner, etc. Your teddy will love being included in all of the Christmas fun.

