 Plenty of people hang on to old baby clothes for non-sentimental purposes, and are more than willing to give them away. Let friends, neighbors, family, and coworkers know that you're in need of baby clothes — even if they don't have kids, they might know someone who has baby clothes they'd be willing to give you. Not only that, someone might even have a crib or car seat they no longer need and would be happy to pass on.Ask relatives and friends before asking co-workers and casual acquaintances. People who are closer to you will probably be more eager to help out.
Don't limit yourself to asking people who have recently had kids. You can also ask people whose children have long outgrown their baby clothes.
Don't be afraid to ask people without kids for help, too. Your best friend may be single and without children, but she may have a brother or sister with five kids and plenty of extra clothes. Even if someone does not have any baby clothes they could donate to you, he or she may know someone that does.;
, Asking for help can take a toll on one's pride, but is sometimes necessary. Friends and family are more likely to be there for you when times get tough, so express to them that you need help buying baby clothes. Allow them to help you if they are willing to.


Hold onto the clothes that your friends and family members buy you. If you have another child, you can re-use these clothes or give them back to friends and family as they have their own children.
 Even if you don't have baby clothes to trade, you can barter other services in exchange for baby clothes. Knowing how to market your skills may be able to help you stock your infant’s closet without spending a penny.


If a neighbor down the street had a baby a few months before you, ask her if she would be willing to exchange a few outgrown clothes for a free night of babysitting.
If a coworker needs help with a bake sale and you happen to have cooking skills, offer to bake some of your famous cookies in exchange for baby clothes.