 This means anything a high-schooler would wear is fair game. Here are some ideas:



Rachel Berry. This preppy look places emphasis on bows, knee socks, cardigans, stripes and flats. Tina Cohen-Chang. Tina's goth look favors black boots, fingerless gloves, and dark, multicolored hair.

Mercedes Jones. This diva loves to wear loud patterns, bold colors, skinny jeans, and the occasional feather boa.

Quinn Fabray. When Quinn isn't in her cheerleading uniform, you can find her in a dress, pastel cardigan, and matching flats.

Kurt Hummel. Kurt's style is dressier than most of the Glee Club members. You can most often find him in a button down shirt, fitted pants, and a matching scarf. Flamboyant sweaters are another favorite.

Finn Hudson. Finn is a varsity jock. As a result, you can often wearing his football jersey or letter jacket with a pair of jeans.

Noah "Puck" Puckerman. Like Finn, Puck is a varsity jock, and dresses accordingly. However, his style is slightly different than Finn's—you can often find him in fitted black or grey jeans (though nowhere near as fitted as Kurt's!) and a T or button up shirt.;
, Make no plans for Thursday nights unless those plans include watching the latest episode. Tolerate no interruptions while you are watching. Watch the episode a second time within twenty four hours of it being aired. Watch it multiple times throughout the week. Get your family and friends hooked too!

, Whether your doing chores or out with your friends, find opportunities to break into song and dance.


Have a wide taste of music on your iPod/mp3 player. You should be well versed in Lady Gaga, Britney Spears, and Madonna as well as the songs from Broadway shows such as Wicked and Les Misérables. Journey, Victor Victoria, and Queen are also important.



Quote your favorite character(s)! You can always reply to someone with a good Glee quote. (Ex.: I carry a rape whistle!).
 To be a true gleek, you must know not only what's going on in the character's lives, but also in the lives of the actors who portray them. Follow them on twitter, or look them up online and in magazines.
 Posters, photos, and sheet music to your favorite songs are good places to start.


Take your photo with the "loser" sign. They're lots of fun to take and make! They're essential to every Gleek.
 Being a Gleek is all about the love of Glee.

