 Washing your hair too often strips your hair of sebum, the natural oil that protects it and keeps it healthy. Stripped hair breaks easily and looks dull and dry. To keep your hair glossy, shampoo no more than once or twice a week.


It may take up to two weeks or longer for your hair to balance out and get used to being washed less frequently. Be prepared to wear your hair up during the transition time.
In between washes, you can perk up your roots by using dry shampoo. This absorbs oil without stripping your hair.
 Washing and styling your hair with chemical-laden products can damage your hair over time. Many shampoos, conditioners and styling products have ingredients that might be contributing to the problem. Look for all-natural products that don't contain the following ingredients:


Sulfates. These are commonly found in shampoo. They are harsh cleansers that strip your hair of natural oils.
Silicones. These are commonly found in conditioner and leave-in shine products. They eventually build up in your hair and make it look dull.Alcohols. These are commonly found in gel, hairspray and other styling products. They dry out your hair over time.
 Dyeing, bleaching, and permanently straightening or curling your hair can have damaging long-term effects. Altering your hair from its natural state will eventually cause it to get dried out and prone to breakage. Avoid harsh treatments whenever possible.


Henna dye can be extremely drying as can other natural dyes, such as metallic salts. A demi- or semi-permanent hair color is good low-damage option.
Use honey or chamomile tea as a natural lightener.
 No matter what you do to your hair, it won't look naturally shiny unless you're healthy from the inside out. Eating well and staying hydrated have a big effect on the way your hair looks. Try eating more of these foods for the healthiest possible hair:


Fish, beef, poultry, eggs, legumes, and other foods that are full of protein. Hair is made from protein and it immediately suffers if you aren't getting enough. Eating energy-rich carbs in combination with protein can be especially effective.
Avocados and nuts. These contain healthy fats that make your hair look full and shiny.
Nutrient-rich plants. Leafy greens like spinach and kale are especially healthy for hair.
 When you're dehydrated your hair loses its luster and starts looking limp. Drink plenty of water to keep your hair healthy. Make sure you get 8 glasses a day.


Eating water-heavy fruits and vegetables can also help hydrate you. Choose watermelon, berries, apples, cucumbers, lettuce and cabbage.
Drink herbal tea and other caffeine-free tea for additional hydration.
 The sun, extreme temperatures, and environmental pollutants may be making your hair look less than optimal. Protect it from getting damaged by taking the following measures:


Wear a hat when the sun is strong. The sun is a powerful force, and it can damage your hair if you don't protect it.
Wear a swim cap in the pool. Chlorine dries hair out and leaves a residue. If you do go swimming without a cap, wash your hair immediately after exiting the pool.
Don't go out in the cold with wet hair. Your hair may freeze, which will lead to frizz.

