 When heavy lifting needs to be done or a stubborn jar lid won’t open, ask your fella for help. Bolster his self-confidence by demonstrating that you think of him as physically adept. Compliment his strength when he pulls off a feat. Admire his muscles, even if he isn’t the most strapping guy ever (or even as strong as you).If he seems like he is a little down and could use an ego boost, ask him for help even if you could accomplish the task on your own.
Be careful not to overdo it to the point of making him feel like he is little more than a 24-hour laborer.;
, Indulge his instinct to shield you from danger. Ask him to investigate that strange bump in the night rather than do it yourself, or allow him to stand between you and that shifty-looking character on the sidewalk. Apply the same technique even when the danger isn’t real, such as grabbing his hand or burying your face into his shoulder when you watch a scary movie.Show him that you think of him as your protector by giving him a home-defense tool for his birthday or a holiday, like a knife, Mac light, or a slingshot with ball bearings.
 When decisions need to be made, either make them a joint project, split them evenly between yourselves, or use a combo of the two techniques. When a decision is yours to make, ask him for his input so that he at least feels heard, even if you end up deciding on a different course of action.Definitely include him on decisions that are potentially life-altering for the both of you, such as changing jobs or spending significant sums of shared money.
Make him feel influential by involving him in small decisions too, like grocery shopping or planning routes when you both go driving.For your own well-being (as well as his), don’t cede decision-making entirely to him.
 Refer to him about subjects in which he is well versed. Make him feel like an authority. Even if he isn’t the absolute authority on a particular subject, ask for his help in areas where he has experience. If his self-esteem needs a little shot in the arm, play dumb about topics that he really enjoys so he can display his knowledge.Appeal to his know-how for tasks that need to be done. These could be projects in which he could assist you directly (like at-home projects such as painting, carpentry, or fixing the car) or other endeavors where his advice would be helpful (like planning a trip to a city or country that he is familiar with).
Ask for explanations about his hobbies or interests, whether it's about the official rules of basketball or who the heck the Dominion is in Star Trek.
 Compliment his looks. Emphasize those aspects that make him feel manly. Ogle him with your eyes when you find him particularly striking. Boost his ego even more by pointing out when others do the same.Don’t limit your compliments to generalities, like “You look great.” Specify how that three-piece tailored suits makes him look like “a man to be dealt with,” or how his stubble makes him look “so rough and tumble.”
Back your compliments up with body language.Whistle in admiration. Pause to eye him from head to toe and back again. Bite your bottom lip as you eat him up with your eyes.

