 Your ID and password will allow you to access the website where your child's grades are located. There are a number of ways in which you can find your ID and password. In some cases this needs to be done in person at the school, that way, the school administration can verify your identity. In other cases, the information will be sent home in a letter or information packet.


Note that some websites may require your child's student ID. This may be obtained the same way your parent ID is obtained. ;
, It is at the school website that you will be able to access your child's grades. Materials from the school, such as the school handbook, parent handbook, or student handbook, should inform you as to what website you need to visit to access the grades. If you have this information, enter it into your web browser.


If no such information was provided by the school, begin by typing the name of your child's school into an internet browser, such as internet explorer, google chrome, safari or firefox. Identify your child's school in the search results and click the name to enter the website.
If you are unable to find your child's school through an internet search or through information provided by the school in handbooks contact the school directly.
 Once on the website, carefully examine the home page looking for key words, which may include but are not limited to 'parents', 'parent resources', 'parent portal', or 'parent information'. Typically, you can find these menu options on the left-hand side of the page, the top of the page, or the bottom of the page. Once you have identified the parents menu, click it.


Note that some schools will provide a website address that provides direct access to the parent page, which will take you right to the following step.
 This usually involves entering your username and password. Upon entering this information, you should enter a new page with a number of different menu options. These may include "assignments", "attendance", "grades", "report card", "calendar", and "my settings". Click on grades to see how your child is progressing in school.


If this is your first time logging in, you may have to enter personal information aside from your username and password, including: your name, email address, desired username, student information, and the answers to several security questions. 