 Get out a mixing bowl and measure 2 cups (250 g) of flour into it. Add 1 tablespoon of sugar (optional), 2 teaspoons of baking powder, and ½ to ¾ teaspoon salt. Whisk the dry mixture for about 30 seconds.If you don't want to serve the fry jacks with sweet things, you can leave out the sugar.;
, Put 2 tablespoons of shortening or butter into the mixing bowl. Use a pastry blender to cut the shortening into the dry mixture until it looks like breadcrumbs.If you don't have a pastry blender, you can use a fork to cut the shortening into the dry mixture.
 Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour in ¾ cup (180 ml) of whole milk or canned coconut milk. Stir the mixture with a spoon. The mixture should look like a slightly shaggy dough at this point., Sprinkle a little flour on a work surface and dump the wet dough onto it. Use the palms of your hands to knead the dough for about 30 seconds to 1 minute. The dough should become soft and smooth.Avoid adding a lot of flour or your dough may become tough.
 Roll the log into a log shape so it's easier to cut. Use a bench scraper or knife to cut the dough into 6 or 7 even pieces. Let the pieces rest on your work space for about 10 minutes.If the knife or bench scraper sticks to the dough, dip the cutter in flour.
 Use the palms of your hands to roll each piece of dough into a ball. Set each ball on your work surface and use a rolling pin to roll them into circles. They should be about 1 cm thick.Don't worry if the circles aren't perfectly round.
 Use the bench cutter or knife to cut each circle in half. Take a sharp knife and cut a slit in the center of each half of dough. The slit will help the dough fry evenly., Set a large saucepan on the stove. Pour in vegetable oil, so it comes at least 3-inches (7.5-cm) up the sides of the pan. Turn the heat on to medium. The oil needs to be at least 350 degrees F (180 C) before you fry the fry jacks.You can check the temperature by inserting a deep-fry thermometer in the pan.
 Place 2 or 3 halves of dough into the hot oil and fry them for about one minute. Use a slotted spoon to carefully flip the halves over. Let them fry for another minute. They should become puffed and golden brown once they've finished frying.Your fry jacks may need to fry longer depending on how thick they are. Just pull them out once they've puffed and turned brown.
 Carefully lift the fry jacks out of the hot oil using a slotted spoon. Lay a napkin or paper towel on a plate. Set the fry jacks on the paper towel to drain and cool. Fry the rest of the fry jacks in batches.Remember to let the oil heat back up to 350 degrees F (180 C) before you fry more fry jacks.
 If you'd like sweet fry jacks, sprinkle the hot fry jacks with granulated or powdered sugar. You could also serve them with butter and jam. Or drizzle the fry jacks with honey.You could also drizzle the fry jacks with your favorite syrups. You could try agave, maple, or golden syrup.
 Fry jacks are often served with savory foods like refried beans or cheese. You can also serve them with a side of Maya eggs. To make Maya eggs, scramble several eggs and fry diced tomatoes, onions, and peppers. Add the fried veggies to the eggs.Consider serving the fry jacks with leftover shredded meats or rice.

