 In a medium-sized bowl, sift the powdered sugar, cocoa powder, and almond flour two times only. Set aside for later use.;
, Using an electric mixer, beat the whites on medium speed until they’re foamy.
, Pick up the speed to medium-high and keep beating the whites. Peaks should begin to form., Combine the ingredients together using a rubber spatula. Do not over-mix. Mix the batter together clockwise from the bottom, going up around the sides, and then cutting the batter in half.


The batter will be a little thick at first, but that’s normal. It begins to thin out the more you mix. Test the batter’s consistency by doing the macaron ribbon test. To do it, scoop small amounts of macaron batter on a tray. After ten seconds, the edges of the ribbon should dissolve. If it doesn’t dissolve, keep continuing to fold the batter together, but if it does dissolve then stop mixing at once. ,, Pipe small amounts of batter, about 1.5-inch rounds. Keep each amount one inch away from one another. There will be approximately 42 shells.


If air bubbles appear, firmly tap the baking tray down to pop them. Air bubbles can crack macaron shells when they bake. ,, Before getting baked, let the shells dry. You can test the shells to see if they’re ready to bake by touching one of them gently. If the batter does not stick to your finger, they’re ready for baking. Sprinkle over the salt, if desired.
 The macarons will be ready when they’re easy to remove off the tray and do not stick to it.
 Lay the tray on a wire rack and after several minutes of cooling, transfer the shells on the rack using a spatula. While the macarons chill, make the chocolate ganache filling., Simmer the chocolate and heavy cream in a large saucepan over medium heat. Heat the ingredients up until it begins to bubble. Mix with a wooden spoon and let the filling rest for about a minute or so. Stir in the butter and mix until smooth. Chill until the filling slightly thickens, but is still easy enough to spread.


It’s recommended to chill the ganache filling for about thirty minutes. , Close each one together to form the macaron.
 Place the chocolate macarons on a serving plate. Garnish with powdered sugar, if desired. Enjoy!

