 Include your counselor and/or psychiatrist, your medical doctor, and some close family members and friends.Be realistic about how each person can help you. It’s important to have more than one person on this list, because it is unrealistic to think that one person will be able to help you all the time. This will drain a lot of their energy and could potentially strain your relationship.
Think about people who will be supportive and non-judgmental. People who might make you feel more anxious or upset may not be the best choice for your support network.
 You may choose to share your diagnosis of depression with close family members or friends. This will help them understand what you’re going through. This will also help them understand that you can’t just “snap out of it,” but that you have a medical diagnosis for your condition.


Don’t exclude people because you “don’t want to worry them.” If they are close family members or friends, they want to know how you’re feeling and will be willing to help you., You may want to keep some of the details of your depression private, sharing them only with your counselor.If you don’t feel like sharing with other people, such as your coworkers, you can just say that you’re going through a difficult time but that you’re working on making things better.
 When you live with depression, it can periodically be difficult to go out and participate in activities. But it is important to continue doing the things that you enjoy in order to build supportive relationships. Identify a couple of activities that you like or things you’d like to try. This may be taking a class, volunteering at an animal shelter, or even going to a movie with a friend. Set goals for yourself to do at least one favorite activity per week., A pet can be another important part of your support network. Having a pet is recognized by the National Institute for Mental Health as beneficial for people living with depression. Pets can provide you with constant companionship. In addition, even if you don’t feel up to it, you still have to take care of them by, for example, taking the dog for a walk.If you can’t have a pet where you live, you can still get pet therapy by volunteering with an animal organization such as the American Humane Association.

