 Be aware of the basic details of Taylor's life. As an ultimate fan, it is important for you to know as much as you can about your favorite star. Do research on Taylor, and educate yourself about basic facts concerning her. This includes knowing her birthday, the location of her birth, her favorite movies/books/colors, etc.;
, They will often dig deep into her life and divulge interesting information about her. By seeing what she says about herself, you will be able to learn more about her., On a daily basis, keep an eye on Taylor. To know about upcoming events and the latest news, keep tabs on her website. Googling her name will also bring up recent articles about her. By being prepared and stocking yourself with information about her, people will flock to you for the most recent gossip., This website will give you a chance to interact with fellow fans, as well as presenting you the opportunity to learn new things each day.


To create an account, head to Taylor Swift's official website. Hit the "forums" tab, where you'll be led to the registration page.
 Purchase all of her albums, or download her songs onto an electronic device. Keep yourself updated about her unreleased songs, as some can be found on Youtube. Also, learn about the stories behind her songs, as this will give the lyrics more meaning.


Listen to Taylor's songs often. The first album is the best place to start and work your way up. but its up to you.
 Although this step is not necessary, it does prove your dedication. You'll also receive neat items that you can wear or decorate your room with.
 If possible, purchase a backstage pass in order to meet her face to face. Keep an eye out for special events near your location. If you miss out on one of her performances, look up videos online or read news articles.
 Realize that while you might not understand some of her actions, she has her own personal reasons. Remember that although she is a talented star, she is only human and far from perfect. She may make mistakes in the future that you might not like.

