 A great way to add romance to a room is to decorate with reminders of your love and what you have shared. Hang up a small cork board and pin pictures from the best times you have had together. Use memorabilia like event tickets, wedding decorations, or gifts you have given each other. By making the room all about your relationship and the life you have built, you’ll add romance that goes beyond individual decorations.Have both people make a collage of their favorites pictures of the other person and hang in the room.
Make a collage of pictures of you together, especially on specific romantic occasions like high school dances, engagement, wedding photos, first date, weekend trips. The proper hint of nostalgia for good times can add romance to the room.
An option for applying this romantic touch throughout multiple rooms could be having a theme for each room such as first experiences (like vacations or activities), a hobby you both enjoy (like movie posters or band memorabilia), or specific occasions where you were dressed fancy (high school dances, weddings, parties).
You can also use this technique, maybe to a lesser extent, with a hotel room. By adding personalized touches like pictures, you can take the room to a new level beyond its impersonal basic setup.
 Depending on your level of artist talent, draw or paint something that specifically pertains to your relationship. It doesn’t have to be elaborate. It could just be the date of something special for you in fancy letters. It could be a special phrase you have always said to each other like “My one and only.”


The possibilities are endless for how you could add art pieces to the room. A fairly small wooden pallet is a great “canvas” for painting words of love. You could buy a wooden canvas frame and stretch a piece of white cotton t-shirt around it and paint a message on that.
Make a pennant banner with felt pennants, strung up with twine. With one letter on each pennant, spell out “love.” Or use them to show the date of your wedding. Or another significant word or phrase that means a lot to you.
 Flickering candlelight is romantic enough on its own, but this is a fun and creative tweak. Save a tin or steel can and reimagine it as a decoration. Here is how you do it: Clean it out well with soap and water and fully remove the top and paper label, if you didn’t already. Fill with water and freeze. Once the water is fully frozen, take it out and with a hammer and nail, punch holes through the can in the design you want. A simple heart is a good shape to go with. Put the can in the sink while the water melts and then dry it off. Place a small tea light candle inside and put by the bed. The light flickering through the holes will cast across the wall., On the wall behind the bed, paint the words of an old love letter one of you wrote to the other. Make it nice and large so it covers most of the wall. By doing this, every time you walk into the room you will remember the romance you have shared in the past.


If not your own words, paint the words of a favorite poem or love song, or a quote or scripture that speaks to the love you share.
This can work well as a decoration for a living room or kitchen/dining room, too. For the living room, you could use a favorite quote from a romantic movie and paint it over the TV. Or find a quote that describes the romantic aspects of food for the dining room wall.

