 What do you consider a successful life? When you see yourself 3-4 years down the line, what are you doing? If these questions are difficult, ask smaller ones to start: are you living in a city or the country? Do you want to work from home or do you want to help save the world through charity? Maybe you just want the time to pursue your hobbies at leisure. Whatever it is, winners figure out where the finish line is so that they can plan how to get there.


Goals worth having aren't always easy. Don't let the difficulty or length of a task in front of you discourage you from going for it., Winners know that success requires work before the actual event or challenge occurs. "Prior preparation prevents poor performance," so sit down for a few hours and sketch out the following questions, as well as your answers:


"What are the most likely things to go wrong?"
"How can I prevent problems or issues in advance?"
"What tools/materials do I need for success?"
"What steps can I take now to ensure success later?"

, Winners never "know everything." It's actually the opposite, as winners recognize that knowledge is power and you can never gain enough. Read a daily journal article in your field, pick up a new skill, and go to talks and lectures that catch your interest. While you should focus on your field, know that inspiration comes from everywhere. An open mind will take you far no matter what you're doing.


Try to be a sponge, absorbing as much information as you can whenever you can.
The more you challenge yourself, the more you'll learn. Taking the difficult or longer route usually pays off in more experience and know-how., This is a lot like the difference between studying a little bit every day and cramming the night before the test. While both may do enough to help you pass, the lessons learned from cramming are quickly forgotten.You gain much more ground if you work on something every single day, building momentum and forging powerful mental pathways that make you more efficient and successful in the future.That said, don't beat yourself up if you miss a day -- it's not the end of the world. The point is regular, scheduled practice to work on your goals. Just get back on the horse the next day.
 Winners don't just pick a course and blindly follow it. They are constantly taking stock of their surroundings, and are willing to pivot if there is a better option or idea around them. While every situation is different, productive analysis is easy-- take 5-10 minutes to step quietly aside, then ask the following questions:


"What is the current problem(s)?"
"How effective was my last solution?"
"What has changed since I last made my plans?"
"What is the best possible outcome that I can strive for at this moment?"

, For example, if you want to rule the world of finance, you should probably pay attention to Warren Buffet, Elon Musk, and other titans in the world of wealth. If you're becoming a musician, learn how your heroes practiced and got better, replicating the parts that sound right to you. Instead of mimicking other winners' live, try to drill down into the practices that make them so successful:


Without a doubt, hours of practice is the common thread between all winners. From the Beatles playing all-night shows in Germany to Bill Gates locked in a room with early computers, the best put in thousands and thousands of hours of work before succeeding.
Good practice is challenging, not easy. Lance Armstrong famously brought his bike to the Alps during wintertime as preparation for climbing the same mountains in the summer's Tour de France.
 Winners don't see failure as the end of the road, they see it as a necessary hurdle to jump over. There has never been a successful person who hasn't had to overcome failure, because the road to greatness always has challenges. By approaching setbacks as tests designed to make your better and stronger once conquered, you'll set yourself on the path to win at everything you do.


Challenges force you to learn and adapt on the fly. Remaining open and flexible will help you handle any difficulty that comes your way.
 Everyone knows the person, for example, that wants to write a great novel but "can never find the time." The problem is not that they can't find the time, it is that they aren't making the time for themselves. No one can set your schedule but you, so make a habit of prioritizing the things most important to you so you are 100% sure you'll get them done. If you don't make time for your priorities, no one else will.


Set aside the same time each day to work on your goals and projects. Once you actually carve out a dedicated time to work it becomes much easier to stick to.
Being a winner does require some sacrifice. Setting your priorities so that you work on your passions may mean smaller hobbies get less time and attention., You have to be psychologically and mentally prepared to succeed, so be positive and believe in yourself. If you think that you can be a winner, you will be further than most people ever get. Conversely, if you believe that you will fail or have no chance, you'll lose the motivation needed to actually win at anything.


Remind yourself that you not only are going to win, but you deserve to win. Being hungry and hopeful will provide motivation even if things get rough.