 Many states have fill-in-the-blank forms that you can use to request a civil annulment. Check the website of the court located in the state or county where you currently live. You may want to check residency requirements if you've lived there for less than six months.You also may be able to find forms by contacting the clerk's office of the court in the county where you live.
However, keep in mind that some states, such as Alaska, do not have forms you can fill out to request an annulment.
If forms are not available, it's a good idea to talk to an experienced family law attorney in your area and get them to help you draft your petition.;
, The petition is the legal document through which you ask a judge to annul your marriage. Depending on the court you use, you typically also must complete other forms that will accompany your petition.For example, you typically will have a form with confidential information that you must complete along with your petition. Since petitions are public documents, sensitive information such as your full Social Security number is kept sealed.
The petition itself provides the court with details about your marriage and lists the reason you are seeking an annulment. Read your state's law to understand the requirements for each reason for an annulment.
Keep in mind that many people who want to get an annulment don't meet the legal requirements. Annulments typically are only granted if the marriage was illegal from its inception.
For example, if you got married before your spouse's divorce was finalized, your marriage is considered a bigamous relationship and is illegal in all states. In this example, you would be entitled to an annulment.
 You typically must include other documents with your petition for annulment, such as a copy of your marriage certificate. You may have to order these documents and wait a few weeks for them to arrive by mail.You typically can get a copy of your marriage certificate by contacting the vital records office in the state where you got married.
If you got married overseas, you typically had to get a license in your state of residence for your marriage to be recognized in the U.S.
However, if you're looking for marriage documents issued in the country where you got married, contact the State Department to identify the correct consular office to field your request.
Some courts also require an affidavit from a witness if you were married in another state. This requirement will be listed on the forms you fill out, or in the instructions that accompany those forms.
 Once you've filled out your forms, double-check to make sure you have everything you need and proofread them carefully. You want all information to be complete and accurate, without any typographical errors.If you completed forms that came with instructions, read over the instructions carefully to make sure you've completed the forms correctly.
While some courts accept forms that have hand-written answers, it's typically better to type your answers into the forms using a computer.
Don't sign your forms until you're sure everything is correct. You may want to have a friend or family member look over them for you as well.
After you sign your forms, make at least two copies of every document you're going to file with the court. You'll need one copy to have delivered to your spouse and another copy for your own records, since the court will keep the originals.
 To file your petition for annulment, you must take your court documents to the clerk of the court that you want to grant your annulment. In most cases this will be the civil or family court in the county where you live.Call the clerk's office before you go if you want to make sure you have the right place. While they can't offer you legal advice about your case, they should be able to tell you if you have the right court based on your residency.
When you take your documents and copies to the clerk's office, you'll have to pay a filing fee. While the amount of the fee varies among courts, it typically is several hundred dollars.
If you can't afford the filing fee, ask the clerk for an application for a fee waiver. In some courts this is called an affidavit of indigency.
The application requires you to provide information about your income and assets. If these fall below a certain threshold established by your state, court costs will be waived for you. Typically, you will qualify if you receive public benefits.
The clerk will stamp your documents "filed" with the date and assign your petition a case number. This information must be entered on the summons for your spouse. The clerk will then give your copies back to you.
 Once the court documents have been properly delivered to your spouse, you must file a proof of service form with the court. Since you must have the documents sent overseas, this can take some time.The clerk typically will have proof of service forms in their office. It will be easiest for you if you go ahead and pick one up while you're filing your petition for annulment.
You also may be able to download this form from the court's website. However, if paper forms are available at the clerk's office it will probably be more convenient for you to pick it up while you're there.
Ask the clerk who filed your petition if you can get a proof of service form from them. If they don't have one available to give to you, they'll let you know where you can get one.
 Different countries allow service of legal documents in different ways. You must find out what methods are accepted in the country where your spouse is located before you begin the process.You can find basic information about service of process in different countries by checking the State Department's website. Search for "service of process" at state.gov to find the information.
You also can find out how to serve your spouse by calling the State Department and asking for the desk that services the country or region where your spouse is currently located.
If your spouse is in the military and is deployed overseas, they may still be considered to be on U.S. territory.
Different rules apply for service of people in the military, and your hearing may be postponed until your spouse returns to the U.S. You may want to contact an attorney for assistance.
 In many countries, you can have legal documents served on someone currently located there by mailing them using international registered mail, with return receipt and restricted delivery.The State Department has a table on its website that you can use to determine whether service by mail is available.
On the State Department's page about service of process, click on the link to the Hague Conference on Private International Law under the section on "service by international registered mail."
Find the country where your spouse is presently located on the table, then look at the column for Article 10(a). This is the section of the Hague Convention that addresses service by international registered mail.
If the table lists "no opposition" for the country where your spouse is currently located, you can serve them using international registered mail.
You can arrange for international registered mail by visiting your local U.S. post office. Have a friend or family member come with you to do the actual mailing – you can't mail the documents yourself according to legal service of process rules.
 If you aren't able to have your spouse served by mailing the court documents, check with the State Department about making arrangements for personal service. If you know someone in the same country, you may be able to get them to deliver the documents for you.Check with the State Department before you use this method to make sure it is accepted by the country where your spouse is currently located.
Generally, you want to make sure the person you have deliver the documents to your spouse can speak and read English, so they can correctly complete the proof of service document.
You must mail the court documents and the proof of service document to the person who will deliver the documents to your spouse.
You may want to include a self-addressed, stamped envelope that they can use to mail the proof of service document back to you.
 In some countries, you may be able to get a foreign attorney or registered service agent to serve the documents on your spouse. You typically must pay this person a fee, which will vary widely from a few dollars to a few hundred dollars depending on the country.You can contact the State Department to find out what kind of attorney you need to hire in the country where your spouse is located.
Many countries have specialized names for attorneys, as opposed to American attorneys who can perform all legal services. For example, in some countries you would need to hire a legal professional called a "barrister" to appear in court.
However, you wouldn't need to hire a barrister simply to serve documents, and their fees generally would be much higher than the services of a notary, who can serve documents but cannot appear in court.
Fees for these services can vary widely. To avoid paying too much, talk to several attorneys and get quotes so you have a range. If one attorney is asking for a fee significantly greater than the others, they're probably trying to take advantage of you.
 Letters rogatory are basic legal documents that request judicial assistance from the judicial authority in the country where your spouse is located. While these documents typically are used to find and produce evidence, they also may be used for service of documents.Your letters rogatory should be written in plain English, using a normal business letter format. Provide a brief summary of your case and the services you need. You may wish to include a copy of your court documents.
You also should include the name and address, as well as any other identifying information about your spouse so they can be located.
You'll have to find out the correct judicial authority to send your letters rogatory. This typically is the head judge in the area of the country where your spouse is located.
 Once you receive proof that the petition, summons, and related documents have been served on your spouse, you must file your proof of service form with the court where you filed your petition.Make a copy of this form for your records before you file it. The court clerk will keep the original.
When you file your proof of service, you may have to request a hearing on your petition at that time, if your hearing has not already been set.
In other courts, the clerk will assign a hearing date for you, or give you a list of dates from which to choose.
Keep in mind that if your hearing has not yet been set, you also must have your spouse served with notice of the hearing.
 Before the date of your hearing, gather all the court documents you've filed along with any evidence. Make at least two copies of any documents you plan to introduce as evidence, and file them neatly in a folder or binder.You'll need copies of your marriage certificate, as well as other documents such as birth certificates or divorce decrees that you intend to submit as proof.
For example, if you are seeking an annulment based on the fact that your spouse was still married to someone else when you were married, you would need a copy of your spouse's other marriage certificate, your marriage certificate, and any divorce decree for your spouse's prior marriage.
Typically you must also prepare a decree for the judge to sign if they decide to grant your annulment. If you were able to get fill-in-the-blank forms, there typically will be a decree included with these forms.
If a decree is not included, you can ask the clerk of the court for a decree issued in another annulment that you can use as guidance to create your own decree. Just substitute names and other language that is relevant to your own case.
 On the date your hearing is scheduled, try to arrive at the courthouse at least a half hour early. This will give you time to park, go through courthouse security, and find the right courtroom.Dress in clean, conservative clothing, similar to what you would wear if you were going to a religious service or a job interview.
Check the court's rules before you go to make sure you don't have anything with you, such as a pocket knife or a cell phone, that isn't allowed in the courtroom.
When you find your courtroom, take a seat in the gallery and wait for your case to be called. The judge typically will be hearing more than one case in the same session.
Paying attention to the cases heard before yours can help you prepare for your case. You'll become more familiar with what will be expected of you once your case is called.
 If you're appearing without an attorney, the judge typically will ask you questions about your marriage and the reason you're seeking an annulment. You will be under oath when you answer these questions.You may be able to stand in front of the judge, or you may be asked to move to the witness stand. A court officer will swear you in before the hearing proceeds.
When the judge asks you questions, speak loudly in a clear voice so the judge can understand you. Don't mumble or look at your papers to respond.
If the judge asks you for a document, hand it to the bailiff. They will pass it to the judge.
Keep in mind that your spouse has the right to attend the hearing, and may be there. If they have appeared, the judge will allow them to explain their objection to the annulment.
If your spouse didn't show up, or doesn't contest the annulment, you may be eligible to get an annulment by default.
However, you still must demonstrate to the judge that you are entitled to an annulment and provide proof that your spouse was served with the documents and had notice of the hearing.
 If the judge decides to grant your annulment, he or she will enter a written decree annulling your marriage. From this point, your marriage is officially annulled.Typically the judge will give you their decision directly following your testimony. However, you may have to wait a day or two to get a copy of the written decree.
In other courts, the judge will ask you if you have a decree prepared. If you do, give the document to the bailiff. They will hand it to the judge, who will sign it and pass it back.
If you get a written decree this way, you must take it to the clerk's office immediately after the hearing and file it. The clerk will make a copy for you to have for your records as well as one to send to your spouse.
 Assuming your spouse did not appear at your court hearing, you must have the written decree served on them. Although your marriage is officially annulled at this point, the annulment does not have full legal effect until the appeals period has ended.Even in the case of a default decree, courts still have a period after the judge enters the decree when your spouse has the right to contest the entry of the decree.
This period varies among courts, but ranges between two weeks and 30 days. After that period has elapsed, your annulment is considered official from the date the order was entered.
If your spouse files any court documents or gives any indication that they want to contest entry of the annulment, contact a local attorney as soon as possible to discuss your options.

