 While some people simply don't like the invasion of privacy, when it comes to dating, it's almost a given that any promising relationship will involve seeing one another through this medium. If you ask and they persistently refuse, it's quite possible that this person is hiding something;
, Are all of the photos brilliant? Does the person look absolutely perfect in every shot? If the photos look too good to be true, then perhaps they are. It's a good idea to do an online image search to see whether the photos have been lifted from another website or photo repository.
 Be suspicious if they refuse to send any or send very few and those few all show the person in the same style or clothes (it might be lifted from a photo shoot for fashion or similar, from a website).
 Do they have any? Who are these friends and followers? Is there a lot of interaction and friendly banter or barely anything there? Things to be wary of include:


They are not tagged in anything by anyone.
There are only pictures of themselves, no repeated shots with friends or family.
 Use whatever information this person has provided you with to see if you can piece together the real person. Use images, phone numbers, identifying information, to see what comes back.


Be aware that not much will come back for very private persons. This is always something you have to balance when smoking out a catfish––either the person is lying or they're extremely private.
 Provide proof if they want it but you don't need to go overboard. After all, they're the one doing the lying.
 If they do not comply, maybe it is best because you are better off with out them. You do not need closure on something that is fake.
 This is only healthy.
 One rotten apple shouldn't spoil the whole bunch. Put it behind you and don't let it ruin things for you.
 Look through the profiles of other people, with a bit more wisdom this time about what to watch out for. Find some new people to connect with and take it from there.
 Distract yourself for a while before trying to find online friends or dates again. Spend time with real life friends, do hobbies, go to the movies or treat yourself to dinner.

