 While there are many variations on the theme, most DIY perfume mists are made of the same four basic ingredients – essential oil(s), alcohol, distilled water and glycerin.These botanical blends are all-natural, unlike most store-bought perfumes and colognes, which are made of synthetic ingredients. To make 8 fluid ounces (240 ml) (1 cup) of perfume mist, you will need:


10 tablespoons of alcohol;
½ tablespoon of essential oil(s);
4 tablespoons of distilled water;
½ tablespoon of vegetable glycerin.;
, Using a clean container and spoon, slowly stir the alcohol and essential oil(s) of your choice together. Gently swirl the ingredients around about 20 times with your spoon until they are evenly mixed together.


Both rubbing alcohol and vodka are acceptable choices for this recipe. However, rubbing alcohol will have a strong alcohol scent that many people dislike, whereas vodka is much more neutral.If you’d prefer not to use any form of alcohol (which some people find too harsh or drying), you can substitute with witch hazel instead.The essential oils used are a completely personal choice. You can use one that you particularly love by itself, or use several to create different scents and customized blends.
 Using clean instruments, mix these two ingredients together. You don’t need to whisk them vigorously – about 15-20 swirls around with your spoon will get the job done. The vegetable glycerin can even be omitted if you wish. However, since it acts as a binding agent for the ingredients, it is recommended that you use it if at all possible. Glycerin also moisturizes and allows the perfume mist to last much longer on your skin. If you do omit it, you will still end up with a great smelling end product, but the scent will fade fairly quickly.
You can also substitute vegetable oil, jojoba oil or even olive oil for the glycerin. These oils act as binders and carriers, just as glycerin does.
Distilled water is the most recommended choice, but filtered and mineral water will also work.For an even longer lasting scent, substitute rose water or orange flower water for the distilled water. These substances will enhance the scent and nourish your skin.
 Bring the two separate mixes together by either combining them using an entirely new container, or you can pour the contents of one into the other. Stir the ingredients together slowly for about 60 seconds until they are mixed together well.
 Use a funnel if this makes it easier for you to transmit the fluid into a glass or plastic spray bottle. The spray bottle you choose can be new or used, that’s up to you. If you are re-purposing a used bottle, sterilize it first so that you have a completely clean vessel for your blend.


Dark containers are the best choice, since even minimal exposure to light can diminish your scent.Plastic bottles hold diluted essential oils, such as your perfume mist, very well. However, never store undiluted essential oils in plastic containers, since the potent oils can damage and deteriorate plastic., During this interval the blend’s ingredients will meld and it will allow the scent to fully develop. Take the bottle out every day and shake it a few times to encourage the recipe to blend.


After the two weeks pass, your perfume mist is ready to use!

, To preserve the integrity and shelf life of your perfume mist, keep it away from extreme temperatures. Don’t store it in your bathroom, since the heat and humidity will break down its molecular structure. Don’t store it near a window or expose it to sunlight, which will degrade the blend.


Hot, humid atmospheres like bathrooms can also encourage bacteria to grow inside your bottle, which is a potential health risk.
Make sure your bottle is airtight and keep the cap on it at all times when it’s not in use.
The alcohol in your mist will evaporate quickly when exposed to air and your mixture will dry up more quickly.