 Interactive play sessions in the evening are a great way to get your cat tired before bedtime. Toys that mimic the movements of mice and birds, which cats hunt in the wild, are ideal options. Look for toys that bounce and wiggles, like ping-pong balls, string-based toys, and furry mouse toys. Play until your cat seems tired or uninterested. Cats hunt in short bursts, so they tire quickly (like sprinters, not marathon runners). They usually tire after 10 to 15 minutes max. However, make sure there's plenty of play spaced over the day., Our pets lives revolve our comings and goings. Oftentimes, cats get bored during the day when their owners are gone. This leads to an excess of neediness later in the day, when you're trying to wind down and get to sleep. Keep your cat entertained while you're at work or school and they'll be less likely to need attention at night.


Provide toys your cat can play with on his own. Small plush mice, especially those laced with catnip, are a great choice. They can be swatted around without a human's assistance. Make sure to rotate toys often as cats, like people, crave variety and will get bored with the same toy after awhile.DVD's are available for purchase online and at some department stores that are designed specifically for cats. Video CatNip from Pet-A-Vision Inc., for example, includes footage of birds and mice that cats will try to catch when you're not home. Just leave the TV on and make sure it's at the cat's eye level.Battery operated toys are available at most grocery stores, department stores, and supermarkets. These toys move on their own and can be left on for a few hours while you are at work. However, be sure to read any warning labels. Some battery operated toys recommend cats only use them with supervision.
 Cats love windows, and enjoy being able to see the outside world. Anything you can do to make your backyard more appealing is great. Installing a bird feeder is a low-cost way to give your cat something to watch while you're at home.


Set up your feeder in a quiet place where it's easy to stock and refill. Feeders should ideally be close to natural shelters, like trees and shrubs, where birds will feel safe.
Make sure your feeder is at least three feet away from your window. This reduces the likelihood of window collisions, which kill millions of birds each year.