 Photoshop may be in many places on your computer. The easiest way to find it, if you have any difficulty, is to use the spotlight search at the top right of your Mac screen.
 Use the same photo as the fill method or try a new one. The vignette looks good on just about any photo. Press open on the Photoshop main screen. Finder will appear. Choose whatever photo from your files you want to edit to get started.
 This tool allows you to draw any type of square or rectangular selection on your photo. You use it by simply click and dragging the mouse to make the rectangle bigger or smaller in any direction, then letting go when you are finished. It won't actually draw anything over your photo. It simply creates a selection so you can edit just that part of your photo without disturbing the rest.


This tool can be found in the tool bar on the left. It is located second from the top.
If you press and hold down on the tool, a small box will appear with different variations of the tool.
You can also elect it by using hot key "M".
 In this method, you are beginning to create a border to help you draw within the lines.


Using the Marquee tool drag from just inside the top left of your photo and down to the bottom right.
More spaces on the edges will result in a larger vignette.
 The term "feather" on Photoshop means "soft edges." This method doesn't require soft edges. Feathering will turn your rectangle intro an ellipse, but by creating a rectangle first, it is easier to center. Using the Ellipse Marquee tool is more difficult to center. This step can be done two ways.


If you are using a mouse, right click in the middle of your rectangle and select "Feather".
If you are using a trackpad, click with two fingers and select "Feather".
 It should turn into an ellipse. Feel free to experiment with different pixel amounts. The more you play around with different sizes, the more you will learn and be able to use in future projects. 500 px is a good basis, but you may find you prefer a larger or smaller amount for your vignette.


This will serve as a guide to help you draw between the lines in future steps.
 The burn tool is located towards the middle of your tool bar. It looks like a hand making an "O". Similar to the Marquee tool, there are different variants. If you do not see it, look for a tool that looks like a lollipop. Press and hold on that tool and a smaller menu will appear, giving you the option between the dodge tool, the burn tool, and the sponge tool. The burn tool allows you to draw over your photo and darken wherever you draw.


It can also be selected using hot key "O".
 This will create your vignette effect. The burn tool darkens and takes the place of using "fill" from the last method.


Adjust the size, hardness, and exposure of the brush to find your own preference. If it is not as dark as you wish, draw over it again. These settings can be found in the top tool bar, above your photo.
It may be necessary to draw around your photo several times to achieve the darkness you desire.
This method is useful to slightly darken the edges when you want the subject to stand out.
 You have created your second vignette and now all that is left to do is admire your work. Get it printed and framed for your home or office, post it on the social media of your choice to show it off to your friends, or make your new background for your computer. Keep practicing both of these methods and soon you will be a vignette expert.

