 Caffeine, alcohol, and sugar can make cramps feel worse and cause them to last longer.Limiting these substances throughout the month, and especially during your period when you feel cramps coming on, can prevent cramps from feeling as painful.


Limit your intake of coffee, black tea, and caffeinated soda.
Avoid drinking too much wine, beer, or hard alcohol, especially while you're on your period.
Reduce your consumption of fast food, snack foods, and other foods that have high glycemic indices (foods that are high in carbohydrates, salt and sugar).
 Studies show that women who exercise regularly don't experience cramps as severely as women who don't exercise regularly.Exercising throughout the month helps to prevent severe cramps, and exercising while you have cramps can loosen your muscles and ease some of the pain.


Incorporate running, walking, biking, or swimming into your routine.
Strength training strengthens your muscles and contributes to overall wellness, so it's a good idea to add this component to your workouts.
Yoga is a relaxing form of exercise to try while you are experiencing cramps.
Also, being closer to your ideal body weight has been correlated with reduced pain during menstrual cramps., The birth control pill thins the uterine lining, so the uterus doesn't contract as much to release it when your period comes. Speak to your doctor about getting a prescription for birth control pills if this is of interest to you. It is actually the first-line medical treatment used in cases of severe menstrual cramps.


The same hormones as those found in the birth control pill can also be administered using injections, a patch, or a vaginal ring. Talk to your doctor about the best method for your needs.
Another option is to try progesterone-only treatment. This is usually tried as a secondary measure if the birth control pill does not work; however, for some women, it seems to be more effective., It functions both as contraception, and has the added benefit of greatly diminishing menstrual flow and menstrual cramps. Some women find that their period almost disappears when they are using a progestin IUD (the bleeding and cramping becomes very light, and for some women it can go away altogether). Getting a progestin IUD may be more expensive upfront (speak to your doctor about the costs, which are usually a few hundred dollars); however, they are often covered by insurance and you can leave it in and it is effective for up to five years.


Having a progestin IUD inserted is one of the most effective long-term solutions for alleviating painful menstrual cramps.
The progestin IUD is also the "gold standard" of contraception, which is the term doctors use to describe the fact that it is the number one most effective way to prevent unwanted pregnancies.
 Some supplements such as Chasteberry, Macagen, and Magnesium, among others, have been shown to reduce painful menstrual cramps. Other complementary alternative therapies to try are ginger, zinc sulfate and turmeric. All of these have been shown to help with pain relief of menstrual cramps due to its anti-inflammatory and analgesic (pain-reducing) properties.Speak to your naturopath if this is an avenue you would like to explore.
 Therefore, if you have been considering quitting and also happen to suffer from painful period cramps, now may be the time to quit smoking as the benefits to your health are multiple.

