 You can find the photo you want either by looking through your own photos or browsing your friends' photos. See below:



One of your own photos: Click on "Photos" at the top of your home page. Here, you can browse the photos you've taken as well as the photos other people have taken of you with the links at the top.

A friend's photo: Go to the friend's profile and select "Photos" from the menu bar. On the next page, browse through the photos of your friend and the photos your friend has taken with the links at the top.
You can also tag any photo that you see in your news feed (or a friend's).;
, Once you see the photo you want to tag, click on it. This will open a larger version of the photo along with options for tagging it.
 On your own photos, this button is on the right side of the photo page (next to any caption or comments), labeled with this text and a picture of a tag.


If you don't see this option, just place your cursor anywhere over the picture and a popup info bar will appear at the bottom. Click the "Tag Photo" button in the bar.
 If the person you want to tag is in the photo, just click on his or her face. This will bring up a new popup menu.


If you're tagging someone who isn't in the photo, just click somewhere in the photo that's not a face (like in the corner). Facebook users sometimes do this to tag the photographer, for example, but you can also tag someone who has no connection to the photo if you think they should see it.
 In the text box that pops up, start typing in the person's name. A list of friends that match your text will show up below. Click the name of the friend you want.
 Once you've placed one tag, just repeat the steps above to add more. You can add as many tags as you want anywhere on the photo. However, you can't tag the same person twice in one photo.


A word of warning: it's sometimes considered rude or obnoxious to go overboard with tagging. For example, if you tag your friends in photos from a few years ago, they'll all receive a notification for something that's not "new" — many consider this slightly annoying.
 When you are finished tagging the photo, click the "Done Tagging" button at the bottom of the photo or to the right. You can also just press "Enter."If you've tagged one of your friends, you're all done! However, if you've tagged someone that you're not friends with, then you have to wait until the person reviews and accepts the tag before it will show up.