 When the puppies are born, they will be covered in a thin membrane – the placental sac – which their mother should remove by licking it off. However, if the mother is too engaged in pacing and concentrating on her labor, you might need to intervene and remove the placental sac yourself.


If your dog has not removed its pup’s placental sac after a few seconds, take a damp cloth and gently rub the puppy’s face. This approximates the natural licking behavior of the pup’s mother that should remove the sac.
If the sac remains on the pup too long, it might suffocate.
Once the sac is off, the pup will be wet with placental fluid. Use a clean, warm towel to dry the puppy off, making vigorous rubbing motions along the length of its body.
 The umbilical cord is a long cord that connects the uterus of the mother to the abdomen of its puppy. During the mother dog’s pregnancy, the umbilical cord provides food and nutrients to the growing puppy. After the pup is born, however, the umbilical cord is no longer needed. The mother dog should gnaw at the cord until it is severed, but if she doesn’t you should be ready to help.


To snip the umbilical cord, measure ½ an inch (1 centimeter) away from the puppy’s body, and tie it with thread or unwaxed floss. This will narrow the diameter of the cord, making it easier to cut. Then, use a sharp pair of shears and cut straight through it.
If the cord bleeds, tie it with a suture.
The two portions will shrivel up and drop off in time.
 All the excitement of being born will make your puppies hungry. Some pups need a brief rest before nursing. Other pups are able to head straight for their mother and suckle their fill. In either case, wait until the puppy has finished nursing and your dog is back on its feet before removing the pup to the incubation chamber., You can easily craft a makeshift incubation chamber by placing a heating pad in the bottom of a laundry basket or medium-sized cardboard box, then placing a heavy blanket over the heating pad. As your dog births puppies, remove them to the incubation chamber until your dog is no longer in labor.


Large breed dogs, especially, may accidentally stomp on their own puppies while pacing about in the whelping box during labor. Removing puppies to an incubation chamber is, for that reason, especially important.
Try not to overcrowd the incubation chamber. If necessary, create another. Try to keep no more than two puppies together in one chamber.
 When your new puppies come out, you’ll need to keep track of who’s who. Note all the details associated with the birth in a journal or chart. Assign each puppy a number (i.e., Pup 1, Pup 2, Pup 3…), the time they were born, their sex, weight, and any marking you might have made (some people like to dab a small bit of colored, nontoxic nail polish on their puppies to keep track of which is which).Most importantly of all, make sure that after each puppy is born, the placenta comes out. The placenta is an organ that provides nutrients and eliminates waste of unborn animals. If the mother does not eject the placenta after giving birth, she can get very ill.
Normally, the placenta will immediately come out after the puppy is born and the mother will consume it. But sometimes the placenta might not eject right away, and sometimes the mother might not eat all the placenta. It’s possible that your dog will bear two puppies and then eject two placenta.
Use the chart to mark down when the placenta come out and contact your vet if your dog does not eject all its placenta.
As your puppies grow over the next couple of weeks, use the chart to monitor their weight. Their weights might decrease slightly immediately after birth, but by the end of the week they should weigh twice as much as they did when they were born. If they do not, contact your vet.
 Once your dog has finished whelping, take it outside so it can relieve itself. While it’s out, change the blankets and other materials lining your whelping box. It will likely have wet layers of newsprint or damp blankets at this point. Remove them along with the underlying plastic bag and replace them with dry materials., After your large breed dog is back in its whelping box, take the pups out of their incubation chamber and reunite them with their mother. They may be hungry and want to suckle again. The puppies will remain vulnerable for several weeks and should not be separated from their mother until your vet indicates that it is okay to do so.