 Preferably beach. If you don't live near one, encourage a group of mates to take up the sport with you and go on surfing trips to the coast occasionally. Book a campsite/stay at a surf lodge, have barbecues...they're really fun! If you're at a university see whether they have a surfing club or society. If not, start one! You'll probably get quite a lot of interest and then organizing trips to the coast will be a doddle.
 Go down to the coast and get some lessons, it's hard at first but once you get the hang of it, and the more you practice, the better you'll get! Surf hire is usually quite cheap, and if you've got a friend who can teach you, great! Or you can find a cute surfer guy willing to show you how...if not, there are so many places offering surfing lessons. You have to know the basics of surfing, and a bunch of tricks. The main idea of being a surfer girl is to surf a lot! But make sure you also know the technical aspects, so you know what you're talking about when you get into a conversation with a surfer guy!

, Have a surfboard that looks good with all your bathing suits. Remember, the colors don't matter as much as the quality of the board. Bad board with good pictures are bad. If you can't afford one then rent one while you save up! If you are a beginner, get a long surfboard, it catches waves easier and and quicker and also maneuvers easier. The more experienced you get, the shorter board you get!

, You'll want a beach body with all the time you'll be spending there! Of course, with all the surfing you'll be doing I'm sure this will come in time. Take up a beach sport like volleyball, or go running on the sand. It's great for your legs and allows you to check out the other surfers! Remember to eat as healthily as you can as well.
 Surfer girls are confident, optimistic and fun. They never take life too seriously, they're known to be cool people and down with everything. Be open minded and be ready to try new things. If someone does something you don't agree with, don't start criticizing, let them do what they want, it's none of your concern - unless they're doing something that is hurting you or someone else, in which case it's good to stand up for yourself/them. If someone complains about you, take it in your stride - you can't please everyone. If someone's nasty to your face, smile and shrug. The word to base your attitude on is 'chilled' - relax and take life as it rolls in with the waves. Be a hippie. This doesn't mean you necessarily have to take the drugs though, even though smoking cannabis is glamourized in surfer movies and is part of the cultures, not all surfers do this.
 You can't beat a bit of reggae and ska either. Check out Sublime and Jack Johnson too.
 One, it's important to improve balance and core strength which will help you when you're surfing, and secondly it's peaceful. Surfers are peaceful people.
 If you're a surfer you care about nature and respect it. Recycle, and learn about ocean preservation and wildlife so you know what you're surfing in and try to protect it.
 This is optional, but it's awesome when a girl can play guitar, and sing-a-longs on the beach at sunset after a surf session are awesome. Even if you don't play well, practice a few well known songs. These would include Sublime songs such as Bad Fish and Santeria.
 Optional, but, let's face it, surfer guys are the hottest guys around, and it's nice to have someone to share the waves with you and then cuddle up to on the beach watching the sunset after your afternoon session.
