 For people who are in a relationship, alone time is a luxury. Acknowledging that alone time is a luxury for many people may help you to accept being alone and to enjoy your alone time as much as possible.


Try making a list of all the things that you enjoy doing and use your alone time to do some of these things. For example, you might include on your list things like, baking, knitting, painting, playing the guitar, or reading.
 Being single means that you are more than likely the sole responsibility in your life. You don’t have to think of anyone else when making decisions. Take advantage of this and treat yourself. Do something for yourself that you’ve always wanted to do.For example, buy yourself a nice car or save for a house. Take a trip to a place you’ve always dreamed of going. Learn a new hobby, get another degree, or take a class. Make this time about doing things you want to do.
 Instead of hitting the bars every night or sitting at home feeling depressed, go out and pursue your interests. This can help you find ways to be happy and keep from being desperate. Pursuing your interests can also give you opportunities to meet new people and socialize.For example, go to sports games or concerts. Find a book club or a group who likes to play board games. Get back into knitting or hiking. Figure out what your interests are and focus on them instead of your relationship status.
 It is natural to want to date and be in a fulfilling relationship. There is nothing wrong with wanting to love someone. But you should put your focus on yourself and learning how to love yourself. If you accept yourself and love yourself, you will find that you are less desperate to be in a relationship.Many desperate people need to be with someone. Often, this is because they don’t feel like they are enough. Stop thinking that you are not enough. You are not going to be able to truly love someone else until you love yourself.
You might even try dating yourself. Things like getting dressed up, going out to exotic restaurants, and receiving compliments and presents are all things that you can do for yourself. Try taking yourself out on a date at least once per week. When you do, get dressed up, go someplace special or prepare yourself a special meal, and give yourself compliments and presents.
 Many single people think that they are missing something from their life if they are not in a relationship. They also think that their life can’t start until they are with someone. Try to stop thinking this way. Your life can be full and fulfilling even if you are single.Think about the things that are good in your life. Make a list of things you enjoy, things that are positive in your life, and things you are proud of. This can help you see how important your life already is.
 You may really want a relationship, but you shouldn’t drop and ignore your friends. You may stop hanging out with your friends in order to go places where you can find a partner, or the moment you get a date, you forget you have friends. Balance your life and keep spending time with your friends.Your friends aren’t going to give you romantic satisfaction, but your friends can provide you with support, understanding, and companionship even if you are single.
Don’t ignore the pleasure of the relationships with your friends just because you don’t want to be single.
Maintain good relationships with your old friends and family members. You can even work on making some new friends. Work on cultivating a full, enjoyable social life without dating someone.

