 If your parents have to constantly remind you to do your chores, they may not think that you’re responsible enough to start going on dates. When you’re dating, it’s important that you make responsible decisions and prioritize what’s important, because the choices you make when you’re young can impact the rest of your life.Maintaining a clean room and helping with the dishes or laundry is a great way to get on your parent’s good side.
Taking care of a household pet by walking it or feeding it is another way to show you’re responsible.;
, Some parents believe that dating is a distraction from school. If your aren’t maintaining good grades, then this may be the reason you’re not allowed to date. Social factors actually do affect academic performance, so stay on top of your studies.Make sure to not skip class and do your homework so you can maintain a good GPA.


Put school as a priority over your social life, if you’re struggling with your grades.
Get a good night's rest before you have to go to school, so you’re sharp during the school day.
If you’re still having trouble with a subject, consider getting a tutor to help you.
 Even though it may feel frustrating that you can’t date, it’s important that you keep your cool. Don’t yell or say hurtful things to your parents or other family members.


If you have younger siblings, make sure to be a role model and don’t bully them.
If you feel yourself getting mad, take a step back and revisit the conversation later.
Being more kind will not only be appreciated by your family, it will also make you feel better emotionally., If you’re working and can afford to buy your own things, this will be a sign to your parents that you’re old enough to date. When you can afford to buy your own movie or concert tickets, it also makes it easier to plan a date because you don’t have to ask your parents for money.


Some good jobs for young people include working at a restaurant, working in retail, being a camp counselor, tutoring, or baby sitting.
Look at online job boards to see local openings.
Talk to your parents about your desire to get a job before you start applying.
Remember to figure out reliable transportation to and from your job.
 If you can’t follow your parent’s rules while they are around, it’s unlikely that they will trust you. Lying is also another way to get your parents to distrust you, so make sure to tell them the truth, even when you’re breaking one of their rules.Dating behind your parent’s back may hurt your chances to date people in the long run.
 A good way to negotiate with your parents, and show them that you’re mature, is to offer them something in return for the ability to go on dates. Set a goal you know is achievable and say “I will raise my grade in science, if you let me date.”


It might take a long time for your parents to see results in your grades. Have patience and bring it up during report card time.
If you keep getting in trouble in school, promise to improve your behavior and aim to be more respectful to teachers and other students.
You can improve other things in exchange for dating privileges, such as promising to wake up for school on time or being nicer to your brothers and sisters.
You can’t just do something positive once and then forget about it. If you want to be able to date, you need to maintain it over the long run.

