 One way you can meet people and build relationships with others is to join a social club at school or at work. Try to pick a social club that meets regularly. You join the student social club at school or the social committee at work. This type of club can really allow you to socialize and get to know others around you.Once you have joined the social club, you should make an effort to participate in the activities in the club and be an active member of the club. Showing enthusiasm and positivity can encourage others around you to become friends with you.
 Another way you can build friendships is to spend your free time volunteering with organizations or groups in your community. Pick a cause that you are passionate about, such as helping the homeless or working with underprivileged kids. Then, see if there is a group or organization in your community that tries to address this cause.If there is no existing organization or group that serves your cause, you may start up your own organization and try to recruit members. This could be a good way for you to reach out to others in your community and connect.
 You can create friendships with others by taking up a challenge or activity where you have to work in a team. This could be a team sporting event where you work together as a team or an arts event where you work with a group of other artists. Look for team challenges or activities in your area or community and sign up.If you are shy you may find it easier to do team challenges online. You may join an online gaming challenge and connect with others that way. Over time, you may end up moving your relationships with the other players into the real world, with face to face hang outs.
 You can also use your interests to help you connect with others. Focus on a hobby or activity you enjoy and see if there is a group that does this activity together. This will allow you to do something you like and be social at the same time.For example, maybe you enjoy playing basketball. You could then see if there is a basketball league in your community or a basketball after-school club. You could join the league to connect with other players and make friends.
 Once you have put yourself in a social situation where you are surrounded by new people, you should make an effort to initiate conversations. You may start a good conversation with the person next to you or tell a funny story to get someone's attention and engage them in conversation. Striking up a conversation with a person could lead to hang outs in the future and the forming of a new friendship.


While you are talking to the new person, you should maintain open body language. Maintain eye contact with the person you are talking to and keep your arms relaxed at your sides, with your body turned towards the person.
You should also try to talk to new people on a daily basis, if only to help you get better at talking to others. Chatting with someone on a consistent basis, or every time you see them, can lead to the formation of a friendship. You may be comfortable with initiating a hang out once you have spoken to the person a few times and you both seem to get along.

