 Be creative and personalize the container to fit the person you're making the bouquet for. A sand pail makes a great container for a child's bouquet. Use a parfait cup, coffee cup, or a soup mug for a friend, co-worker or teacher; a vintage tin for an antique collector; a small tackle box for an angler; a clay or plastic flower pot for a gardener or a popcorn bucket for a movie buff.;
, Choose candy that you or the giftee loves, as well as candy that looks visually appealing and stands out. You should stock up on a variety of wrapped candies such as bubble gum, small candy bars, toffees, or chocolate kisses. Any securely wrapped candy will work.Choose colors appropriate for the occasion, such as bright primary colors for a young child, pink and blue for a baby shower, gold or silver for an anniversary, black and orange for Halloween, red and white for Valentine's Day, green and white for St. Patrick's day or red and green for Christmas.
 Trace the bottom of the container onto the chunk of Styrofoam and then cut out the shape you've made and glue it to the bottom of the container, putting glue on the sides and the bottom of the shape. Wait a few minutes for the Styrofoam to dry completely before you put the candy in -- unless you'd also like to glue the candy to the sides of the container., You can also use a thick popsicle stick instead of a skewer. Anything that is long and thick enough to hold up the candy will do. Insert the skewer into the center of the Styrofoam base, securing the skewer with a dab of glue. Put a small amount of glue on the other end of the skewer, then poke the glued end into the center of a Styrofoam ball.


Use a Styrofoam ball appropriate for the size of your container. As a general rule, a ball the size of a tennis ball or baseball works well for most arrangements.
You can also wrap the Styrofoam ball with green tape or paint it green, for an added effect.
 Pin one or both ends of each wrapped candy. Continue pinning the candy to the ball one at a time until it is completely covered with wrapped candies. When you've done this, you can also stick the skewer into the Styrofoam at the bottom of the container.
 Alternatively, use small bows and loops tied from narrow, ¼-inch ribbon. Pick any design that would make the candy bouquet look even more festive and visually appealing.
 This will make the bouquet look more finished and will hide the Styrofoam bottom. You can also stick a few candy canes or pieces of candy appropriate to the occasion into the bottom of the basket. Finish your candy bouquet by tying a big, colorful bow around the container.

