 You have to know something about a song to find it. Anything that you can remember about the song will be helpful in narrowing down your search.


Is the song sung by a man or a woman?
Does it sound old or new? Any country song with AutoTune or electronic drum fills isn't going to be by George Jones.
What's the song about? try to remember any words from the song at all. try to remember the content of the song.
 Open Google and type any lyrics that you remember in quotation marks. Then type the word "lyrics" and any other context that you can remember. See what comes up, then search for the song in YouTube or iTunes or some other database of your choice. The chorus is best, but any lyrics are helpful.


Cowboy Lyrics is the best country music lyric database on the internet, but Google will usually take you there. It tends to skew more toward classic country, rather than contemporary pop country, though, so it might be hard to find what you're looking for.
 If the song was less memorable than the video that you saw, try to describe it. What happens in the video? What's the plot? Describe the video in as much detail as possible in your search.


Keep it short and to-the-point: "country music video car wreck on a dirt road"

, If you're fairly certain the song was new when you heard it, check out what new singles were released in the last couple weeks, and what country songs are climbing the charts. Make a playlist of the songs and listen to them to see if your song is in there. If not, you might find one you like even more.
 If you hear the song being played, write down some of the lyrics so that you can search them on the Internet later. Some radio stations announce the title of the song and the artist after the song is over, but others may not. Either way, you can hear the song again and learn more about tit.


Write down the name of the station and the time that you heard the song. Lots of radio stations put playlists online, if they don't call them out on air. You could also call the DJs of the radio stations and try to describe the song.

