 Pick things up off the floor, including rugs or anything that could trip a toddler. Changes in flooring are particularly treacherous for a new walker, so be on the lookout for rough floor transitions or uneven flooring.


Dangerous floor can be easily covered with a foam play mat. Most play mats come in a variety of sizes and are made of connecting squares so that you can customize the mat to fit your space. Simply place the mat over the floor for a safer walking surface for your baby—no tools or installation required.
 Secure large pieces of furniture, like bookshelves and entertainment systems, to the wall. These large pieces of furniture can tip over easily if your baby walks into them or tries to climb them.


Attach the furniture with special baby proofing furniture hooks, found at your local home supply store, or simply use a few extra screws and hooks to make sure everything is safely attached to the wall.
 Add padding to sharp corners, which are often at head level, and remove and replace dangerous pieces. Furniture made out of hard materials, such as glass and stone, can be especially harmful. Pre-made furniture bumpers can be purchased; simply slide these bumpers onto the dangerous surfaces.


You can also make your own bumpers with quilt batting or pool noodles cut in half and slid over the rough edge.
 Now that your baby can stand up and walk, not even their own room is safe. Readjust the crib to the lowest position by removing the mattress and adjusting the bottom springs so they can’t climb out in the night.


Move the crib away from dangerous areas, such as windows and doors, or places where a child could climb or fall.
 Most children probably couldn’t reach windows before they could walk, but now windows pose a great safety threat. Install window guards, or adjustable mesh screens to stop your child from being able to open the window and fall out.


Window guards come with adjustable hardware that can be attached directly to the inside of the window or window frame. The result is a screen that doesn’t block the view, but blocks the option of a baby opening or climbing out the window.
 A simple way to do this is to loop blind cords together in a loose knot or tie the cords around a blind winder to keep them untangled and out of your baby’s reach.
 Fireplaces are especially dangerous because there are lots of way for children to get hurt, but they are also very appealing to a mobile toddler. Protect your baby from the fireplace by installing a fireplace lock. Similar to an oven lock, most fireplace locks connect with an adhesive strip to the wall and make it difficult for your child to open the fireplace door.


If you have a larger hearth and fireplace area, install a fireplace gate that wraps around and blocks off the entire area. These gates are typically installed with screws or hooks attached to the wall on either side of the fireplace and wrap around the front.
Place furniture bumpers on hard edges of a fireplace to create a soft landing.

