 The first step to create a caterpillar habitat at home is to find a suitable container in which you can create a nice environment for your caterpillar. There are a wide variety of ways you can do this, including a well-ventilated glass tank, a plastic container, or even by using a couple of 1 litre plastic soda bottles.The size of the container depends on the number of caterpillars who you will have living in there.
As a general rule, each caterpillar should have at least three times their body size in extra floor space.
So a container for 10 6cm long caterpillars should have be at least 25x25cm of floor space.
Caterpillars don’t tend to move around that much, but every caterpillar should be able to feed without coming into contact with the others.;
, To make your container suitable for caterpillars you need to ensure that it’s well ventilated, has a little humidity, and that the caterpillars can’t crawl out of it. To keep it ventilated, punch lots of small holes in the lid of a plastic container. They should be big enough for air to pass through, but small enough that the caterpillar can’t escape.


To make the habitat a little more humid, you can just add a moistened paper towel to the container.Don’t add any open water into the container, as a caterpillar can easily fall in and drown., Caterpillars don’t have complex needs, but you do need to make sure they have a constant supply of their host plant for feeding. The host plant is the plant that the caterpillar eats, and tastes can vary significantly across breeds. If you take a caterpillar you found in the wild, look at what plant he is on, and bring that too.


Some common host plants include Aster, Hollyhock, Sunflower, Snapdragon, and Violet.If you know the details about your caterpillar, you can search for host plants via the website of London’s Natural History Museum: http://internt.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/data/hostplants/search/index.dsml.
Caterpillars will typically get most of their moisture from these plants, but you can wash the leaves with clean water to leave some extra moisture for them.
You can add individual twigs and leaves, or a potted plant. If you add a potted plant make sure it is kept watered, but there is no standing water that could potentially be a drowning hazard., The next step is deciding where to place your caterpillar habitat. There is a risk of your caterpillar drying out if he is in a place with too much heat, so don't place the container in direct sunlight, such as on a sunny windowsill.Heating in the winter and air conditioning in the summer may also dry out the atmosphere and potentially harm your caterpillars.
You can keep them in an unheated place, such as a garage, or introduce more moisture to their environment by adding a wet paper towel., Perhaps the biggest potential health problem for your caterpillars comes from their own poop (or frass). If you have an enclosed caterpillar environment it is especially important that you pay close attention to this. In an enclosed environment the frass will not dry out properly as it would in an open air environment.


In a closed container you should be checking and cleaning out frass up to every day.You may want to place some tissue paper or paper towel on the bottom of the container to help catch and absorb frass. You should still change this paper daily.A more well-ventilated container could be cleaned of frass once a week. It’s important to monitor it closely and react accordingly.