 Eating out every meal can eat up half of your vacation budget if you don’t watch it.If you have a refrigerator or a cooler that you can keep stocked with ice (a microwave is a plus), get easy-to-fix foods like cereal, oatmeal, stuff for sandwiches, fruits and cold veggies, etc. Pick up drinks, too. You can eat before you leave for the day, and you can pack lunch, snacks and cold drinks to go.


Bring along a blanket and Frisbee for a picnic or BBQ in a park, making that a cheap part of your vacation experience.Save the leftovers from meals out and reheat them in the microwave for a late-night snack or for lunch the next day.
Also, if you’re a drinker, buy a bottle of wine, for instance. Have a glass in your room before you head downstairs to dinner instead of buying each glass at $9.50 in the restaurant. Take advantage of happy hours as well.
 If your hotel’s breakfast is quite expensive, if it doesn’t have a free continental breakfast, or if it’s not to your liking, combine breakfast and lunch to have a nice brunch. Now you’re only paying for two meals that day instead of three.If you did that every day over the course of a 7-day vacation, estimating you saved a conservative $12 per day, you would have saved $84 for one person. For a family of 5, that’s $420, or a plane ticket.
 Alternatively, you could make lunch, rather than dinner, your main meal of the day. Not only will you spend less on expensive alcoholic beverages but you’ll also spend less on the food. The price of lunch entrees is about 30% less than the same dinner entrees in most cities. If you find yourself wanting a snack in the late eve, pull out your lunch leftovers or grab something from your trip to the grocery store. Also, eating a nice breakfast and lunch and a light dinner is healthier., The cost of food and beverages in and around tourist areas is always inflated. Typically you only have to walk a couple of blocks to find food that is cheaper, often more fresh and that gives you a better idea of what the city or town and its people are really like. Here’s where you find authentic food and avoid the crowds in the process. It’s a win-win trek off the tourist path., Go to sites like Mamapedia.com, Groupon.com and Livingsocial.com to get discounts for restaurants, plus attractions. Apps like Foursquare and Scoutmob help you find one-time discounts also. Happy Hour Finder lists happy hours in the area. You can save up to 90% on meals when you buy Restaurant.com gift certificates online, print them and then eat using them.