 Have your foot measured when you go to the shoe store instead of taking a guess about the size. Also, try on shoes at the end of the day or after a workout, when your feet are at their largest. To ensure a good fit, wear the same type of socks or nylons that you would normally wear with the type of shoe that you are trying on.
 Before you purchase your shoes, do the following:


Re-lace the shoes if you're trying on athletic shoes. Start at the farthest eyelets and apply even pressure to the laces as you come closer to the tongue of the shoe.
Make sure that you can wiggle your toes freely inside of the shoe. Also, make sure that you have at enough space between your tallest toe and the end of the shoe. You should have room equal to about the width of your thumb in the tip of your shoe.
Walk around to make sure that the shoe has a firm grip on your heel without sliding up and down.
Walk or run a few steps to make sure your shoes are comfortable. Shoes that fit properly require no break-in period., You can purchase orthotics over the counter, or you can have orthotics specially fitted by your podiatrist. Try 1 of these options:



Heel cups: These inserts will help to align the bones in your foot and to cushion your heel. Check your skin for blisters when you first start using heel cups. Also, your feet may sweat more with a heel cup, so change your socks and shoes often.

Insoles: While you can pick up generic insoles at a drugstore, you may have more luck if you go to a store that sells athletic shoes. Push on the arch to make sure that it doesn't collapse. If your insoles help but could use a little work, you can take them to a podiatrist to get them customized.

Custom orthotics: A podiatrist can make a cast of your foot and provide you with custom-made orthotics. These may be more expensive, but they are made of materials specifically designed for your needs, and they can last up to 5 years if your podiatrist refurbishes them every 1 or 2 years. To find a podiatrist near you, look at the Web page for the American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine.Dynamic Insoles: Lack of elasticity in plantar fascia in the foot is for most people the real problem. If there is poor elasticity in the lengthwise tendons in the foot (plantar fascia) in relation to a person's general condition, only a small additional strain is required for the pull on the tendons to cause damage to the tissues connecting the tendons to the heel bone. This will generate an inflamed condition called Plantar Fasciitis.

The pain associated with Plantar Fasciitis is typically noticeable from the heel bone and forward towards the front of the foot. It is, however, also possible for the pain to show in the heel cushion, alongside the foot, on top of the foot and up into the Achilles tendon. The water wave therapy is the only therapy that works actively to solve the heel problem. This is achieved by exercising the tendons in the foot towards the necessary elasticity and at the same time providing pain relief for the heel by employing very special water-based shock absorbing and dynamic pressure relief system.



