 Open and honest communication is a cornerstone to a happy and romantic relationship. Telling your partner exactly how you feel, including your likes and dislikes, will increase clarity between you two, and help maintain overall happiness. Spend at least five minutes per day checking in with each other about the status of your relationship. Talk about how certain situations made you feel or how you would like to see some things happen differently.


When you communicate with your partner, try to frame things positively. For example, if you did not like that your partner said you would attend their work event without asking, instead of saying “Don’t make my decisions for me," say something like, “I love to support you in your job, however I would really appreciate it if we could discuss going to social events before you RSVP.”

, Create small acts of kindness that let your partner know you are thinking about them when you are apart. Your partner will appreciate the effort and will feel your love in your absence.


Other acts of kindness could include sending love texts while at work, writing “you are beautiful” on the mirror, packing their lunch the night before, or cleaning the house., Appreciation adds value to your partner and to your relationship. Express the physical, personal, and professional attributes that you value in your partner to make them feel loved and respected. Focus on the positive qualities, such as their hair, humor, or selflessness. , Your partner is not perfect and you knew that going into the relationship. Accept that they might not put away dishes, or that they run chronically late. Do not try to change your partner; instead, focus on promoting the good things about them such as their intelligence or ability to light up a room!Become aware of your own flaws and recognize you are not perfect to help you accept your partner’s flaws.
Be respectful of your partner and their flaws. If they are chronically late, respect that it is their decision to be late, but allow yourself to be on time.

