 As important as it is to keep your virtual inboxes scrubbed clean of unnecessary sources of information, you also need to keep your physical workspace organized as well.Keep the surface of your desk, in particular, free of clutter.


A helpful rule of thumb: If you don’t use it every day, put it somewhere out of the way, preferably even out of sight.
 While electronic schedules can potentially increase the ease with which you stay abreast of multiple commitments, they can also readily become bogged down with unimportant events or be incapable to importing different types of events from all your different communication platforms. Paper schedules offer the benefits of having everything important right in front of you, titled, labeled, and otherwise organized in a way that’s entirely up to you.
 Make of list of everything you need to get done, and organize it according to different types of tasks or the timeframe in which they need to be completely. Most importantly, however, make sure to indicate tasks of greater importance so that you are reminded to get them out of the way first.


To help doing so, consider using different colored inks when writing your lists and schedules to visualize your responsibilities and keep what’s important in front of your mind’s eye.
For more specific guidance on making productivity-enhancing lists, see the wikiHow article on how to make a list.
 If your responsibilities at work have become bothersome or you feel as though you’ve been tasked with more than you can handle, you should communicate with your boss or supervisor. In particular, ask for clarification regarding what, specifically, is expected of you.If you are consistently asked to perform tasks that are not part of your job description, bring this to their attention.
Frame the conversation as motivated by your desire to better understand what is required of you. Say something direct and respectful like, “I’m hoping to clarify the specific tasks I am individually responsible for.”

, You may be taking on more than is healthy or productive. Though it may feel as though you’re struggling to balance or process large amounts of information, you may simply have committed to more tasks than can reasonably be addressed at the same time.Don’t allow co-workers to take advantage of your willingness to take on additional tasks. Think about what is being asked of you by yours peers – as well as your superiors – and be honest when you are unable or unwilling to do what is asked of you.
Another rule to follow: Only say yes when you really mean it. Maybe there is a simple task that either you or a coworker could complete. Don’t agree to taking it on unless it truly does not bother you to do so.
 It can be counterproductive to try to change the way you do several things all at once. If you identify multiple steps you intend to take to increase your productivity, implement them one at a time. Wait to implement a new step until you’ve fully incorporated a positive change into your life and no longer think about it., Especially if you sit at a computer all day, you will be more productive, and feel less overwhelmed by constant information, if you take quick, scheduled breaks every few hours. Aside from giving your brain a moment to recalibrate without new information coming in, your perspective on whatever you’re doing will likely improve with the chance to step back and clear your mind.Choose the frequency and duration of breaks based on your job, and on what seems to work for you. Some people prefer a five minute break every hour, or a half hour break every few hours.

