 Procrastination is quite common, and there are several different types of procrastination. If you become anxious due to worrying about failing, making the wrong choice, or for other reasons, then you are probably a “worrier procrastinator.” This type of procrastination is often characterized by:Being indecisive.
Lacking confidence.
Relying heavily on other people.
Being afraid to take risks.;
, Having good decision making skills can help you to avoid procrastinating when you have a difficult problem to deal with. Some things you can do to improve your decision making skills include:


Getting into the habit of describing your problem in detail.
Listing all of your alternatives.
Analyzing your options to help you choose the best one.
Carrying out your plan and reflecting on the outcome.
 Being self-efficacious is when you feel confident in your ability to control your life and to get results when you set a goal. Developing this skill can help to make it easier for you to avoid procrastinating. Some ways to build your self-efficacy include:Reflecting on all of the things you have already accomplished in your life, big and small. This can be as simple as speaking your first words as a baby to something more complex like writing a very long paper for an English class.

Setting realistic goals for yourself. By setting goals that are within your reach, you will have a better chance of achieving them. For example, a realistic goal might be something like reading 10 pages in a textbook, applying to three jobs in a week, or writing the introduction paragraph to a paper.

Finding a role model. If you know someone who always seems to accomplish their goals and get things done, then you might consider making this person your role model. Pay attention to their habits and see what you can learn from them.
 Fears about failing can cause some people to procrastinate. By working on this fear, you may be able to reduce the urge to procrastinate.


Try to start thinking like a scientist. Scientists learn by trial and error. If you can change your way of looking at tasks as opportunities to learn, then you might find it easier to get started in the first place.
For example, if you find yourself feeling worried about failing, then you might try asking yourself, “What might I learn from this experience if I am willing to take a risk?” Or, you might ask yourself, “What things could I do to overcome a fear of failing?”