 IKEA offers their products in a decent selection of colors, but if its not exactly what you want, it just won’t do. Paint over clashing or lifeless shades on solid items for a piece that’s totally your own. This can be done in a matter of hours, but you’ll enjoy the rebirth of your favorite book shelf or end table for years. Best of all, you can strip and repaint a piece as often as you like, which means the possibilities are nearly endless.Sand wooden surfaces to remove the old paint and help the new paint hold better.
Prep your surface with a primer, use two coats for a smooth, even finish and seal the paint with a lacquer when you’re finished to preserve it.Use painter’s tape to layer paint with multiple colors and create dazzling designs.;
, IKEA specializes in sleek, contemporary designs, but what if you want to impart a more quaint, time-worn look to your home or apartment? Put aging furniture through the ringer by distressing it yourself at home. Sand down an unremarkable wood surface, then stain it for a rich antique finish. Adorn ordinary fixtures with rustic materials like burlap, leather and wicker. Suddenly, your home will go from sterile to tastefully rugged.Try wet-sanding painted surfaces to make them look faded.Distressing IKEA furniture the right way can give it that aesthetic of age and coziness that it’s sometimes lacking.
 Inject a little of your own personality into less-than-exhilarating decor. Come up with a list of fun ideas about how to represent yourself through your furnishings. Be on the lookout for unconventional materials you could use to create custom pieces that really make a statement. For instance, those with an interest in nautical imagery could embellish wall hangings with ropes tied into sailor’s knots, or you could resurface your MALM desk with a mosaic of paint spatters if you’re an artist. Have fun and let your creativity take over!Personalizing your IKEA purchases doesn’t have to be an elaborate process. It could be as straightforward as adding a border, sewing on fabric accents or changing out small details like buttons, cushions or trim.
Websites like Pinterest contain a wealth of ideas for how to customize furniture and craft new features.
 Step back and look at your IKEA pieces through fresh eyes. What other possible uses could they have? A classic BILLY bookcase turned on its side becomes a convenient cubby nook for stashing you and your family’s personal belongings. A BEKVAM spice rack mounted on the wall turns into an unobtrusive place to hang winter coats. Get inventive and consider what functions your existing furniture could serve beyond its intended purpose.Repurpose old pieces that you no longer have any use for rather than just throwing them away.

