 Pour a cap's worth of rubbing alcohol or nail polish remover onto a paper towel. Rub in a circular motion to soften glue or paint. You don't need much – remember that a small, concentrated dose of solvent will be much more effective than splashing the window at large.Go over the spot with a regular glass-and-window-cleaning spray. Rub the spray into the surface with a fresh rag. This will help you lift leftover smudges – and it will help cover up the smell of the alcohol or nail polish remover.;
, This method works well for window glass on which the tape has been left for too long or has dried out quickly in the hot sun. Wipe the residue a couple of times with a soft cloth that is damp with vinegar. Let the adhesive sit for a minute, then rub off the residue with a fresh piece of your already-dampened cloth. Keep rubbing and applying more vinegar until you have removed all of the dried-on adhesive. Dry and polish with a clean cloth.
 Head to your local auto store – there are plenty of products that can give you a leg up when tackling stubborn adhesives. Look for brands like Fast Orange, Goof-Off, and Goo Gone. These products are designed for cleaning motor oil and grease from hands, but they work just as well for sticker, tape, and glue residue because they contain powerful degreasing agents.


In the case of citrus cleaners like Fast Orange, the degreasing agent is usually d-Limonene. Others rely on heptanes, a powerful solvent. For the sake of safety, make sure to use both types of products in small doses, in a well-ventilated area.
 Spray either product directly onto the glue and scrub the surface with a clean rag., Squirt the fluid onto a rag or paper towel, and be careful not to spill. Scrub the glue spot with the damp towel until you remove all of the glue.


Alternately, soak the glue in lighter fluid to loosen the adhesive. Squirt or dab the lighter fluid directly onto the glue patch, in a concentrated area. Let it set for a minute, then wipe it off with a clean, damp towel.
Incidentally, this method will also remove crayon streaks from a wall. Some light stains may remain, but lighter fluid will remove the bulk of the wax. Once you remove the stains, you can touch-up the paint.
 Run a hair dryer on high over the glue-patch for at least a minute to loosen its bond with the window. You can also use a heat gun to soften up the glue. Set the dial on the gun to a low heat setting and apply heat to the glued area in a circular motion.Once you've weakened the adhesive and the glue feels warm to the touch, you can scrub with a solvent or carefully chip away with a scraping tool, such as a razor blade.