 While the process is safe and there is little chance of a critical error, it is always a smart idea to backup important data before making large changes to your system, especially reinstallation. Copy the important data to an external hard drive, an external flash drive, or burn them onto a DVD.
 Your Windows 7 product key is especially important. This can be found attached to the case that the CD came in or attached to your computer. Make a list of all the programs currently on your computer that you wish to keep so that you will be able to install them again after the reinstallation.
 Stick the disc into the computer and reboot your computer. Be sure that your computer is set to boot from CD/DVD. You can do this by following Step 2 of the first section of this guide.
 You will be prompted to enter a few preferences, such as language options, and you will be asked to agree to the terms of the Windows 7 license. You cannot install Windows 7 if you do not accept the license agreement.
 After the booting process, you will be presented with a choice: Upgrade or Custom installation. Select the Custom installation option as this is what you'll be using to wipe your hard drive clean for a reinstallation.
 Formatting a drive will wipe it clean of all data and make it suitable for reinstallation. Though formatting is not necessary, it is recommended when reinstalling to prevent potential problems with the system. Typically, Windows 7 will be installed to the C: drive. Installing Windows 7 can take anywhere from 30 to 120 minutes depending on your system.
 Once the installation is over, you'll be asked to name your computer and create an initial user account. For the majority of users, the default name will suffice. After creating your user account, you can use it to log onto your freshly reinstalled Windows 7 operating system.
 If you had anything to back up, now would be the time to transfer the files back onto your computer. If you made a list of programs you'd like to keep, this would also be the time to download and install them.

