


Proposals from different roofing businesses will vary greatly in price. This doesn't necessarily mean, though, that roofers submitting low bids will not complete the project as well as roofers submitting high bids. You will need to discuss the project in person with each roofer.
For about an hour, discuss the project and ask questions. The representative (often a salesperson or the owner of the company) should have knowledge of past projects and be well informed about your project.;
, A local business will be more concerned with maintaining a good reputation in your area.
 Also ask each roofer to mail you current certificates from the insurer before they start the job.


Workers' compensation insurance is not required in Texas.
, Different counties have different requirements on whether contractors need to be licensed, and to what extent. You'll want to make sure your roofer has the necessary credentials.
 A longer history is usually better, although newer businesses can be fine choices as long as they have good references.



Call some or all of the previous customers, and take note of whether the customers were satisfied with the work done.
Ask former customers if the roofer stood behind its warranty and if the company seemed to be dedicated to the project.
 It is not unusual for a roofing business to have been involved with some disputes, but you want to make sure they were dealt with in a professional manner.


Licensing departments, as well as the Better Business Bureau, can help you learn more about past complaints that were filed against specific contractors.



Make sure the roofer has factored into the proposal every necessary component of the job, such as local ordinances.
Verify the quality of the parts being used. For example, you may want to know the model and manufacturer of the shingles being installed.
 Include a clause in the contract stipulating that the work must be completed by a certain date. These schedules are difficult to predict because of unforeseen obstacles such as bad weather, but there should be a reasonable deadline established.

