 As with the backcombing method, you’ll first need to part your hair into multiple small square sections. Once the squares are made, divide the hair from each square into two sections (you can also make three sections, although that requires more complex twisting).You can separate the sections using small hair clips or rubber bands.


Twists are an effective way to begin dreadlocks in longer hair, or hair that is highly textured. However, this method will also work if your hair is relatively short: as little as 4 inches (10 cm) will suffice.While twists are an effective way to start dreads in black hair, they do not work well in Caucasian hair., This thick gel-like substance will help the large strands of hair cohere, and will encourage the dreadlocks to form more quickly. Before you start twisting the strands, make sure that each is fully covered with a thin layer of dread cream.Additional cream provides no added benefit, so you don’t need to slather each strand.


You can purchase dread cream or wax at a local hair or beauty salon, online through large retailers, or at a local drug store or department store.
 At this point you’re ready to twist the strands. Begin by taking each strand of hair: twist it three or four turns counterclockwise. Once you’ve twisted a set of two strands (from the same square of hair), you can twist the strands together. Pass one strand clockwise over the other two or three times. This will form a large natural hair spiral.Once the two strands of hair have been twisted together, secure the lock together, at both the tip and the base, using a hair clip or rubber band. Due to the different directions that the strands have been twisted, the sections of hair will begin to lock together and form dreadlocks.
 The strand twist method of forming dreadlocks takes time: the strands can take anywhere from 6 months to 2 years to blend together and give the appearance of a single, solid dreadlock.During this time you should wash the dreadlocks no more than once or twice a week.


As the locks mature, it’s important to keep them tightly rolled. If dreadlocks begin to unravel at the ends, re-roll the dread (using a comb or your hands) so that the strands stay tightly woven.
As new hair grows, you should avoid re-doing the strand twists, as this will lengthen the time needed for dreadlocks to form. You can dread new hair by twisting the individual hairs into the already existing woven strands.

