 Warm a large, nonstick skillet over medium-high to high heat.


You can also spray the pan with a coating of nonstick cooking spray to ensure that the chops will not stick.
Give the pan 1 or 2 minutes to heat up. To test whether or not the pan is hot enough, sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water into the skillet. If the water sizzles and evaporates immediately, the pan is ready.;
, Rub the salt, pepper, oregano, thyme, and garlic powder over both sides of each lamb chop.


To make it easier to distribute the seasonings evenly, you may wish to combine them in a small bowl before rubbing the blend on the meat.
Only salt and pepper are absolutely necessary, but oregano, thyme, and garlic powder are also frequently used with lamb chops and complement the taste well.
 Place the lamb chops in the skillet and flip them over after 3 1/2 to 4 minutes using tongs. Continue cooking for an additional 3 1/2 to 4 minutes, or until done.The lamb chops should sizzle immediately upon being added to the pan. If they don't sizzle, the pan may not be hot enough.
The chops are ready to be flipped once the side touching the pan turns a rich "nut" color brown.
Use a kitchen timer to monitor the time, if necessary.
When done, the lamb chops should be browned on all sides and the juices should run clear. Use a meat thermometer to check the internal temperature of the meat. Lamb chops should reach a minimum internal temperature of 155 degrees Fahrenheit (68 degrees Celsius).
 Use tongs to transfer the chops to a serving dish. Keep warm.
 Add the chopped onions to the pan and cook for 2 to 4 minutes, until the onions begin to caramelize and wilt.


You can skip this step if you do not like onions.
 Pour the lamb broth or beef broth into the pan and stir, scraping the bottom of the pan as you go. Heat to a boil and allow the juices to thicken slightly.If you would prefer thicker gravy, add a slurry of 1 Tbsp (15 ml) cornstarch and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) cold water. Heat to a boil and continue stirring until the gravy thickens more.
 Ladle the gravy over the lamb chops and serve.
 Prepare a baking tray by covering it with parchment paper or a thin coating of nonstick cooking spray.
 Rub salt, pepper, oregano, thyme, and garlic powder onto both sides of each chop.


Blend the seasonings together before rubbing the lamb chops to distribute them evenly.
If you prefer a simpler taste, skip the herbs and only season the chops with salt and pepper.
If desired, you can also spray the chops lightly with cooking spray or drizzle them with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil to help them brown.
 Lay the chops inside the pan and sprinkle the chopped onion around them. Do not cover the meat, however.


The onions will not caramelize completely in the oven, but they will wilt enough to help flavor the lamb chops.
The onions are only optional.
 Use tongs to turn the chops at the 10 minute mark so that both sides are able to brown.The chops are finished once the juices run clear and a meat thermometer registers an internal temperature of 155 degrees Fahrenheit (68 degrees Celsius).
 Allow the chops to rest for 5 minutes before serving with or without the onions.


You can cook the onions further by quickly transferring them to a small skillet preheated over medium-high heat. Melt 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of butter in the skillet and sauté the onions for 2 to 4 additional minutes, or until caramelized. Serve over the chops.
 Place the onion in a 3-quart (3-liter) slow cooker.


There should be an even layer of chopped onion covering the entire bottom of the slow cooker.
To make clean-up easier later on, you can apply a thin coating of nonstick cooking spray to the inside of the slow cooker. There are also specially designed slow cooker liners you can use that make cleaning up even easier.
 Rub the salt, pepper, oregano, thyme, and garlic powder into the lamb chops.


For best results, combine the seasonings in a small bowl first and rub the blend over both sides of the chops.
If desired, you can skip the oregano, thyme, and garlic powder, but adding all five seasonings is the best way to ensure that the chops will be as flavorful as possible.
 Lay the chops directly on top of the onion layer.


You may not be able to fit the chops in a single layer, but a single layer is not necessary for the slow cooker.
If desired, you can also add the lamb broth or beef broth, as well. It is not necessary for this particular recipe, but adding a little liquid to slow cooker recipes results in juicier meat.



Resist the urge to uncover the slow cooker and peek in before the minimum amount of time elapses. Uncovering the slow cooker prematurely can cause the cooker to lose heat and may result in the meat needing up to an additional 30 minutes to cook.
Check the internal temperature of the lamb chops with a cooking thermometer to verify that the meat is at least 155 degrees Fahrenheit (68 degrees Celsius).
 Transfer the lamb chops to a serving platter and ladle the onions on top.
 Spray the grill grate with nonstick cooking spray and allow the grill to get hot.


For gas grills, heat the grill on high heat with the lid closed for 10 to 15 minutes.
For charcoal grills, create three distinct zones. One area should have no coals, one area should have a single layer of coals, and the final area should have two layers of coals. Heat the coals until a layer of ash begins to form on the top.
 Use a sharp knife to cut away the fat along the outside of the chops.


The marbled fat throughout the chops adds flavor, not the fat on the end. Moreover, leaving the fat on the ends increases the risk of fiery flare-ups during the cooking process.
 Evenly rub both sides of the chops with salt, pepper, oregano, thyme, and garlic powder.


For a simpler chop, only use salt and pepper.
For best results, mix the seasonings in a small bowl first. Once they are evenly distributed, rub the blend into the meat.
You can also spray the chops with cooking spray or brush them with 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of olive oil to help the browning process and improve the overall flavor.
 Place the chops directly above the hottest part of the grill and cook over high heat with the lid open. Use tongs to flip the chops once after 4 minutes and continue cooking for an additional 4 to 5 minutes.The hottest area of a gas grill is above the primary heating element.
The hottest area of a charcoal grill will be above the largest pile of coals.
If the flames threaten to flare up, move the chops to a cooler part of the grill until the fire dies down.
Check the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. At minimum, you should look for an internal temperature of 155 degrees Fahrenheit (68 degrees Celsius).
 Remove the lamb chops from the grill, cover, and let rest for 5 minutes before serving.

