 It's not just something that happens, and its not something that will be cheap. Becoming scene takes time and a lot of money, so start saving up your allowance. If you make it too quick you will most likely be called a poser. And you don't want to be there. Just look at Jessi Slaughter! She was a young girl who acted like she was scene on Youtube and ended up making a fool of herself. You do NOT want to end up like that.;
, A lot of people think scene kids are rude and self-absorbed, but this isn't always the case. You need to show people how nice you are. Most scene kids seem to be random and bubbly, but DON'T be something you aren't. Fitting into a trend isn't worth losing yourself. Try not to overwhelm people, or you will annoy them. Also try to be really confident. Embrace your flaws! Know that nobody is perfect. Know that you are beautiful. Just don't turn into a total jerk.
 Don't go all screamo or anything yet, unless you already listen to it. Start out with something softer like All Time Low, NeverShoutNever, Avril Lavigne, Greenday, Breathe Carolina, or Paramore. If you love pop, Lady Gaga is great. Dubstep and Electronic music, such as Skrillex and Deadmau5, is also becoming really popular with scene kids. But don't listen to it if you don't want to. You can listen to whatever you want, it doesn't make you more or less scene if you listen to Britney Spears.
 It should be around June, or sometime near the end of the school year.

Your hair should have layers - lots of them! But if you don't already have them, don't get any if you don't want to, since it's the end of the school year and you might not be able to show off your looks to your friends or guys or anything. But at least get it trimmed. Try a new style. If your hair is long, maybe get it cut short, or if it's short, start growing it out. Again, you can do whatever you want. But choose a style that fits your hair type and your face shape.






For clothes, start with some regular, denim-blue skinny jeans. Skinny jeans should be apart of your everyday outfit! Since it's summer, though, you can wear shorts. Denim is great, and plaid ones are also super cute. You could also wear denim skirts, they look more scene if they have the raggedy threads hanging off the bottom. Get some graphic t-shirts, maybe a few with Spongebob and Hello Kitty, but don't get too many yet. Get band t-shirts, but only for bands you listen to, or you could get embarrassed later on. You could also try plaid shirts, since they are becoming popular among scenesters. V-necks are also popular,but they're more of a guy trend, so don't wear them everyday. And for shoes, for now, wear flip flops, but only for summertime, since scene kids aren't normally known for wearing them, but if you like them, wear them whenever! Also get a pair of flats, just one pair is all you need for now. Get black or white. And for accessories, just a bracelet or two is fine, and maybe the occasional necklace.






Wear your hair however you like, just don't tease it often, especially if your hair isn't layered! It won't come out right! And makeup: not too much yet: just some eyeshadow, a thin coat of eyeliner, mascara, and lip gloss is good enough.
 Bows should stay small for now.


Wear what you wore in earlier June, maybe adding in a few more graphic t-shirts of pop culture characters. You should be wearing shorts on a daily basis, since it's probably getting really hot. You should have tank tops somewhere in your wardrobe. Shoes- flip flops, flats, sandals. For accessories, invest in a pair of big sunglasses. Not the kind at the Dollar Store. Some good ones can be bought at Claires, Hot Topic, or Wet Seal.
For makeup, eyeliner can get a bit thicker, eyeshadow a bit darker, lip gloss more sparkly.
And music, start listening to Linkin Park, Three Days Grace, Evanescence, Metallica, or things of that nature.
 Keep saving up that money, you're gonna need it soon! Get more shirts, more Care Bears, Tinkerbell, and Barbie. Get some colored shorts now, like red or pink. You can even invest in a new tutu, now, if you want! Not like the ones ballerinas wear, but some good ones can be found at Claires, Hot Topic and other stores. Get another pair of flats, something bright, but that will match a lot of stuff you have in your closet, like yellow, pink, or red. Get bigger bows, maybe a studded belt. Add a few more jelly bracelets to your accessories, and maybe even wear a silly band or two every once in a while.


Your makeup shouldn't get much heavier than it already is, especially with the humid weather but you should wear concealer or foundation, since the weather is hot and you are more like likely to get zits. Do your makeup near a window, it helps!
For music, try Korn, Slipknot, Insane Clown Posse, and Red Hot Chili Peppers.
 I hope you've been saving up money, because now you need it. You're gonna need to buy a TON of clothes for school. Wear denim blue or black skinny jeans and maybe a white pair. Wear any super cute top you own, especially band shirts, plaid shirts, and graphic shirts. Get a pair of Converse, any color, but get something that matches a lot of the clothes you already own. You can get another pair of flats, but you don't have to. Also get a pair of Vans. If you're up for a change, you can get a pair of Nike or Adidas slides and wear them with colored socks! You should get some leggings, black, white, and any bright colors and patterns you can find! Wear them with a tutu or a denim skirt. You could also wear knee- or thigh-high socks with a skirt. Get some bracelets- jelly bracelets, chunky rubber bracelets, and even just a few silly bandz. Get a necklace with something like Hello Kitty, a bat, skull and crossbones, or a diamond outline-shape.


For hair, you should get layers, lots of layers! If you want to dye your hair, dye the whole thing, but not an unnatural color, not yet, anyway. Try chocolate brown or platinum blonde. Wear bows, hair clips, thick headbands, stretchy headbands, a tiara- anything!
Also, don't forget- you need to be confident, bubbly, and sweet, all at the same time.
 If you don't already have a studded belt, get one! Get some bright, new laces for your shoes. It's a good way to make them look new without spending a lot of money. You could also doodle all over them if you get bored with them or if they just become old. You should get a few pairs of colored skinny jeans, hot pink and red are MUSTS! You could also try acid washed jeans. Or even patterned jeans! Just not too many, or you might look tacky, which is not the look you want. For shirts, just get more band tees. Get a new hoodie, too. It can be black, red, plain, patterned, anything you like! A cute idea is getting a hoodie with devil horns on it, and wearing the hood up on your head. If you're looking for a new pair of shoes, maybe get some boots, like Uggs. For accessories, get a tiara, if you didn't already. If you have glasses, get nerd glasses. Wear a bunch of jelly bracelets all at once. Wear one or two necklaces.


Get a hair trim regularly. If you want to dye your hair, get streaks, any color like blue, pink, purple, red, etc. Or you could dye the whole thing. If you can't dye your hair, get extensions. But never wear feathers, those are so out-of-style now.
For makeup, wear anything you like, as long you don't look like a raccoon, or worse- a clown.
For music, you can listen to anything now, from the soft acoustic of NeverShoutNever to screamo like Brokencyde. And remember, you don't have to listen to what you don't want to listen to. So you can still listen to your Britney Spears.
Keep up your attitude and keep saving up money, because you're gonna need to go to the mall a lot.
