 Radiofrequency treatment is a non-surgical method for tightening the skin. It is best for people who have mild or moderate sagging of the skin, and may not be as effective if you have deep lines and lots of sagging.This method of treatment works well on people of all skin colors and tones.
Generally, this method is suitable for people between the ages of 40-50. After the age of 60, you may experience some results with this method, but you may not get the results that you would get from a surgical procedure, such as a facelift.
 In most cases, this is not a procedure that will be covered by insurance. Ask your treatment professional about installment plans if you cannot afford to pay the full amount all at once. Prices will vary based on the specific radiofrequency machine used. Some of the newer radiofrequency machines need only one session to achieve great results, but these prices will be much higher.Businesses using an older machine are still effective, and may cost less; however, you will need to go for several sessions to get the results you hope for.
Regardless of the machine used, this method does not pose a permanent solution to the problem. You will have to go for follow-up sessions every 3 to 6 months to maintain your tightened skin.
 Before you undergo the procedure, you will want to avoid irritating your skin as much as possible. For example, you will especially want to avoid getting a sunburn as this will make the procedure more painful than it needs to be. In some cases, your skin care professional may ask you to reschedule your treatment if you have a sunburn or otherwise irritated skin on your face.You may experience a bit of redness after the treatment is complete, but this is normal. Generally, you should be able to resume your normal activities right away. Some professionals may recommend soothing gels or creams that you will apply to your skin.
If you do experience discomfort after the procedure, you can apply a cold compress to the skin or mist your skin with cool water to help soothe it.
 When receiving the treatment from a trained professional, this method is quite safe. However, it can be somewhat uncomfortable for some people because heat is being applied directly to the skin.If you are worried about the pain, be sure to ask about any pain medication you can take, or whether or not they will apply a cream to your skin that will help numb the skin some.
Some people experience swelling, bumps, and/or blisters around the treatment area. If you experience these symptoms, it may be a good idea to give your practitioner a call, but it is generally nothing to worry about.
The most serious potential complication can occur if the professional applying the treatment heats an area of the skin too much. This can cause what is called a “depression,” which is a sunken area of the skin. Be sure to look into your treatment professional’s credentials before undergoing this treatment.

