 Put the mouthpiece into your mouth, above the tongue, and keep your lips sealed tightly around it. Inhale slowly and deeply in through your mouth so that all the medicine goes into your lungs. Exhale either through your mouth or nose. For adults, holding the nose closed can help ensure the medicine is inhaled through the mouth.


Consider using an aerosol mask as an alternative to a mouthpiece for young children or people that are too ill to hold the mouthpiece. Aerosol masks attach to the top of the nebulizer cup. The mask comes in pediatric and adult sizes.
 Sit up and keep inhaling the medication until the mist stops. This usually takes about 10-15 minutes. Once all liquid is gone, the mist stops coming out. The nebulizer cup should be empty. Distract yourself by watching TV or listening to music.


Set up an activity to occupy young children during the nebulizer treatment. Puzzles, books or coloring may help the child sit still for the length of the treatment. Ideally, hold the child in your lap since the child should be sitting straight up to receive the optimal dosage of medication., Be sure to unplug it from the outlet and detach the medicine cup and mouthpiece from the tubing. Wash the medicine cup and mouthpiece with warm soapy water and rinse them with water. Place the equipment on a clean towel to fully air dry. Make sure to do this after each treatment and daily.


Don't wash the tubing. If it gets wet, replace the tubing. Also, don't put any parts of the nebulizer into a dishwasher to clean it because the heat can warp the plastic.
 To disinfect, always follow the manufacturer's guidelines. Soak all parts, except for the tubing, in one part white distilled vinegar to three parts hot water for one hour. Discard the solution. Rinse the parts, except for the tubing, in cold water and air dry them on a clean towel. After the parts are dry, store them in a clean area in the case.For cleanliness, if more than one person is needs a nebulizer, do not share equipment even if it is washed. Each person should use his or her own nebulizer.

