 When you study, you want to be able to devote your full attention to your work. If you split your attention between your studies and some other distraction, whether it's a television show, a job, or some other task, you won't be able to retain very much information (if any). Ensure that you're able to study effectively by setting aside a reasonably-sized chunk of time for your work - and only your work.


Based on the amount of work you have to do, this time you set aside may be a one-time commitment or a regular addition to your schedule. The latter is preferable, as, over time, you'll become "used" to devoting a certain amount of time to studying.
 Unfortunately, many people set aside sufficient time for their studies only to waste it by allowing distractions to sidetrack them. Make sure that your study location doesn't contain anything that's been a distraction in the past. Usually, this will mean that you'll want to find a quiet, private place where you won't have access to video games, online entertainment, socializing friends, TV, and so on.


If your studying requires you to use the internet and you're worried that you may become distracted with online games, videos, and so on, try using a free productivity extension for your web browser. These applications allow you to block certain websites temporarily, ensuring that you can't access them while you study.
 To some, complete silence is a distraction of its own. If you find this to be the case, feel free to experiment with music or white noise while studying. Music can have a motivating effect on some people, keeping them focused when they might normally daydream. Others enjoy studying with white noise - constant, formless noise like rainfall or crashing waves - as it allows them to relax, focus, and "tune out" distractions. What's most important is that any noise you study with doesn't distract you - if you find yourself singing along to your music instead of focusing on the page in front of you, you may want to turn it off. Only use it when you feel you need it.
 In extreme cases of procrastination, it may be necessary to bite the bullet and remove the sources of the procrastination from your life temporarily (or even permanently). For instance, if you have a hard time studying because you always put the task off in favor of playing video games, leave your games at a friend's house over the weekend to give yourself the freedom to study. If they're still a distraction, sell them. Though it can be painful, eliminating the root causes of your distractions can be very worthwhile in the long run.
 The physical distractions of hunger, restlessness, and fatigue can hamper your studying efforts just as seriously as any mental distraction. To ensure you're able to study to the best of your abilities, take care of your physical needs before you begin. Eat healthy, well-balanced meals throughout the day. Devote time to exercise. Get plenty of sleep the night before. Caring for your body by doing these things gives your mind the best possible opportunity to learn new information.

