 The easiest way to do this is get some software that will format what you type into it appropriately (for example Celtx).


At the beginning of every scene write where it is, and whether you are indoors or outdoors (Int. = Indoors Ext. = Outdoors). Stage directions are written in blocks of text spanning from the margin on the left to the margin on the right. Text is in blocks at the middle spanning from the centre (imagine the page is split into three equal thirds, you would be writing text in the center). Always have characters' names in capitals except within dialogue.;
, Look at where they come from. The show's nation usually dictates the comedy used. For example, American comedy is mainly slapstick and what happens to the characters, whereas British comedy is more about what the characters do to each other and fooling the audience. Of course, there are many other styles, so just look around and find an amusing balance.
 You can have sci-fi, adventure, or something as simple as the misadventures of two friends (also known as slice-of-life).
 Get a notebook and dedicate a page to a character. Explain how they act and behave, how they talk, and most importantly, why. The characters are the basis of your story.
 You will want about 15 to 20 plot points, and this may sound daft, but make sure they are in chronological order. You don't want to write any jokes here as this comes with the script.
 Get your laptop, computer, book, anything! Just start writing. Use the format if you're planning on selling this. Type in Courier New, size 12, since this is the industry standard. This is where you put the jokes in. Make them true to your character and to your style. You want to write about 25 pages (the general rule of thumb is one minute per page).
 Look for character consistency and plot holes. Once you have read that, revise it into the second draft. Always save every draft as a different file. This is so that you can read them all through, and if you think the humour starts to slip somewhere, go back to where it started to slip and revise!

, However, you'll want about 5 scripts, at least at first. Do not let anyone but critics and friends see them. This is to build up a small portfolio and avoid plagiarism.
 Search for some agencies and try to get an agent. Look for an agent with a good history and a nice price. This is where your scripts come in, as the agencies will probably want to read some of your work. If they don't, ditch them.

