 You're going to be painting the scoops of plastic spoons and attaching them to a large can to create a lovely vase with a scalloped exterior. The size of your can will determine the number of plastic spoons you need. A smaller can will require less spoons than a larger one. For this project, you'll need:


A large can (like a soup or stew can)
Scissors
A paper plate
Measuring spoons (½ teaspoon, teaspoon, ½ tablespoon, etc.)
A paintbrush
Hot glue gun (and glue)
White primer spray paint
Paintbrush
Plastic spoons
Blue acrylic paint (or another color)
White acrylic paint.;
, Take one plastic spoon and use your scissors to cut the scoop free of the handle. You're going to want your spoon scoops to encircle your can in rows. To determine how many spoons you'll need, use your single scoop to estimate this number by measuring the can's perimeter with it.


The number of spoons you'll need will depend on the size of the can, but you can generally expect to use approximately four rows of spoons with seven spoons in each row.
 Remove any remaining glue or label from your can. In some cases, the label might pull free easily. Other cans, however, might require you to soak them in warm, soapy water to break up the glue or completely remove the label. Allow your can to dry completely afterwards.


Glue can cause your scoops to have a less uniform appearance in the finished product, making your vase look less appealing.
Bits of label may cause your glue to adhere less efficiently.
 Use your white primer spray paint to coat your can. This will give your can a regular appearance. If there are any gaps in the scoops that circle your can, the primer will hide the metal of the can, making it look more polished.Allow sufficient time for your primer to dry. Drying time can vary, so you should check the directions on your spray paint for best results.
Regular spray paint primer may be sufficient, but you may have better results with a spray primer intended for metal.
 You may want to do this while your primer is drying to be most efficient with your time. Now that you know how many spoons you'll need, take your spoons and use your scissors to cut off their handles.


You can throw away your spoon handles, but you may want to keep one to stir your paint.
 For each row, measure out a one tablespoon of blue paint onto a paper plate, keeping each row's paint separate. If you're using a large can and have many rows, you may need a second plate. Now you're going to add white to some of your paint to create a softening effect in the color of your rows so each row's color gets lighter ascendingly.Your first (bottom) row's paint receives no white paint.
Your second row's paint should receive a ½ teaspoon of white paint.
Your third row's paint should receive 1 teaspoon of white paint.
Your fourth row's paint should receive 1½ teaspoons of white paint.
Mix the blue and white paint using a leftover plastic spoon handle.
 You may want to lay out some newspaper or parchment paper to prevent paint from getting onto the surface where you are working. Then, use a paintbrush to apply paint the part of the scoop that arches outwards.


Use the pure blue paint for the first row's scoops, the ½ teaspoon white mixed blue for your second row's scoops, and so on. Allow sufficient time for your paint to dry.
Generally, acrylic paint dries relatively quickly. In most cases, your spoons should be ready in 10 - 15 minutes., Now that your scoops have dried, apply hot glue to the rim of the scoop at the front and back of its arched in side. Starting from the bottom, press each spoon into place around the can's perimeter in rows with the scoop arching outwards. Each row should be uniform in color, and the colors ascend darkest to lightest.The top row of spoons should extend above the lip of the can.
The spoons should overlap slightly. Continue gluing the spoons until the entire can is covered to complete your vase.

