 We all know that a bombshell is a symbol of smoldering female sexuality. You can identify this symbol from a distance. Think 007 silhouettes - the bombshell silhouette has a gorgeous figure and the big, bodacious hair that completes the picture. Use shampoo and conditioner that keep your hair healthy and shiny, and hairspray and Velcro rollers to give your hair volume. A slightly tousled look is best -- one that says, I'm sexy, but I have better things to do than smooth my hair every time I finish romping around in bed. Stick with one hair color and style after you have chosen a good one.;
, Many girls commit the big mistake of thinking they'll look better with lots of makeup. That is a big lie. There's nothing sexy about LOOKING like you're trying too hard, and both men and women will think of you as a wannabe. Get inspiration from the bombshells like the Victoria's Secret models, their makeup is simple but sexy. Flawless skin with very little foundation, concealer and powder to set, nothing too heavy, and a little bit of eyeliner, mascara, blush and very natural looking lip gloss. The makeup on skin must be soft and colors must be subtle, in order to enhance your natural beauty instead of creating a whole new, fake face.
 Second to the hair, clothes are important. Find clothes that fit your shape. It doesn't matter if you are petite, short, tall or even plump. A bombshell knows that gorgeous women come in every shape and size -- and half the bombshell battle is knowing you've got that inner fire. Find clothes that fit your form. Feminine and ultra soft, with plenty of pink and red hues, and showing just hints of skin. Innocent yet suggestive, bombshell clothes manage to be risque without being trashy.
 You see models walking down the runway, right? In order to get that 'walk', you have to be confident and in control. A bombshell is never self-conscious; she's too busy being fascinated with the world around her. Be proud of yourself and be in control. Learn how to sashay.
 Be smart and informed when speaking, but not pushy, arrogant, or know-it-all. When you act this way, you will be showing that you are also intelligent along with being sexy.
 A bombshell is a sex symbol, and yet they have a slightly charming, childlike, naive mindset. Part of their allure is that while they are sexy, they are never trashy. They can avoid being vulgar, even when posing for playboy in the buff.
 Bombshells are not divas, nor are they self important, however, they love themselves as they are, and fully accept their flaws, physical or personality wise.
 Bombshells are engaging and caring. Always thinking of others, completely sensitive, a bombshell is a people person, perfectly willing to share her love and bare her soul. You need to make other people at ease with you as they are with themselves.
 Always keep people guessing. While you shouldn't daily change what you do, you should be spontaneous. Be suggestive, but not inappropriate. Wear a light and personal perfume that goes with your body and personality. Nothing too severe, girly, or boring.

