 Most of us are attracted to similar types of people and repeat the same type of behavior. Often, relationships end for the same reasons, too. Determine your roadblocks so that you can set a new path. Figure out who you're normally drawn to. You might like excitement, so you are drawn to those who might be fun, but who don’t care for you much. Instead of going to the concert and approaching the guy in the motorcycle jacket, approach the wallflower.
Acknowledge emotional issues. You may fear true intimacy, so you aren’t honest with others. This could be a continual reason why your relationships don’t last long (if that is the case). Tell your new girlfriend how you feel instead of avoiding her or making up lies.
Don't be too passive or aggressive. Most people like to be with someone who is assertive, not a pushover or bully. Figure out if you have a tendency to dominate or stay submissive.
 We all wish for someone who probably doesn’t exist and circumstances that we can’t possibly maintain long-term. Remember that life is a not a movie. If you do find someone with every quality that you are looking for, though, hold on to him or her! , Meeting someone who is unbelievably sexy, highly intelligent, extremely interesting, always upbeat, and constantly entertaining is unlikely. Be willing to take an item or two off of your checklist if you are serious about meeting someone. , Don’t turn down a date because a guy is wearing a Bears jersey instead of a Packers jersey in his profile picture on the dating site. Give that woman a chance even if she has short hair, not long hair. You might pass up a great opportunity if you focus on silly details like these. , If you get serious with someone, you will eventually argue. Doing so might bring back upsetting memories from past relationships, but you have to be honest, and sometimes that will lead to unpleasant discussions., It is easy to watch those around you and feel that you will never have that great relationship or family. That’s not true, though. Just accept who you are and what you have, and you’ll be better off. If you have friends that seem to be in perfect relationships or at least seem to have an easy time dating new people, you might compare yourself to them and think that there is something wrong with you. There isn’t. Focus on you, not them.
Your parents might have been each other’s soul mates, been together for fifty years, and been extremely good at communicating. However, constantly trying to be just like them is a waste of energy since every relationship is different.
Realize that social media doesn’t represent reality. If you log on to Facebook or Instagram and feel sad because you see pictures of always happy people having the most fabulous time, think again. Those are only snapshots, not the whole story.

