 Often times, your elderly loved one has gone through a breadth of life experiences, helping them develop gems of wisdom along the way. They have likely encountered struggles similar to the ones you are dealing with presently. Take some time to ask your loved one for advice about a situation you are in, whether it is big or small. Doing so will help remind them of the ways that they have overcome obstacles and will help them feel useful in their daily life as they help you with your own.


For instance, you may be dealing with problems in your relationship. You may ask your loved one something like “I’ve been fighting a lot lately with my partner about money. Did you ever have fights like that?”
An example of a less serious issue could relate to cooking. If your loved one had been a great cook in the past, you might ask them for help in perfecting one of your own recipes.;
, Another way to help build confidence in your loved one is to ask them about the story of their life. This will signal to them that you are interested in learning more about them and will subsequently boost their self esteem. Most people, in general, enjoy talking about themselves when invited to or when asked questions.


Ask them about their career, if they had one, or about their childhood experiences.
 Perhaps your loved one collected cars in their past or enjoyed quilting. Give them the opportunity to discuss these old hobbies with you. Your loved one will likely enjoy reminiscing positively on the things they used to do in their past.


If any of these old hobbies are of interest to you, consider picking them up. Your loved one will feel a sense of pride knowing that their interest sparked your own and they will feel that they have been able to “pass down” something to a younger generation.
 Elderly people often enjoy talking about their families very much, from their own grandchildren and back to their great grandparents. People often have a great deal of pride in talking about their family. Take some time to talk about your loved one’s family tree. Remember that the elderly person’s family is their legacy, so this topic will hold a great deal of weight and importance with them.


Ask them questions about their parents and siblings, how they met their spouse, or why they gave their children the names they choose.
Many elderly people keep family records, so you could look over these as well to spark conversation.
 Allow your loved one to reminisce visually on their life as a whole. An elderly person may feel down sometimes about their life, but reminding them of all of the experiences they have had, people they’ve known, and places they visited will show them the true extent and richness of their experiences. There are likely many times and memories that they have forgotten.


As you are looking through these photos, tell them which experiences you would like to have as well. For instance, if your loved one once travelled to Hawaii and you would also like to visit, tell them. This will help them see the value and uniqueness in their experiences.
 Ask them about present day social or political issues to learn more about their viewpoints. If they feel that someone values their ideas, their confidence will be boosted.


One way to begin talking about these issues is to watch the news or read the newspaper together.
 Take some time to pick your loved one up to take a day trip. Whether you stay in town and take a drive, have lunch, or go check out a movie, your loved one will very much appreciate the chance to get out of the house for a while.


Set up weekly or biweekly outings, if possible. Your loved one will look forward to it and will have a renewed interest in life.
 Many of your elderly loved one’s new experiences as of late are likely overwhelmingly negative, like regular doctor’s appointments or being prescribed many new medications. Take some time to introduce some positive newness in their life by trying something new together. Having new experiences will invigorate them and make them feel more positively about their lives, increasing their confidence.


Some examples could include painting, playing bingo, water aerobics, or even reading a new book together.
 Often times in their old age, the elderly become increasingly disconnected from their social supports. Perhaps they have a sister who moved away years ago or an old friend from work who they often think of. See if you can connect with these people to coordinate a visit or a phone call. Talking to those from their past will often fill them with positive memories and boost their confidence, particularly if the relationship progresses beyond an initial phone call or visit.


Ask your loved one for their permission first before you reach out. You do not want to overstep your boundaries.
Other social supports include book clubs, church groups, or clubs like the Kiwanis.
 These groups can provide them with a support that you may be unable to and will also relieve you of some of the burden of care. Confidence in your love one will bolster as they find new ways to cope with and work through their problems.


Care.com provides a comprehensive list of support groups for the elderly that may be useful to you., Perhaps your loved one had to let go of a hobby that they once enjoyed due to their age or worsening health. Consider brainstorming ways that you can still allow them to enjoy these hobbies in other ways. Your loved one will feel a renewed joy for life and a boost in confidence because of it.


For example, if your loved one formerly collected cars a hobby, you could consider taking them to a car show. Or, if your loved one was a musician, you could take them to a symphony or other show where musical talent is displayed.
 Your elderly loved one may be in hospital care or may be unable to leave their homes. In these instances, you have to be a bit more creative. Your loved one deserves to feel special and confident regardless of their mobility. Be creative through establishing a fun atmosphere in home by playing games with your loved one, singing songs, or watching films they enjoy together.


This will make them feel loved and wanted and will boost their confidence, even if they are unable to leave home.
Your loved one likely has very little autonomy if they cannot leave their homes, so allow them their choice of games, movies, TV shows, or songs.
 Many times, the elderly are given very little options in relation to their life. If they live in a nursing home, they are give little choice in what to eat, doctors give them little choice in what medications to take, and so on and so forth. Allow your loved one as much choice as possible in their lives, particularly in relation to their medical careAllow them to choose the doctors they go to and their appointment times, if possible.
If you are cooking dinner or taking them out, let them choose what you have or where you go.
 Through certain tweaks to the home, you can prolong their independence, making them feel more confident in their abilities. Though their age or physical abilities may prevent them from doing certain things alone or quickly, accommodations can be made to make life easier for them.


For example, you can purchase a toilet seat adapter to make using the restroom easier for them. These seats are relatively inexpensive and may be provided by your insurance free of charge. They attach to your current toilet seat to prevent your loved one from having to stoop so low to use the restroom. This will allow them to go to the bathroom without assistance, as this tends to be one of the more humiliating aspects of old age.
Another item that can be purchased is a “helping hand” tool to allow the elderly to reach things that are up high or on shelves.
 Sometimes, we get so caught up in helping our elderly loved one that we forget that they are capable of many tasks. Let them do all that they can for themselves. Even though it's faster for you to do things and you may think that you're helping, you are actually removing some of their autonomy from them.


Don’t complain about the pace or method they use to complete the task, but step in when necessary. For instance, if your loved ones hands are trembling as they are trying to cut an apple, it is necessary to step in so that they don’t cut their hands. In cases like this, you could purchase them a specialized fruit cutter to avoid accidents when you are not present.
 The healthier they are, the more independent they will be able to be. Also, we tend to feel more confident when our bodies are healthy and when we are feeling great. Encourage your loved one to eat healthier meals or take a workout class designed for the elderly, like water aerobics.Helping them to stay active can also help them to stay healthy. Try asking them for help with simple safe tasks that they can handle. For example, folding laundry, simple dinner preparation tasks, having them help you with grocery shopping, organizing cabinets or drawers, and making simple lists of 'To Do's'. This productiveness will help to increase their feelings of self-empowerment.
 Remember that their limitations can be a big source of self-consciousness for them. Don't make a big deal out of them, and pretend that you don't mind it at all.


However, if they want to discuss their age or illness with you, have the conversation. Sometimes, talking about it can make them feel much better.
 They have lived a whole world longer than you and have had more experiences than you have had at your age. Remember that even though they're old, they're still people. They still have feelings, fears, worries, hopes and dreams, just like you. Recognize and respect their status as elders.

