 To use a ghost well, controlling it must be automatic, so this means practicing on maps with ghosts on it, such as High Ground or Isolation. Simply get in a ghost and travel the map on it, finding the hard points for you to later avoid, and the areas easy to access in case you need an escape plan and get to know where the ghosts spawn.;
, When a map with a ghost comes up, rush the ghost immediately. If possible, tell your team mates that you want the ghost. The more you use them the more kills you will be able to get while using them.
 The maps with ghosts on them are Avalanche, High Ground, Isolation, Last Resort, Rat's Nest, Snowbound and in some special game-types Sand trap, Stand off and Valhalla may also include ghosts. Each map has its own strengths and weaknesses in regard to using ghosts.




Avalanche - This map is hard to use a ghost on due to the high amount of flying and armored vehicles. Stick to the sides of the maps and areas where the wide open space of the map narrows, such as the middle of the map.
High Ground - This is by far the most successful map for ghosts, but it requires team work to keep them alive. Due to the fact that there are two ghosts, you only have to beat your team members to get one. Once you are in the ghost, get your teams members to secure the laser and rockets, in order to take out the enemy ghost and to avoid the enemy using these weapons against you. Due to the amount of high-powered weaponry (Rockets, laser, brute shots) it is best to keep moving, splattering opponents instead of shooting, and do not move in a straight line from the beach to the fort - it is much better to take a detour around the bunker in the middle, which also spawns enemies.
Isolation - Due to the long re-spawn times for the ghost on this map and the presence of rockets, Isolation is a difficult map to drive ghosts on. If you use it correctly however, and manage to keep the ghost alive, it can turn a game. Head straight for the ghost because you will likely encounter several other enemies and eventually rockets, so be prepared to sacrifice or destroy the ghost before someone else gets it. If you manage to get the ghost, don't be tempted to stick around where it re-spawns, head straight up to rockets. Quite often, if you time it correctly, an enemy will jump down to get rockets in front of you and you can instantly splatter him. Unless it is absolutely needed, never go above ground. There are too many rocks and trees to navigate the surface safely - a much better plan is to stay below ground and have your team camp below with re-generators where you can protect them. Driving this map beforehand in forge will help immensely - don't be tempted to sit around, just keep driving. Remember, the ghost takes a very long time to re-spawn, so keep it safe.

Last Resort - The ghost is hard to get to if unless you spawn on the sea wall side of the map. If you do manage to get the ghost, drive in a U shape around the giant fan, going from the beach through around the side of the fan and over to under the turrets. If you get shot, drive directly back to the beach, where it is unlikely you will meet a lot of enemies. Also, this route minimizes the amount of fire you will take, due to the angle you will drive on. You are most likely to kill enemies around the pylons and sniper base. Be sure to get a teammate to secure laser.

Rat's Nest - The ghost is probably not going to do much on this level - between your teammate's warthogs and your enemies' warthogs and rockets, you are likely to die a lot without much effect. If you do manage to avoid these obstacles, keeping around the bottom of the map so you can secure the middle area is your best bet.
Snowbound - The ghost is only useful on Snowbound if your team cooperates. Be sure to pass the plasma grenades before moving to the ghost when you first start, in case an enemy has already beaten you there. Because most of the fighting will be taking place underground, you are likely to get very few kills. However, if your team mates agree to stay above ground, you can protect them and get more kills in the process. This will not work however if the opponents are winning, as they will remain underground. Again, driving in a circular motion around the map will prove the best tactic.
 The more you play with various scenarios the more experience you will gain on how to defeat them.




Players on foot are easiest to kill, but while splattering enemies is more reliable and less time consuming, it also means you have to get in close to your opponent, so weigh the odds before going in. You risk getting stuck and blasted by rockets or laser, so if you are tackling someone with plasma or spike grenades, move in a curved line to negate if they throw one. If the player jumps, do not boost immediately, but wait for them to start falling before you splatter them.
Vehicles are more tricky to dispose of however. Fights with other ghosts are usually a case of who started shooting first, so make sure you surprise the other ghost so you have the upper hand.
Warthogs are hard to kill with ghosts, so the best plan is to use your speed to out run them. It may seem like you can out-shoot a warthog gunner, but you can't.

Mongooses are hard to kill also, but if you can corner or out-maneuver them, you can easily shoot them down.
Taking down choppers are hard, so take great care. Use your speed to attack them from the sides and back - they will kill you easily if you are in front of them.
Tanks and aircraft are definitely hard to take down with just a ghost, so the best bet is to leave the ghost and board them or evade.
 You will be surprised how long you can last on a ghost if you are smart and have a bit of skill. Don't expect to get the most kills every time, but aim for a high kill/death spread. Do not stop unless you need to - use your boost (Left trigger on the Xbox controller) in 1 second bursts with only a slight pause in between. This allows you to turn easily, but keep moving fast to avoid enemies, thus allowing you to stay alive for longer.
 This will damage your ghost, sometimes irreparably, and cause your health to be lost. Over time your ghost will degrade through battle, so avoid slamming into obstacles as much as possible. This is easier if you apply boost sparsely or every few seconds to allow easy turning, or just ignore it all together, although this isn't recommended.
 After a while you may feel quite attached to your ghost, but if you need to destroy it if you've been boarded, then do it immediately. It will be highly unlikely that you will get a chance to re-board the vehicle and even if it's sitting in the middle with no one driving it, you will likely be killed in the process of retrieving it. It is best to learn some other tactics for multiplayer games in these cases.
 The more practice you get the more medals you will receive.

