 That's a thing you should do first so that you don't do it second and end up kicking people out.;
, For members, you may want to consider buying a princess castle or fantasy castle because there is more room, but for non-members, a simple den will do just fine.


You are going to need furniture. For a baby's room, make a crib like the image below and for a child under 12, just remove the bamboo walls and maybe add on a TV, if you want them to live in luxury. For a teen, just remove the plushies and add a TV and a musical instrument or speakers.
Remember to add a living room, a kitchen, a backyard, and a place for the adults to sleep. It's pretty simple. You can design the adult's bedroom any way you like. For the kitchen, add a fridge and a cake bake kitchen. In the living room, you can have a lounge, some pillows, a TV and anything else you would like to add. For the backyard, add some trees, a tree house, and a koi pond.
 That's where most animals go to adopt animals or make a family. Start advertising 'Family role play my den! Any animals allowed!' or 'Family role play at my den! (Put an animal name here, for example, a bunny.) only!'

, Once you've got enough animals, tell them to buddy you (your den should be locked so no other people come) and go to your den. Then you should start acting like a family!

, However, be firm with them if they break any rules. For example, if a child says, "(Other child's name) pushed me!" Make sure they actually did before accusing the other child.You might make them mad and they might end up leaving the family.
 Make a crib by buying a simple couch, adding a pillow, and a plushie and positioning it up against a wall and putting a fence on the other side. If you have a child in between 4-12 treat them grown up but still don't let them do anything that you know isn't right. Also, send them to school or homeschool them. Sending them to school is better because they can make friends and then bring them home for sleepovers. If you have a teenager, give them their own room and give them posters, bookshelves, and a desk for school. Also, if you have little babies as well as a teenager, put up a safety fence around your teenager's room so that the baby doesn't bug your teenage son/daughter.
 It's also nice for the kids to have a little treat every now and then, like a new toy for their room or an ice cream. Just don't give them too much stuff or they will become spoiled.
 Take the pet for walks and feed it regularly. Give it a collar (necklace) and its own little bed and food bowl. This way, your pet will feel like a part of the family and it will make him or her feel loved and special. Take your pet with you on all your little outings and don't leave it behind at home, or they may get scared and lonely. Before getting the pet, talk to your family about the responsibility that comes with a pet, and make sure they understand.
 Take them to school, on a holiday, or maybe even a concert!

