 Start to take note of your daily activity and diet. Learn your starting weight and begin to think of a goal weight.


Talk to a doctor. You shouldn’t make any drastic changes before you check with your health care provider. Along with a doctor, you can find a dietician or trainer to help you in this process. Any of these people can run tests to make sure you’re healthy enough to begin a new diet change or new workout regimen.
Learn how many calories you’re consuming per day. There are many helpful sites to get you started: SparkPeople is free and easy for beginners.
Make a tangible goal. Don’t just think “I want to be super skinny.” Instead, set a goal of “I want to lose 30 pounds.” Your doctor can help you determine if you’re goals are obtainable and good for your health.;
, After seeing your doctor, sit down and make a plan to fit your lifestyle that will help you lose weight. Buy a journal and rediscover the diet changes and exercise goals you discussed with you doctor. Make sure your goals are tangible, and fill the journal with anything that will help you reach them.


Know how many calories you need to burn. In order to lose a pound a week, you need to burn 3,500 more calories than you take in during the week. Therefore, you need to either burn or cut out 500 calories a day. This can come from simple changes, such as smaller portions, or cutting sugary drinks out of your diet. Calories are listed on the side of everything that you buy at the grocery store. Start with some simple changes. Choosing the stairs over the elevator is an easy fix to help you burn calories during the day. If you find yourself sitting for hours on end, take a break and take a walk around the office or house. This will help you burn calories and keep your metabolism awake without breaking a sweat and are key in getting super skinny.
Wearing a fitness tracker can help you keep track of how many calories you burn throughout the day. Fitbit, Garmin, and Jawbone are some of the best and easiest fitness trackers available. , Come up with some kind of reward system to help keep you motivated.


Reward yourself. For every pound lost, place a dollar amount (that you thought of ahead of time) in a jar. Once you reach a goal, spend the money on something you’ve been wanting—maybe a new shirt to show off your progress.
Give yourself a cheat. Don’t go overboard, but once you reach a goal, enjoy a bit of “forbidden food” or take a day off of working out.
Create a positive body image. Even though you have goals of becoming super skinny, you should love the body that you’re in the entire time. Give yourself daily body image compliments. Even if you have to start small, you’ll gain confidence in your body. This will help you stay strong through the process.

