 To do so, enter https://sourceforge.net/projects/equalizerapo/ into your browser's address bar., It's a dark-green button in the middle of the page. This will prompt the Equalizer APO setup file to begin downloading.

If your browser is set to ask you for a download location, you may first have to select a location or click Save.
 It will be in your computer's default downloads folder (e.g., the desktop) or in your specified folder.

Your setup file will be named something like "EqualizerAPO64-1.1.2".
You may have to click Yes to confirm that you want to open the file.
 On the setup window, do the following:

Click Next.
Click I Agree.
Click Next.
Click Install.
 On the Configurator window, you'll see a list of playback devices; checking the box next to your computer's speaker's will set them as the Equalizer APO program's playback device., Doing so will save your settings., This will restart your computer and apply the Equalizer APO program to your computer's audio output.

You'll need to wait for the computer to restart and log back in before you can proceed.
 Do so either by clicking the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or by pressing ⊞ Win.

On Windows 8, hover your mouse in the upper-right corner of the screen, then click the magnifying glass icon.
 This will bring up a white and blue square box at the top of the Start window., Doing so will open the Equalizer APO editing page., You can adjust the bass in the lined window near the middle of the Configuration Editor. To do this, you'll drag any slider from the "25" column through the "160" column up above the "0" line, and any value right of "250" below the "0" line.

Leave the "250" slider on the "0" line.
If you'd prefer to lower your computer's bass, drag the sliders from "25" through "160" to below the "0" line.
It's best to test audio while editing these settings in order to determine whether or not you should raise or lower a slider.
 Doing so will apply your settings to your computer's speakers.