 Working a Monday through Friday, 9 to 5 job may not be in your best interest, and working overtime may be out of the question. If your health is waning or your pain is worse when you’re working, try cutting back your hours. Work 3-4 days a week part-time instead of giving up work altogether.Avoid traveling for work, if possible. Sitting on a plane or in a car for long periods can exacerbate pain, as can the pressure change when you fly.
If you have limited energy or strength, prioritize your tasks. Work on your most important tasks first and use your remaining energy for whatever’s left., Ergonomics is the science of designing products to make them efficient and comfortable for use.Splurge on an ergonomic chair or computer keyboard for your workspace, and set up your desk to be as ergonomic as possible. Do not design your space so that you have to twist your body frequently – be able to sit in good posture with proper forward head posture. Setting up a comfortable workspace can greatly improve your pain at work., Learn to recognize what causes pain flare-ups for you, and have items in your workplace that alleviate your discomfort. Keep a variety of clothing around if you’re sensitive to changes in temperature, and have an ice pack or heating pad available. Have your pain medication on-hand. Be as prepared for flare-ups at work as you are at home., Learn the timing of when to take your medications. Find a way to balance any side effects from your pain medicine, such as sleepiness, with taking them to maximize pain relief. This may necessitate some trial-and-error, but once you figure out a schedule, stick to it.Always take your medications as directed by your healthcare professional. If your meds make you groggy, consider talking with your doctor about non-drowsy options.
 When you begin to experience regular bouts of pain, sit down and assess your ability to work in your current environment. It might help to write down all of the tasks that you preform. Then, go through and see which ones will be difficult or impossible with your condition.Looking over the list may also help you to formulate what you want in a new job, if you decide to start a search. For example, if lifting heavy items triggers pain, then this may be a deal breaker with any new position.

