 Many companies consider any account that shows zero activity for a specified period of time to be lost. Others only consider a customer lost when the client formally submits a request to close the account, such as a subscription. Setting this criterion will make it easier to gather the data necessary for determining the current rate of client churn.


In order to be counted as a loss, the customer doesn't necessarily have to have switched over to a competitor, they simply must have closed their account with your business.;
, Tally the customers carried on the company's client list as of a specific date, such as the last day of the most recently closed business month, quarter, or year. To be accurate, the comparison must be on an account-by-account basis. That date will serve as the standard to determine what type of growth or loss has occurred from that date to the day that the churn rate calculation is made.For example, you may choose to calculate customer churn over the last quarter. Imagine that at the start of that quarter, you had 1200 active customers. This is your starting number of customers for the purpose of calculation.
 Include involuntary losses in which customers are lost due to death, moves to new locations, or any other factors beyond the control of the company. Also include voluntary losses in which customers are removed at their request or as the result of defaulting on account balances.


For the purpose of this calculation, all customers are treated equally, regardless of why they left or the magnitude of sales they provided to the business.
You can separate customers into groups and calculate churn based on these variables separately if you need more detailed information.For example, imagine that you have lost 100 customers during the quarter.
 This includes customers that have been added to the client base during the current period. This may be any new customers who have been signed but have yet to place an order, or may be new customers who placed their first between the start of the current period and the date that the customer churn calculation is made.Continuing with the previous example, imagine that you have gained 200 customers in the past quarter, in addition to the 1200 that you started with.
 Of your new customers, there may be some who have already left within the period. Count these towards your total number of lost customers if you haven't done so already.Imagine that, for the same example, you lost 50 of your 200 new customers during the quarter. Add this 50 to the 100 customers lost from your original 1200 to get a total loss of 150 customers.
 Your customer churn rate is simply the number of customers lost over the period divided by the starting number of customers for that period. Make sure your numbers are complete and correct, and then divide to get customer churn.Using the example from the "gathering customer information" part of this article, you would calculate customer churn as 150 lost customers divided by 1200 starting customers to get a customer churn of 0.125.
 Customer churn is normally presented as a percentage. To convert your churn rate to a percentage, multiply your answer by 100. For example, the result of 0.125 would be 0.125*100, or 12.5 percent. Using percentages will allow your answer to be more easily compared to other metrics, such as growth rate., Use your information on new customers and your starting customer count to calculate a customer growth rate for the same period. That is, divide your number of new customers (that did not cancel within the period) by the starting number of customers. You can then compare this number to the churn rate to figure out whether you lost or gained customers overall. If the growth rate is higher than the churn rate, your overall number of customers is increasing. If it is lower, the opposite is true.Try calculating these figures over several periods and plotting them as line graphs. This can help you analyze trends in your customer attraction and retention.
 Customer churn can be converted into other figures for ease of comparison to other metrics. For example, you can leave your customer churn as a number of customers rather than a percentage. Alternately, you can convert your customer churn into gained or lost revenue, specifically as monthly recurring revenue (MRR). To do this, multiply the number of customers lost by average revenue per customer., Monitoring customer churn is very important, since it is normally easier to retain customers than it is to secure new ones. By calculating the churn rate regularly, and investigating the reasons for that rate, it may be possible to make changes in the way customers are managed and to reduce that rate in future. Track your churn and growth rate over time to assess trends., Your goal should be to retain as many customers as effectively as possible. This is especially important during the period right after purchase, when a customer might be questioning their purchase decision. You can also increase retention by improving customer service, communications, marketing, and other aspects of your customer experience.


Retain customers by encouraging them to use your product and offering support in doing so. For example, you can reach out to customers after the purchase by:

Sending a confirmation email right after purchase.
Sending another email a few days later that explains key features of the product or service.
Sending another email with additional explanations, features, or customer testimonials.
Sending an email if a free trial of your service is about to end.Work on providing excellent customer service through a call center and/or online support. This will allow you to address concerns and issues that customers have about your product.
Stay on top of your customers' minds by using advertising to remind them of the uses of your product and to encourage them to try your other offerings.
You can also implement a way of collecting customer feedback, such as a satisfaction survey. This can help you improve your product and, in doing so, retain more customers., When you do lose customers, contact them with a friendly email or phone call to get feedback. Ask them if they don't mind saying why they are canceling. Set up a system to aggregate and analyze this information for insights. If you notice that there is a flaw with your offering or something better offered by a competitor, you can use this information to make changes and reduce customer churn.In general, about 68% of customers leave they are dissatisfied with the service that they are getting. About 14% leave because they are not satisfied with the product, and only about 9% leave to use a competitor instead., Provide customer satisfaction surveys in order to gauge how happy customers are with your product or service. Their responses will give you actionable information that you can then use to improve your offerings. You can also use the surveys to identify customers at risk of leaving. These are customers who reported low satisfaction and/or that they would not recommend your product/service to a friend. You can then make improvements to your offering and efforts to retain these customers specifically.