 This form will be sent to you by the Office of Property Assessment in December of each year,and will contain information you will need when you are filling out the form required to initiate your appeal.Write down the following information from this form:


Your Block and Lot Number.
Your property's Total Market Value.
Your property's Land and Building Value.;
, This is the document you will fill out to begin the appeal process. You can obtain this in one of three ways:You can obtain a copy from the Customer Service Center of the Office of Property Assessment by calling (412) 350-4600.
Alternatively, you can go to the office itself at the County Office Building, 542 Forbes Avenue, Room 347, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.You can also obtain a copy of the form online., Using the information from the Notice of Assessment Change form, fill out the Annual Appeal form completely and then submit it to the Office of Property Assessment either in person, by mail, or by e-mail.Be sure to sign and date the form.


On this form, you may designate another person (such as an attorney) to represent you at the appeal hearing.These forms are available each year from January until March 31.
You must submit the form by March 31 of the year in which you are seeking an appeal.
If you miss the above deadline, you can submit a late appeal under certain circumstances using the form provided., After you submit the Annual Appeal form, the Office of Property Assessment will schedule a hearing date for your appeal, which will be conducted before the Board of Property Assessment Appeals and Review. The Office of Property Assessment will send you notice of the date of your hearing at least 14 days in advance., The Property Record Card is the document on file with the county that the county uses to determine your property's assessed value. Looking over the information in this document will help you prepare for your appeal hearing.You should call the Office of Property Assessment at (412) 350-4600 and request a copy of this card.


You will have to pick it up in person at the Office of Property Assessment at the County Office Building, 542 Forbes Avenue, Room 347, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.
Anyone can request information for any property in Allegheny County in this fashion. Consider obtaining the Property Record Cards for properties you consider similar in value to your own to get a sense of how the County has assessed them in addition to your own., Once you have a copy of your Property Record card, review the information it contains in detail. You will be doing this for two reasons.


First, since this is the primary source of information with which the County assesses the value of your property, it will be helpful to understand—before the appeals hearing—how the County values your property.
Second, you should review the information on the card for accuracy.Any errors may add unwarranted value to your property, so check this carefully.
 Before your appeal hearing, try to gather information on several properties in your area similar to your own that have sold in the last three years. Try to gather information for between three and five properties similar to yours.You will use this information at your appeal hearing, so be sure to take pictures of these properties for comparison. Try checking the following sources for this information:A local realtor.
The Real Estate Multi-List for Western Pennsylvania.
Newspapers.
Websites that contain information relating to property sales.You should be looking for houses in your area that are similar to yours that have sold for an amount closer to the value at which you think your property should be assessed. Therefore, you will want to document, for each such property, the actual sale price in addition to concrete information establishing similarity, such as square footage, number of rooms, location within the neighborhood, condition of the property, year in which the home was built, etc.
 You will want to gather evidence relating to your home's value to present at the appeal hearing, and any information that decreases the value of your home will be very helpful. If there are any problems requiring repair or maintenance, try to get estimates for the cost before your appeal hearing. Try looking for problems like the following:Cracked foundation
Water damage or flooding
Mold damage
Leaks
Old wiring or fixtures (e.g., bathroom or kitchen)

, You are also allowed to present your own appraisal evidence at the appeal hearing.If you feel that the County's appraisal of your home is inaccurate, have a certified appraiser value your home in writing, and bring this evidence to the appeal hearing if you believe it will help your case., On the date of your appeal hearing, be sure to arrive promptly and at the correct location. You will go to Room 334 of the Allegheny County Office Building at 542 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.Parking is available in the downtown area. Be sure to bring the following:


A copy of your hearing notice.
Specific information demonstrating your property's value. Be sure to bring three copies of all such evidence., After you check in and arrive at your appeal hearing, you will be seated across a desk from the Hearing Examiner in a small room.You will then be sworn in (meaning you have to tell the truth), and the process will begin. If you have noticed any errors on your Property Record Card, now is the time to bring them to the Hearing Examiner's attention.


Before arriving at the hearing, you should write down any errors on your Property Record Card and bring those writings and a copy of the card to be entered into the record at the hearing.
 There is a small possibility that an assessor will be present at the appeal hearing. If one is present, ask the assessor if he or she reviewed your property and, if so, ask them for a copy of their report.If the assessor did not prepare such a report for the hearing, ask them if they saw your house, if they know anything about your home's value, and if he or she is licensed as a Certified Pennsylvania Evaluator.
 Now is the time for you to really make your case that the County assessed your property at a value other than its fair market value. Use the information and evidence that you compiled while preparing for this appeal hearing. Point out sales prices for comparable homes, repair estimates, any other problems with your home that hurt its value, and any problems with your neighborhood that negatively affect the value of your property (e.g., traffic, noise, pollution, crime).If you will be using pictures to compare your home to others in the area, start with a picture of yours first to establish a point of reference for the Hearing Examiner.
Try to organize your evidence to make your presentation as easy to follow as possible. Label all pictures with relevant information, arrange them on a poster board, etc.
Be sure to leave copies of all relevant evidence so the Hearing Examiner can consider it after the appeal hearing.
 Either the school district or municipality in which your property is located may have an attorney present at the hearing.He or she may ask you questions about your home or neighborhood in order to defend the County's assessed value. Answer these questions truthfully, but make sure to cast your property in the light most favorable to you when doing so.


You may question this individual regarding any evidence he or she presents in support of the County's assessment.
 After your appeal hearing is over, you may leave, as no decision will be made that day.The Hearing Examiner, based on the evidence and testimony presented at the appeal hearing, will make a recommendation to the Board of Property Assessment, who will make the ultimate valuation decision.You should receive the Board's decision regarding your appeal by mail within a few weeks of the date of your appeal hearing.
 A few weeks after your appeal hearing, you will receive a letter (a Notice of Disposition) from the Board of Property Assessment detailing its decision on your appeal. Look at the assessed value to see if it has changed to your liking. If not, you have the option of filing another appeal, this time with the Allegheny County Court of Common Pleas.You will be able to present a completely new appeal before the Board of Viewers, which is part of the Court of Common Pleas., You have 30 days from the mailing date of the Notice of Disposition to file an appeal with the Board of Viewers.You will have to pay a non-refundable filing fee of $130.50. There are three ways to file this appeal:


You can e-file to the Civil Docket.There are instructions specifically for this type of appeal at the bottom of the page.Complete a mail-in appeal form and send it to the address listed on the form.Complete a walk-in appeal formand hand deliver it to the Department of Court Records, Civil/Family Division, 414 Grant Street, 1st Floor City–County Building, Pittsburgh, PA 15219.
 After you file your appeal, the Board of Viewers will schedule your appeal hearing. This can take anywhere from 8 to 12 months to schedule.On your scheduled date, show up at the designated location and present the same type evidence you presented to the Hearing Examiner in your first appeal.This is a much more formal procedure than the first appeal, and you should consider hiring an attorney to assist you at this stage.
 After you make your case before the Board of Viewers, you will again receive a decision in the mail. If you are still unsatisfied with the result, you have the right to appeal the Board of Viewers' decision at the Office of Court Records in the City–County Building.This appeal will be a jury trial before a judge.


You have 30 days from the mailing date of the Board of Viewers' decision letter to file this next appeal.

