 Patience is the most essential virtue of an operator. No matter how infuriating the customer is or how absurd his accusations are, you must never lose your cool. Always be polite and calm; let the customer finish whatever he is saying and never barge in the conversation by cutting him short. There is no scope for short tempered and irritable people in the world of customer service, so you must learn to keep yourself calm in highly stressful situations and must never misbehave with a customer.;
, Being a CSR, your top most priority must be to resolve the customers’ issues effectively. You must go beyond the given cheat sheet and find ways to genuinely help them. An average chat agent would simply tell a customer ‘no’ and move on, but a good chat agent will get out his comfort zone and find ways to solve the customer issue. An extra effort on your behalf will be highly appreciated by the customers and will earn your organization customer loyalty.
 Since live chat takes place on a virtual medium, it is natural for the operators to sound robotic and inanimate. But, it is very important that you add in a human element otherwise customers would feel uncomfortable talking to you. Maintain a casual yet professional tone and interact on a slightly personal level with the customer to avoid sounding like an AI machine. According to a survey conducted by WebGreeter®, a popular live chat service providing company, one of the elements that customers seek in live chat support is a human touch. So, make sure that you don’t lose it.
 While dealing with customers, you must set aside your ego and attitude. You would have to be impartial; otherwise, you will not be able to stay calm and patient. You have to realize that whatever accusations the customer is throwing has nothing to do with you. He is just angry at the organization you work for and is venting his frustration out on you. Your job is to listen, pacify and apologize. Even if the customer is rude to you and disrespects you personally, never take it to the heart.
 The best way to be understanding and helpful towards a customer is to step into his shoes. Empathy is very important for any CSR. Looking at a problem through the eyes of a customer will help you better in understanding, analyzing and solving it. Empathizing will also make tolerating customer outbursts’ easier, as this way you would comprehend why the customer feels so frustrated.

