 This can supplement the medications and reduce your pain. Cold packs are particularly effective in the first two days after the extraction. Apply the ice pack, wrapped in a thin towel, to the outside of your face.Do not put the ice directly on your skin as this may damage it. Apply the ice for approximately 10 minutes before giving your skin a chance to warm up.
If you do not have an ice pack prepared, you can use a package of frozen peas or corn wrapped in a towel.
 This will help increase the circulation and may reduce your pain. Ask your dentist what they recommend, but possibilities may include:Purchasing warming patches in your local drug store. They are available over-the-counter and are typically applied to the skin over the painful area. Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
Applying a hot water bottle that is wrapped in a towel. Do not apply the heat directly to your skin because this increases your risk of burning yourself.
 Even if it hurts, it is still important that you drink enough water to prevent dehydration. Being properly hydrated will help you heal quickly and combat the nausea that may be a side effect of some pain medications. Just make sure fluids are room temperature — too hot or too cold can cause complications in the healing process. Monitor yourself for signs of dehydration such as:Thirst
Headaches
Nausea or vomiting
Dry skin
Dizziness
Infrequent urination
Passing cloudy or dark urine

, Tobacco may slow the healing process and make you more prone to an infection. In addition, the suction produced when you inhale while smoking can irritate the wound, allowing nicotine and other dangerous substances to reach directly into the extraction site.If you know that you will not be able to resist the craving, ask your doctor about trying a nicotine patch or nicotine replacement therapy.
These treatments may also help you begin the process of quitting.
 This may include rinsing your mouth and brushing carefully.Your dentist may tell you to rinse with salt water to help the wound heal. If your dentist does not provide you with a special solution to rinse with, ask what concentration the salt solution should be when you make it at home. Ask your doctor how often you should rinse.
Be careful when brushing around the socket.
Do not drink from a straw until it has healed. The suction may irritate the wound.
 If your socket has become infected, you may receive a prescription for antibiotics. Always take the entire course of antibiotics, even after your symptoms are gone. This is important to prevent antibiotic resistant strains from evolving. Seek medical attention immediately if you develop any of the following signs of an infection:Increasing pain or swelling
Worsening breath or a bad taste in your mouth
Fever

