 Oftentimes, people who are very sad withdraw from daily activities. Sad people may not keep up with work, school, or a social life.If you don't want people to know you're sad, strive to go through the motions as much as possible.


If you're sad, don't push yourself too hard. You don't have to expect you'll do a stellar job at work or school if you're going through something. However, make an effort to show up and do your best.
Avoid shunning social situations. In addition to helping you hide your sadness, getting out with friends could potentially boost your mood. Try to force yourself to attend social engagements.
 A lack of overall energy is a common symptoms of sadness.If you're feeling sad, you may notice a dip in energy. To hide your sadness, take steps to increase your overall energy.Do some light exercise. Something as quick as a 10 minute walk can boost your energy.
Stretch. Stretching your body when you're feeling low energy can cause your energy to boost slightly.
Find something to make you laugh. You can, for example, find a funny YouTube video online to laugh at. This can boost your mood and increase energy.
 Reflecting on when and why you feel sad can help you combat feelings of sadness. Certain situations or moments may cause you to feel sad, or make existing sadness worse. If you can figure out your triggers, you can avoid them. This will prevent you from experiencing as intense sadness, making sadness easier to hide.Think about when you feel the most sad during the day. Does seeing a certain person make you sad? Does going to a certain place make you sad? Are there certain noises, songs, or other external stimuli that provoke feelings of sadness?
If so, try to avoid your triggers as much as possible. While it won't eliminate sadness altogether, it can help you avoid situations that intensify your sadness.
 It's impossible not to be affected by sadness indefinitely. There will be times when you miss a social event or seem off during work. If you want to conceal your sadness, think of excuses for your behavior.For example, say you were too sad to go to a friend's birthday party. If you want to hide your sadness, find a viable excuse.
You could say something like, "My allergies are flaring up and I think I need to stay in tonight. Sorry! I hope you have a great birthday."

