 They should be about the size and weight of a throw blanket — not as large as a bed sheet, not as thin as a bed sheet, and not as thick as a comforter or quilt. These two blankets will make up the bulk of your baby belly.


Avoid throw blankets that have a long fringe on them, as it might make your belly look weird.
 This will be the outer layer of your belly, and you’ll use it to smooth out and add dimension.


Lay the blanket flat on the ground or on a wide surface like a bed or tabletop.
Carefully fold each of the four corners toward the center of the blanket until all four corners touch. Remember making origami fortune tellers as a child? Imagine you’re doing the first folding step with this blanket.
The result should be an uneven diamond or a square, depending on what shape your original blanket was. Don’t worry if it’s not a perfect square — that doesn’t matter.
 It shouldn’t be a perfect circle, but a little wide, to better imitate the shape of a pregnancy. When you ball it up, make sure one side remains flat and sooth while the other side hides all the edges. You’ll want to face the smooth side out so people can’t tell your belly is really blankets!

, By combining both blankets, you’re adding dimension to your belly, but you want to make sure it’s believable. Do this step carefully so that your belly won’t start coming undone after a few minutes of wearing it.


Place Blanket 2 in the center of Blanket 1.
Take the four external corners of Blanket 1 (not the four that are already touching in the center) and fold them over the bulk of Blanket 2, creating a little cover around it.
Secure the ends together with masking tape, using enough tape to guarantee that the ends won’t come loose.
 You can follow the same basic procedure as attaching the helmet to your torso in the previous method.


Tightly wrap an elastic athletic bandage (like an Ace bandage) several times around the blankets and your back, using as many layers as you need to secure the belly and make it look smooth.
Secure the blankets with some of the masking tape.
Layer a few tight bandeaus over the blankets to keep them in place.
 Although the blanket won't have the hard ridge that a helmet might, it might still look a little lumpy if you weren't able to get it as smooth as you would have liked, so it's probably still best to wear a looser shirt.

