 On a sheet of paper write down your character’s gender, sexuality, age, health status, height, weight, complexion, hair, mannerisms, posture, and type of clothing. When you are rehearsing, use these qualities to create an accurate representation of your character. Ask yourself:“Who am I, what is my name and do I like my name?”
“What is my gender and sexual orientation, and how do I feel about them?”
“How old am I and what do I think about my age?”
“What is my complexion and do I like it?”
“Do I have any deformities or handicaps, and if I do, how do I feel about them?”
“What is the volume, tempo, and pitch of my voice?” “How do I feel about it?”
“How does my posture reflect my age, health status, and inner feelings?”

, Ask yourself questions about your character's relationship to their environment and society, upbringing, social status, as well as their likes and dislikes. Then imagine or draw your character in different scenes and how they would act depending on their social status. This way, when you rehearse, you can use these sketches as references. Ask yourself questions like:“What was my childhood like?” “What were the best or worst memories?”
“Who were my parents and what did they do for a living?”
“What is my educational background?” and “Am I intelligent?”
“How much money do I have, or how much do I want?”
“What are my political and religious views?”
“What is my job and do I like it?”

, Becoming familiar with your character’s psychological qualities will help you develop appropriate responses and reactions to different scenarios. Imagine different scenarios and act out how your character would respond based upon their personality. For example, act out how your character would respond to their wallet being stolen. Become familiar with your character's personality by asking yourself:“What choices am I faced with and which ones do I make?”
“What are my ambitions or goals?”
“What makes me angry, sad, or happy?” or “What relaxes me?”
“Do people generally like me?” and “Why or why not?”
“Are any of my psychological traits manifested verbally or physically?”
“What are my fears?” or “What do I worry about?”

, Identify your character's ethics and morals. This will give you a more in depth understanding of your character. Then think of other characters that are similar to the one you are playing. Review movie or TV scenes the character is in and use them as a reference while you rehearse for your character. Ask yourself these questions about your character:“Who do I admire?”
“What is my attitude about the choices I make or will have to make?”
“Will the pursuit of my goals or needs lead to a moral choice?”
“Are the choices that I make based on an ethical standard or not?”
“What barriers do I face and how will I overcome them?”

