 Look up the rules of the beach before you confirm your plans. Many beaches do not allow dogs at all. Others only accept dogs on leashes, or have certain dog-friendly hours.;
, Only bring your dog to the beach if he gets along well with adults, children, and other dogs. If he doesn't have excellent recall (ability to come when called), it's best to keep the dog on a long leash for the entire beach visit.


If you have a cute dog, expect a lot of attention from other beach goers, especially children. Be prepared to chat and answer questions if you visit a crowded beach.
 Always bring these materials on any beach visit that includes your dog:


Plenty of fresh water and a container your dog can drink from, such as a collapsible rubber travel dish
Plastic bags to clean up after your dog
Leash, collar, and up-to-date tags
Old towels to dry the dog
Your dog's favorite toy and treats to help your dog obey commands and associate the beach with fun

, Your dog can easily overheat by exercising in hot weather. Bringing extra water will help, but you may also want an umbrella for shade. If you plan to spend more than a couple hours at the beach, you could pack extra-hydrating "popsicles" in a cooler. These are simply unsalted chicken broth frozen into ice cubes or popsicles.


If your dog has a thin coat or short hair, bring sunblock for dogs. The nose can get sunburned as well.
 There are a few more supplies that could come in handy in some circumstances:



Put together a first aid kit, especially if the beach has broken glass or other dangerous litter
Have an up-to-date photo of the dog to show people in case your dog runs away
Bring something to use as a stake if you can't trust your dog to stay on command.
 If you can, get your dog to do her business before you make the trip. You should still bring plastic bags just in case, but there's less chance of your dog bothering others with a mess.
 Before you bring your dog onto the beach, survey the area for other dogs, rowdy visitors, or anything else that might make your dog nervous. Also check the ground for broken glass as well as unattended or discarded food. Steer your dog to an area of the beach where these are less of a problem.


If you're not 100% sure about beach rules, find a sign and check the dog and leash laws.
 If your dog has never been to a beach before, keep her on the leash for now. Walk her over hard sand and let the water lap onto her feet. Keep your voice and body language happy and excited to help your dog relax and enjoy herself.


Don't force your dog into the water. Some dog breeds are natural swimmers, but not all of them — and individual dogs may prefer to stay on land.
 The excitement of the beach can make dogs disobedient. You must have total confidence in your dog's training before you let him off the leash, especially if there are crowds or dangerous areas. A long, retractable leash is the safer option.
 Dogs exploring a beach for the first time sometimes drink the water. Drinking saltwater can cause vomiting or diarrhea, and even freshwater may be too cold or dirty for your dog to drink safely.


Plenty of fresh water is the best way to prevent your dog from doing this, and the best treatment if your dog does slurp up the ocean.
 Always be aware of what your dog is doing, especially if you let him off the leash. Steer your dog away from small children, picnic blankets, and any possible dangers.


For the sake of your car on the way back, keep an eye out for dead fish or other gross objects your dog might roll in.

