 You know you deserve it! All that hard work and feasting has earned you the right to laze about in bed for a bit longer on Black Friday. Eat a simple breakfast to aid digestion of yesterday's food and to save on preparation and dishes. Read, snooze or dream up your next big idea, all while staying in bed. And while you're there, think of all those shoppers who raced off to make the 3 AM opening!;
, The turkey needs to be finished off within the next three to four days, so turkey meals that don't all taste the same need a little planning. Do an online search for some great leftover turkey meals (start here) and make a list of all the ones you're going to give a try. Choose recipes you haven't tried before, to increase the difficulty and sense of satisfaction in learning new recipes!


Planning ahead for Saturday and Sunday meals will keep you out of the grocery stores, as well as away from potentially crowded restaurants.
 With a rental projector, you can have a family movie night, gaming competition, or just catch the latest sporting events in larger-than-life imagery. Having your own will help you avoid the traffic and long lines associated with a trip to the movie theater this time of year.


If you have motion sensing games, they can be great fun projected onto a large screen. You might even organize tournaments and award prizes!

, Have you been putting off a home improvement project? Now might be the perfect time to solicit help from the family and get that nagging unfinished project checked off your to-do list.


If you haven't already started on winterizing your home, today is a good time to begin.
Clean out nest boxes and bird feeders in readiness for winter. Remove dirt, droppings and stray items. Be careful with nests though––in many cases it is best to leave them intact.
Winterize the garden and tidy the yard as needed. Cover fragile shrubs, do end-of-season pruning, rake up leaves, etc.
 A quiet day at home can be conducive to writing tasks and there are always plenty of writing opportunities you could get into:


Start writing out your holiday cards. This is an easy way to keep in the spirit of the season without standing in long lines or wading through endless traffic.
Touch up your resume. Is it singing your praises fairly or has it been gathering dust? Use this quiet time to get it back into shape. If you're not happy with your current job, you might even like to start job searches online and make some applications.
Start your novel, short story, poem, article or paper that you've been mulling over for a while. No day like this day to give it a go. And if you're the sort to worry too much about getting it down right on paper the first time, stop fretting and start writing. You can edit it later for perfection.
 Have you talked to members of the family who couldn't make Thanksgiving dinner yet? What about Aunt Edna in Alaska? Black Friday is the perfect day to catch up with family and friends whom we seem to be too busy to connect with otherwise. Of course, they might be out shopping... but keep trying!

, The days are rapidly growing colder and shorter now. This may be one of your last chances to go for a nature walk, hike or cycle before the snow and ice set in. Get a few friends together, pack a picnic lunch (with some turkey leftovers) and head off to a favorite local nature spot for some consumption-free bliss.
 Here's a great chance to take Fido for a walk somewhere different for a change. Pack him in the car and drive to a beach, the woods or a large park. Take your exercise shoes and turn it into a complete workout for the two of you.


Groom your cat or dog. Today's a good day to pamper your pet with a bath, brush and untangling.
Play with your pet. Spend some time playing tug-of-war or chase the laser spot with Fido and Kitty.
 The rush to consume on Black Friday may help the economy but it tends to increase the blood pressure and frustration of many involved. By refusing to engage in it, acknowledge the gains you're making in staying at peace and not being confronted by purchasing choices you never needed to make in the first place. To help deepen your sense of appreciation for the special time you've just permitted yourself, you might like to try:


Writing your thoughts down in a journal or perhaps even writing a letter to the editor about why you stayed home and what you've gained from doing so.
Meditating. Gain some insight into your thoughts and feelings while chilling out.
Resting on a hammock or in a mound of pillows; or taking a long soak in the bath. Pamper yourself without guilt and use this time to reflect about life and what you'd like to do for the coming months.

