 Have a clear understanding what needs changing. Setting goals is the key to success in any venture. You need to do an honest and in-depth self-evaluation. This will help you point out exactly which of your traits need improvement or change., Your motivation for change directly impacts your ability to change. Thus, you need to want to change your attitude to improve it and must prepare to play an active role in this process.


Ask yourself why you want to improve your attitude about a certain person, object or event. Is your decision to do so externally influenced? For example, has your boss come to you and asked for an attitude change? Or has a friend said that your attitude is bumming them out? Thus, having your own motivation to improve your attitude is important . Drawing upon internal motivation produces more excitement and creativity, leading to better results., When trying to improve your attitude about a person, object, situation, or event, you need to examine what is influencing your attitude. What you are basing your value judgment on? What do you hope to accomplish by adjusting your attitude. Journaling is important for self-reflection. It can help you understand yourself with greater clarity, make stronger and more thoughtful decisions, and help you engage in self-care. It is deeply connected to improving your mental well-being and mood.Here are some good questions to get you started on this path of self reflection:Will improving my attitude make me feel better about this person or event? Will it alleviate uncomfortable emotions?
Will improving my attitude ensure better communication with others? Or will people look upon me more favorably? Will it allow me to work more effectively with this group or person?
Will improving my attitude help me accomplish a goal or change something about the event?
What is influencing my judgment about this person, event, or object?
Have I had a similar experience in the past? What was it? What about the experience was negative?
What emotions do I have surrounding my judgment? Am I resentful, angry, jealous, etc.? What are the reasons for these feelings?
Is there a specific belief that is influencing my attitude (judgment)? If so, what is it? How does this belief connect to my attitude about this specific person, event, or object? Is my belief being challenged? Is this belief open to evaluation or augmentation?

, Visualization techniques are a way of imagining or seeing your goals realized. They can help bolster your commitment to those goals. Athletes, like Usain Bolt, top businessmen, and career educators endorse visualization techniques. Visualization techniques help to activate your creative subconscious. This can assist you in developing strategies to help you reach your goals. It also helps keep you focused, motivated, and programs your brain to realize the resources you will need to succeed. So, if you want to improve your attitude, imagine what it would be like if you were successful. What would happen if you began to have a positive attitude towards a specific person? Or if you started to embrace your job more?To engage in visualization, sit in a comfortable position and close your eyes. Then imagine, with as much detail as you can (like a very vivid dream) what you would be seeing if you successfully changed your attitude. Imagine that you're seeing the results with your own eyes.
Maybe during this technique, you see yourself actually becoming friendly and even having lunch with this person you had previously held a negative attitude about. Or perhaps you envision yourself getting a promotion once you start thinking more positively about your job and finding ways to be more efficient.
You could also add some positive affirmations to support your visualization techniques. An affirmation evokes the experience of already having what you want, yet it is in the present tense. For example, "I get up in the morning and look forward to going to work. I'm excited about the new project I started up with support from my boss." Repeat these affirmations several times a day and you'll feel more goal-directed and motivated.
 To improve your attitude, you will need to challenge your current judgements of people, events, or objects. To do so, you will need additional information. Improving your attitude requires you to seek out alternative information that will favorably influence your judgment. Information gathering may involve talking to people, reflecting on what you already know with a closer eye to the details or doing additional research.For example, if you are required to attend a work dinner and now understand you are resentful because you have to miss your son’s baseball game, you can seek out additional information about the work dinner. Think about why the dinner is important and what the company believes they are accomplishing with a mandatory dinner.
To gather this information, you may talk to your colleagues or manager, do research on your company, or use resources, such as a memo about the dinner. Seeking out new sources of information like this may inform you that the dinner functions as a mentoring program for young associates and it can provide career boosts and promotions. Knowing this information may help you feel more positive about the dinner., Another aspect of information gathering means considering things that you may have ignored or missed in the past. Sometimes we experience tunnel vision and can only focus on the one thing that we see or that is rousing a particular response from us. However, take a step back and look at the bigger context. This can help you identify new information that you may have overlooked and that can aid you in reshaping your attitude.For example, if you have a negative attitude about a certain person because you had an uncomfortable first meeting, you can expand your view of the person by seeking information that may not have mattered to you previously. Understanding more about the person can give you a bigger picture of who he or she is, which may change your original negative judgment of her, thus effectively changing and improving your attitude.
 One of the most important factors in changing your attitude is believing that you can in fact make the change needed. A lot of times we just assume our attitudes are natural and an essential part of ourselves and thus unchangeable. However, if you don't believe that you can change your attitude, then you won't be be able to. You either won't start in the first place, give up quickly, or only every make the attempt half-heartedly.One way to believe in the possibility of change and improvement is to recall other instances where you've improved your life. Perhaps when you were in school, you decided that you were going to have a better attitude about your education and put more effort in. And the result was an increased GPA (grade point average). Try to come up with as many experiences or times when you made a goal to change and were successful. This is the best way to instill belief in yourself.

