 The two main ways dogs can escape from a traditional fence are digging and jumping. To check for evidence of digging, walk the interior and exterior perimeter of your fence. Keep in mind that the hole they’re squeezing through may be smaller than expected.Any sign of digging indicates you may have found an escape hatch. If you’re certain they aren’t digging and they keep getting out, they’ve likely found a way to vault the fence.
 One way to deter a digger is by digging beneath your fence all the way around and adding a foot or so of chicken wire going straight down, then burying this added part of the fence. Your dog will likely try again, but may give up when they encounter this new barrier.For especially serious diggers, you can add an L-footer to the bottom of your fence. This extends down off of your fence, turns 90 degrees at ground level, and extends inward into your yard for about a foot. This will greatly diminish a dog’s ability to choose., If you think your dog is getting over your fence, one option is add something to the top of your fence to prevent them from doing so. Chicken wire can likely do the trick. It’s cheap and easy, if a bit unsightly. Simply staple, nail, or tie chicken wire to the top of your current fence, and bend it inwards to form a ¼ circle or so.Make sure there are no sharp spires of chicken wire that your dog could jump into and scratch themselves on.
 Coyote rollers are designed to keep wild coyotes out of fenced-in areas, but they can also help keep your dog within your fence. Most commonly, coyote rollers are long metal tubes affixed to a frame on top of the fence that allow the tube to spin.Coyote rollers can be purchased from several different online companies, but they are not cheap. You can make a more affordable version yourself using PVC piping and other hardware from your local home improvement store.
 Persistent fence-jumpers, or dogs that have worn a path patrolling the inside of your fence-line may be dissuaded from doing so by landscaping. Dense shrubs are especially effective in keeping dogs back from the fence. In fact, the deterrence offered by landscaping within your fence can prevent escape attempts generally., If you go the chain-link fence route but find that you and the other neighborhood dogs are prone to singing to one another, you may want to add something to keep them from seeing one another. There are plenty of options. One easy, good-looking option is zip-tying some reed fencing to the inside of your chain link fence. You can also tie on bamboo poles or wind plastic slats through the fence itself. While none of these are perfect, they will diminish the chorus of canine greetings., Many dogs who are trying to escape simply need more stimulation to be happy in your yard. If they like to dig, consider adding a sandbox where they are allowed to do so. Further, play with your dog a while each time you go into your yard together. Play fetch or simply run around together., Though it can be tempting to let your dog out on their own to take care of business or catch some rays, it’s not recommended. Even with the safety of a fence, your dog can wind up getting themselves in trouble by eating something it shouldn’t or getting wound up in something you forgot to put away.Do not rely on running loose in the yard as your dog's only form of exercise and mental stimulation. Taking your dog for regular walks or runs, engaging in play in the home, and providing appropriate physical exercise and mental stimulation for their breed, size, and age will help curb attempts to escape the yard and other mischievous behaviors.

