 Although dyscalculia is generally described as being a singular learning disorder, there are actually five subtypes. These subtypes will all have their own unique symptoms and conditions. Knowing these subtypes can help you plan for your specific needs and successfully cope with dyscalculia.


Type 1 dyscalculics may be able to grasp some basic functions of math, but will have difficulties with higher mathematics.
Type 2 dyscalculics are capable of doing mathematical operations, but may take much longer than their peers.
Type 3 dyscalculics will have significant difficulty understanding time or sequence. This type of dyscalculia is rare.
Type 4 dyscalculics have troubles with memory, which can affect their mathematical capabilities.
Type 5 dyscalculics cannot grasp numbers conceptually and will have difficulties connecting them to real world objects or situations.
 Dyscalculia is not simply having trouble doing math. Dyscalculics have a learning disorder and will often display specific symptoms and traits regarding math or numbers. You will need to speak with your health care provider or a psychologist to learn if you have a case of dyscalculia. However, discovering some of these common traits associated with dyscalculia can help you work with your doctor to learn more about your condition:


Difficulties understanding mathematical operations and concepts such as decimal places, doing sums, making change or counting money.
Troubles with reasoning, making it difficult to follow processes or understand how abstract ideas relate to concrete examples.
Issues memorizing the meaning of mathematical symbols, formulas or instructions in math textbooks.
A large gap between your performance in math-related and non-mathematical subjects. People with dyscalculia may do well in school overall--especially in non-mathematical subjects such as history or literature--but their grades will be disproportionately poor in math or math-based classes like algebra or physics.
 Cases of dyscalculia will be diagnosed by a psychologist. There have been tests developed that can help discover which type of dyscalculia you may have, as well as the severity of it. Talk with your health care provider to learn more about dyscalculia testing.Your school may offer psychological examination services.
Many initial tests will aim to rule out other conditions that could be causing any difficulty grasping mathematical concepts.

