 If you have a hard time reaching your brush into the back corners of your mouth, or if the brush is too large to fit behind your teeth to clean their backs, you should consider purchasing a new one. Make sure that the brush has soft bristles, which fit more easily into the gaps between teeth and will cause less irritation of the gums.If your brush's bristles have "flattened out" during use, you should buy a new one. Bent bristles will not clean between your teeth, allowing plaque to build up over time. They can also scratch your gums, making them susceptible to bacteria buildup and infection.
Flattened out bristles may indicate that you are pressing down too hard as you brush.
Toothbrushes should be replaced routinely every three to four months.
Brush at least twice a day, once before having breakfast in the morning and once after dinner at night, to avoid acid buildup due to breakdown of food by bacteria.;
, Fluoride is a nutrient which strengthens teeth, slowing and reversing tooth decay. Choosing a toothpaste with fluoride will ensure that you get the most out of each tooth brushing.If you live in the United States, look for toothpastes marked ADA Accepted. These toothpastes have been evaluated by the American Dental Association, and they all contain fluoride.
 While many people use mouthwash after brushing, this should be avoided, as it has been shown to remove the valuable fluoride which remains on your teeth after brushing. Using mouthwash before brushing will ensure that you retain fluoride on your teeth, and the mouthwash will "loosen up" any plaque or food particles on your teeth, making it easier to remove them with a toothbrush.Alternatively, you can use a mouthwash containing fluoride after brushing or wait a few hours and then use a regular mouthwash that doesn't contain fluoride.
 Teeth accumulate food particles and plaque (a sticky, bacteria-carrying substance) throughout the day. Regular brushing prevents accumulation of these substances, reducing bad breath and tooth decay.Brushing after a meal is a good idea, but refrain from brushing immediately after eating an acidic food, or drinking an acidic drink, such as coffee or fruit juice. Acidic foods temporarily weaken your teeth's enamel, allowing your toothbrush to remove it during brushing. In time this will cause your teeth to become sensitive.
 While it is common to hold the brush parallel with the gums, this should be avoided, as it can make it more difficult for your brush to penetrate the gaps between your teeth. A straight angle may also prevent you from covering the whole surface of each tooth as you brush. , Brushing with too much force can irritate your gums, and will prevent the tips of your brush's bristles from penetrating the gaps between your teeth. Use a back-and-forth motion, and focus on two teeth at a time until you have brushed the outer surface of each of your teeth., Using a gentle up-and-down motion, clean the back sides of each of your teeth. You will not be able to hold the brush vertical when brushing the inside of your back teeth, but try to maintain the same up-and-down motion.


The back and forth movement is used only to loosen any food particles left on your teeth, while the vertical brushing helps your gums stay attached to your teeth.
 The chewing surfaces of the teeth can often accumulate food that has been chewed throughout the day. Use the same gentle, side-to-side motion you used for the front surfaces., The tongue can harbor small food particles, plaque, and odor-causing bacteria. Use gentle strokes to brush the entire top surface of your tongue, being careful not to stick the brush too far back into your throat, which can cause gagging., Using too much water can rinse the fluoride off of your teeth, reducing the benefits of using a fluoride toothpaste. Instead of gargling a mouthful of water, simply sip a small amount to create a toothpaste slurry in your mouth. Swish this slurry around your mouth for one minute, then spit it out.Avoid rinsing more than once after brushing, as the best results are obtained from a single rinse.
While swallowing fluoride toothpaste in very large quantities can be hazardous to adults, swallowing a little now and then poses no risk to your health.

