 Juvenile Horned Frogs will enjoy small earthworms, crickets and wax worms. They need to eat live prey, so this may not be the pet for you if you are squeamish.Feed juveniles 2-6 food items, at least 2-3 times per week.
 Adult horned frogs can handle larger foods such as night crawlers, roaches, superworms, silkworms, earthworms, locusts, crickets, mealworms, feeder fish, slugs and snails.Adults can be feed once per week, or even once every two weeks, if you provide large quantities of food items.
During aestivation periods, adult Horned Frogs will go as long as four months without food, if fed heavily beforehand.
You can feed pre-killed pinky or larger mice to your frog occasionally, but they should not be a regular part of your frog's diet. Do not feed your frog live mice or other vertebrates.
 In addition to a well-rounded diet, rub calcium and vitamin D3 supplement powder onto their food. You can purchase amphibian vitamin supplements online or at your local pet store.Juvenile Horned Frogs should get supplement powder at least 2-3 times per week.
Adult frogs should get vitamin-dusted meals at least once per week.
 Ornate Horned Frogs are not picky eaters, and they will bite anything you put near their mouth including your finger. Although they don't have teeth to speak of, they have strong jaws and their bite can be very painful.If your frog bites you, resist the urge to jerk away. You may accidentally fling your frog across the room and injure him.
If your frog does not let go within a few seconds, try running cold water over him until he releases his grip.
Clean your finger with antiseptic and apply a bandage.
 Once a month, remove your frog from its tank and place it in a small holding tank. Thoroughly wash all surfaces with hot water. Wash the items in the tank with hot water as well, and let everything cool before you put it back.Use gloves when moving your frog to a holding tank. The natural oils in your skin are very harmful to frogs.
Never use chemicals to clean. When cleaning the frog's enclosure, never use chemicals. Even trace amounts of chemicals can burn or kill your frog.

