 To create this lightening spray you’ll need lemon juice, sea salt, water, coconut oil, chamomile tea, cinnamon and honey. Additionally, you’ll need a clean spray bottle that will hold 2.5 cups (20 fluid ounces) of the completed formula.The exact recipe amounts are:


2 tablespoons sea salt;
1 cup of water;
1 tablespoon coconut oil;
1/2 cup of lemon juice (freshly squeezed);
1 teaspoon cinnamon;
1 teaspoon honey.;
, You may want to use a funnel for a hassle-free way to transfer the liquids into the bottle.
 Measure out 1 cup of water and 2 tablespoons of sea salt and put them both in the saucepan. Heat (do not boil) the mixture on your stove and stir it a few times until the salt has dissolved completely.Allow the solution to cool to room temperature and then add this solution to the lemon juice that you've already measured out and put in the spray bottle.
 Put the chamomile tea bag in an ordinary mug and pour the boiling water over it. Soak the tea bag in the water until it has cooled to room temperature (which will take about 30 minutes).The result will be a strong brew of chamomile tea.
Take the bag out of the water and throw it away after the 30 minutes have passed.
 Then measure out 1 teaspoon cinnamon and 1 teaspoon honey and put those into the spray bottle, as well. Put the nozzle onto the spray bottle and tighten it.


Heat up the honey in the microwave for a few seconds if you are finding the thick substance difficult to work with. It will make it runny and more liquid-like.
Shake the bottle to mix the contents well.
 Shampoo your hair (but do not condition it) and then towel-dry it. Spray the formula all over your wet hair until the strands are fully saturated. Run a comb through your hair to make sure the formula is evenly distributed.


To achieve an ombre look, spray the mixture on the ends of your hair only.
For a more dramatic ombre look, spray it on the bottom half of your hair.
Spray additional amounts of the formula on places where you want brighter, targeted highlights.
 Measure out 1 tablespoon of coconut oil and apply it to your hair. Starting at the ends, work the oil about halfway up your hair and then stop.


The oil will provide a dose of moisture to your hair and also attract sunlight with its sheen.You can substitute 1 tablespoon olive oil for the coconut oil, if you prefer., Make sure that your hair is hanging loose and not pulled back into a ponytail to ensure even sun exposure. The sunlight works with the ingredients to lighten your hair. Stay out in the sun until your hair is completely dry.Once your hair dries, it will be stiffened by the lemon juice. This is normal and will rinse right out.
 Use warm water to rinse the mixture out and do not use shampoo. Once you’ve rinsed out the lemon juice, apply conditioner generously to your hair and allow it to stay on for 2-5 minutes before rinsing it clean.


Lemon juice is very drying to the hair, so make sure you keep your hair well-conditioned to avoid brittle strands.
Consider using leave-in conditioners to protect your hair from over drying., If you notice that your hair is getting very dry, deep condition it and take a week off from using the mixture. This formula works best on blonde, strawberry blonde, light brown and medium brown hair.


Make a new batch every time you want to lighten your hair with this spray. Toss the remaining contents out at the end of the day.

