 If you want to, feel free to offer more than that, as long as you can afford to. But expect costs to rise significantly with each additional item that you add to your menu. If budget is a concern, stick to just three types of canapes in order to offer your guests some variety without spending too much. Generally speaking, you should be fine with:One red-meat canape (such as beef or pork)
One white-meat canape (like fish or chicken)
One vegetarian or vegan canape;
, If you want to impress your guests’ tastebuds, but feel wary about ordering something too exotic or overpriced, then consider the time of year that your wedding will take place. Focus on canapes featuring ingredients that happen to be in season during those months. Delight people’s tastebuds with freshness instead of trying to blow them away with something out-of-this-world. To find out which meats and produce are in season during your wedding, search online for charts like this one: http://www.bbcgoodfood.com/seasonal-calendar/all


, If you feel overwhelmed by all the options out there, use your reception's theme to narrow down your choices. If you don't have a theme, make one up. Don't worry: you don't necessarily have to redo your entire menu, decorations, and other stuff to fit it. Just keep it to yourself if you want and use your private theme to settle more quickly on a decision. For instance, you could:


Feature a specific canape or key ingredient that you and your partner discovered together on a trip, holiday, or first date.
Highlight the location of your wedding by focusing on locally grown ingredients or regional specialties., Keep any dietary concerns that your guests may have in mind. Always offer more than one option so they have a choice in case one type contains ingredients that they can’t eat. At the same time, don’t feel like you’re obligated to address every issue imaginable. Order what you want to serve, and then settle on a single alternate canape that meets as many issues as possible all at once.Serving a specific canape to address just one issue, and then another kind to address a second issue (and then another, and then another) will just give you a headache and stretch your budget.
 Use this to address many issues at once. At the very least, offer a meat-free canape for any vegetarians on your guest list, plus any omnivores who may have dietary issues with particular meats. If needed, go a step further and make it vegan to address both vegans and anyone with issues like lactose intolerance or religious concerns. For instance:Say you want to serve three kinds of canapes, one of which is pork, and another is tuna. Some guests may have religious objections to pork and/or seafood allergies.
 Before choosing your menu, include allergen response cards with your wedding invitations. Ask guests to fill in any foods that they’re allergic to and send it back to you. Use their feedback to narrow down your selections when the time comes to pick which types of canapes to serve.If 50 out of 100 guests all have nut allergies, then obviously you’re better off nixing any items made with nuts or nut oils.
If only one person has it, though, just try to include at least one canape that doesn’t contain nuts, and inform that guest of which ones to avoid.
 If one or more dietary issues are shared by many guests, make this a criteria when hiring your caterer. When you interview potential candidates, inform them of the dietary concern(s) in question. Ask them if they have experience in tailoring menus to meet these needs. Even if they answer yes, it may still be worth pursuing a company that specializes in that specific area instead. For instance:Say that 75% of your guests are vegan. Caterer A may be able to come up with a vegan menu even though they don’t do this regularly. However, Caterer B, who specializes in vegan menus, will have more experience in making the most out of select ingredients.
Or, let’s say 75% of your guests follow a strict kosher diet. Caterer A may offer a menu that’s kosher on paper, but kosher laws also govern how food should be prepared. If their kitchen isn’t equipped for this, you’re better off finding a caterer who specializes in it.
 First, plan to serve your canapes during your cocktail reception. Then decide how long that will last. Next, ask yourself if you’re planning on following the cocktail reception up with a full meal. For now, assume all your guests are adults and then plan on ordering enough canapes so each guest receives:One canape every 30 minutes before a meal is served.
One canape every 15 minutes if no meal is served.
 Expect some age groups to consume more than others. Before you do the math, go over your guest list. Determine the age of each guest and divide them between Children, Young Adults, Adults, and Seniors. Expect:


Children (12 years old and younger) to consume about half the amount that an adult would.
Young adults (13 years old to early 20’s) to eat at least twice the amount that an older adult would.
Seniors (65 years old and up) to have smaller appetites than middle-aged adults.
 If you decided against serving a full meal, consider the timing of your reception. If possible, schedule it outside of traditional meal hours. Allow your guests time to eat their breakfast, lunch, and/or dinner on their own. If you do end up hosting your reception during meal hours, expect your guests to treat your canapes as a meal and consume more than indicated above. Traditionally, meal times fall between:Breakfast: 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
Lunch: 12 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Dinner: 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
 Expect canapes to be pretty tasty, but not necessarily all that filling. Plan on offering more than just canapes if you’re foregoing a meal and/or inviting a lot of young adults or other big eaters. Provide your caterer with the number of guests so they can pair the canapes with a more substantial platter.Otherwise (or even in addition to that), come up with a fallback plan ahead of time in case the food runs out by:Finding nearby restaurants offering delivery and/or pick-up.
Confirming they can handle large orders on short notice.
Asking for an estimated wait time so you know how soon to order.
Setting aside an emergency budget.
Designating someone to handle this task during the reception so you can enjoy your own wedding day.

