 This treatment works for several great reasons; lemon juice is a natural astringent, so it will work to close up your pores. Its high acidity will kill off lots of the bacteria clogging your pores, and it has natural lightening powers which will reduce the redness of your zits. Put lemon juice directly on your pimple and leave it be till your next regular face wash.






;
, Tea tree oil has been used by dermatologists for years to reduce skin irritation and acne. Get some pure tea tree oil and coat your acne with it. Do this after washing your face twice daily for the best results.
 Essential oils aren’t always just for aromatherapy; lavender oil may work to clear up your acne. Put a drop on each pimple and allow it to soak into the skin. This can be done several times a day, but is best directly after your morning and evening face washes.
 Brew up a cup of basil tea for your face, rather than your throat. Mix a cup of boiling water with a few fresh basil leaves and allow the tea to steep for a few minutes. Cool the tea in the fridge before applying it to your face. Use it as a spot treatment, or apply it to your entire face with a cotton ball if you have oily skin.
 Witch hazel is a natural astringent typically used for cleaning up cuts. Put on pimples though, it will tighten the pores and kill the bacteria clogging them. Apply it heavily to your acne-prone areas or sweep it over your whole face with a cotton ball.
 Yet another natural astringent, apple cider vinegar will clear up your acne and reduce the size of your pores. Apply it to your entire face as a toner or dab it more heavily on your pimples specifically. You can’t go wrong with apple-cider vinegar, so feel free to apply it as many times a day as you would like.
 Ice works to quickly close up pores and reduce the swelling and redness stereotypical to pimples. Gently rub your acne with an ice cube to reduce its appearance and soothe any irritations or pain it may be causing you. For extra effect, making your ice cubes out of green tea. It will work as an astringent to keep your pores tight and clear., Benzoyl peroxide will instantly kill the bacteria making their homes in your skin, without giving you any pain. Look for an acne-fighting spot treatment that has benzoyl peroxide and dab it straight onto your acne.
 This is one of the primary ingredients in most acne-fighting products, and for a very good reason: it works. Salicylic acid is a relatively safe acid that works to melt away dirt and grime in your pores. Look for a spot-treatment product that contains this ingredient, and your acne will be gone faster than you can spell “salicylic.”








