 We cannot walk alone in life. It is important that as a Christian you find a group of supportive and seasoned Christian believers who can help you and encourage you in your new faith and continuing trust in God. You may find it helpful to talk to a Christian. Choose someone that you respect for his or her integrity and knowledge as a Christian., Baptism is about coming into the community of Christ. This is the second step of salvation, after repentance. It may be thought of as a self portrait of your joining with Christ in the death and resurrection in your heart (core of your being) and in the eye of the observer. “Peter said to them, “Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.”Baptism was described by the apostle Paul as: "Therefore we are planted together (united) with Him by baptism into death: that as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life."Continue your walk . After you have accepted Christ by receiving the Holy Spirit, fellowship with Him in your daily life by praying, reading the Bible, and following Christ's example.
 These things reflect your changed heart, and love one of the most important aspects of a Christian life.


Be truthful to God and Jesus. Truly repent of your actions and thought, and seek, then accept God's love and His plan and then be saved by His grace. It's really bad for you to not confess, repent and to be saved, but if you are not, you will then die in Hell (and nobody ever wants that to happen). If you ever want to see your friends and family in Heaven and to tell them all about your life. Well, isn't that what you want?

, For it is "by grace" you have been saved, "through faith"--
and this "not of yourselves", it is the "gift of God"--
9. "not by works", so that no one can boast.
10. For we are God's workmanship
"created" in Christ Jesus "to do good works",
which God prepared in advance for us to do."(Ephesians 2:8--10) So if you are saved, live to do good to others, according to God's law of love.
 Then you will begin to understand what you need to do with your walk with the Lord. In order to become a Christian, you need to grow in Christ:

