 When speaking to the host or other family members, it is important to avoid using accusatory language or blaming others. While you might be stressed, upset, or annoyed by the host’s demands, you can prevent further conflict by using statements that begin with “I” instead of “you.”For example, instead of saying, “You keep asking me too to do way too much. Why can’t you ask someone else?” you can say, “I have my hands full at the moment. Perhaps I can see if someone else can help you?”
You can use “I” statements to declare your feelings and your thoughts. For example, “I feel as though I’m taken for granted when I’m expected to do all of this work without asking.”
You might also use “I” statements to actively listen to others. Active listening involves rephrasing what the other person said to demonstrate that you understand their feelings. For example, you might say, “I understand that you’re stressed out. I know that this dinner is a huge responsibility for you.”

, If you're worried that the host is going to monopolize conversations or bring up uncomfortable topics, try leading the discussion yourself. Come prepared with a few topics to discuss. This can help you stay in control of the conversation.

You may want to have a few topics to engage each family member to reduce your interaction with the host. For example, you can ask your cousin how college is going or talk to your mother about how her garden is doing.
 Instead of outright refusing your host’s demands, you can gently explain why you cannot do something. Whenever you state something, you can follow it up with a phrase that begins with “because.” This can help encourage your host to back off.You might say, “I can’t stay long because I have an appointment that afternoon.”
If the host or another family member is bothering you about certain choices in your life, this tactic can also help. For example, you might say, “I’m not looking to have children right now because I need to focus on my career before I can start a family.”
That said, if you would rather not explain your choices or reasons, you do not have to. You can simply say, "I'd rather not talk about it."

, Some family members may try to comment or pressure you into decisions you don’t want to make. You should end the conversation quickly and politely with a calm thank you. End the conversation there. Do not engage with their advice.


If someone tries to give you advice about your love life, career, or family, you can simply say, “Thank you. I’ll keep your suggestions in mind.”If someone is asking uncomfortable questions about your personal life, you can try saying, “I have nothing to complain about” or “There’s nothing much to say.” If they try to press you for an answer, respond with “I’ll let you know if anything changes.”

, It may seem easy to react to a controlling or demanding family member with a snappy response. You may even want to confront them outright about their behavior. This could start a large argument. Instead, try to step back. Come up with a diplomatic answer that does not blame or accuse them. Focus instead on a peaceful response.Instead of saying, “I brought the best gift I could. I think that you should appreciate what I bought you,” you can say, “I’m sorry you’re disappointed. I thought you would have liked it.”
If it is difficult to speak or interact with the host without becoming emotional, angry, or upset, you may just need to excuse yourself.

