 Entering a device code is the fastest way to program your RCA universal remote. The code for your device will vary depending on your model of RCA remote.In the RCA Remote Code Finder, select the model number of your remote control from the “Model” drop-down. You can find your model number printed on the bottom of your remote.
Choose the type of device you want to program under “Product Type.”
Find the brand of your device (e.g., Sharp, Sony) in the search results. The numerical code next to the brand name is the code you’ll need to enter.;
, Press the power button on the device you want to control to switch it on.
 You'll need to keep the remote pointed at the device the entire time you are programming it.
 Your remote should have several buttons labeled with different device types.


For example, the “TV” button would control your television, while the “CBL” or “SAT” button would control your cable or satellite box.
The “AUX” button is usually assigned to stereo devices.
 The Power light on the remote will light up. Don’t let go of the button!

, This is the code you found in the Remote Control Code Finder. Make sure to keep pressing the button, even after the Power light turns off.
 Make sure that you're still holding the device button. If the Power light has turned back on, the remote has been successfully programmed.If the light blinked four times and then turned off, the code may have been entered incorrectly. Try holding down the device button and re-entering the code., If the code was entered correctly, you will be able to turn the device on and off using the remote. Make sure you press the correct device button at the top of the remote before testing the features.


If you are unable to turn on your device after entering the code, you may have the wrong code. Return to the RCA Remote Control Code Finder and make sure you entered the correct information.
If you still can’t program the code with this method, try using the Code Search button (if there is one) or doing a Manual Code Search.

