 The heat from the compress will help soothe your nipples. Using this method right after feeding will not only soothe the pain, but will also clean the area.Do not substitute a warm compress with other heating methods like a hair dryer or heater. These home remedies have been debunked and are considered harmful.Sore nipples is the most common reason for discontinuation of breast feeding in women, so it's important to tend to your nipples to relieve the pain.
 Natural nutrients in breast milk help soothe the soreness associated with breast feeding. It also has antibacterial properties, so this trick will help avoid infections as well. Allow your nipples to air dry after applying the milk to ensure that your skin absorbs as many nutrients as possible.
 To further protect the skin and prevent soreness in between feedings, you can apply lanolin cream to your nipples. This helps moisturize the skin and soothe the area. This product should be available in most drug stores and supermarkets.Alternatively, you could also apply petroleum jelly to the area. This will lock in moisture and prevent the area from rubbing against your clothes.Whether you use lanolin or petroleum jelly, keep it on until the next time you feed to keep your nipples protected. Then rinse it off with water right before feeding., If your nipples are tender before a feeding session, you can apply an ice pack to dull the pain.


Whether you use a commercial cold pack or a bag of ice, be sure to wrap it in a towel. Ice applied directly to the skin can cause frostbite.
Do not leave the ice on for longer than 20 minutes. This can damage the skin.
 If your nipples and breasts are very sore, a pain reliever will help. Be sure to use pain relievers in conjunction with other methods designed to help the nipples heal, otherwise you're just masking pain and not treating the problem.


In this case, acetaminophen is the best option, though NSAID pain relievers will also be effective. Both are safe to use while breast feeding, but you should still confirm with your doctor before taking any medication., If you've been experiencing a lot of soreness from breastfeeding, adjusting your position may help. See this guide for details about different positions.
 Persistent or unbearable pain isn't normal, and there may be another problem causing your pain. Visit your doctor for an examination to see if something else is causing your pain, or if you need to adjust your breastfeeding style. Cracked or chafed nipples may need antibiotic ointment treatment.

