 Sometimes its just nice to go for a walk with your sweetie - you can just talk, hold hands, express other kinds of affection, talk to each other, and just spend a quiet afternoon or evening with each other. Plus, you'll never know what you'll find just walking around your own town/city.;
, Whether you're in school, college, or even an adult - there's always some production going on every few months or so. Go to your school's play or musical - you can rest your head on his shoulder or even hold hands during it.
 Your school should have a couple of games or so every season or whenever. Go to your school's dances too - it'll build memories - not only with your boyfriend - but with your friends too. It could actually be very romantic if you slow dance with each other. Even if you're an adult, go to sports games with your honey and go to nightclubs if you like to dance.
 You can buy things, window shop, browse, eat at the food court, go to the arcades, play games, hang-out, sit on the benches and just people-watch, sometimes eat at a fifty's restaurant, almost anything. Remember shopping (even just browsing or window shopping) can be a great way to get to know the other person's interests, style, and identity.
 Make a point of (not all the time) going out to eat with one another. It can be good to just share a meal with one another and talk. Any restaurant you love to go to or try a new one for a change - KFC, Chili's, Applebee's, Wendy's, McDonald's, Burger King, Arby's, Hooter's(at this point you laugh a little and keep reading), The Olive Garden, Taco Bell, Tully's, Chinese restaurants, Pizza Hut, Little Caesars, Starbucks, Coffee Shops, Dunkin' Donuts, Twin Trees, Choices, Ice-cream Shops, Ponderosa, Friendly, etc.
 Stay in for a change - you can do almost anything when staying at home (or at each other's houses if you're still dating) - rent/buy movies, talk, eat munchies/snacks/junk food or even a meal together (have dinner together for instance). You can light a few candles and turn the lights down low or even off for a romantic touch, cuddle/snuggle, talk about your dreams, hopes, fears, etc., play a board game, play cards, you can just relax and hang-out & do anything together.
 You could even bring along a picnic and eat together while watching stars. Talk with each other - about anything you want to. Surprise your partner and have a gift for them. You can kiss and cuddle with each other too. This could also be romantic. Bring a blanket (or two) with you also. This can also be that special place where you tell her you love her. It's a very romantic place.

