 Reduce the amount of things you need to do between waking up and getting out the door. Prevent yourself from running late, stressing out, and making that fateful decision to “just skip school ‘cause I’m already late.” Make your mornings easier by:Showering or bathing at night.
Planning your outfit for the next day before going to bed.
Making sure everything you need for breakfast is ready to go.
Packing everything you need for school before falling asleep.
 At night, follow a curfew, even if your parents or guardians don’t enforce one. Allow enough time between that and bedtime to finish homework, do chores, and take care of anything else without skipping anything. Go to bed at the same time every night so you’re not exhausted the next day.Set an alarm for the same time every day so you’re used to waking up at that hour and less likely to oversleep.If you still feel rushed in the morning, start setting your alarm earlier by ten or fifteen minutes.
Keep a calendar to plan around special events (like your sister’s recital, your friend’s birthday party, or your own away game) that might throw your schedule off.
 Build a morning routine whose only purpose is getting you awake and off to school. Wake up. Eat breakfast. Brush your teeth, comb your hair, and whatever else you need to do in the bathroom. Get dressed, get your things, and get moving. That’s all.Avoid distractions like watching TV, going online, playing games, reading for pleasure, or listening to music.
Exceptions can be made for checking weather or traffic reports.
 Even if you hate, hate, hate school, remember that each day you miss makes the next day even tougher. Be aware that high absentee rates often lead to lower grades and poor test scores. Even if you have high grades right now, expect your chances of dropping out of high school to keep going up the more you miss school.Remember: even though an excused absence might not result in disciplinary trouble at school or at home, you still lost a day’s worth of lessons.
Asking your parents or guardians for a “mental health day” can be beneficial sometimes.Still, do so as little possible, if at all. Keep in mind that you could catch a virus tomorrow and be forced to stay home again!
If you do ask for a mental health day, plan wisely. Consider what’s happening in school that week so you don’t miss crucial tests or lessons.
 If you can’t stand schoolwork, find other motivations to keep you going. Pursue your interests through extracurricular activities. Join a team or club.Since they usually require you to maintain good attendance in order to participate, use this as an incentive to keep your absentee rate next to nil.


If nothing else, focus on the other things that make school enjoyable. Go to see your friends or to have another excuse to bump into that boy or girl you like in the halls.

