 It can take as long as 6 months to get your passport. If you don't already have one, apply now. You can buy a passport photo at most photo stores and apply for a passport at your local post office or courthouse.


For certain countries, you'll need a tourist visa, too. Do your research online about whether citizens of your country need visas to go to your destination. It depends on where you're coming from, too.
 Getting sick overseas can be costly and very stressful. Lower your risk of spending your time sick in bed by getting your travel vaccinations. There are essentially zero health risks to being vaccinated and it's a very cheap way to protect yourself.


You should get vaccinated at least 2-3 months before you leave for your trip. Last minute vaccines will not be very effective for preparing you for your stay. If you're not sure whether you need vaccinations are not, the CDC's website has recommendations based on the type of traveler you are and where you plan to travel., If you're going somewhere chilly and your body isn't used to colder climes, be sure to bring plenty of layers. You'll want socks, gloves, a thick coat, a sweater, the whole nine yards. You researched the weather, right? What's it like?


You may want to bring a few "just in case" pieces. If there's a legitimate chance it could rain, bring an umbrella or a raincoat. A couple pairs of shoes, tennis shoes included, is good, too. You never know – you may wind up going on a spontaneous romantic hike.
 In general, it's good to not load up on cheap souvenirs. As cute as many of the "Just Married" trinkets can be wherever you go, keep in mind that you will put out very few or none of these things in the future. That money is better put to having a nice dinner or doing an activity you won't have the opportunity to try for some time. That being said, you'll probably want a couple of things to remember your trip by, so leave a bit of room in your pack just in case.


Postcards are a good, small trinket to take back (useful, too). You may also want some food items or other, more practical things to take back with you. And don't forget gifts for mom and dad!

, In order to build the excitement for the trip even more, have a gift with you to make the vacation extra special. It could be something warm for them to wear on the mountainside or something teeny-tiny for them to wear in the bedroom. Whatever it is, you'll remember it from your honeymoon and it will have that special place in your heart for years to come.


Surprising them on the train or plane is great, but you may also want to hold off until you get to the hotel. Another good idea is to plan a "secret activity" they don't know about. Then when they say, "I didn't bring my suit!" or "I have nothing to wear," surprise. You came prepared. Let the memories commence!

