 This might be the most important thing you can do to build confidence in young girls. Talk to them about ways to feel confident and sure of themselves.


Tell them about positive self-talk and give them an example. Encourage them to use positive self-talk on a regular basis.
You might say, “Try using kind words with yourself. You could tell yourself that you are smart.”
Talk to them about celebrating their own successes. Explain that feeling proud of something you put a lot effort into isn’t the same as bragging.
For example, you could try, “You should feel proud of accomplishments. It’s not bragging to feel confidence in your work.”

, Young girls, like youth of all ages, like spending time with their peers and socializing is an important part of their development. But, make sure that the peers are supportive and encouraging in order to build confidence in young girls.If you are a parent of a young girl, then get to know who her friends are and who their parents are.
For example, accompany your daughter to a play date and stay for a while to see how the kids interact and to meet the other parents.
If you are a teacher or mentor then try to encourage positive interactions between young girls and their peers.
Remind young girls and their friends to tell each other things like “That took a lot of determination” or “That was really creative”.

For example, looking at anchor charts in the classroom when completing classwork or using a dictionary when they read a word they don’t understand.
Explain that trying to work things out on your own is brave, but it’s also brave to ask for help when you need it.
For instance, you might say, “You have great problem-solving skills. One of those skills is knowing when to ask for help.”

, Sometimes young girls may be afraid to try things that may be seen as typically boy activities like sports or model building. But, you can build young girls’ confidence if you encourage them to try new things that interest them, even if they aren’t traditional ‘girl’ activities.For example, it’s okay for a girl to like to go skateboarding and to enjoy playing with dolls.
Expose young girls to a variety of things like hockey, knitting, poetry, song-writing, skiing, or building dollhouses.
Remind them that it takes courage to try something new. You might say, “You should be proud of yourself! It takes a lot of courage to try a new thing.”

