 Use a work of art or find a motivational quote to be your desktop display for your computer. There are many resources online to find just the right look. You may also use a personal photo. A picture of your newborn might just be the spark to inspire you during a stressful work day.If you don’t have enough room on your desk for framed photos, use the desktop image of your computer for an inspirational quote or use a photo from your more recent vacation., Keep yourself motivated with inspirational quotes pasted on your desktop. You may also frame them in a standing frame. Choose between displaying several quotes or only displaying one large quote that has significant meaning to you.You may also use special tape to put up your quotes if you are adhering it to the front or sides of your desk. Make sure that the tape or tacks fit your design scheme. Choosing the wrong tape or tacks can make your decor seem out of place.
 If you have a metal desk, create your daily or weekly poems with Magnetic Poetry. You can purchase a set online or a novelty store. You may even find it at your local dollar store. They are a great conversation starter.Magnetic Poetry can also be used to leave messages and reminders.
 Whiteboards come in many sizes but choose a standing white board to sit atop your desk. Write funny or motivational messages to yourself everyday. Use different coloured pens to draw murals. Let yourself have this creative escape. You’ll find that others may gravitate to your musings.Whiteboards are also handy for brainstorming and practical office functions.
 Burn a scented candle, have an air freshener, keep a bottle of perfume, or keep a vase of flowers on your desk. Certain scents can keep you productive and inspired throughout the day. You may also choose the right candle, bottle, or vase to display., A vision board is a great centerpiece to bring your desk together. It can inspire creativity and keep you motivated to work towards your goals. It can also de-clutter your desk while keeping your inspirations, dreams, and ideas in constant display. Use a standup corkboard to pin your vision.