 This will give you the idea of who lives there and what they are like. Belo proper has a population of about 2 1/2 million with the greater metropolitan area reaching approximately 5 million. The ethnic makeup of the population is diverse contributing to a wide range of skin tones. A good share of the population has Italian roots. Catholicism is the predominant religion even though Protestant churches and spiritism are also found.;
, The principal airport is found approximately 38 kilometers (24 mi) from downtown Belo. It serves many domestic and international flights, making the city quite accessible. You can rent a car if you like but it isn't vital. A large amount of taxis, scores of buses and an effective train system make reaching every place in the city easy.
 The city has a tropical savannah climate with an annual median low of 9 and high of 35 °C (95 °F). Spring commences in September whereas summer starts in the month of December, autumn in March, and winter in June. The climate is nice during most of the year. Nevertheless, one should note that it is "coldest" in July and hottest in January. Also, Belo receives the greatest volume of rain in December and January. The middle of the year is really dry.
 The state of Minas Gerais is renowned for its excellent food. Being a modern metropolis, Belo Horizonte presents vacationers with the finest in international and local cuisines that are both delectable and affordable. One of the favorite local dishes is tutu. A few of the main ingredients are black beans, pork sausage, garlic, onions, tomatoes and manioc flour. There are many versions of this local treat and all are outstanding in flavor. If you are not into the local cooking, several restaurants in Belo serve the basic foods and international dishes that are sure to please your taste buds.
 Being a big urban center in a remarkably productive nation, Belo Horizonte is also known for having big shopping malls and markets that sell a large selection of goods and services. The Alta Vista Shopping Mall is among the most visited in the city for it provides lots of things to do, recreational areas and the luxury of browsing in high-end and niche establishments. BH Shopping was the first large-scale shopping centers in the city, built years ago but still supplies the same merchandise of excellent caliber.
 The neighborhood of Pampulha is a popular destination because of its different recreational areas and galleries. In particular, tourists should check out the Museu de Arte da Pampulha - The Pampulha Museum of Art. It was designed by the notable Oscar Niemeyer. It is also referred to as the Crystal Palace. Additionally, there is a zoo in this district that both young and old can enjoy. Another attraction is the Praça Sete de Setembro - 7th of September Square which is located in the center of the city. An obelisk was built there in observance of the centenary of the Independence of Brazil. The Church of Saint Joseph was constructed in 1910 and showcases Dutch features and form. Murals and artwork of a prominent artist beautify the interior of this magnificent church building. Finally, travelers will surely want to consider the program for Chevrolet Hall. This venue presents performances of well-known singers, festivals, trade fairs, art expositions, plays and several other activities during the year.
 Brazilians are known to be hospitable and friendly, so in Belo, you will probably find locals who are eager to help in any situation. There are also good hospitals and clinics around the city where you can get assistance, if needed. Belo is a large urban center. As such, crime and violence is much higher than in rural areas. However, this is true of any large city. Use common sense and you should be fine. One basic principle is to try not to do or wear things what will draw unnecessary attention to yourself.
 Learning a few phrases in Brazilian Portuguese can go a long way. Not only will it help you communicate better, it will open doors to making new friends.

