 It can be extremely hard for your child to say no to their friends because it may cause them to be ostracized from their peer group. As a result, it is important to teach them how to politely but firmly say no. You should also explain that true friends will respect their decision and will not pressure them to do something they don’t want to. For example, if your child is asked to smoke a cigarette they could say “no thanks. I am not interested in smoking.”Along with teaching your child how to say "no," you should also teach them to respect when others say "no."
For example, it is also important to teach teenagers about consent. In many instances teenagers will feel pressured into engaging in sexual activities.
 Sometimes saying “no” to peers can be difficult. Instead, teach your child that they can handle peer pressure by providing an alternative suggestion. In some cases other kids in the group are just going along with the plan because they are not able to stick up to peer pressure. If your child can suggest an alternative action, others may jump on board.For example, if a peer challenges your child to skateboard off a high ledge, they may view this as dangerous. Instead of saying no, your child could suggest a different activity.
They could say “why don’t we try skateboarding at the park instead?” This will provide your child with an alternative option without having to reject their peers outright.
Alternatively, if your teenager is feeling pressured to drink alcohol they could say "I am not going to drink tonight, but if you want I can be the designated driver and make sure everyone gets home safely." This will allow your child to avoid taking part in an illegal activity without rejecting their friends.
 If your child’s peers are insistent upon doing something wrong, your child may need to walk away from the situation. Teach them how to walk away from a bad situation effectively. For instance, they should not leave by shouting an insult because this could cause a fight. Instead, tell your child to walk away from the situation, and leave room for reconciliation.Instead of shoplifting they could say “I am going to ask my mom for my allowance in advance and then go shopping. Do you want to come?”
Alternatively, if your child wants to avoid a potentially dangerous situation they could say “I am going to the movies tonight, instead of the party. If you change your mind come and join me.”

, Another way for your child to resist peer pressure, is by avoiding certain situations. For example, if they are invited to an event that may put them in an awkward situation have them decline the invitation. You could also tell them to think about which friends are more likely to pressure them into something they don't feel comfortable doing. Once they have thought about this, tell them to avoid certain situations with that group of friends.For example, your child may be invited to a friend’s house with no parental supervision before a school dance. Your child can avoid this scenario by saying that they have other plans before the dance and will meet them at the school.
This will allow your child to avoid a situation that may result in peer pressure, without offending their friends.
 If your child encounters severe peer pressure that may place themselves or others in danger they may want to inform an adult about the situation. In some cases the situation may escalate and the children will not be able to handle it on their own. In these cases it is always a good idea to get a teacher or another adult involved.

