 Whatever they are, go for them. A person with ambition and motivation is often unstoppable.


Your goals can be concrete or abstract. Write them down. Next to them, write how you will do this. It could be something internal, as in "I want to be more confident. In the coming weeks, I will 1) start a conversation with someone new, 2) put myself in front of a group of people, and 3) ask a guy/girl for their phone number." Or, it could be an external goal: "I want to save an extra $500 a month. This will be attained by limiting myself to eating out once a week, riding my bike to work, and working 15 extra hours a month."
Stick to them. When you start seeing them fulfilled, your inner sense of worth and pride will swell. After all, most of the battle of being perfect is believing you're perfect.
 If you're creative, sing, paint, or dance. If you're athletic, get on the field. If you're tech-savvy, build a computer. Doing something well not only makes us interesting and multi-dimensional (and give us more things to talk about), but it leads to new and different opportunities.


Correlate these skills with your goals. If you want to make more money, how can you do that with your skill set? Start a side business? Sell your paintings? If you want to lose weight, how can you cater to that? Cook vegetarian or low-fat dishes? Take your nature-loving side to the hiking trails? Look into yourself for the answers--they'll come the easiest.
 Your personality is multi-faceted; you're not just a pretty face. Read up on current events and topics that interest you to be an interesting conversationalist.


On top of being dynamic and well-read, you'll be a problem solver and quick to engage. "Uh oh, your potatoes sprouted early, huh? Should've put an apple in there!" "Yes, I read about that! What do you think will be the implications of China's new stance?"
Don't forget about the benefits for yourself. You'll be able to make better, more informed decisions and understand the bigger picture. What's more, having a mind for learning opens up job prospects and more paths to financial success.
 If you're intelligent, confident, and skilled, it doesn't matter unless you put those qualities to good use. Take opportunities to make others' lives easier. Being smart and beautiful is great, but being smart, beautiful, sympathetic, and giving is near perfect.


Help others. When you see someone struggling--be it with too many groceries or a math problem--offer your help. You'll put a smile on their face, which will put a smile on yours.
Be polite and respectful. If someone is different or feels differently than you, take a step back before you judge. You may not fully understand where they're coming from and simply require clarification.
Helping others doesn't end when you leave the room. Clean up after yourself and make things easier for your friends and family by being thoughtful. If a family member cooked dinner, volunteer to clean the dishes. If a friend missed class, get her the notes. Take small opportunities to make the world around you brighter.
In addition to being kind to those around you, be kind to the planet! It's the only one we have. Don't litter or use electricity excessively. Carpool when you can and used recycled goods if available.
 Being perfect does not have to be a selfish endeavor. In fact, being perfect often means putting others first.


Consider others' desires in addition to what you want. What's good for you, may not be good for the whole. Always thinking "me, me, me" will make you a person others don't want to be around and aren't impressed by.
Keep your promises. If you say you'll do something, do it. You have loads of obligations, so don't make promises you can't keep. The last thing you want is to be called a liar or a flake.
 Knowing yourself and what you value will make it easier to make good decisions and become the person you want to become. Don't make excuses for dishonesty or hypocrisy. If you know it's right, it doesn't matter whether or not it's popular.


Surround yourself with like-minded people. It's too easy to get caught up in a crowd that forgets about respect, positivity, and growth. Negative influences will stand in your way of becoming your best self.

