 Study the instructions carefully and take note of the health and safety risks associated with the model. Buy all the equipment necessary to make the helicopter, like glues and cutting mats and paints. Plan out when you are going to start your model.









Read the instructions for putting it together. Make sure you read the instructions carefully before starting to build your model.
Remove the parts of the model from the sprue with either a sprue cutter or a hobby knife. For smaller parts, to avoid damaging the actual part itself, cut off some excess sprue first before neatening it up. Only cut off the parts from the sprue that you will need in the next step, as this greatly reduces the risk of losing parts. Organize the parts of your model so you can access them as you’re following along with the instructions. Place them according to the types of parts they are. Pay attention to any markings the pieces may have.
Arrange the stickers for your model. Many models have stickers in addition to paint. Put the stickers in the the order they should be used according to the directions. Stickers or decals can be of two types. There are normal stickers, which you can peel and stick, but there are also waterslide decals. These decals need to be placed in lukewarm water to separate the decal from the decal, and tweezers need to be used to position the decal onto the model. Use decal solution to slightly melt the decal, and help it conform to the edges, recesses and panel lines of your model.;
, Putting the model helicopter together is done by gluing it. Make sure to be careful and methodical when gluing pieces together. Double check the instructions before making any gluing mistakes. Try to buy liquid glue with a fine applicator nozzle, as this will prevent the wastage of glue. 








Clean the parts of the model. All the pieces should be clean and free of excess molding from the sprue. If there are still join lines, use sandpaper to clean it up and tidy up.
Test out the parts to make sure they fit together. If the model set is defective, it’s best to find out before you start gluing.
Look to see where the best place is to apply the glue. It’s better to use too little than too much glue, since you don’t want the glue to put together parts that don’t belong together.
Note the best way to hold the parts when applying the glue. Make sure your fingers or anything used to hold the model is out of the way when applying the glue.
After gluing the model, have supports, such as rubber bands, clamps, or masking tape to keep the pieces together while the glue dries. Not all pieces may need them, but testing out the parts before gluing should tell you whether or not you need supports.
 Take your time while painting, since it may take a while. After you finish, let it dry for an entire day before putting on any decals or stickers.








Choose the best size paint brush for the different parts you are painting. Find paint brushes that match the sizes and brush stroke you want for painting your model helicopter. Paint brushes are usually numbered starting at “0,” which is the smallest size brush.
Find the best shaped brush for painting. Use round brushes for general use and flat brushes for covering large areas. You can also buy riggers, fans, brights, filberts, angles, and mops, which all do slightly different things when applying paint to your model helicopter.
Thin out your paint so it’s not too thick and will leave brush marks. It’s better to make your paint too thin than too thick.
Don’t dip your brush directly into the paint. Use a palette to think out the paints and for dipping your brush into the paint.
Place a minimal amount of paint on your brush. Too much paint may glob onto your model helicopter.
Brush gently in the directly or the bristles. This will help you to avoid pronounced brush strokes.
Clean the brush often to avoid paint drying on the bristles. If you are changing colors, make sure to thoroughly clear the bristles. Check the paint tube to find the best cleaning solution to clean the brush. Some may use water, whereas others require alcohol or turpentine.
Let your scale model dry for a least a day after you finish painting. Don’t apply the stickers too early, since this could smudge the paint.
 Most model helicopters will have decals in addition to paint. Apply the decals only when you are certain that they are located and placed in the right spots.








Check the paint on the model helicopter to make sure it’s dry. It should not be sticky or smudge when touched.
Use gloss or varnish to prepare for the decals. Depending on the type of paint you use, you’ll need to varnish the model before applying the stickers. Make sure to let the varnish dry as well before putting on stickers.
Find decal solutions if the decals are not being applied to flat surfaces. The adhesive for decals may not hold if the model is curved. In the case of model helicopters, it may be useful to get a decal solution to help apply stickers.
Cut out the decal and place it in water before applying the solution. This helps to get the decal ready to be applied. Place it on a paper towel to dry it off.
Apply the decal solution to the model helicopter where the decal will be applied. Don’t use too much, but make sure area is covered.
Put the decal on the model helicopter. Use the brush to position the decal and press in with a paper towel to remove any water left on it.
Seal the decal with varnish once it’s dry. This will give the decal the same finish as the paint on the model.

