 While the health and behaviors of the parents and their past litters does not necessarily indicate that your puppy will be sickly or poorly behaved, a dog’s pedigree that includes numerous health or behavioral concerns may raise a red flag. When this occurs, you may want to look for a different breeder or breeding pair.


Ask to spend time with both the dam (mother) and the sire (father). If at all possible, ask to spend time with puppies from past litters as well. If the parents and siblings are happy and healthy, you are more likely to get a healthy puppy.
Review the parents’ health reports and at least three generations of pedigrees. Look for causes and ages of death and any major health concerns.
Ask about the personality of the parents. You’ll want to know things like how they interact with other dogs and people. Find out if the dog has ever bitten a person, or if they frequently fight with other animals. Parents that bark a lot or escape frequently may also be warning signs.;
, In general, the miniature pinscher is a healthy dog with few medical issues. Know the most common diseases among miniature pinchers and their warning signs. Look for these when assessing the dog. Ask about testing for these concerns in parents and puppies to ensure you select a healthy dog.


Entropion is an eye disorder. The dog's lashes irritate the eye causing infection and other serious health concerns.
Progressive retinal degeneration (PRA) destroys the nerve cells at the back of the eye and can cause blindness.
Corneal dystrophy occurs in both eyes, and dogs usually inherit this disease from one of their parents. It leads to inflammation in the cornea, and has been linked to a number of chronic and systemic illnesses.
Glaucoma is a disease that effects both humans and dogs. It occurs when pressure in the eye socket continually increases. In most cases, glaucoma leads to blindness., Ask the breeder, pet shop, or pet adoption facility for the dog’s health history. This should include the vaccination and worming schedule, so you know when they are due to be updated. If the pet has experienced any health concerns in the past, these should be included in the report as well as treatments that were administered., The American Kennel Club and the Miniature Pinscher Club of America both outline the average height, weight, coat type, and other breed standards for min pins. While these are not necessarily of utmost importance when choosing a pet, min pins that are far outside the standard may be crossbred, sick, or present health issues down the line.


The average height of a full-grown min pin from shoulder to ground is between 10 and 12.5 inches.
The min pin’s length should be equal to its height at the shoulder. Females tend to be slightly longer than they are tall.
The coat should be short, smooth, sleek, and hard. The AKC accepts coat colors of red, stag red (black intermingled), black and tan, black and rust, chocolate and tan, and chocolate and rust., Min pins are typically very energetic, intelligent, curious about new stimuli, and confident approaching other dogs and humans. If one of the puppies appears to be shying away from all the other dogs or hides when you arrive, this is a sign the dog may not be very well socialized. If you have a lot of time to spend with your new puppy, these skittish puppies can be socialized. Escaping is one of the most problematic behaviors min pins exhibit. If the dogs are in a pen, look for dogs who are trying to find ways to get out of their enclosure., The most important thing you can do before picking a dog isn’t making sure it’s AKC approved. It’s making sure the min pin is the right fit for you. Dogs that show energy, seem willing to play, and who do not cower or shy away from you are typically good picks, but you never know how they will behave at home. Most breeders and pet stores have a trial period allowance. During this time, you're able to take the dog home with you for a few days or even weeks, but you still have an option to return the puppy, if it is not the right fit. Take advantage of this. It lets you get to know the min pin and how it will fit into your home.