 Whatever you choose to put in them, it is always a good idea to label the jars so you can remember what you repurposed them for. Labels can be purchased from an office supplies store, printed from a label maker, or you can simply make your own from paper and tape! If you intend to permanently label a jar, you can also use a stencil and paint your label on directly.
 Each jar can be used to hold a different type of hardware. For example, they could be used to separate woodscrews from bolts and keep different types of wire distinct from one another. These jars could be kept in a tray to prevent them from rolling around, though you could also attach them to the underside of a shelf.


To do so, just sink a nail or screw through the lid into the underside of the shelf and tightly secure it. When you are done using the jar, simply tighten the jar back onto the designated lid.
 Objects like pencils, pens, and paintbrushes can also be stored in jars, just without using the lid. The naturally heavy weight of glass jars makes them more ideal for this situation than a lighter container like a plastic cup. This method still runs the risk of tipping over and spilling the contents, but this can be avoided by either adding weight to the bottom of a jar or not storing too many items in it at a time.


Jars can also be used to store safety pins, thumbtacks, staples, paper clips, and similar supplies. The advantage to storing them in a jar is that, once sealed, they cannot spill or become mixed with other supplies.
 The inside of the jar can be dedicated for housing your many spools of thread while the lid can be repurposed into a pincushion. Mason jars are ideal for the pin cushion lid because the main part of the lid pops out and leaves only the rim. To make a pin cushion lid, you’ll need a large circle of fabric, some stuffing, and a small circle of cardboard traced from the inside of the Mason jar.


Run a needle and thread through the edges of your fabric circle. Then pull the two ends of the string like a drawstring and tighten the cloth around your stuffing. Glue your cardboard circle over the opening of your cloth bundle and then push it through the Mason jar lid from the underside. Once sealed onto the jar, this will hold your pin cushion in place and you can stick your sewing needles into the top.
 Instead of losing or throwing out your spare change, keep it in a jar instead. Dedicate the money saved to your date or movie fund and label the jar accordingly. It may take a while, but this idea will pay for itself.
 Candle holders are easy to make. Just situate the candle upright in the bottom of the jar and light it. Leave the lid off so that the candle has enough oxygen to continue burning. When you want the candle to stop burning, you can either blow the candle out or seal the jar and wait a few moments for the flame to run out of oxygen.
 Potpourri is made by combining dried flower petals, herbs, barks, spices, and fragrance oils. Combine the spices and oils together, then pour over the remaining ingredients in a bowl. After storing in a dark, dry place for 4-8 weeks, the potpourri is ready to be displayed. At that point, just pour the potpourri into a jar, arranging it in whatever fashion you find most appealing, then place wherever you want the scents to be strongest.

