 To ensure that the oven is warm enough when the shortbread is ready to bake, it’s important to preheat the oven. Set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s reached the proper temperature. In most cases, it will beep and/or flash an indicator light.
 Add 2 ½ cups (325 g) of all-purpose flour and ½ cup (100 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use a whisk to blend the two together until they are fully incorporated., Once the flour and sugar are mixed, add 1 cup (227 g) of chilled butter to the bowl. Use a pastry cutter to mix the butter in until the mixture has the texture of coarse crumbs.If you don’t have a pastry cutter, you can use a fork to work the butter into the flour and sugar mixture.
 When the flour mixture resembles coarse crumbs, add ½ cup (50 g) of maraschino cherries that have been drained and finely chopped, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of almond extract, and 4 ounces (112 g) of white chocolate baking squares that have been finely chopped. Stir well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.If you want the shortbread to have a red color, you can mix in a couple of drops of red food coloring with the cherries, almond extract, and white chocolate.
 Once the dough is fully mixed, use clean hands to knead the dough until it is smooth. Next, work the dough into ¾-inch (19-mm) balls, and place them on an ungreased cookie sheet so they are approximately 2-inches (5-cm) apart.If you’re concerned about the shortbread sticking, you can line the cookie sheet with parchment paper.
 When the dough balls are on the cookie sheet, dip a drinking glass in granulated sugar and press it onto the balls to flatten them into 1 ½-inch (4-cm) rounds. Place the cookie sheet in the preheated oven, and allow the cookies to bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until the centers are completely set.Adding the sugar to the tops of the cookies is optional. You can omit it, or use a decorative colored sugar if you prefer.
 While the cookies are baking, add the remaining 8 ounces (228 g) of finely chopped white chocolate and 2 teaspoons (9 g) of shortening to a small saucepan. Heat the two ingredients on the stove over low heat until they are completely melted, which should take approximately 10 to 15 minutes.Be sure to stir the white chocolate mixture regularly as you heat it to ensure that it melts evenly.
 When the cookies are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Allow the cookies to cool for 1 minute on the sheet, and then transfer them to a wire cooling rack to cool completely, which should take 15 to 20 minutes., When the cookies are cool, dip one half of each into the melted white chocolate. Let the excess drip off, and place the cookies on a piece of parchment or wax paper to allow the chocolate to set completely, which should take 1 to 2 hours.If you like, you can press the dipped end of the cookies in colored sugar, sprinkles, or nonpareils to a more decorative look if you prefer. Make sure to do it before the white chocolate has set, though.
Keep the cookies in an airtight container. They should stay fresh for 3 to 5 days.

