 Papaya contains the enzyme papain, which exfoliates the skin by uncovering new cells and bringing these new cells to the surface of the skin, giving it a lighter appearance. You can get papaya soaps and creams, which you can apply to your birthmark two to three times a day. Apricots also contain enzymes that may lighten birthmarks in some individuals, and there are a number of apricot skin scrubs on the market.


Alternatively, use fresh fruit and apply slices of the fruit directly onto the birthmark for 10 minutes. Repeat daily and rinse off the fruit juice with warm water.;
, Healthcare practitioners believe that the citric acid in lemon juice may have a potent bleaching compound which can help lighten the birthmark on your skin. Lemon juice has been used traditionally to lighten areas of skin. This bleaching effect becomes stronger in the sun, though it is advisable to stay out of the sun while the lemon juice is on your skin because there is no way to predict how much of a bleaching effect the combination of sun and lemon juice might have.To use lemon juice:


Cut a lemon in half using a knife. Apply the lemon juice directly to the birthmark while squeezing it. Make sure to cover the entire area for at least 10 minutes and then wash thoroughly with warm water. Pat the area dry with a clean towel. Repeat this process three times a day.
Apply lemon slices to the area of the birthmark if you prefer. Leave the lemon slices on for 10 minutes. Rinse off the lemon juice with warm water when done. Repeat daily.
 Tomato juice is slightly acidic and contains high levels of antioxidants which can, in theory, react with skin pigments and lighten the birthmark. Like lemons, it seems that tomatoes may have antioxidant properties that can help to minimize skin damage. It also may have a natural bleaching property similar to the citric acid found in lemon juice.To use a tomato to lighten your birthmark:


Take the juice of a fresh-cut tomato and apply it directly to the pigmented birthmark. Apply the juice for at least 10 minutes and then wash and dry your skin. Repeat this process once daily.
You can also use slices of tomato if you prefer. Leave this on for 10 minutes and repeat daily. Rinse off the tomato juice with warm water when done.
 Olive oil is considered to be a natural moisturizer. It may rehydrate damaged skin cells, which in turn can help to lighten a birthmark.To apply olive oil:


Apply a few drops of olive oil to a cotton ball so that the cotton ball is soaked but not dripping. Hold the cotton ball against your birthmark for five minutes before rinsing the skin with warm water and patting it dry. Repeat this process two or three times a day.
 Ice and cold compresses can help your skin retain moisture and develop a softer texture. As a result, the stains or pigmentations that form a birthmark are lightened. It can also tighten the pores of the skin which can minimize skin discoloration.Wrap two to three pieces of ice in a clean cloth. This will help protect your skin from cold damage; never apply ice directly to the skin. Hold the wrapped ice against your skin for 15 to 20 minutes. Do not leave the ice pack on your skin for longer than 20 minutes, as it can begin to damage your skin. Let your skin rest for an hour, and then repeat as needed.
 Vitamin A stimulates cell division and the production of collagen (the most abundant protein in the skin).Vitamin A helps to renew and exfoliate the skin where the birthmark is, which may help to reduce the pigmentation of the birthmark.


Apply the cream to the birthmark at least two to three times a day. Make sure to cover the entire birthmark.
 Vitamin E, with its anti-oxidizing properties, can fight the free radical damage in the skin and minimize damage to your skin cells. In essence, this helps exfoliate the skin and can make the birthmark appear lighter.Apply the oil to the birthmark two to three times a day so that the mark is entirely covered.
 Kojic acid is a white crystalline powder that is derived from a fungus in Asia. It suppresses the function of tyrosinase, which is the protein responsible for producing the brown pigment, melanin.Kojic acid is available in the form of soaps and other products which you can purchase at pharmacies and grocery stores near you. Always do a test patch by applying a small amount of the product on your skin and seeing how your skin reacts. Always follow all manufacturer's instructions. Apply kojic acid to the birthmark two to three times a day.
Kojic acid as been used to successfully treat melasma, a temporary skin darkening that occurs in pregnancy., Pigmented birthmarks are usually not medically treated, though larger birthmarks may be surgically removed. Vascular birthmarks, particularly port wine stains and some hemangiomas (sometimes called strawberry marks because of their appearance as bright red nodules), can be treated with a pulsed-dye laser (PDL). In this treatment, a laser is used to heat up and destroy the cells in birthmark. Repeated treatments may be needed, but this usually helps the birthmarks fade.A newer type of treatment is called Photodynamic Therapy (PDT), in which a drug that reacts to light is used to treat the birthmark. When stimulated by a specific wavelength of light, the drug (photosensitizer) is “activated” and destroys the cells within the birthmark. PDT was originally designed to treat skin cancer and has been adapted to treat birthmarks.Both PDL and PDT appear to have similar success rates., This is a type of birthmark that leaves excessive amounts of pigments or color in the skin. Common examples of pigmentation birthmarks include:



Mole (Congenital Nevi) - These are generally relatively small, round brownish areas, but can be pink, natural-skin colored or very dark black. They can be flat or raised and can disappear spontaneously. Moles are not generally dangerous, though if they begin to itch or bleed, they should be examined by a dermatologist as soon as possible because some moles can become cancerous.Cafe au lait spots - These birthmarks have the color of coffee with cream. On darker skin, they can appear darker than the surrounding skin. Some cafe au lait spots lighten with age, but rarely fade away completely.Mongolian spots - These are marks that are characterized by flat, slate blue-grey patches on the skin, usually located on the back or buttocks. These birthmarks are often mistaken for bruises. These are usually found in children and commonly disappear as children get older., This type of birthmark can form anywhere on the body and does not usually go away over time. Natural lightening treatments will also not have an affect on a vascular birthmark. Instead, you may want to consider medical treatment if you want to diminish or remove a vascular birthmark. Common types of vascular birthmarks include:



Hemangiomas - These can be flat or raised collections of blood vessels. Raised birthmarks are often called strawberry hemangiomas because of their bright, strawberry red color. Hemangiomas that are flat tend to be bluish or purplish. Both types of hemangiomas usually shrink and fade with age. By the age of 10, most hemangiomas have essentially disappeared, leaving a light, colored area in their place.Salmon or macular patches - These birthmarks are flat with a pinkish or reddish color. They are sometimes called “ angel’s kisses” or “stork bites”. In general, salmon patches don’t fade with age, though are often able to be covered with light makeup. They typically occur above the hairline at the back of the neck, between the eyes or on the eyelids. These birthmarks usually affect younger children but are relatively safe and don't require any treatment.Port wine stains - These types of birthmarks are often the most problematic and are quite common. They are named port wine stains because they look as if someone had spilled dark wine on the body. These birthmarks can become bigger and darker with age., They seem to appear randomly and are not a result of something your mother ate or did while pregnant. Nor do birthmarks seem to be particularly associated with being either lucky or unlucky!


Contrary to their name, birthmarks are not necessarily always immediately evident at birth. Some, like hemangiomas, can develop even weeks later., In general, birthmarks tend to be harmless. Unless they begin to bleed, itch, change color or shape, they are not dangerous. If, however, you notice that your birthmark has changed in any way (other than fading and getting smaller), be safe and have the birthmark evaluated by a dermatologist.Changes in the size, shape, and color of a birthmark, along with bleeding, crusting, or itching, can be an early warning sign of some forms of skin cancer.

