 Replace teaspoons of sugar added directly into your coffee with a low calorie or no-calorie sweetener, such as Splenda. Follow the directions on the package regarding serving size and resist the urge to add extra. You can also request this substitution when ordering at a coffee shop.It is best to choose sweeteners that do not list “aspartame” as one of the ingredients. Aspartame has been the subject of concern as a potential contributor to cancer. It can also cause headaches in some people when consumed in products that contain it, such as Equal.You can also cut down on calories by gradually reducing your use of sweetener until you eliminate it altogether. Do this by adding just a little bit less to your coffee each day.;
, Using whole milk adds flavor but it also packs on the calories. Instead, go “skinny” and opt for skim milk or low-fat milk instead. Be aware that if you order in some coffee shops this swap may not be a possibility as they use premixed packages for certain drinks, especially seasonal ones.Drink milk substitutes, such as soy or coconut milk, only in moderate amounts as they can contain high levels of sugars.It’s not necessary to remove milk products entirely from your coffee. In fact, milk has been shown to offset the calcium that coffee pulls out from your system.However, the amount of calcium coffee pulls from your system is very small, so just 1 to 2 tablespoons of milk is enough to offset it., Read the labels on your store bought creamers paying particular attention to the calories, fats, and sugar content. Buy a creamer that is made with artificial sweeteners. It may also help to move away from creamers that use a half-and-half type substance as their base.


Especially watch the ‘holiday flavored’ creamers as they are often loaded down with sugars and highly processed ingredients resulting in a higher calorie count.
If you want a more healthy option, make your own creamer at home. Stir skim milk, cinnamon, and artificial sweetener in a saucepan until it simmers. Let it cool and refrigerate between uses., Light, foamy drinks are less calorically dense. The foam takes up the space in the cup where more liquid could be. Turn your attention toward a cappuccino with extra foam instead of your traditional latte. You could cut 40 calories just by making this exchange., If you are out at a coffeehouse, request that the barista put one less shot or pump of flavoring or syrup into your cup. Keep lowering this number each time you visit until most of the extra shot calories are removed. You can save right around 70 calories a shot with this request., If you make coffee at home, simply stop buying whipped cream at the store. If you are at a restaurant, request that they “hold the whipped cream” when they make your drink. Whipped cream is a staple with most specialty coffees but it can add between 80-120 calories per cup.You might also ask your barista if whipped cream is mixed in to the drink itself. If this is the case, make sure they know to not do that for your drink.
 A ‘pretty’ cup of coffee is always wonderful to look at, but it can pack o the calories. Ask your barista to skip the syrupy or chocolatey topping. Or, you can ask them to just use half the typical amount. One tablespoon of a chocolate drizzle syrup can contain up to 50 calories.If you are at home, experiment with some healthy toppings. For example, lightly sprinkle cinnamon or nutmeg on your drink instead of a heavier syrup. You will get an extra flavor kick without the calorie consequences.