 There are many types of bottle openers on the market, so select the one that best suits you. Practice removing the cork effortlessly, without breaking it, and especially without dropping pieces of cork into the bottle.


Alternatively, purchase wine with screw caps. Easy as!;
, Different wines are best served at different temperatures. Where some wines are best chilled, others need to be served at room temperature for optimum enjoyment. Serving a wine at the wrong temperature can destroy the flavor and aroma, defeating the purpose of the winemaker.


Serve Champagne, sparkling wines, Pinot Grigio, Sauvignon Blanc, white Zinfandel, and other white wines at 35 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.67 to 4.44 degrees Celsius). Chill for an hour and a half in a refrigerator. 20 minutes in an ice-water ice bucket would also suffice. Sweet dessert wines and dry sherry should be served in the same manner.
Vintage-dated Champagne, high-quality bubbly and barrel-aged wines should also be chilled an hour and half before serving, along with high quality, full-bodied barrel-fermented white wines like white Burgundy and Chardonnay. They should then be brought out 20 minutes before serving. Ideal serving temperature should be 55 degrees (12.78 degrees Celsius), or cellar temperature. This will enhance the mature characters of the vintage wines and the flavors of the quality wines.
Serve the majority of red wines at 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18.33 degrees Celsius) or after 20 minutes of refrigeration.
 Not all wines benefit from breathing, however. For example, Bordeaux should breathe about an hour before serving. Most wines can be served as soon as you open the bottle.


When allowing a wine to breathe, pour it into a decanter or glass first, as wines cannot breathe well in a bottle.
Don't let the wine breathe too long, however, as this can dull the aroma and flavor.
 Not only are decanters aesthetically pleasing, but they improve the taste of the wine. Aged wines, specifically, benefit from being served in a decanter because it removes wine sediments and allows the wine to breathe.
 Remember that when you are serving a wine, you need to give it space.


There are different styles of glasses, specifically designed to highlight the distinct qualities of the wine. For example, the traditional wine glass has a large bowl shape. When filled only a quarter of the way, the space allows for it to be swirled and breathe oxygen.
 If you have finished a bottle of wine and have opened another, change the glass so that you don't lose the integrity of the wine flavor.

State the vineyard or brand of wine, the type of wine, and the vintage or year of the bottle. This is important to assure you have selected the correct wine.
When the guest approves the wine, open it and present the cork to the host by placing it in front of their wine glass or by handing it to the host. The cork can indicate that a wine is good or bad.
Pour a very small amount into the host's glass for the tasting and wait. If the host indicates that the wine is acceptable you do not pour more into the host's glass until everyone else is served.
While serving the wine you must keep the label facing the guest, and pour only one fourth of the glass or about 3 oz. Remember you can always pour more but it is very embarrassing to run out before everyone has a glass. Serving clockwise around the table with ladies first. The last glass to be poured is for the host.
If there are more than 5 guests it is proper to suggest two bottles.

