


The best time to observe any behaviours is in the morning and the evening.
 Bring your binoculars and a notepad to do any recording of what you see.



She may be acting restless and mooing a lot
She will be wandering around the pasture or corral in search of a mate
She may travel thrice or four times as much as she does when she's not in heat
Sniffing or nudging may occur in the vulva region between her and other cows
More vigorous interaction may be observed between that female in heat and her herd-mates, from excessive licking to even fighting.

Usually if you have a group of cows that are in heat at the same time, they will be sticking together, fighting and mounting each other.


She may attempt to ride other cattle, and stand for them to mount her. Putting her chin on the back or rump of another cow to test whether that cow will stand for her may be seen. If the cow stands, she's also in heat. If she doesn't, and turns around to give her a good bunt with her head, she's not in heat.
If there's a bull around, she will also mount the bull before she stands to let him mount and breed her. During her early heat period, she will often let other cows mount her before she lets the bull service her.

During this time, before she lets him mount her, the bull will be sniffing and nudging her vulva region, and doing a Flehmen response (where he curls back his nose, raises his head in the air as high as it can go, smelling the pheromones she's emitting in her urine and vaginal secretions). He will also rest his chin on her rump or loins to test if she'll stand for him or not.
 You will see it hanging from her vulva in a long string.
Her tail may be slightly raised and off to one side.
Her vulva will also look enlarged and swollen red.
If she's in with other cattle, the hair over her rump, hipbones and tailhead will look ruffled.
She may also have a bit of dirt or mud on the rear part of her sides from other cattle mounting her. This may not be as evident if they are out on a clean pasture with no mud patches to speak of. However, during springtime when she is shedding, there may be hair that has rubbed off from other animals mounting her, and she may have abrasions and raw areas over her tailhead and hips if she was mounted quite frequently. This usually happens when you have more than one bull in the herd and there was a bit of competition going on.
If she was actually bred, she will hold her tail out and her back will be arched for several hours or even days. This is because of the vaginal irritation she experiences from the bull thrusting his penis in her. This physical sign will usually last for 24 hours or more, especially if she's been serviced repeatedly by more than one bull.
