 Dyscalculia can cause a lot of anxiety and self-esteem issues for children who suffer from the disorder. They may feel that they are unable to do math at all or that their peers are too far ahead for them to catch up with. Whenever you are helping a child deal with dyscalculia, you'll want to help ease any anxieties about math and help them see that they can overcome the difficulties of this disorder.It's a good idea to acknowledge how difficult math can be for the child and talk to them about dyscalculia.
Offering praise whenever a child attempts to work on math assignments can reduce anxiety and boost self-esteem.
Focusing on a child's strengths can be a good way to help them see that they have plenty of talents to be proud of.;
, As you go about your day with a dyscalculic child, try to ask them basic questions about math or numbers. Keeping them engaged in this way will help them get in plenty of practice and become more familiar with mathematical concepts. Try some of these examples to help keep a child practicing and working to overcome their dyscalculia.If you pass a clock, you can try asking them what time it is.
Try asking the child to count out exact change for you when buying something.
If you're on a walk with the child, ask them to count things that you might see. For example, you can ask them to count the number of dogs in a dog park or how many cars are parked near you.
 There are plenty of games that you can play with a dyscalculic child to help them practice and improve their math-based skills. Many of these games involve simple mathematical questions and will help expose your child to numerological concepts that they might be struggling with. Try looking over some of these examples of math based games for some fun ways to help your child deal with dyscalculia:Many board games will require you to count and move a certain number of spaces.
You can play numerical matching games like dominoes or go fish.
Games like Monopoly can provide some extra counting practice.
There are many apps available the can help your child practice their math skills as they play.
 Working with a dyscalculic child to complete their math homework can be a great opportunity to help them with their disorder. Offer plenty of positive feedback and let your child know what they get right. You should also try to point out parts they made a mistake on and allow them to make a correction. Stay positive and supportive as you work together to complete the assignment.Let the child make their own corrections. Ask them why they think a problem needs correcting and how they plan on fixing it.
Ask your child about their reasoning behind their solutions.
Even if an answer is wrong, keep positive and help your child make any necessary corrections.
 Many schools will be happy to work with your dyscalculic child and their needs. Schools may also provide neuropsychological evaluation to diagnose dyscalculia. Depending on your child's school and local laws, the services offered to your child may differ. Talk with your child's school to learn more.Inform your school if your child has already been diagnosed with dyscalculia.
Your child may be assigned a school tutor who will provide extra help with math.
Your child may be given their own study plan, which will be built around their unique needs.
 If you want to give your child some extra help, you may want to hire a private tutor. Tutors will meet with your child regularly, offering lessons that can help your them to learn mathematical skills and overcome their dyscalculia. Your tutor should specialize in working with children with learning disabilities.
Your tutor should be aware of your child's dyscalculia.
Ask someone at your child's school if they know of any tutors.
 Left unchecked, your child's dyscalculia will not improve. However, regular practice can go a long way in avoiding the negative effects of dyscalculia. Make sure you are helping your child with their math lessons on a regular basis to help them learn and overcome their Dyscalculia.Try to practice for at least 10 minutes a day.
Regular practice is best.
Work at your child's pace whenever you help them practice their mathematics.
Your child may view numbers and math differently than most people. Work with your child's own concepts of math to help them build their skills.

