 Exercises that are continuous and rhythmic, like walking, swimming, dancing, and yoga, are good for relaxing your brain and body. These exercises also involve flow like movement, so you are forced to focus on another activity rather than your bad day. Restorative yoga helps your body relax and restore itself. But you don’t have to go to a yoga class to practice yoga. Instead, you can do yoga in your chair at your desk.Lotus position is the traditional seat for meditation and it can be modified so you can practice this pose at your desk. Sit comfortably in your chair, with your neck and spine straight and erect.
Cross your legs so you are sitting cross legged in the chair. Place your hands on your thighs, palms up, with your thumbs and first fingers touching. Breath deeply through your nose for 10-15 breaths.
Not only will this calm your mind, this pose will also release any stress in your spine from sitting at your desk all day.
You can also try a simple relaxing pose to calm your mind. Cross your arms and place them on your desk or a flat surface. Rest your head on your crossed arms and take deep breaths. Close your eyes and hold this position for 10-15 breaths.
 Take some time out of your day to focus on your needs and wants. Self-care through massage, manicures, and a long bath can all do wonders to relax and clear your mind.
 One of the best ways to relax and clear your mind is to get 8 hours of quality sleep. Go to bed at your usual time, shut off all electronics in bed, and focus on shutting down your mind so you can rest. You should be well rested and refreshed for the next day.


If you’d rather take a quick nap to relax or clear your mind, keep your naps short, between 10 to 30 minutes. This will prevent sleep inertia, which is when you feel groggy and disoriented after a nap that goes on for longer than 30 minutes.The best time for a nap is usually mid afternoon, before 3 pm. This is the time of day you will likely experience post-lunch sleepiness or a lower level of alertness. Naps taken before 3 pm should not interfere with your nighttime sleep.