 Cara generally keeps her silky, wavy hair at chest length. While it's usually a color that strides the line between light brown and dark blonde, she has been known to dye it wild colors on occasion.Like the rest of her look, she keeps her hair in a myriad of different styles that aren't easy to imitate. When she wears a part in her hair, it tends to either be dead center or dramatically to the right., While she almost always wears a full face of makeup, Cara tends to keep it relatively simple, contrasting with her rebellious personality. She has two major looks when it comes to makeup:


When doing your makeup day-to-day, go for a mostly natural look with neutral lip color, blush, and eye shadow. You can go a little heavy on the eye shadow if you'd like, as Cara often sports smoky eyes. Use one that is either dark gray or a tone a few shades darker than your natural skin color. Avoid true blacks. Accentuate your eyes with mascara on both your top and bottom lashes.
For dressier occasions, try a darker (but still neutral) eye shadow to give yourself an even smokier look. For this style, black eye shadow is fine to use. Finish it off with some classic bright red lipstick or a neutral pink., Cara has naturally plump lips and emphasizes them with her choice in makeup. You can either get fuller lips or accentuate the ones you have using one or more of these methods:


Make sure to keep your lips moisturized. Dryness can make your lips look much thinner than they actually are. Simply wear a layer of lip balm underneath your lip gloss or lipstick. The balm will also give you the added benefit of longer-lasting lip color.Use lip gloss, either as your main lip color or to make lipstick pop. When pairing with lipstick, simply dab a small amount of clear lip gloss in the middle of your lips. This will give them a much poutier look.Contour with multiple shades of lip pencils to give your lips more dimension. Start with a very dark outline of a tone similar to your desired main lip color, such as chocolate or maroon. Then, pencil in the rest of your lips with a brighter color. Blend the two together using a still brighter pencil. Finish up by dabbing or brushing on a tiny amount of cream highlighter to the center of your bottom lip.Overdraw your lip line with lip liner. Trace just slightly beyond your natural lip line. Then, either fill in the rest of your lips with the liner or use a lipstick that matches it as closely as possible., Cara is rarely seen with bare nails. Instead, she sports nail polish in a wide range of colors from quirky silver to classic red. She also occasionally wears nail wraps and appliques with complex designs.


The most important thing you can do to your nails when trying to look like Cara is to keep them short. She almost never lets her nails grow more than a couple millimeters past her fingertips. In fact, she often trims her nails back to extreme "nubs."