 The BRAT diet was developed to help people who can't have normal foods because of nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea. This diet contains just bland foods that won't irritate your stomach. BRAT stands for bananas, rice, applesauce and toast.


Only follow the BRAT diet for a short time, 24–36 hours. It is only intended to help you fight off stomach issues for a short while. You don't get the nutrients necessary while on this diet.;
, In addition to the BRAT diet, or after you have been on the BRAT diet for a day or so, there are other foods that you can eat that should keep your nausea at bay. There are certain foods that have been shown to help against nausea and are easier on the stomach, especially if you're experiencing morning sickness or pregnancy induced nausea. Try bland foods that are more substantial, such as crackers, English muffins, baked chicken, baked fish, potatoes, and noodles.


You can also try mints, clear soup, flavored gelatin, angel food cake, sherbet, popsicles, and ice cubes made of apple or grape juice., There are certain foods that will only make your nausea worse. These items can irritate your stomach and can lead to acid reflux, nausea, and vomiting. When you are feeling nauseous, limit or do not eat:


Fatty foods such as fried foods
Spicy foods or seasonings
Processed foods such as chips, donuts, fast food, and canned foods
Beverages with alcohol and caffeine, especially coffee
Foods with strong aromas

, When you are feeling unwell, avoid eating three large meals. Instead, eat several small meals throughout the day. This gives your stomach less work because there is less to digest.Meals should consist of the mild foods already discussed.
 Ginger is often used to help reduce nausea. Ginger may help calm the stomach as well as indigestion. You can use ginger in a variety of ways, such as adding fresh ginger or ginger powder to recipes, sucking on ginger hard candy or fresh ginger root, and drinking ginger tea.You can also buy ginger capsules through many herbal stores. Common dosage is 1000 mg by mouth with water.Ginger has been a long-standing home remedy for many different conditions that cause nausea. These include motion sickness, seasickness, hyperemesis gravidarum or vomiting during pregnancy, chemotherapy induced nausea, and post-surgery nausea., Since nausea deals with an upset stomach, you need to be careful about what you put in it. When you feel nauseous, sip non-alcoholic drinks such as water, sports drinks, flat soda, and tea. Too much fluid can lead to vomiting, so take sips. Try taking one to two sips every five to 10 minutes. This can help settle your stomach and if you have been vomiting, it can help replace the fluids or electrolytes you've lost in the process.Drinks such as ginger ale and lemon lime soda are very helpful for nausea. These don't have to be flat when you drink them.

