 If swearing becomes a bigger problem and your child is repeatedly swearing even though you aren’t giving him a reaction, it may be time to set some family rules about swearing. Calmly explain to your child that swear words aren’t nice words and that he needs to use nice words in his conversation. There are books that you can read to your child to help him understand why swearing his bad.


Read books to your toddler about using kinds words, such as “The Berenstain Bears and the Big Blooper” or “Elbert’s Bad Word” to help him understand the importance of nice words.
 Part of teaching your child to use nice words is getting your entire family to use those same nice words. As toddlers grow, they begin to learn what other “bad” words mean. These words might not be swear words, but can include potty humor and derogatory terms. Set rules as a family to always say nice things and set the example yourself.Come up with a minor punishment for anyone in the family who uses a swear word, even yourself. This minor punishment could be sitting in the ‘time out’ chair for a couple of minutes, or giving up a favorite toy (such as your child’s favorite stuffed animal, or your cell phone) for five to ten minutes.
 If your child questions you about why he can’t say that word or refuses to stop saying it, simply tell your toddler, “That’s not a word you can say here” and tell him that it isn’t a nice word. You don’t have to explain what the word means to help your child realize it isn’t a nice thing to say.


Explaining what the word means to your child could inadvertently give your child more reason to say the word.
 When you come up with your house rules, you don’t need to set out every word your child can’t say. However, you can teach him some words that he can say when he gets angry or frustrated. Come up with fun alternatives to swear words, like “shoes” rather than the ‘S-word’.Creating alternative words can help your child to let out his frustration without having to say a bad word.
 Reinforce this positive language by rewarding your child with praise or a small prize when you hear them saying nice or positive things. You can also praise or reward your child when you hear him using the alternative word you created, rather than the swear word.


This reward could be a sticker, or some other small trinket that your child can collect.

