 Do they have a policy? If so, have a read! What is it saying? Does is specify certain colours of socks or tights?;
, For example, blazers might be required. Try jazzing it up a bit by pulling off all the boring black buttons and sewing on multicoloured star and lady bird buttons! There certainly wasn't anything about that in the policy!!!

, Have solid pieces such as a skirt, a pair of trousers and 2 or 3 shirts or blouses. How could those be modified to be different, yet acceptable? How about buying a fitted blouse or having a slightly shorter or longer sleeve length? Why not add a belt for instant glamour? If you had a jumper as many schools do in the winter you could roll or fold your sleeves up so your shirt rolls up it, creating a white cuff at your elbow which is very fashionable at the moment. Could you go for a different type of trousers? There are plenty to choose from, wide leg, pedal-pushers or shorts (if you're very brave and your school allows it!) What's your fave style of trousers out side of school? Try this style with your uniform... some schools may even allow black skinny jeans as long as they are very plain.
 Love them or don't care about them, they can make or break an outfit. Try black converse or pumps or doc marten boots. have a look at what others are getting away with and explore! Remember to keep it comfortable, you'll be moving about all day. So girls that may mean choosing a lower heel or ballet pumps!

, Hair is one of the main things we remember about people. We remember people with waist length hair afros, in fact anything unique like colour always gets remembered! Think about someone at school - i bet you can remember their hair in detail! How they wear it, what colour it is and so on. So experiment. Try different braids, styles from other countries and different techniques such as using paper or rags to curl your hair. (it works! Google it!) There has never been so many products and ways to style your hair so get out there and experiment! Many schools may not agreed to false colours, gels or extensions, but there are plenty of accessories you can dress your hair up with!

, Girls will know all about this one. But what about the guys? Try finding a signature baseball cap (take it off indoors, to avoid a telling off) or a wrist sweatband that has an interesting motif. Both guys and girls can wear scarves, what ever colour. Cute guys can get away with more feminine colours, rocker boys could wear a thin scarf and simply cold guys can wrap up their crushes in thick wooly scarves! Girls can wear any type of scarf they like as there are many out there on the market, from ornate Easter looking ones to stripy wooly ones, there's bound to be something to suit your style! You can add badges to your bags, blazers, jumpers, shirts, scarves, hats, even pencil cases! They'll go anywhere and everyone will know what you're into! maybe you could even wear rainbow stripy socks!

, If you follow the rules, and manage to improvise without actually breaking any then you should be A-Okay!

, Many schools do not allow this, so make it minimal and unique. Many make up brands have sheer eye shadows which allow you to wear your fave colours without it being outlandish. You could always go for a 50's pin-up girl look, or even adding things such as false lashes only in the corners of your eyes or a beauty spot. Lip gloss is a school girl's best friend. Or if you're not so into make up fruity or bizarre flavoured lip balms keeps things zingy!

,!

