 In order to have people to date, you will have to expand your network by going out and exploring different places. After all, fans and influence are what make a star. It is important to have a lot of people in your network who may help you become a famous A-list star. Proceed to bars, restaurants, stores, etc. and approach different people.;
, Part of building your network involves building relationships with a lot of people. In order to do this, you will have to communicate with different types of people. Once you have selected people to talk to, you may choose to either “Network” or “Flirt” with them. In order to go on dates with them, you will have to “Flirt” with them. Networking is also ideal—especially with experts like photographers, bloggers, etc.—as they may help you in your journey later on as a celebrity. But whether you are to “Network” or “Flirt,” it is recommended that you make contact with people of the same rank as you or even higher.
 Once you have decided who to include in your contact list—may it be a potential date or a helpful network—you may just simply choose to add them as a contact. If you try to add someone who has a higher rank than you, you may have to “charm” them with a few K-Stars. If the levels are not too far, you may pursue adding the contact by successfully guessing their name. For potential dates, you may want to add as many as possible.
 Maintaining a relationship is costly and in the game part of this “cost” involves giving your potential dates different types of gifts. Aside from maintaining the relationship, giving gifts to people is another way to increase your fame. To give them gifts, you may simply select the contact through your contact list and then choose to “Gift” them. After this, you may select what item to give them—you may choose to give them any type of clothing or accessory.
 Just like in real life, dates can be costly and tiring. Every date will cost you quite a lot money and energy, so it is best to always plan your dates properly. Schedule your dates when you do not have a pending task or appointment since both events require energy. Also, you are only given 24 hours in the game to complete a date once you have asked someone out so be sure that you have enough energy and money before asking.
 While you are preparing for a date, it is best to collect enough K-Stars and Gold Hearts while you do other tasks in the game. These K-Stars and Gold Hearts can help make a date successful. K-Stars can be used to purchase energy if you run out during a date, while the accumulation of Gold Hearts provides more chances for a date to be successful. K-Stars can be collected when making five-star appearances, while Gold Hearts can be collected when you purchase furniture or clothing items with a gold heart icon on it.
 When you have made yourself available for a date, you may simply head on out to any bar or restaurant and invite someone out. To do this, you will just have to click on the Pink Plus icon on the screen and select the name of the person you would want to date. Before doing this, make sure that you have a good standing with all of your potential dates.
 Once you have clicked on the Pink Plus icon, you will have to select the name of the person you want to date. After selecting the name of the person you’d like to date, tap on “Call” and your date will begin shortly.


Be sure to wear something “nice” to a date by wearing clothes with a Gold Heart icon, as this helps improve the dating experience and provides you with more dating bonus.
 As soon as your date arrives you may begin the date by tapping on the pink pins scattered across the screen and completing every task. Each task shall consume energy so it is always best to make sure that you have tons of energy before going on a date. If you do not complete all the tasks in time, your date will be a failure and could hurt your relationship with the person. It is also important to note that having successful relationships are important in order to increase your fame status in the game, so be sure to handle your relationships properly.

