 All of these types of paper can make an excellent book cover.

This type of cover can be left as is, or made fancier with stamping, painting or decoupaging. You could also use other papers: gift wrapping paper, photocopied design paper, and any other forms of paper that you consider strong enough to form a book cover.;
, Place the brown paper down on a flat work surface. Center the book on the paper.


If you are using a paper bag, you will want to cut the paper bag open so that it lays flat. Remove any handles as well.
Your paper should be bigger than your book so that you have enough of it to wrap around your book and create pockets for the covers to slide into.
 Use a ruler and pencil to achieve this.


This horizontal line will be your guide for folding your paper to help form your book pockets.
 Fold the paper in from the top and bottom to the drawn lines.


You want to crease the paper on the horizontal lines you’ve just drawn.
Note that folds can be made neater and cleaner by using a bone folder. A bone folder is a piece of plastic that looks like a knife. It is used to get perfect folds and creases without cutting the paper. , The back of the book should be facing down onto the paper. Center the book horizontally.


Make sure that the sides of the paper are of an even length on either side of the book. Then make sure you line up the book so that the top and bottom are flush with your creases.
 Fold the left edge of the paper in over the cover.


With the front cover open, take the left side of your paper and fold it over the cover. If you have too much paper and the fold goes too far for your liking, cut the excess paper.
 Keep the folded left edge of the paper tightly in position.


The paper should stay wrapped snugly around the front cover. You may have to reposition the book so that you don’t rip the paper on the book’s spine.
If the paper is too tight, move the book to give it more slack. You want to wrap the book without ripping the paper.
 Fold the right edge of the paper in.


Just like you did with the front cover, fold your paper over the back cover. If you have too much paper, cut some off.
Close the book to make sure that the paper fits around it.
 Do this one at a time.


You’ll notice that the folds and flaps have created a pocket. You can now slide each cover into the pocket for a better hold.
Provided the paper has been folded sharply and crisply, and the paper is of substantial heaviness, the cover should not need any taping down. However, you may want to tape the pocket down if you feel it necessary.
 The sky's the limit on making brown paper more interesting. You can draw on it, potato print or paint it (do before making the book cover, though). Or stick on a label and write the name of the book inside the label space.


Ribbon or braid can be glued down the spine for added effect and strength. This can be nice if the book is for a wedding, guest book, or another memento.
You can also write the name of the book, or the name of your class on the front of the paper to make it easier to differentiate.

