 Let your child know you are only telling him or her about Santa because you think they are old enough or ready to know the truth. Emphasize the positive accomplishment this represents, rather than being a letdown or lack of trust.


Give your child a hug and let him or her know how special, grown up, and wise they are now that they know more about Santa.
You can say, for example, “I’m so proud of you! You figured out the magic of Christmas! I knew you were ready to learn more about Santa because you’re such a smart girl/boy.”, Explain that you and other parents keep up the spirit of Santa, which is still real and represents generosity, love, and fun for children all over the world.


You can explain that different people dress up and “pretend” to be Santa not to lie to children, but because they want Santa’s spirit to be real too, and because it’s fun to dress up and play pretend every once in awhile.
If your child has a hard time understanding how Santa embodies the “spirit” of Christmas, you can compare him to a team mascot, or a Disney character at Disney World, who both represent a character and story.Offer an opportunity for your child to show his or her own Santa qualities of generosity or giving. Find a toy drive or other volunteer opportunity that they can donate items that are unused or grown out of to children who may not have them., If your child is upset by learning more of the truth about Santa, ask what bothers him or her about it. This can give you a better idea of how to console them.


If your child is upset that you lied to him or her, you can apologize genuinely and explain that the story is one that’s told to almost all children, and it’s part of growing up to figure out that there’s more to the story. Explain that it’s actually because you trust them that you decided to tell the full story.
If your child is upset by the possibility that no real Santa means no more gifts, writing letters, sitting on his lap, etc., you can assure him or her that gift-giving will still happen, and they can still go visit the man dressed as Santa in the mall if they want. Just because one knows the full truth of Santa doesn’t mean all the fun parts of Christmas go away.

