 Do not wait until you're asked to decide. If you're unsure, allow others to order first.


Ask any questions you have before beginning the order process. This can include any questions about vegetarian-friendly sandwiches, general meals, prices, etc. Many Subway restaurants have sticker labels on the glass displays about the different cheeses and breads available.
It is a good idea to ask about Halal options first. In some Subways in the UK, the ham is turkey (ham), as is the bacon. In others the turkey is turkey, the ham is pork ham.;
, Know that Subway also carries flat breads and salads.


Know that sandwiches come in either 6-inch or foot-longs. If you have a friend, a foot-long can easily be split in two to save money.
Tell the staff the type of bread you would like. It may differ from store to store, but the choices can include Italian, white, wheat, honey oat, Hearty Italian (Italian bread sprinkled with cornmeal), or herbs and cheese.
Add cheese, if desired. Not all Subways carry the same kinds of cheese, and some cheeses look similar, so be specific. Do not just say the white cheese as almost all Subway cheese varieties are white.
Decide upon warming. Would you like your sandwich placed in the oven and toasted or microwaved? Toasting a sandwich is a good idea if it is a wet sandwich like meatballs or with a hot meat like steak or chicken. Try cold cut subs hot for a different taste. Note that the Subways in the UK no longer allow the microwaving of sandwiches, only the meats.
Tell the worker what types of vegetables you would like in your sandwich. Be specific with amounts, such as "light lettuce" (for a small amount) or "a lot of pickles". Also be specific with names. Telling the worker you want peppers is not helpful because more subways carry green peppers, mild peppers, and jalapeno peppers.
Order condiments, such as mayonnaise, mustard, sweet onion sauce, etc. All vinegars, salt, and ground black pepper are also in this area. If you're not ordering off the menu, nothing is 'automatically' put on.
 Unless the price seems very unreasonable, do not argue or comment about the price because it is preset by the computer. Unless a wrong item was rung up, there is nothing a member of staff can do to change the price. However, if you wish to save money, avoid going for the combo deal. Also, you can ask for water and they will provide you with a free cup.
