;
, Example: "If you take two more bites, you can be done. I'm sure you can eat two more bites. Let's count."

, Say something like, "I wouldn't eat that if I were you."

,, For instance, put vegetables on pizza or in a casserole.
 Children pick up cues from adults and siblings when it comes to food. If people grimace or complain about eating foods there is a good chance the child will too. Children will often pick up the picky eating habit from those around them.
 Sometimes the pressure to eat it makes a child leery. They will think of eating certain foods much like being forced medication.
 If the child gets extra attention when they don't eat their vegetables they may continue to protest and cause problems at the table.
 A proud child will often try their own creations.
 Children often try to imitate and may be more open to trying a vegetable that is their big sibling's or grandparent's favorite.
 It may be more than a question of taste. If your child seems to protest against certain cooked foods, textures or shapes you can try the raw option if it is safe. Some children also have color preferences. You may need to adjust your menu until the phase passes.
 Juicing is a fun way to get important vegetable nutrients.


For the busy parent some vegetable juice blends are available in the produce section. Try different varieties until you find a blend your child likes. There are more options than just V-8.
You shouldn't replace all vegetables with juice an important fiber is lost in the juicing process.
If necessary, juice when they aren't around so the real ingredients can't be seen.
Keep track of the ingredients you use. You may find a combination of ingredients they prefer and you may need to recreate the recipe.
 Pizza's are also a great place to hide finely chopped vegetables.
 Sometimes they become accustomed to foods being prepared a certain way and may reject the way it is prepared at home.
 Talk to your local greenhouse and plant vegetables that are quick growing and easy to care for. They'll learn and become eager to try new vegetables.
