 Choose "Download", and then wait for it to download (you may only download it when it is connected to a working Wi-Fi connection). It may take up to six hours, so be patient. When it is done, choose "install". You may install when you have more than 50% battery power or when your iDevice is plugged in, and you have enough storage space on your iPhone.


iOS 7 comes on all new iPhones. If you still have iOS 6, you will be prompted.
The update is compatible with iPhone 4, 4S, 5, 5C and 5S.;
, This takes about 30 minutes, depending on how fast your iDevice is. When this is done, you will see a message saying "Hello". Swipe the screen and follow the instructions. You will then be taken to the home screen.
 When setup is complete, you will see a pop-up saying that Spotlight has moved. Spotlight is a feature on iOS which allows you to search apps, messages, notes and basically everything else which is on your iDevice. To find it, swipe the screen down from any Home screen and type what you are looking for.
 All the rest of the controls will seem familiar, except for one. If you swipe up from the bottom of the screen, you will access the Control Center. Here is where you can change settings quickly, for example toggling Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Airplane Mode and more. You can also quickly access essential apps like the Calculator.
 If you look at the Notification Center, you will notice something different about it. There are now 3 different views. The Today view shows an overview of the weather, stocks and more. The Notifications tab shows all notifications that you have received and the Missed tab shows notifications that you have missed.
 Go to the Camera app. It will look different and more professional. The number of modes will change depending on the iPhone model, so here are some of them.

The lightning bolt, found on the top left part of the screen, toggles the flash. The "Auto" selection activates flash depending on light conditions; if it's dark, it will use flash. If it's pretty bright, it won't use it. The top right icon allows you to switch between front and back cameras, and is only available on iPhone 4S or newer.






Switch modes by swiping left or right; there are 4 different Views: Video, which allows you to film; Photo, which is the default view and let's you take still pictures; Square takes a picture with a square shape and Pano (which stands for Panorama) allows you to take a moving picture. The color palette icon, found on the bottom right of your screen, allows you to add picture effects. Also, on newer iPhone models, you can take slow-motion videos.






View the photos you have already taken by tapping the thumbnail found on the bottom left part of your iDevice's screen.
 You will need a Wi-Fi/3G/4G connection to use this feature.

Drag the maps to view different areas, and pinch with two fingers to zoom in or out, just like you would with a picture. You will see the scale of the map on the top left as you zoom. You can also tap 3D to make the map look 3 dimensional. In certain areas, like London, if you are zoomed in enough, you can activate Flyover, which is like 3D Buildings in Google Earth.






You can also use navigation and directions. Just tap the arrow and choose your destination!







Warning: Apple Maps has seen a lot of criticism in the recent months for it's inaccuracies. There are many errors and bugs found on the Maps (misspelled town names, missing towns and roads, placement errors...), so you should use it with caution.
 You will need a Wi-fi/3G/4G connection to use this feature.

Swipe to view the weather in other cities. You can also swipe on hourly weather to view more hourly weather - up to 12 hours in advance!






To add cities, press the button on the bottom right of the screen and you will see a weather overview of all cities. Swipe down to the end of the list where you can choose temperature units and add cities. Tap the plus sign and type in a city name; then, tap the city you want to add.
 To add a new note, tap New. To edit an existing note, go to an existing note and tap where you want to start typing. To delete one, tap the bin icon on the bottom of the screen. To send your note to someone, tap the icon on the bottom-left part of your screen and choose how to send it: you have a choice between Message, Mail, AirDrop (requires iPhone 5 or later) or to just print it.
 To start adding to your collection, head to the App Store and search for newspapers and/or magazines you want to add to your library.
 The App Store is where you can download fun games and different applications to use in your iDevice. You will need an Apple ID to download and buy apps. If you wish to buy a paid app, you must enter your credit card information. Fill in all the fields and then buy the application; although, if you have an Apple ID, you can just type your password.


Game Center is Social Network made specifically for apps and games. Some games on the app store support Game Center, so you will be able to receive achievements and enter leaderboards, and also challenge your friends! You must sign up first, though. Just enter your Apple ID; Game Center is directly made to function with it.
 FaceTime requires a good Wi-Fi connection (2mb/s or more is recommended), or a mobile network connection (4G recommended). It is similar to Skype, where you can video call other users with iDevices. It has the same interface as the phone app, just tap a contact and go. You can also get FaceTime audio calls.
 iBooks can be downloaded for free from the App Store. iBooks is an e-Book reader that can read special e-Books and PDFs. Any PDF you open in Safari can be saved to the iPhone. When it is saved, you can see it again at any time (until you decide to delete it). You can buy books off the store; some are free, but for most you have to pay: just type your Apple ID and wait for the download to complete., You will be shown a screen with a microphone button. Speak a command like "What is the weather right now?" and it will give you an answer. You can activate Siri by going to Settings > General > Siri. For more commands click the question mark icon close to the microphone button.
 To activate Passbook, you will need an iPhone. Find apps that support Passbook on the App Store and download them. When you receive an offer in these apps, it will get added to your passbook for you to use. It can also be used for airplane tickets.