 Today, boys and men are facing pressure to have perfect bodies. Movie stars, action figures, and ad campaigns all pitch perfection in males as a strong, tall, muscular body, an impossibility for most men.It's important to emphasize that bodies come in all shapes and sizes, and they can be "masculine" in the body they have without transitioning to a body they idolize., People with eating disorders, including men, place a high percentage of their self-esteem in their body image. Helping the person to move beyond that image of themselves and look at other positive parts of their personality can help them learn to define themselves in ways that don't revolve around their body.Ask them to think about the things they like about themselves without talking about their bodies. If they seem hesitant, try starting them out with something you like about them.
Encourage them to develop these things they like about themselves, so that they have a different focus for their self-esteem.
Schedule fun activities for the two of you to engage in as well. Try to think of things that he enjoys doing. For example, if he enjoys playing basketball, then you could set up a game or play some one-on-one. Engaging him in things that he is skilled at and/or passionate about will help him to see that there are other things to base his self-esteem on.
 Another way to help with body image is to help the person focus on what his body can do, not what's "wrong" with it. For instance, you could suggest he make a list of everything his body does well, from keeping him alive to helping him do his work., That is, try not to make judgments about his body, even if it seems like a "good" comment, such as "You're not fat." In addition, it's important not to make judgments about other men's bodies in his presence, as he will take those comments to heart. Try to place the emphasis on the fact that each body is good and unique in its own way.Also, make sure to redirect him if you notice that he is commenting on his body or other people’s bodies. Try saying something like, "That's not what we should be focusing on,” and then change the subject.

