 Reading in low light can force you to strain your eyes, which can lead to eye issues like nearsightedness. Make sure you only read books, magazines, and other printed items in bright, well-lit areas.If you are reading content on your cellphone, make sure the screen is bright so you do not have to strain your eyes.;
, Staring at computer and television screens all day can put wear on your eyesight. It can contribute to eye issues like nearsightedness. Try to schedule breaks in the day where you do not stare at a computer or a television. For example, if you work all day on a computer, schedule in five to ten minute breaks every hour where you go outside for a short walk or chat with a friend so you are not looking at screens.
Some studies have shown that spending more time outdoors can help to maintain your eyesight and may also help to prevent nearsightedness. Use scheduled breaks in your day to go outside for a walk or short run.
 If you think you may need to get your eyes checked due to an issue with your eyesight, do it early. Getting prescription eyeglasses early, such as during childhood, can help to maintain your eyesight and ensure it does not get worse. It can also help to prevent you from developing nearsightedness, if you do not already have it.If you already have prescription eyeglasses, make sure you wear them when advised by your optometrist. This can help to prevent your eyes from getting worse.
 Protect your eyesight by always putting on sunglasses with UVB protection when you go outside, especially on a sunny day. This can help to prevent eye issues, such as nearsightedness., Smoking can cause a variety of health issues, including eye problems. If you smoke, try to quit. Avoid smoking to prevent putting your eyesight at risk., Make sure you eat a lot of fruits and vegetables in your diet. Have healthy protein sources that are high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as tuna and salmon. Maintaining a healthy diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids can improve your eye health., There may be a link between nearsightedness and diabetes.Lower your risk of developing diabetes by exercising regularly and cutting back on sugar and processed carbohydrates. If you are already diabetic, take care to maintain good blood sugar levels.