 Platforms such as Udemy offer models that allow you to post your own course content and then keep a significant percentage of revenues. Professional credentials are not required -- but to create a useful course, you'll need to have expertise in your chosen field.

#*Consider where you have marketable expertise. Instruction in high-demand skills such as Web development or corporate communication can be especially lucrative, but well-designed courses in subjects ranging from animation to yoga have performed well.

Plan to put significant time and effort into creating a good course. One successful Web development instructor, for example, created over 220 video lectures for a single course.Maintain realistic expectations. While stories proliferate of instructors receiving $400,000 or more for a course, most instructors who post content on Web-based teaching platforms can expect earnings in the four-figure range., English as a Second Language (ESL) instruction is in consistently high demand. Many freelance English teachers take advantage of Skype to offer one-on-one English instruction. Others use virtual classroom software to reach larger audiences.


ESL curriculum is widely available online if you'd prefer not to develop your own lessons.
Network with other English language instructors. Developing these connections enables you to benefit from others' support and wisdom.
Maintain a dynamic online presence to ensure those in need of English instruction can find you.
If you prefer to work for a larger English-language instruction service, perform an online search for reputable companies. Compare pay rates to ensure you aren't accepting substandard pay from an unprofessional institution., Search online for tutoring companies in need of employees with your expertise, or consider freelance tutoring via tools such as Skype. See How to Tutor Online for more detailed advice.


You may also consider using a Web-based teaching platform to develop your own larger-scale tutoring service. While you'll need to develop your own content, you will keep a larger percentage of profits.If you are a talented musician or a visual or performing artist, consider using a patron-funded sharing site to post online tutorials. Companies such as Patreon offer a platform for artists to share their material with "patrons." Patrons fund these artists' creative efforts in exchange for enjoying the artists' content. , Consider freelancing via Skype, developing your own tutoring service via a Web-based teaching platform, or signing on with one of the many companies offering foreign language training online.


Consider how you might tailor your services. If you have worked in financial services, for example, and are fluent in Mandarin Chinese, consider targeting your advertising to individuals and businesses in the financial services industry who are seeking Mandarin language instruction. If you have a background in agriculture and speak Spanish, offer language lessons for farmers seeking better communication with their workers.

