 Blurred close-up vision is an indicator of farsightedness (also known as hyperopia).If you find it hard to focus on something that is close to your eyes you may have hyperopia. There is no single distance at which an object becomes blurry that equates to hyperopia.


The extent of your hyperopia influences your ability to focus on close-up objects, so the further away you have be to focus on something, to more pronounced you far-sightedness.Having to sit further away from your computer or holding a book at arm's length are common indicators.;
, If you are used to doing a lot of up-close work, such as drawing, sewing, writing, or working on a computer, and are finding it harder to focus on the task, this can also be a symptom of presbyopia, which is a type of farsightedness caused by loss of elasticity in the eye muscles.It is common to develop presbyopia as we get older.


You can check this simply by holding a book in front of you and reading it normally. If you are holding it more than ten or twelve inches away you may have presbyopia.If you find yourself moving the book further and further away from your eyes to focus on the words, this could be presbyopia.
Often reading glasses will help with this.
Presbyopia typically develops during the ages of 40 and 65.
 If you find increasingly that distant object appear to you as blurred, but nearby objects are clear, you may have nearsightedness (myopia). Myopia typically starts to develop around puberty, but can occur at any time in life.Like hyperopia, myopia is a question of degrees. But if you can read a newspaper fine, but struggle to read the board from the back of class, or find yourself sitting closer and closer to the TV, this could be it.There is evidence that children who spent more time doing close tasks, such as reading, are more likely to develop myopia.
Environmental factors are less significant than genetics, however., Instead of having difficulty seeing close-up or far-away objects, you might have a tough time focussing on either of them. If this is the case, there is a good chance that you have an astigmatism.