 Several different animals are suitable for plowing. Among the most common are mules, horses, and oxen. Whichever animal you use should be broken to the plow — that is, it should be calm, comfortable and obedient with this sort of work. Working with an unbroken animal can be dangerous. Losing control while plowing can lead to injury for you or the animal.
 The exact sort of harnessing necessary will vary by animal and by plow. Get an expert to help you if you are unsure how to proceed — harnessing the animal incorrectly can hurt it. Below are general instructions:Catch the animal and bridle it. Place the metal bit in its mouth and secure the leather straps on either side.
Harness the collar around the animal's neck. Connect the collar to the harness draped over the animal's back. Fasten the harness to the collar.
Attach the trace chains from the harries, through the loops in the back band and belly band, and to the plow's singletree.
Don't forget the belly band if you're using a horse — because of the way horses' shoulders are constructed, the animal can be choked by the weight of the plow if the harness slips without this safety measure.
 Lead the animal to the corner of the field to be plowed. Have the animal walk forward as you plunge the blade of the plow into the ground to break up the earth. Walk between the handles behind the animal, controlling its speed so that it moves at a manageable pace. Use the plow's handles to control the angle and depth of the blade. Have the animal turn around when it reaches either end of the field and double back.


As noted above, for extra-long fields, it's best to plow in the direction of the short sides to give your animal more breaks.
 There are a few different ways to get straight, properly-spaced furrows when you're working with an animal plow. Here is one versatile method that uses a type of plow called a "turning plow" as well as a different variety called a Georgia stock plow:


First, use the turning plow to make two furrows with about 12 inches of unplowed space in between.
Next, plow about 4 inches inside the balk (the unplowed space). Do the same on the other side so you are left with about 4 inches of unplowed space in the middle.
When your whole field is tilled this way, switch to a Georgia stock plow with a 20-inch sweep. Plow right through the middle of the balk. You will be left with neat, orderly trenches you can drop your seeds into.

