 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the granola cups, set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius ) and allow it to heat fully. Next, grease a 24-count mini-muffin tin with nonstick cooking spray to keep the cups from sticking.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. Most models will either flash an indicator light or beep to alert you.
You can substitute butter for the nonstick cooking spray if you prefer.
If you prefer, you can use a 12-count regular size muffin tin to make larger cups.;
, Add 1 cup (90 g) of quick-cooking rolled oats, ⅓ cup (42 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 tablespoons (19 g) of flaxseed meal, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of packed brown sugar, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of baking soda, and 1 teaspoon (3 g) of ground cinnamon to a large bowl. Use a wooden spoon to blend all of the ingredients together.Flaxseed meal is just ground flaxseeds. You can purchase it at many grocery and health food stores, or you can make your own by grinding flaxseeds in a food processor or coffee grinder.
If you like, you can include other spices in the granola, such as ground ginger and/or ground cloves. Add ½ to 1 teaspoon (1 ½ to 3 g) of the spices to taste.
 After you’ve combined the granola base, add ½ cup (60 g) of coarsely chopped dried cranberries, ½ cup (55 g) of coarsely chopped slivered almonds, and 2 tablespoons (7 ½ g) of shredded coconut. Stir the mixture well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.You can omit the cranberries or substitute raisins if you prefer.
You can substitute your favorite nut for the almonds, such as walnuts or cashews. However, it’s important to chop them more finely because most nuts are much thicker than slivered almonds.
 Add 3 tablespoons (64 g) of honey, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of canola oil, 1 tablespoon (14 g) of melted butter, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla to a separate small bowl. Mix the ingredients well so they’re fully combined.If you prefer, you can substitute agave nectar for the honey.
 Once you’ve mixed the liquid ingredients together, pour them into the oats mixture. Mix the ingredients together well so they’re all fully combined.The dough may be slightly sticky when you’re finished mixing.
The dough is often easier to work with if you chill it in the refrigerator for 20 to 30 minutes before putting it in the muffin tin.
 After you’ve mixed the dough together, use a spoon to transfer it to the cups in the greased muffin tin. Fill each cup so they’re approximately two-thirds full of the dough, and use clean fingers to press the dough against the bottom and sides of the compartments to form a cup shape.If you’re having trouble forming the dough into cup shapes, use a shot glass to press the dough into shape inside each compartment of the muffin tin.
 Once you’ve filled all of the cups in the muffin tin, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the granola cups to bake until the top edges start to brown, which should take approximately 10 to 12 minutes.If you’ve used a full size muffin tin to make the granola cups, they will need to cook for 15 to 17 minutes.
 When the granola cups are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Use a spoon to press the sides of each cup against the tin again. Allow the cups to cool completely in the tin, which should take approximately 20 minutes.It’s important to allow the granola cups to cool before removing them from the muffin tin because they crumble more easily when they’re warm.
 When the granola cups have cooled completely, use clean fingers to carefully lift them from the tin. If any of the cups won’t come loose, use a large fork to gently pry them out.Even when they’re cooled, the granola cups are fairly fragile. Handle them as gently as possible.
 If you’re ready to eat a granola cup, add your favorite type of yogurt. Spoon it into the cup carefully to avoid breaking it.If you want to use the granola cups for dessert, you can fill them with your favorite pudding, mousse, or even ice cream.
 After you’ve filled the granola cups with yogurt, sprinkle your favorite toppings over them. Fruit, such as blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, or orange segments, is an ideal option. You can also top the granola cups with your favorite chopped nuts, such as almonds or walnuts, and drizzle a little honey over them.If you want to top your granola cups with larger fruits, such as apples, bananas, or strawberries, dice them into smaller pieces so they’ll fit more easily.
If you’re not ready to use all of the granola cups right away, store them in an airtight container. They should stay fresh for 1 to 2 weeks.
You can also freeze the unfilled cups. Place them in zippered freezer bags, and store for up to 3 months.

