 Know how much you can afford. The last thing you want on your road trip is to go broke! If you can't afford to go on the road trip that you are planning, consider another option that is cheaper.;
, You don’t necessarily have to make an exact path, but a general direction would be a good idea. By mapping it out you will be able to figure out the best, most scenic roads to take and which roads to avoid that might be a little too much for your used car to handle.
 This way, you will know how much food to bring and whether you should reserve a hotel room overnight (to stop and sleep).
 You will also be able to do a little research and see what kind of sites there are along the road you are going. Once you have figured out the direction you are heading on your road trip it will be easier for you to pack accordingly. You might need flip flops in one place and then sneakers in the next. You’ll want to be prepared for wherever you go.
 Most importantly, before you hit the open road you should get your used car inspected. Get the oil changed, rotate the wheels, possibly get the tires changed, have the brakes checked and make sure you have a good battery. The last thing you want on any road trip is your used car breaking down in the middle of nowhere.
 After all, what’s a road trip without snacks? Try to pack food that everyone likes. If you are bringing your kids, for instance, consider packing foods they enjoy, such as peanut butter sandwiches and ants on a log. You could also stop at fast food restaurants along the way, such as McDonalds and Burger King. Be sure not to do this too much, though, as fast food is very unhealthy and can sometimes contain trans fats.
 This is an important step, as knowing about the forecast will help you in deciding what to pack. For example, if it is winter in your destination, pack warm clothes such as a jacket, and remember to layer up.
 Road trips can get boring, especially if they are long, and the trip could be even more boring for kids. Try electronics and DVD players, along with books, and many other types of entertainment you love.
 Even on our most relaxing and enjoyable vacations, there is always the chance of an emergency ruining your trip (but it can be an even worse situation if you're unprepared), so it is important to pack essentials you might need. These essentials might include:


Water bottles
Blanket
Whistle
Jumper cable
Duct tape
A first-aid kit

, By having activities planned beforehand, everyone will be entertained and your trip won't turn into a boring stay at your hotel/campsite/cottage/rental home. These activities include swimming, hiking, and going to museums. Be sure to bring a camera and take some pictures, too!

, Summer is one of your only chances to relax and unwind from priorities such as school and work. It's important that you have a great time and enjoy your special getaway from town.

