 If you know or suspect that your cat has been stung by a bee, you should quickly assess whether your cat is having a reaction that requires immediate medical attention. Take your cat to the vet or animal emergency room immediately if you see any of the following symptoms:Rapid or labored breathing
Facial swelling
Pale gums or mucous membranes
Vomiting (especially within the first 5-10 minutes after the sting) or diarrhea
Weak or rapid heartbeat
Collapse;
, Bee stings are a little different from wasp or hornet stings, and you will need to take a slightly different approach to treatment depending on what kind of insect delivered the sting.If you saw the insect that stung your cat but are not sure how to identify it, you may be able to narrow it down with a visual guide like this one: https://www.southribble.gov.uk/sites/default/files/Bee-wasp-and-hornet-leaflet.pdf


Wasps do not usually leave their stingers behind when they sting, but bees generally do. If your cat was stung by a bee, you will need to find and remove the stinger.Bee venom is acidic, while wasp venom is alkaline. It is better not to try to neutralize the sting with an alkaline substance (like baking soda) or an acid (like vinegar) unless you know for sure what stung your cat., Look for signs of swelling, redness, or tenderness. If your cat has been stung in the mouth or throat, or if you suspect that your cat has been stung multiple times, take your cat to the vet immediately., If the cat was stung by a bee (rather than a wasp), the stinger is likely to be embedded in the cat’s skin. A bee stinger can continue to seep venom into the skin for several minutes after the sting is delivered. Try to remove it as soon as possible.The stinger will look like a small black splinter.
Gently scrape the stinger out with your fingernail, a butter knife, or the edge of a credit card.
Don’t try to remove the stinger with tweezers or pinch it out with your fingers, or you might squeeze more venom into the wound.
 This can help soothe inflammation and reduce swelling. Wrap some ice or an ice pack in a washcloth and hold it on the sting for about five minutes. Take it off for five minutes, and then put it back for another five. Continue to do this for the first hour or so after the sting., Mix three parts baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) and one part water. Apply this mixture to the sting once every two hours until the swelling diminishes.Do not treat the sting with baking soda unless you are certain that your cat was stung by a bee (rather than a wasp). For wasp stings, apply apple cider vinegar to the sting instead.
Take care not to get baking soda or vinegar in your cat’s eyes.
 If the swelling from the sting increases or spreads in the hours after the sting, contact your vet. Look out for signs of infection, such as redness, pus, or further swelling around the site of the sting over the next few days., Benadryl (diphenhydramine) can help reduce inflammation, itching, and discomfort. Consult your vet about the appropriate dosage for your cat.Do not give your cat a medication containing any ingredients other than Benadryl (diphenhydramine), as other types of medications intended for humans may be harmful or fatal to cats.
 Be sure that the gel does not contain other ingredients, such as alcohol or lotion. Take care not to get any aloe in your cat’s eyes.