 The workload is typically very demanding and you should be in good physical condition. Car audio installers are prone to vigorous activities such as kneeling and stooping in tight spaces for extended periods. Stamina and dexterity are essential. You should also be fairly comfortable with tools and mechanical equipment. Having prior knowledge of basic wiring or electrical components is helpful.;
, In addition to physical agility, learning how to become a car audio installer also requires critical thinking skills. These skills can be self taught through the use of training manuals or instructional videos, but attending a mobile electronics technical school is highly recommended. Most retail audio facilities prefer accredited installers.
 There are many mobile electronics schools operating across the country that have flexible schedules and hands on programs. The programs range from basic to highly specialized, depending on the money and time you're capable of investing.


Contact the enrollment department. Ask pertinent questions, including the cost of tuition, and for assistance with information on financial aid. If required, be prepared to show your previous education, a high school diploma or GED, for example.
Find out how long training takes to complete. Some programs may last a few weeks, while higher accreditation takes much longer. Secure financing, prepare your schedule, and enroll in a reputable mobile audio school.
Even after learning how to become a car audio installer, you'll need to take an exam to complete the certification process. The Mobile Electronics Certified Professional (or MECP) certification is offered through the Consumer Electronics Association, which has trained tens of thousand of technicians. A minimum score of 70 percent is required to pass any MECP exam.
 Mobile electronics schools often assist with job placement, which is another good reason to enroll. Equipped with the mobile electronics certification, you're ready to face the challenge of a competitive job market. Once you're hired, stay aware of new developments in equipment and techniques to remain viable.
 Besides the basic apprentice level of MECP certification, there are 3 additional levels: Advanced Installation Technician, Master Installation Technician, and Mobile Product Specialist. The latter is for sales professionals. On the job experience and additional training could result in a higher income and more stability.

