 The limit screws are only going to fix so much if the derailleur is in need of serious adjustments. If you feel the derailleur hitting chain rings, notice that it is angled, or see that it is too high, you'll have to reset the derailleur and start again.
 Shift to the smallest ring in the front and the largest in the back. You may need to put the bike on a stand or turn it upside down to easily pedal and shift at once.
 Barrel adjusters are at the end of your derailleur cable, near the handle bars. To find them, follow the front derailleur cable as far as it goes until you get to a small, spinnable cylinder. Turn this clockwise as far as it goes.Count the number of rotations you make on the barrel. You'll want to return it back into approximately the same position when you're done.
 Above the derailleur is a cable that runs all the way to your shifter. It is held in place by a small bolt that prevents it from moving or sliding. Undo this bolt enough that the cable can move freely if pulled but doesn't just slide out on it's own., You do not want this to move seriously, as any major movements will change your entire alignment. Undo the bolts just enough so that you can wiggle and shift the derailleur's position.
 If the derailleur is angled, twist it so that it is parallel to the chain, being careful not to change the height. If it is touching the top of the chain ring, move it up a few millimeters so that it sits above the biggest cog. Your goals are:


1-3mm above the largest chain ring. You should be able to snugly fit a penny between the outer plate of the derailleur and the teeth of the ring.
Both plates parallel to the chain.
Curve of derailleur matches the curve of the cogs., Once you've made your changes, you'll need to readjust the derailleur so that it runs smoothly. To do so, pull the cable taut and then reclamp it underneath the bolt. Then adjust your limit screws as described in Method 1.


Be sure to lube your chain and keep it clean for the best shifting.
Be sure to retighten your barrel adjusters too.

