 It may arise out of fear or guilt and/or a chemical imbalance in the brain, among other possible causes. Let the current medication be ineffective or only partially effective, and other therapies likewise. These are the conditions presumed in this active psychotic episode.
 Just say No. If you are an addict, a twelve step program like AA or CA or NA is strongly recommended., You may have trouble concentrating on these words you are now reading - that's understandable. The second thing to do is to create a part of your brain which we'll call The Observer. The Observer just listens to whatever the voices are saying objectively and attaches no emotions to them, or emotional significance at all. The Observer stays separate, relaxed, unworried, unhurried, calm and able to relate to your body. It is suggested that, after you read this, you take a long shower and in that safe, womb-like environment, practice letting The Observer observe and keep your body safe and free from harm or harming others. Let the drone of the water even magnify the voices -- that's OK -- we're going to play a trick on the voices.
 Let the voices be saying something you find personally offensive, but which is at least partially true, such as "That **** God has all the power and He's using it to make Life kill Life to survive! I hate God!"

, Take the first 4 words: "That **** God has .." and change them to "The Dam Goddess ..." and then take the next few words and change them too. "... all the power and He ... " to "talk to poor Randy". Next we'll change " ... 's using it to make Life" to "is oozing it'll mic laugh" and then we'll change "kill Life to survive! I hate God!" to "call laugh to surf I've eye ate cod!"

So now we have, instead of "That **** God has all the power and He's using it to make Life kill Life to survive! I hate God!" .... we have "The Dam Goddess talk to poor Randy is oozing it'll mic laugh call laugh to surf I've eye ate cod!" And what we do is OVERRIDE the voices, piece by piece, until they are saying what we want them to, instead of what they were trying to bug us with and make us feel bad about!







, Now, you may experience the voice or voices as someone you know, or demons, or a crowd, or a group of authorities, or some other group of voices. For example, suppose you experience the voices as demons who cannot laugh, yet you have just created a ridiculous and humorous statement, so they're antagonistic repetition of the changed version will die down because you are laughing at it but they cannot!

