 Some websites allow expectant birth parents to flip through profiles of parents looking to adopt. These websites are a great way to connect expectant parents with adoptive parents. You can find these websites by searching online.


One website is America Adopts, which allows you to create an online profile.You should check how much it costs to host a profile on these websites. Generally, these services are not provided for free.;
, By connecting with an expectant parent before adoption, you are agreeing to an “open” adoption, at least in some form. In an open adoption, adoptive parents share identifying information with the birth parents. For example, you share both first and last names, as well as other information, such as Social Security Numbers or phone numbers.


An open adoption gives an expectant mother much more say in who adopts her child. It also allows birth parents and adoptive parents to stay in contact after the adoption.
There are varying degrees of “openness.” For example, you could swap only first names and location, but communicate mostly through a third-party intermediary.In fully open adoptions, however, the birth parents may even visit the child.
In a closed adoption, you don’t share any identifying information. You should spend some time deciding whether an open adoption is right for you before creating a profile.
 If you don’t know where to start, then you might want to browse the profiles of other adoptive parents. Generally, you will want your profile to contain the following:Information about you, your partner, and your family. Let expectant parents know what kind of family their child will be adopted into.
Details. Don’t simply say, “We love to travel.” Instead, write where you have travelled recently.
The level of contact you want to have. This is incredibly important for open adoptions. The expectant parents need to know how much contact to expect, otherwise the adoption could be very stressful.
Photos. Photographs help put a face to the information you have provided and are a great way to catch the attention of expectant parents.
Honesty. Don’t try to come across as too perfect. Expectant parents don’t expect you to be.
 Expectant parents searching your profile may send you an email to contact you. You should respond back promptly and answer any questions the expectant parents may have.

