 What is the general "feel" of the script? Dark and Moody? Comical and upbeat? Is it gritty and realistic, or more playful and imaginative? Maybe it falls in the dead center. Many scripts can be approached any number of ways, but you need to know the script inside and out before continuing.


When you read the script, think of the "movie" that plays in your head. What does it look like? What kinds of colors and images to you see
Take notes as you read the script -- this will help you communicate your vision to the crew.
Have you seen other movies with similar ideas or styles as yours? Martin Scorsese famously sits his actors down to watch tons of old movies before shooting as inspiration.;
, A storyboard is simply a comic book (of sorts) for your movie. While many beginners skip the storyboard phase, thinking they'll work it out on set, this is the most surefire way to turn simple scenes into 2-day shoots. A storyboard works out the basics of the scene, but most importantly it accounts for all the essential shots before you even arrive. You can find free storyboard templates and software online.


On each day of shooting, print out the relevant storyboards and use them to check off each needed shot.
Use these storyboards to prioritize shooting schedules. If there is a complex but essential scene, consider shooting it first to ensure you get it just how you want.
 Separately from the script, write down each unique location in the movie, creating a master list of locations. Next to each location, note the rough time of day in the scene, if the set needs to change from scene to scene, and any essential considerations or elements. Then hit the road and start scouting, crossing off scenes as you find locations for them or build a set.


Check with friends and family about using houses, yards, and businesses. Remember that you can redesign a set, or only shoot a small area of a house, and no one will be none-the-wiser that you're at your grandmother's house.
Public locations often require permits, and can be difficult to work without distractions or intrusions.
 There are going to be some props -- fake knives, costumes, etc. -- that you can buy easily. Others, like special effects or character specific props (like the briefcase in Pulp Fiction), you're going to have to get creative with. Check out DIY film sites like NoFilmSchool or IndieWire for help crafting effects and finding good deals.


Making your own effects and props is almost always cheaper, and YouTube is filled with thousands of tutorials for just about any design., Equipment costs are one of the biggest expenses you'll encounter when shooting, as you need a lot of gear to make movie magic happen:



Cameras: You need at least 2, though 3 is far more standard, as it allows you to get two people talking as well as a master shot (which covers the whole scene). Your cameras must be able to shoot in the same format (1080p, 720p, 4K, etc.), otherwise, they can't be edited together smoothly. On a budget? Check out the Sundance-screened Tangerine, which was shot entirely on iPhone 6s.

Microphones: Audiences notice bad sound before they notice bad picture.In a pinch, your money should be spent on a great mic, even if it is just a shotgun mic that attaches to the camera.

Lighting: All you need are 5-10 clamp lights and a few different light bulbs (tungsten, frosted, LED, etc.) to fit whatever scene you have. That said, a professional 3 or 5-piece light kit will make your life easier and a lot more fun.Other Essentials: No matter what you're shooting, you need a few memory cards and extra batteries, a backup hard drive and laptop to review and save footage when cards fill up, tripods, extension cords and power strips, and a few rolls of strong black tape., If you have some cash, head to Craigslist or Mandy.com and put out ads to recruit a talented crew. If not, hit your friend list, offering them a free lunch and a credit for helping. When possible, look for friends with photo or film experience, and people you can comfortably order around without hurting feelings. You'll need:



Director of Photography (DP): This is your cinematographer, responsible for the overall look of each shot. They take point setting up lights and cameras and work with you to get your tone and mood across visually. It is very, very hard to both be a DP and a director, and this job is perhaps the most essential to fill with an experienced hand.

Camera and microphone operators: One person per camera and usually one person for all the audio. If using a boom pole, make sure you have a boom operator who is strong and doesn't mind standing all day long.

Continuity / Set Design / Make-Up: Put someone in charge of making sure all costumes, props, and make-up are consistent throughout the shoot.

Sound Engineer: Listen to all the sound as it is being recorded, ensuring that it is right. They also place the microphones to pick up the dialog after the lights have been set.

Production Assistant: If you can, try to always have one "free" person floating around, able to do whatever needs doing at the drop of a hat. With so many moving parts in a movie, they will be utilized., Every role is different, as is every director, so what you're looking for in an actor is up to you. However, there are good ways to audition people to make sure you get the best look at someone in a brief period of time. It is always a good idea to film an audition so you can get a second look when comparing actors. Some possible audition strategies include:



Memorized Monologues where the actor comes in and performs the speech of their choice.

Line Reads are when you send out 2-3 pages of script, which they perform with you or another actor in the room.

Cold Reads are when you hand an actor a page of the script right when they walk in. They can read it once, then they have to plunge in. Good if you want improv actors.

