 Use a sprayer attachment, if you have one, and spray the gutters from the ground to rinse them. Spray a five to ten foot section at a time, because otherwise the gutters may dry before you have cleaned them.Another option is to spray the gutters down entirely at the beginning so that you can turn the hose off. If you do this, you may want to re-wet the gutters with a damp rag before you spray them with cleaner.
 Gutters are held to the house with long nails, so the sturdiest place to lean the ladder is near one of these nails. Farther from the nails, the gutters are weaker and may crush with too much pressure.Leaning the ladder against the house’s main structure, rather than gutters, is always a good option when it is available.
 Buy gutter cleaner at a home improvement store or a big-box store. General purpose cleaning products, like Simple Green, work well. Also look for gutter cleaners like Gutter Brite, Streak Getter, or Krud Kutter. Hold the bottle a few inches from the gutter and spray liberally.Do not use cleaners with ammonia, paint remover, or anything with abrasive particles because these can weaken and damage the gutters.
 Rather than wiping the cleaner off immediately, let it sit for a little bit so it has time to work. If the liquid begins to run off, wipe it up faster, but the cleaner cuts through buildup better if you let it sit for a few seconds.
 Grab a common household scrubbing brush and scrub the gutters to loosen any stains or buildup. It’s important not to use a metal-bristled brush because it can scratch the gutters or remove protective coatings.Bad stains may require you to scrub for a minute or more, but mild stains will come off quickly after the cleaner has loosened them.
 After you scrub the gutters, grab a bucket filled with hot water. Use an old rag to wipe the cleaner off of the gutters. If anything remains stuck on the gutters, rub at it with the rag. If you can’t get hot water outside easily, use water from the garden hose.
 Repeat the process of rinsing with water, spraying a cleaning solution, scrubbing with a brush, and wiping with a rag until you have cleaned all of the gutters. This entire process can take a few hours or more depending on the size of your house and the severity of the stains on the gutters.
 If you are able to get a hose to reach all sides of the house, stand on the ground and spray water up at the gutters. Rinse any remaining cleaner or residue off of the gutters until they appear clean.

