 The length of a rod is measured from the tip all the way to the end of the butt. Fishing rods range in length from about four feet all the way up to fourteen feet. Larger rods often dissemble into several pieces for easier transportation. Depending on where you will be fishing and what you will be fishing for, you will need to choose a rod length.


Shorter rods cast shorter distances and are usually used for lightweight lures. They also allow you better manipulation when you are fighting with a fish, so may be appropriate for big game fishing. They are also useful when trolling, a type of fishing where the line is attached to a moving boat and drawn across the water. Longer rods cast further distances and, therefore, are useful for surfcasting, which is when you are fishing directly from the shoreline rather than a boat or pier. Longer rods are also used in fly fishing and for heavier lures. ;
, The weight of a rod tells you how much weight it can carry, and therefore how strong it is. Depending on what lures or bait you will be using, you will need a specific strength rod. The weight is measured either by the weight of the lure it is designed to cast, or the "pound test". The pound test is the fishing line weight it is designed to handle. , The action of a rod is the point on the rod where it bends. This measurement can range from "ultra light" to "heavy". A heavy action means it bends closer to the tip while a lighter action bends closer to the butt of the rod. A heavier action means a stiffer backbone on the rod.This means it is recommended for use with bass or other large species of fish. A lighter action rod is usually used with smaller species of fish.
 Fishing rods are made of graphite, fiberglass, or a combination of both materials. The material that your rod is made of is related to its functionality and the kind of fishing that you will be doing.


Graphite rods are lighter and stiffer, but much more brittle than fiberglass rods. They are much more sensitive, as well, because of this. Graphite rods are usually more expensive than fiberglass rods. Fiberglass rods are heavier, but much more flexible than graphite rods. They are very difficult to break. They are also usually the less expensive option when choosing a rod material.
A combination of both materials is ideal for a fisherman who fishes in a variety of locations, for multiple types of fish.
 Rods are also determined by what kind of reel you will be using. Reels are either spinning or casting. The different kinds of reels correspond to a fisherman's different needs.


A spinning reel is like automatic transmission on a car. It allows less control but is ideal for beginners because it allows for a greater rate of success. Spinning reels are less likely to get tangled. They work well with lighter lures and baits and are good all-purpose rods. A casting reel is similar to a manual transmission on a car. It allows more control as you use your thumbs to control the accuracy of the cast. This, however, makes it more difficult to use. They are also used more often with heavier artificial lures.

