 That means shower every morning/night, brush your teeth every morning and night, keep your nails looking healthy whether you want to paint them or not, and always wear clean clothes.;
, Wear a little bit of powder foundation that matches your skin color. Only use liquid foundation for zits, but before you do make sure it is a special kind that can go on acne and not irritate it. Wear little eyeliner and mascara. Makeup is mostly made to enhance the color of your eyes not put so much stuff on them that it takes attention away form you eyes. Remember, you aren't 25, so don't act like it. You're young, enjoy it while you can. Don't try to grow up too fast.
 EVERYONE HAS ACNE. It's part of growing up. You can buy some stuff at your local drugstore to make it less noticeable or frequent. I know you've heard this a million times but NEVER touch or pick at your face. All it does is irritate your skin and leave scars.
 Try to style your hair every day. To make your hair look feminine and pretty straighten or curl your hair. Add a clip or braid, something.
 Don't ever buy too big or small clothes. It's not attractive or sexy. When you are buying clothes always try them on before you pay. Why? Well, the shirt or pants may look really cute on the rack but maybe not on you. There's no harm done in trying them on. Just remember to wear clothes that easily come on and off so you can change easily.
 If you wear shoes that are too tight or hurt your feet, STOP WEARING THEM! All you are going to do is get blisters and feel very uncomfortable all day. Who wants that? If you just have to have them but they're not in your size, then either wait until the shipment comes in or look for something else. Trust me, your feet will thank you!

, That's pretty much self explanatory. Guys love happy nice girls! So if you're nice and smile a lot then guys will love you!

, NO ONE LIKES UGLY TEETH! If your teeth are yellow, then buy some teeth whitener! If your teeth aren't straight then talk to your parents about braces. If you can't afford them, then try to save up or at least make them as clean as possible.
 Weight is a touchy subject, especially for girls, but you are beautiful in your own skin. Don't compare yourself to other girls. Everyone is built differently in their own unique way. If you do want to lose some weight then start jogging over the summer. NEVER STARVE YOURSELF, TAKE PILLS, OR MAKE YOURSELF VOMIT!!!!! It is so unhealthy and unattractive. The pills are unnatural and unsafe. Starving yourself makes you look too skinny and hurts your body. When you starve yourself, your body starts to eat up its stored fat and then it starts to eat ITSELF! Making yourself vomit is so unsanitary and gross. All of that stomach acid that goes through your mouth ends up rotting your teeth. That is VERY unattractive. Eat right and exercise daily and I promise that you'll start to see and feel the results!

