 Deductive reasoning is often used to make inferences in science and math, as you must use formal logic to support a conclusion or a solution. You can use deductive reasoning in a science class or a math class to test an existing theory or hypothesis. In science, you can then support your conclusions with experimental data. In math, you can support your proof with supporting proofs or equations.Deductive reasoning is often represented as the general (X) and the specific (Y). There are three steps to forming a deductive argument.
First: You will note that every X (general) has the characteristic Y (specific). Second: You will note that the thing you are trying to prove is X (the general). Third: You can deduce the thing you are trying to prove has the characteristic Y (the specific).
For example, you may start with the general idea: Every rose has thorns. You may then note: The thing in my hand is a rose. You can then make a deductive argument: Therefore, this thing I am holding can probably prick me.
From this deductive argument, you can do further experiments to find cases where your argument may not be true. For example, you may try to find roses that do not contain thorns or that can be manipulated to not grow thorns. You may also investigate why roses have thorns and what purpose thorns serve on roses.
 You can use deductive reasoning as part of your scientific method in science class. Forming a deductive argument is an important step in a scientific study, as it allows you to make assumptions about your hypothesis and then test those assumptions through experiments. You can then use the data from the experiments to confirm or dispute your hypothesis.Start by observing a phenomenon that forms a problem or question. For example, you may observe in your chemistry class that noble gases are stable.
You may then make a hypothesis by using deductive reasoning. Noble gases are stable. Neon is a noble gas. Therefore, you can deduce that neon is stable.
You can then design an experiment that supports or refutes your hypothesis. This may be an experiment where you test and observe neon’s reaction to certain environments, particularly environments where it is clear when a gas is stable or unstable.
You will then collect the data from the experiment and analyze the data. The data should be given a rigorous analysis to ensure your conclusion is well supported.
Finally, you will make a conclusion using the data. You will need to determine if the experiment refutes or supports your hypothesis, or your deductive argument. If it confirms your hypothesis, you can confirm your deductive argument: Noble gases are stable. Neon is a noble gas. Therefore, neon is stable.
 In mathematics, deductive reasoning can be used to formulate the answer to a mathematical problem. The more complex the mathematical problem is, the more complex your deductive argument (or proof) will need to be.In the most basic form, a deductive argument in mathematics could be represented by: If A=B and B=C, then A=C. This means that you make a general argument: A=B. You then note a more specific argument: B=C. You can then deduce the following argument or proof: A=C.

