 If you don't have printer paper handy, you can also tear a piece of paper out of your notebook. A standard piece of A4 printer paper, 8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 280 mm) in size works best, but you can use larger or smaller paper if you wish. Just make sure you are using rectangular paper.
Notebook paper will not be as sturdy as printer paper and won't make as loud of a noise, but still works well.
The paper doesn't have to be this exact size, but it's a good size to start with as it is easier to fold.
Lay the paper flat so the longer sides are on the top and bottom.;
, Fold about 2.5 inches (64 mm) of the paper up on a horizontal fold and then apply a crease.









Fold the paper away from you, toward the top.
Run your finger along the bottom edge to create the crease and keep the fold in place.
 You should have about 2.5 inches (64 mm) of unfolded paper remaining.









If you have a little less than 2.5 inches (64 mm) on unfolded area left, that's okay too. As long as you have at least 1 inch (25 mm) remaining, your popper will be in good shape.
 You want to flip your paper so that the unfolded portion is now on the bottom, closest to you. Then fold the paper in half lengthwise on a vertical crease.









When you make this fold, the folded part, or bar, should be visible again.
You will now have a square shape with your folds on the outside.
 Find the folded edge of your top bar (the part of the paper you folded up earlier) and pinch it with one hand. Then grab the bottom corner with your other hand. Pull the bar up and out as you push the unfolded portion of paper in and down in the opposite direction. 








You will now see that you’ve created two open loops, or pockets, from the folded bar. Pinch the bottom corners of your looped paper.
 You shouldn't pinch the paper too hard. Don't hold down the unfolded part in the middle, or you won't be able to snap it. You can think of this as a bit like holding a paper airplane upside-down.


Look through the outside of the popper inward. You should have created two almost diamond-shaped air pockets.
When you're snapping the popper open, you'll be releasing the unfolded section of paper. Make sure you're not holding the bottom edge of the unfolded paper and that it has freedom to move.
For extra noise, you can try to stretch out and open the air pockets a bit to take in as much air as possible.
 Raise your arm and then bring it down like you're cracking a whip or bouncing a ball. 








The air pockets should whip out, creating a cracking sound. You can snap the paper down on a desk, or just snap it in the air.
As you bring your arm down, snap your wrist down as well to give it extra force.

