 Importantly, do not copy any quilt design from copyrighted versions. Either design your own patterns from scratch or rely on patterns that are outside copyright due to their age (there are many choices). Also, do not copy any other miniature kit or any other craft kit; everything must be totally your own designs, instructions and marketing design.
 When making miniature quilt kits, you will need to have good tools to work with, especially good fabric scissors and rotary cutters, craft cutting boards and quilt or craft rulers for accurate measurements.

In addition, ensure that you have a large, clear workspace that won't be interrupted by other household activities. You will need to be able to use this space at any time and not find anything has been moved from it. However, if space is at a premium, you will need to develop a system that allows you to pack up everything neatly in order, so that it can be unpacked in the same order each time you return to it.
 The fabric should be able to do what the instructions require it to do and it shouldn't be a source of frustration for your customer owing to poor quality.

Select 100 percent cotton if using cotton and use quilt store quality fabric.
Pre-wash the fabric. This means that you can reassure the customer that any shrinkage likely to occur already has done so. Once cut, the fabric cannot be washed until made into a quilt, so spare your customer the hassle.
Store the fabric in a smoke-free environment and use this as part of your sales pitch. Nobody wants to buy cigarette infused fabric.
 Preferably, you will cut all pieces to size and shape, to save the customer having to do anything than sew; after all, that is the point of a kit. However, obviously there will be some patterns that make it better for the customer to cut, so explain clearly when this needs to be done.

Be sure to precision rotary cut the fabric. Ensure that cuts are absolutely accurate for piecing the quilt together.
If you include any pieces that still need cutting, have a very good reason for doing so, such as where there is leeway for the customer to make the miniature quilt to varying sizes of choice.
Anything else that needs cutting should be done with sharp, clean scissors, such as ribbon, backing, batting/padding, sashing, borders, etc.
If anything has been cut larger than what is needed, be sure to note this clearly on the instructions and explain what the customer needs to do before using the fabric.
 Have a checklist for every single kit that gets checked off as you go. Then insert into the kit bag., As part of the instructions, be sure to include:

Information on unusual stitches, including pictorial diagrams where this would help.
Any template sheet that might need to be followed or used.
Explain seam allowances for the sewing/piecing and how much it can be trimmed after sewing and pressing.
Sizes in both American and metric measurements. Both measurements are vital if selling online, as your kit could end up anywhere in the world if you're prepared to post overseas.
Level of challenge: easy, intermediate, hard, etc.
Include information about your returns policy in the package. It's a good idea to make the kit non-returnable for change of mind.
 Take a smart photo of the end result for showing on the front of the packaging. Around the photo, add marketing such as the name of the quilt, its size when completed, any interesting facts about the fabric used or the pattern style, where the kit was made and by whom (your brand).

Slip the whole kit into a quality plastic bag which seals at the top. Slide the promotion sheet in the front of all the other materials.
Ensure that all the materials are stacked in neatly and tightly to avoid bunching up during postage or display.

