 If you see the little reptile you’d like to see up close and personal hanging out, keep track of where and when you see it. This will be important come hunting time. Just like the guys on the nature shows, you need to understand your quarry’s habits.
 This will undoubtedly give you information on their favorite habitats, places to hide, etc. Then you can locate the spot the place in your yard most likely to attract one.


Around Las Vegas, for example, the western long tailed lizard (WLTL) is abundant. A quick Internet search will give you a lot of vital, useful information.
The WLTL likes to hide in the trees and exposed roots of the Creosote bush. Utilizing either a bush in or nearby your yard or even trying to get scrap Creosote bush roots to create a shelter in your yard is a great idea.
WLTL also feed on insects and spiders, so relocating a spider to your Creosote trap or putting some fruit there to attract flies and fruit flies will also be enticing.
If you live in Riverside or San Diego Counties in California the banded rock lizard (BRL) is a common site. The BRL eats ants, beetles flies, caterpillars, spiders, flower buds and blossoms.
Being a flat lizard that likes to hide in and under boulders and rocks, creating a trap with these while providing abundant food is a great way to bring one of these guys into your yard or a convenient area nearby.
 You want to attract a lizard to the spot in your yard you’ve chosen. From your research you will find that small lizards like to hide in cracks. So get yourself some spare wood and build a miniature wall of sorts that has a good-sized gap in it for a lizard to hide in. You can also use cement and a mold if you have the materials more readily available.Strictly follow your research here. Build the right kind of lizard trap and you’ll probably catch a lizard.
 Place the lid on the ground, interior facing up (exterior of lid facing down) and put your wall/structure on top of it. Secure your wall/structure to the lid (nails or screws are best as you can make them mostly chemical and odor free by boiling them in water).


This may be difficult if you pile the wood or rocks to create openings to hide in (depending on your research). You will have to improvise with some glue, some nails, etc. Lizards like body-sized openings so as long as you can create these you have a great chance of catching one., Once you see the lizard has taken a liking to your structure, wait until he is inside the crack and put the bottom of the container over everything and affix it to the upside-down lid. Now you have yourself a lizard.


A clear/transparent container works best. You can also buy a cheap opaque container at any hardware store and cut the bottom out of it. Be careful: if your wall is tall enough to be close to the height of the box, cutting out the bottom could allow your lizard to jump out.

