 If you can't get one or if you're a nonmember, get a fox or a wolf. They also look great with rares. But the most important thing is to be yourself, while a koala might not be considered a very Rare Animal or Famous Animal Mister Chunkybuddy's Koala, decked out with golden items, including a Founders Hat cuts the rich look.;
, Sometimes they have rare awards on Hard mode. But to truly get rares and betas, then the flying animal Adventure The Forgotten Desert can get you basically any item in Jamaa.
 While this can be a slow way to get rares, trading several rare item Mondays for a rarer item, like a fox hat or bow can get you rare. Also, after several months, the rare would have more value. Whatever you do don't scam people. This may sound like a option but it's not the best.
 It doesn't matter if you have lots of rares on your outfit, or strictly clothing store items. As long as the colors blend and you like it then it's a good outfit. But try to get an outfit that is pretty hard to copy, with a rare sprinkled here and there.
 If you have fan mail and presents, enjoy them but don't brag. Just because your famous it doesn't mean you can't help out a new jammer or color an item for a nonmember.
 Use good punctuation, don't get mad and don't randomly accept buddy requests. Visiting your fans is fine, but that doesn't mean you have to buddy them.
 You see a Jam-a-gram appear on the icon, and it says: "Hey, can you help me? My trading system isn't working so could try to see and maybe just try to do a really good item for my necklace? I'll say no I promise I will scam! Ignore it. Many people say that and do that but it turns out to be a scam and of course, everybody's trade works. On mail time don't bother replying if it's just saying things like: "Be mine valentine!", "Add me I'm your fan!", "OMG YOU'RE RARE I'M YOUR FAN ADD ME JAMMER. It's just time wasted.
 If you see an animal lying down saying: Send me stuff it's my birthday but nobody cares cause im are a random pixel .' It's always a scam. Even if you own loads of bows, don't do it. Someone who you know in reality or know online and trust for ages may need it much more. Plus why would you want pixels for your birthday? You can't eat a computer screen (you will die kids), you can't stroke or hug it, you can't keep it with you forever, can you? No. Even if you did, when you're 32, do you think it's worth it, no. Don't fool for the I am Poor! Scam, EVER!

, If everyone loves you, don't just keep coming around places, watching people surround u with delight then literally cry that you leave... Never to be seen by them again. Throw parties so people actually get to see you for more than 5 seconds. On occasions, at a certain time only, throw special ones like plushie parties, phantom parties, or gummy bear parties!

, Saying "I am rare, Admire me, I am famous!" And stuff will make people think you're boasting and its not worth liking you. Furthermore, if you own a YouTube channel, if someone keeps sending you an "I'M A FAN ADD ME!!!" Letter ignore it.

Don't swear. Nobody likes anyone who swears or doesn't appreciate it if you send a letter with the claw in it and all you get it a brutal snarky grumble, you could be hated by all who you meet, or you could even get banned.
 Don't gloat about how big your channel is, or how epic you look. Be kind and don't keep saying how cool you look, say how cool other people look!

, If you don't like the sound of uploading a bunch of videos, make a blog! Don't brag about how much followers you have. Blogspot is good.
 This gives you 10,000 gems, but it depends on how many items you have, and it's not cheating. This only works for players who have been on AJ for a long time. Recycle the real unrare items, such as store items, both furniture and clothing.

