 If home treatment isn’t working or the tendinitis is adversely affecting your daily life, see your doctor. Tendinitis is common and very treatable, and getting a medical diagnosis early can help you get proper treatment.You can see your regular doctor or visit an orthopedist, who specializes in treating disorders such as tendinitis.Your doctor will conduct a physical exam to check for signs of tendinitis and will also likely ask for a health history, including factors such as what type of activities you do., Your doctor will check for signs or signs of tendinitis once you’ve described your symptoms. Your doctor may be able to diagnose tendinitis with a simple examination instead of ordering more in-depth tests.One common way of diagnosing tendinitis is palpation, where your doctor uses her hands and fingers to feel the affected areas carefully.Your doctor may check for swelling along the tendon or in the corresponding area.She may check for thickening or increase in the size of your tendon.Your doctor may look or feel for bony spurs along your elbow, shoulder, knee or heel.Your doctor may feel along your tendon and ask you what the point of maximum tenderness is.Your doctor may also test the range of motion. In particular, she’ll see if you have a decreased ability to flex your joint., If your doctor suspects that you have tendinitis, she may order tests after conducting your physical exam. These tests can help confirm a diagnosis and help your doctor formulate a treatment plan., Your doctor may not be able to diagnose tendinitis through a simple examination with her hands. She may order that you get an X-ray or MRI to ensure your symptoms are a result of tendinitis.An MRI is more expensive than an X-ray, but may be more effective for diagnosing soft-tissue injuries such as tendinitis.X-rays and MRIs make images of the inside of your joint and tendon areas and can make it easier for your doctor to identify not only if you have tendinitis, but also exactly where the affected area is. This can help her better formulate a treatment plan.Your doctor may order an X-ray, which will require you to sit still while a technician makes images of the affected area. This can help better see the bones and may show bone spurs, or any thickening or calcification of your tendon.Your doctor may order an MRI, which will require you to lie inside of a large scanner for a few minutes. An MRI can show how severe the damage is to your tendon and help assess the type of treatment needed.Be aware that an MRI is not necessary to diagnose tendinitis and may only be used for severe cases., If your tendinitis is severe, your doctor may prescribe additional, more involved treatments such as injections, surgery, or physical therapy. These can provide some pain relief and heal the condition.In some cases, your doctor may recommend treatments such as extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT).This uses pressure waves to create a force on your tissues, relieving pain in areas affected by tendinitis.Ultrasound therapy may also be recommended in some cases. Both of these treatments have inconsistent research support.Some studies support the use of acupuncture for tendinitis.A holistic approach that uses medication and physical therapy is likely to be most effective.
 Seeing a physical therapist can help strengthen and stretch (improve flexibility) your affected area. It may help alleviate your tendinitis.Studies have shown that eccentric strengthening, which contracts a muscle while it’s lengthening, is especially effective for tendinitis., If your tendinitis is especially severe, your doctor may consider cortisone injections. Be aware this isn’t a common treatment and could rupture your tendon.Corticosteroids may decrease inflammation and help alleviate pain.Doctors do not recommend cortisone injections for chronic tendinitis, which is a case of tendinitis that last over three months., If your tendinitis doesn’t heal after six months of nonsurgical treatment, you and your doctor should consider surgery. The minimally invasive FAST procedure may help completely treat the condition.FAST, or focused aspiration of scar tissue, that uses ultrasound and small instruments to remove tendon scar tissue.FAST has the same effect as an open surgery but doesn’t require hospitalization.The recovery time for FAST is generally 1-2 months.