;
,


Create a part where you wish to add the color highlight and clip your hair out of the way.



With the clip side of the piece facing you, put both thumbs on each side of the clip and the index fingers at the front side of the piece. Snap the clip open by applying pressure toward yourself with the index fingers. Similarly, close the clip by applying pressure away from yourself with the thumbs.



Place the clip on your own hair just below the part. Moving the clip upward, catch your own hair in the clip and snap it shut. The easiLites have been designed with the clip sew with the open side facing up, so that the clip can be slid in and slid out with ease. This makes attachment to your own hair or a wig easy, without risk of snags.



Since the easilites are made of 100% Human Hair, they can be flat-ironed and curled with heat

,


Just like your own hair, human hair will accumulate residue through normal wear. However, you do not need to wash the hair everyday to keep consistent results. The hair should be washed as infrequently as possible or when you notice that the hair appears dull or acquires an odor. If you are wearing the hair all day, every day, you can wash them after 3-4 wearings.
 If hair is excessively tangled, a spray on conditioner should be used.
, Do not twist, scrub or rub the hair. Use the shampoo sparingly

, Be sure to rinse until all shampoo is removed, as improper rinsing could result in damage.


Just like your own hair, human hair extensions need to be conditioned after shampooing to maintain a healthy shine and promote styling ease.
 Gently work into the hair and let sit for three to five minutes.
,, Using a large toothed comb, move in a downward motion away from the clips and to the ends. Do not use a bristle brush on wet hair as it may pull out or break the hair.



If the hair is excessively dry, a "professional" conditioner may be necessary. Consult your stylist about this.



Steam rollers and/or wet setting are the safest way to curl your human hair.
Blow dryers, curling irons and other thermal tools may be used on low settings. Remember, the hair may scorch if the setting is too high.
If you choose to use electric rollers, always make sure that the ends are wrapped into the rollers to avoid "fishhooks".
For cutting, or any chemical processes such as perming or coloring, take the extensions to a professional stylist.
 So, remember to always take your new hair to a salon professional if you need it customized. This will give you the best results!

,


It is best to store the human hair in it's original container. However, you can store the hair in a plastic bag

,,