 Your diet can have a big impact on all aspects of your overall health, including your fertility. Eat a balanced diet rich in healthy foods to help get your fertility on track.Make sure to include healthy foods from all major food groups. Your diet should be a mix of a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and low-fat dairy. Cook your foods in a healthy fashion. Bake and grill foods instead of frying them, for example.
Nutritionists recommend that you try and make half of your plate vegetables at each meal. This will increase your fiber intake and overall wellbeing.
Antioxidants may increase sperm count.Try adding antioxidant-rich foods to your diet, such as berries, pears, apples, asparagus, broccoli, kale, tomatoes, and nuts.;
, Regular physical activity can help your overall health, which could cause an increase in fertility. If you're trying to increase fertility, work on developing a healthy exercise routine; however, you may want to avoid certain activities. While more studies are needed, research has linked a drop in fertility to certain forms of physical exercise.Some studies indicate biking may cause a drop in fertility. Very strenuous forms of exercise, such as training for a triathlon, may also cause a drop in fertility.
Stick to lighter, consistent physical activity to boost your fertility.
 Being underweight, overweight or obese may reduce sperm count and increase the likelihood of producing abnormal sperm; therefore, work on getting to a normal weight if you're over- or underweight for your height.Talk to your doctor about how to get to a good weight. You may need to eat more or less depending on whether you need to gain or lose weight. It's best to have your doctor monitor your weight loss or gain to make sure it's done in a healthy fashion.
 Not only can stress interfere with your sexual health, high levels of stress can cause changes in hormones that affect sperm production, reducing fertility. If you have a high-stress lifestyle, take steps to reduce stress. This can potentially cause an increase in fertility.Reach out to people socially on a regular basis. Regular social interaction can greatly reduce your stress level. Hang out with friends and family members who are pleasant and engaging.
Avoid unnecessary stress. Do not agree to commitments you cannot fulfill. Stay away from people who stress you out. If something on the news stresses you out, avoid reading about it.
Try to have perspective. In moments when you feel stressed out, pause and think, "How will I feel about this in a day? In a week?" Chances are, a lot of your problems are blown out of proportion unnecessarily.
 Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) can have an adverse effect on fertility. If you're not sure if you have an STI, get tested at your doctor's office. If you test positive for anything, have it treated right away.Take measures to prevent STIs if you want to protect your fertility. Always use latex condoms during sex. You can also practice monogamy by only sleeping with one partner, as this can reduce your risk of contracting an STI.
 Daily multivitamin supplements contain vitamins C and E, as well as a good supply of other essential nutrients for male reproductive health. Some research suggests a daily multivitamin may increase your sperm count.Choose a multivitamin that also contains selenium, zinc, and folate, which have been linked to healthy sperm production.
While there is little evidence that a daily multivitamin is harmful, you should always check with your doctor before taking one. You want to make sure a multivitamin is safe for you given your current health and any existing medications.

