 To marry another player, either you or the player you are going to marry must own the Imperial Edition. Alternatively either player could purchase the Imperial Edition Upgrade, which counts as a DLC add-on to the standard edition of the game.;
, Getting married is a two-sided process. You can marry absolutely any species and gender, although they must be from the same faction as you. You’ll need to find another player, either by meeting them in the world of Tamriel, or via somebody you know in real life who also plays the game. The player you would like to marry will have to follow you through the rest of the marriage process.
 There are a number of Shrines of Mara located around Tamriel. You’ll need to be in close proximity of a shrine to initiate the marriage ritual. There is a shrine in each starting town that players enter after completing the Wailing Prison tutorial zone. The second shrine is located in the second major city players will come across after leaving the tutorial. Each faction has two Shrines of Mara, which can be found in the locations below.


Dominion: Vulkhel Guard, Auridon and Elden Root, Grahtwood
Covenant: Daggerfall, Glenumbra and Wayrest, Stormhaven
Pact: Davon’s Watch, Stonefalls and Mournhold, Deshaan

, By purchasing the Imperial Edition, you’ll be rewarded with an item called the Pledge of Mara. This item can be used to initiate the Ritual of Mara with another player whilst standing near a Shrine of Mara. Once you and your partner-to-be are standing in front of a Shrine of Mara, the player who owns the Pledge of Mara can place their crosshair on the other player and use the “E” key (PC), “A” button (Xbox), or “X” button (PS4) to begin the ritual. The next player must then press the accept button that appears on a pop-up prompt after the ritual has begun.
 Once accepted, both players will perform a marriage animation. After the animation is completed, the Ring of Mara will be added to each player’s inventory. Players are now married, but they can equip the Ring of Mara at any time to activate the 10% experience bonus. This bonus will only be applied when both players are in a group and are wearing the ring. Interestingly, you can be married to up to two people but only if the two people send you the marriage request. In any other case, only one marriage is possible. Unfortunately a divorce option is not available, so remember that a marriage in ESO truly is for life!

