 It can be easy for adults to lump all children's literature under the same umbrella, but the truth is the children's literature market is vast and diverse. At the center of all these sub-genres is the age group of your target audience. Knowing whether you want to appeal to young adult readers or readers in elementary school may be the difference between writing a story that will become a short novel instead of a story for a picture book., The best way to familiarize yourself with the style of any genre of writing is to read as much as you can from that genre. Read different sub-genres of children's literature, and read a variety of different authors. Not only will you get a feel for the style and pacing of children's books, but you might get some ideas of your own., Once you've read a substantial amount of children's literature, it's important to familiarize yourself with the market. Read whatever you can find at your local library or online about publishing children's literature. Familiarize yourself with the process of publication, and consider attending conferences or workshops on publishing children's literature.Different publishers in children's literature are interested in different types of stories. Once you know what kinds of stories you're interested in telling, learn about which publishers would best fit your writing style and interests.A good place to start would be to read through some of the listings in reference books for writers. Visit your library or a book store and read through the listings for children's literature publishers in a book like Writer's Market or the Writer's & Illustrator's Guide to Children's Book Publishers and Agents., Some writers prefer to figure things out on the fly, but if you're new to writing, it may be helpful to have an outline. The advantage of an outline is that when the time comes to actually write your narrative, you'll have a good idea of how things fit together. A typical outline will lay out the following:


the basic premise of your storythe protagonist (the main character)the antagonist, if you have one (the person or people who will serve as adversaries to the protagonist)the situation(s) that will arise in your storythe source(s) of conflictthe basic series of events that will resolve the conflict you create., These scenes should fit together in a logical way and should work toward your characters identifying and resolving the conflict within your story.When sketching out the setting(s) for your story, bear in mind the ways in which your characters will fit in and interact with those settings., Some authors suggest beginning a story's plot just before things begin to change or get complicated for the protagonist. Think about classic story starting points in children's books: the story begins at the start of a new school year, the beginning of a day that will challenge the protagonist, the beginning of some type of journey or travel episode, and so forth.For some strong examples of how these types of introductions work, look to the beginnings of classic fairy tales: a family runs out of money, the protagonist is forced to leave home for some reason, the protagonist is born with some unusual trait or characteristic, or the protagonist is given special powers or some type of magical gift. These simple beginnings build the jumping off point for classic stories that challenge the moral integrity of each character by placing those characters at odds with an evil antagonist or an uncaring world., It's difficult to keep a reader of any age interested in a story from start to finish, but it's particularly difficult when it comes to young readers. That's why building suspense is so important. Suspense doesn't necessarily have to equate to crazy plot twists; start with a compelling, likable character who is interesting and real, and who faces realistic challenges. If you do this well, there's a good chance readers young and old will want to find out how your character navigates the ups and downs of his life.Another tried and true way to build suspense is to let the main character drive the action of the story. Whether the protagonist is battling against the antagonist, or simply finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong time, an interesting and strongly-written protagonist is often capable of driving the narrative of a story or book., Every scene and every chapter should work together to drive the plot. Something should be happening, or at least setting things up to happen in the next chapter or scene. It's important to be concise and clear in your writing, as you do not want to risk losing your audience's interest., It doesn't have to be a slap-stick comedy, but recognize that children enjoy a clever, entertaining story as much as adults do. Just don't try to "dumb down" the humor for children; if the story is strong and the cleverness of your characters comes through, then your audience will probably find it highly entertaining., Allow your audience to imagine the things your characters are seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and feeling. When writing the narrative to a children's story, it's best to keep sentences relatively short and use strong, descriptive language., To make a story really great, you may have to revise it several times over. Do not be discouraged by this, as all great writers of every genre go through the process of revising and rewriting. It's how you refine the gems in your premise into a well-polished masterpiece.


One of the best ways to revise your work is to have other impartial readers evaluate and critique it. This can be a trusted friend whose input you value, or strangers in a writing workshop. Whoever reads your work, it's important that the reader understands that you want useful feedback, not simple praise or approval. Ask what works well in the story, and most importantly, what doesn't work or gets confusing., If you're writing a picture book about animals, you can keep it simple by naming each character by the animal that it is. But if you're writing about human characters, you'll want to give each character a name. Just be sure that the names are easy to remember and will not get easily mixed up. No two names should sound alike, as this may confuse young readers., Your characters should be given clear ages, even if those ages are merely suggested by environmental factors, like being in the fifth grade vs. being in high school. You should also establish what time period the story takes place in, as this will influence the language that your characters use, and may influence how the characters behave.As you define your time period, remember to incorporate realistic elements. It's not unusual for children to have cellphones and mp3 players in this century, so don't be afraid to incorporate those elements into the story, if they are relevant., Young readers might get confused if the dynamics between characters gets too complex. If you're writing for early readers, it may be best to stick with basic relationships like parent/child, brother/sister, and friends from school., It can be simple or complex, and can make the characters likable or dislikable, but every character should have some kind of backstory in your mind. Even if those stories don't explicitly make it into the final manuscript, they will still influence how you develop your characters and what personality traits come through in the story.Keep in mind what each character's strengths and weaknesses are. These can be useful in developing a character's personality, and could also be important in building the plot. Perhaps a fearful character must overcome his anxieties in order to rescue his family, for example. Or a happy-go-lucky character has her patience tested by a bully at school. Whatever you decide, be consistent, and let each character's qualities be influenced by their back stories.
 Dialogue should reveal a lot about a character. Is he polite or rude? Friendly or off-putting? Does his dialect reflect the region in which he lives? All of these factors come through in the words your characters use and the ways in which they speak to one another., If you see yourself making a career out of writing children's books, you may want to think about hiring an agent. It is not crucial to have an agent, and in fact some authors prefer to cut out the middle man and pitch story and book ideas directly to publishers. But some publishing companies only work with agents, and it may be worthwhile to look into the logistics of hiring an agent., Most publishers select an illustrator to work on a given book. Unless you're packaging your own illustrations with your story, don't worry about finding an illustrator or putting images with your words. Focus on the writing instead., If you're working with short stories, you should look at literary journals and magazines that publish children's literature. You can find a listing of literary journals and magazines online by searching for young adult literary journals or children's literature magazines in a search engine.


Always look at the submission requirements for each literary journal you send your work to. Every journal has different tastes in terms of what stories they are looking for, and may have different requirements for how a piece of writing is formatted and submitted. If you're ever unsure and the website doesn't specify, email the editors and ask.
 Most book publishers do not have the time to read every single book that gets pitched to their press. That's why sending a query letter is important. It lets the agents at a publishing press know who you are and what kind of story you're interested in telling. This is your chance to pitch your work, so be thorough in how you describe your story and explain why you believe it's an important story for children to read. If the publisher is interested in your work, he or she will ask you to send a sample of your book.A good query letter should make the publisher want to read your story. Read some sample query letters online to get a feel for the language and style used in this type of correspondence. You can find a good example of a successful query letter at http://www.writersdigest.com/online-editor/how-to-write-the-perfect-query-letter.
 If you get a positive response to your query letter, or if you're entering a publication contest through a literary press, send your work. It's crucial at this step to follow the submission guidelines of each publisher very closely. Different publishers ask for different things in a submission portfolio, and failing to adhere to a given publisher's guidelines could be the difference between an acceptance and a rejection.Include with your manuscript a self-addressed, stamped envelope (SASE) to make it easier for the publisher to respond to your work. You may also want to include a brief cover letter, letting the publisher know what previous publications you've had (if any), why you're interested in writing this book, and anything else that may be relevant for the publisher to know about your work. Keep the cover letter as short as possible so that it does not distract from your manuscript.Save every letter or email of correspondence that you have with a given publisher. It's important to have a written record of any offers the publisher has made, and to maintain a timeline of your interactions., It can be very difficult to get a piece of writing published, and it only gets more difficult the more a market is saturated with authors. It can take years to get a book published, and the process of submission and rejection can be daunting. But if you have a passion for telling stories, and you believe that yours is a story that children would benefit from reading, then it's worth sticking through. You may not make a lot of money - especially at first - but the best children's literature tends to come from authors who have a passion for writing stories for children. Be patient and something should come along sooner or later.