;
,,


Note they are in tight and may require a fair bit of force to remove.
 There are two parts to this system, a grommet and a plug:


Push the plug backwards through the grommet.

The grommet fits into the actual hole in the body, and is spread by the plug, the pressure holding them in place.


Carefully remove both grommet and plug.

The lens assembly will fall away from the vehicle when you pull out the second grommet so be careful.
 Beside that plug are two holders for the actual lamps. It is not necessary to disconnect the wiring harness to replace only a lamp rather than the assembly. To disconnect the wiring harness slide red tab lock out and squeeze grey tab to disengage and separate connectors.
 The light socket should come out.
 Check your manual for your lamp.)


Pull on the old lamp to remove it from the holder.
Press the new lamp firmly into the holder.
 Make sure the plastic tab locks engage securely. Clean away any interfering dirt as required.



Wipe the outer shell of both connectors to remove dirt and grit. Check the vehicle harness connector tab and red lock for grit and clean as necessary.
Position red connector lock disengaged - flat side pushed out, prongs pushed in.
Press connector shells together slowly and firmly until grey tab engages. A faint click sound is usually audible.
Press red connector lock tab in to engage tab lock.



Guide Taillight forward into recess pushing vehicle wiring harness back into cavity behind fender. A trailer lighting harness, if present, is attached between the vehicle wiring harness and the Taillight assembly and should be positioned with the foam wrapped connector stack in the cavity behind the fender and the trailer lighting harness exiting the Taillight recess continuing downward behind the bumper cover.
Engage Taillight assembly tab in vehicle recess.
Gently press Taillight assembly into final position. Avoid wiggling assembly into position as this may break the mounting tab.
Press both plastic retaining posts into Taillight assembly to lock it in place. If the posts were removed from the vehicle, place the outer grommet into the hole then put the post into the grommet and press it in until it engages the Taillight assembly.

Turn on the signal light.
Turn on the running lights.
Put the vehicle in reverse.
