 You can buy flaked coconut online or in the baking aisle. Flaked coconut come in larger chunks than shredded coconut., Place it on the stove on medium heat., Add 1 cup butter to the pot and watch the pot so you don’t burn the butter. It will take about 5 minutes to start browning.


Let the butter melt. It should then start to foam and turn clear golden in color.
Soon after, it should start to turn a brown color and smell nutty. Stir the butter often, scraping any bits from the bottom as you stir.
Once it is very fragrant and almost nut brown in color, remove it from the heat. Pour the butter and any brown bits into a measuring cup.
Add 2 tablespoons of water to bring the butter amount back up to 1 cup.
Chill the browned butter in the refrigerator until it turns solid, about 1 to 2 hours. You can speed this up by popping it in the freezer, but check back often and make sure the butter doesn’t freeze unevenly.
, Use the electric mixer bowl if you’re using an electric mixer to beat together the ingredients.
 Beat the mixture together until it is fluffy.
 Beat until all the ingredients are combined. Scrape down the bowl with a spatula as needed.


Add in 1/2 teaspoon vanilla and beat until it is combined.
 Whisk 1 1/4 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking soda, and 1/4 teaspoon table salt together.
 Mix until combined. Then, add the remaining flour and mix again.
 Do this in two batches. Fold them in with a spatula or wooden spoon.
 Scoop the dough into balls and arrange them so there is enough room for spreading, about 2-3 inches. Use the back of the spoon or your fingers to flatten the dough a bit.


You can also use a tablespoon to scoop out the cookies, depending on how big you want your cookies.
 If you used the 2-inch scoop, bake the cookies for 14-16 minutes. If you used a tablespoon for the scoops, bake the cookies for 10-11 minutes.


The cookies should be golden in color when they are done baking.
If your cookies do not spread out nice and evenly, you may need to stir in 2 teaspoons of water to the cookie dough before baking another tray of them.
 Then, transfer them to a cooking rack.


This recipe should make 1 dozen cookies if you used the 2-inch scoop, or 4 dozen small cookies if you used the tablespoon to scoop them.
These cookies will keep for up to one week. Store extra dough in the fridge for a few days or in the freezer for a month or more.

