 There's no beating fresh, natural ingredients — even when it comes to something like syrup. Actual vanilla beans can be a little more expensive than liquid extracts, but the taste difference is noticeable. Use the steps below to slit a vanilla bean so you can use its flavorful insides:Set the vanilla bean on a cutting board. Use a sharp knife to carefully split it down the middle, making two long and skinny halves.
Press one half flat against the cutting board. Use the dull side of your knife to scrape the inner filling out of the bean. You may need to press down fairly hard to get it all out.
Add the scrapings to your recipe in place of vanilla extract. One bean's worth of scrapings usually equals about three teaspoons (one tablespoon) of extract., When it comes to making syrup, both kinds of sugar work wonderfully. The rich, molasses-like taste of brown sugar can add dimensions to the syrup's flavor, so some prefer it to the ordinary white variety. This is also a great way to use up dry, caked brown sugar from the pantry. You're dissolving it, so its starting texture doesn't matter.


If you're using the basic syrup recipe above, try adding 3/4 cup of brown sugar in addition to the two cups of white sugar. You'll also want to add 1/2 to 3/4 cup of water to compensate for the extra sugar., Vanilla's great on its own, but one of the best things about its neutral flavor is that it pairs well with so many different things. For example, you can try replacing part (or all) of the water in the basic syrup recipe with fruit juice to make a custom fruit flavor. A few juice ideas are below:


Orange juice (for an orange creamsicle syrup)
Berry juice (for berries and cream syrup)
Apple juice (for apple pie and ice cream syrup)
Most supermarket fruit juices are quite sugary on their own, so try halving the sugar in the recipe if your fruit syrup comes out too sweet.
 Using common herbs, you can add delicious infusions to a basic vanilla syrup recipe. Try adding the example herbs below (or your own favorites) to the syrup after it has cooled, then letting them soak for an hour or two. For best results, always use fresh herbs — never dried ones. Use two sprigs per recipe except where noted.Rosemary
Thyme
Lavender
Basil (one to three leaves, crushed)

, Mixing adult beverages? Substitute hard alcoholic liquor for water in the basic syrup recipe to make a sweet vanilla liqueur. This makes a fun group activity when you're drinking with friends — just be sure to make the liqueur before you start drinking to avoid accidents with the hot syrup.


Generally, you'll want to use a liquor with a neutral flavor so that the vanilla (and whatever other ingredients you've added) can shine. 80-proof non-flavored vodka works well (and can be fairly cheap).

