 This involves the forethought about context of the conference call. In other words, how do yo set up a conference call that fosters goodwill among all contributors? Sounds heavy? Let me break it down for you into 5 simple steps:


Select the most suitable date and time for everyone concerned. It is important to be aware about it or ask directly for the suitable time and date.
Plan the agenda for the conference call like it is a meeting. Use equivalent details and time specifications.
Send invite to everyone in advance with clear request for confirmation. It needs to be detailed and informative.
Get all the reference material ready ahead of time. Send it to all conference call participants for due considerations. Keep sufficient time for everyone, including the busy bosses, to go through it.;
, When you are trying to bring several parties located at different places together, it is important to communicate the expectations from participants in clear language such as:


The possible duration for the conference call – So that anyone doesn't schedule something else at same time and if you have many topics on same con call, you can assign a certain time for each topic too.
The objective – Whether the objective of a conference call is to provide information, attend to questions or take a decision, if the objective and necessary information is communicated, you can expect the callers to come prepared accordingly.
Emergency procedure – You have several callers, you can ask them to call or sms you about any last minute cancellation, delay or connectivity problem from their end.
 In today's modern age, there are several ways to communicate the conference details. Communicate with the conference callers in the media of their choice and insist con their confirmation.
, Though some conference calling services are available for local call rate, you shouldn't allow the conversation to digress from the objective of the conference call. It is supposed to be achieved by right combination of people skills and efficient adherence to the agenda. In case, you are organizing the conference call for your superiors, here are few tricks you can use:


Use the random pauses in the conversation to raise the questions that are more relevant to the topic at hand.
If appropriate, start the a question with “Sorry to interrupt you Mr. X, but, …..” .
At your turn, remind the time constraint to your superiors subtly.
Thank the person for the insight and ask more decision inducing or consistent question.

