 If you use social media yourself, you’ll have a better grasp on what is possible and impossible on social media. This firsthand experience will also give you some credibility with your child, and let them know that you understand the attraction as well as the dangers of social media.


Say to your child, “I love using social media, but I always do it safely. If you have questions about how to use social media safely, just ask me.”
Model proper behavior on your own social media page. Show your child your accounts from time to time to demonstrate what is acceptable to post as well as how you protect your information.
If you’re using social media yourself, you can add your child’s profile to yours and monitor what they’re doing on the social media platform in question. Tell your child, “For added safety, let’s be friends on social media.”

, Your child should know not only what sort of social media use is expected of them, but also what consequences await them for violating your rules as a parent. For instance, you might say, “If I find that you’ve been talking to someone on social media that I told you not to talk to, I will revoke your social media use for a brief amount of time.” When talking with your children about safe social media use, let them know that unsafe use, or use that otherwise violates the rules you’ve laid out, will result in punishments.The punishments are up to you, but they should be fair. For instance, if you find objectionable content on your child’s social media account, remind your child that they need to be responsible when using social media. Say to them, “I told you that it is not acceptable to post offensive or objectionable content, so I am revoking online access for several days.”
Never strike, yell, or curse at your child when they violate your social media rules. These punishments will decrease the trust between you and make your child resent you.
 Overall phone and internet use should be limited to about one hour each day. If you feel uncomfortable with your child’s level of social media use, you could designate a limited amount of time that they can spend on social media each day. Suggest to your child that they spend the rest of their time engaged in their studies, socializing, and playing outside.Explain to your child that in order to help them succeed academically and personally, you want them to limit their social media usage. For instance, you might say to your child, “Do not use social media for more than 30 minutes each day. Instead of using social media, let’s go for walk.”
If you notice your kids’ academic performance start to slip, or notice that they’re skipping activities, these could be warning signs that your child is spending too much time on social media. Ask your child, “I think your social media use is interfering with your studies. Let’s talk about setting new limits you’re your social media use?”
Contact your pediatrician for advice if you think your child is spending too much time online.
 If your child sees something online that offends or scares them, they should feel comfortable sharing it with you. People often stumble upon content inadvertently, and your child might find something on social media that upsets them. Say to your child, “To keep you safe, I want you to tell me immediately when you find something that worries or scares you on social media, okay?” Ask your child to promise that they will always be honest with you about their social media use.Remind younger children to alert you if they ever encounter or receive nude images through social media. You might say, for instance, “Please tell me if you ever see pictures of people hugging or kissing with no clothes on.”
If your child informs you of something upsetting or potentially dangerous, remain calm. You want your child to trust you and to continue coming to you with these issues.
 Talking with other parents might give you additional ideas about how to talk to your kids about safe social media usage. You might also become aware of new social media updates or platforms that you should ask your child about. , Kids copy what they see their parents do. If you’re addicted to social media and use your phone even when driving, your kids will, too. Likewise, if you post controversial and offensive content, your kids will as well. One of the best things you can do to keep your kids safe when using social media is to post only innocuous content and avoid using social media too frequently.