 There's nothing worse than arriving at a hotel and finding you've forgotten your pajamas or something. Also, never skip items on your check-list because they aren't cool. If your teacher/group leader has said that you need a waterproof coat, you probably need one. You don't want to end up ruining your holiday over a small detail like that.;
, If you are going hiking through the alps, you will not need your bikini or your flip-flops. Take a reasonable sized suitcase that will easily hold all your things, and doesn't need to be sat on for you to close it. If you suitcase is black, brown, gray or navy blue put a brightly coloured belt or something else distinctive on it that will make it easily recognisable. You don't want to have problems because someone else has picked up your bag thinking it was their own

, Make sure you where comfortable clothes, and possibly bring a blanket and pillow if the journey exceeds four hours, or is at a time when you would normally be asleep. If you are taking any electronic entertainment such as iPods or games consoles, make sure they are fully charged before you go, and if possible bring the chargers with you as well.
 If possible, ask your teacher to sort out who's sharing with who before you go on your trip. If not, just agree with your friends where you'd like to sleep so that there are no arguments when you get to your hotel.
 Check where the fire exits are, and make sure you pay attention when the safety drill is explained. Always lock your door when you leave the room, and make sure you lock any interconnecting doors between rooms as well. Keep your room keys with you at all times.
 Plans that are too detailed will never work out. Just go with whatever happens in the day, you'll probably end up having more fun that way, and you might end up doing something you never would have planned. If you really have to plan something, you could pre-arrange a time to come home at the end of the day. That way, you feel you aren't totally running wild.
 No holiday with friends is complete without a mega midnight feast. Make sure you bring all your favourite snacks with you, but buy any fruit or dairy products once you're there because some countries have laws on what foods you can bring in them. You should also take advantage of the different foods that you can get abroad and not back home. Doritos, cookies, chocolate, sweets and popcorn are must-haves at a midnight feast.
 Just because your teacher says that you can't have boys in girls rooms, and vice versa, doesn't mean that you have to stick to that. Don't try anything dangerous, like scaling buildings though, just stick to simple tricks. A great one is to hide any "forbidden guests" in your bathroom, along with someone from that room, and put the shower on whenever you hear a knock at the door. When the teacher comes in, you can say that your friend is taking a shower, because no teacher is going to ask if he/she can check. You could also use low windows as a means of escape, but only if you are on the ground floor as it could be dangerous.
 This may be the only chance to impress the girls/boys in your school with your superb dress sense and ultimate style. There's no point staying bundled up in an anorak and tracksuit bottoms for the whole holiday. It's great to get glammed up with your mates and go out for dinner without any hassle from parents or teachers, and you never know when that special someone might be looking.

