 One effective and environmentally friendly way of cleaning grout is to attack it with a steam cleaner.Outfit your steam cleaner with a thin and pointed nozzle, and a brush attachment if it’s available. Aim the nozzle at the grout lines, apply continuous steam, and follow the grout lines with the steamer.Even if the steam cleaner doesn’t get the grout perfectly clean, it will clean it somewhat, and help loosen the rest of the dirt and debris to make it easier to clean with other products. ;
, Take two tablespoons (30 g) of baking soda and add enough water to make a thick paste. Dip a clean toothbrush or grout brush into the paste, and then use the toothbrush to scrub the grout with the paste.


For the best results, use a new toothbrush with hard bristles, and scrub the grout in a circular motion, rather than back and forth.When you have finished scrubbing the grout, use a spray bottle to spray the area with a half-and-half mixture of vinegar and water.Let it bubble for about half an hour.
Use the toothbrush to scrub the baking soda paste and vinegar into the grout again. Rinse the area with clean water.
 In case the baking soda and vinegar mixture didn’t to the trick, try hydrogen peroxide instead of vinegar. Make a thin paste with baking soda and hydrogen peroxide, and use the toothbrush to scrub the paste into the grout.Pour on some additional peroxide if necessary.Rinse with warm water when you’re finished.


You should never mix vinegar and hydrogen peroxide,so clean the area well and wait a couple days before trying this method.
If the hydrogen peroxide doesn’t remove all the dirt and grime, it will at least improve the appearance of the grout by removing stains, and will kill any mold that’s present., In a small bowl, mix together ¼ cup (63 g) borax, ½ teaspoon (3 ml) lemon oil, and enough liquid soap (such as Castile soap) to make a paste.Use your toothbrush to scrub the paste into the grout, and then rinse with warm water.
 This is another name for sodium percarbonate, which is a compound made of hydrogen peroxide and soda crystals.Brand-name products include Clorox, OxiClean, Oxi Magic, and Bio Kleen. Mix the product with water as per the manufacturer’s instructions. Apply to the affected area and let it sit for up to an hour before scrubbing and rinsing.Be sure to use these products in a well-ventilated area, and avoid contact with your skin. Always wear gloves to use these products.
Always spot test commercial products in a small area on your grout to make sure the product won’t discolor, erode, or damage your grout.Don’t use any sort of bleach product on colored grout.
 There are many cleaners out there that are designed specifically for grout, and most of them can be purchased at hardware stores. Be sure to always follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use, and follow all the safety precautions. Commercial grout cleaners include:


Zep
Goo Gone Grout
Outrageous
Tilex Tile and Grout

, In case you find one chemical hasn’t worked and you want to try another, be sure to wash the area and wait a couple days before trying something new. Just like hydrogen peroxide and vinegar can combine to form peracetic acid,so too can commercial cleansers mix to form poisonous gasses, caustic liquids, and noxious fumes., For dirt and stains that just won’t come clean from your grout, there are colorants you can apply to cover the stains and make your grout look like new. The area should be nice and clean, but if not give it a once over with your favorite cleaner and let the area dry overnight.


Pour a small amount of grout colorant into a container. Dip a clean toothbrush or grout brush into the color and apply it to the grout using even, back and forth strokes.Remove the excess with a paper towel, and allow to dry as per the manufacturer’s instructions.
 One of the easiest ways to prevent grout from getting dirty is to clean it often with something that will prevent mold and mildew from forming in the first place. One such substance is alcohol. Once a week, wipe the grout down with isopropyl (rubbing) alcohol using a clean cloth., There are several spray solutions you can make yourself using a clean spray bottle, including vinegar and water, tea tree oil and water, and hydrogen peroxide. Two to three times a week, spray the grout after a bath or shower with a solution of:


Half-and-half vinegar and water.However, be aware that overuse of vinegar on grout can cause erosion over many years.Water and 15 to 20 drops of tea tree oil. Shake well before each use.
Pure hydrogen peroxide in a spray bottle., Removing the excess water from tiles and grout after a shower or bath is one of the easiest ways to keep grout looking new. After each use, wipe the shower walls or bath down with an old towel or squeegee., Another great way to keep mold and mildew from growing in your bathroom is by removing the water that allows it to grow.If your bathroom isn’t equipped with an exhaust fan, remove moisture from the air after every shower or bath by opening the window and blowing a stand-up fan out the window.
 Grout should be re-sealed every few years.Sealant can be applied to the grout lines with a paint brush. Allow it to dry, and then remove sealant from the tiles by wiping them in a diagonal direction with a damp cloth or sponge.One applied and cleaned, allow the sealant to cure for about three to four hours.

