 When visiting your potential pet, take stock of the area where he is being housed. Whether you're going through a rescue or breeder, you want to make sure conditions are clean. A dog or puppy kept in unsanitary conditions may be at risk for health problems.


The area should be relatively clean. If you're looking at a litter of young puppies, it's understandable if there are a few stray droppings. Puppies are not born house trained and the accidents may have just occurred. However, if the floor is covered in droppings, dirt, and other debris, this is not a clean environment.The poodle or poodles should be clean as well. Their fur should not be covered in food or droppings. Their coats should be clean and un-matted. They should also look relatively healthy. Poodles, puppies especially, should not have a bony appearance.However, there is one exception — if you're going through a rescue and a dog has just come in, he may still show some signs of neglect such as an emaciated appearance.
If animals are being kept in poor conditions, this is a bad sign. If not cared for properly, dogs can develop health conditions, like fleas or ringworm, as well as behavioral problems. You also do not want to give your money to an establishment that is abusing their animals.;
, If you decide to go through a breeder, ask to see any certificates they have about screening tests they put the parents through. Not all breeders do this, in which case you are in the dark about the potential of the parents to pass down genetic disease. If you have an option, patronize a breeder who goes to the trouble of running these tests and can prove their breeding stock is health. Poodles are a generally healthy breed, but you want to know your puppy's family history to spot any health problems that may occur down the road.Hip dysplasia, joint problems, and eye problems like cataracts are common in toy poodles. Chronic conditions, like autoimmune disorders and seizure disorders, may also occur in poodles. If these problems run in a puppy's family, it does not necessarily mean she will inherit them herself. However, it does increase her risk.If you see any health problems listed on your poodle's history, do some research. If your poodle were to develop this condition, consider whether you could handle this. Health problems vary greatly in terms of care. Some conditions, like Addison's Disease, may require long-term treatment that can get costly. Others, like cataracts, can be cleared up with a simple (but expensive) surgery.
Poodles have a reputation for being healthy but are subject to a number of conditions which can impact on their life, even in young or middle age, such as luxating patellas or eyesight problems. If you're working with a quality breeder, he will make an effort to breed out serious conditions., If you're going through a rescue, you'll want to learn about special concerns. Many dogs placed in a rescue or shelter were abandoned or abused in previous homes. This can lead to behavioral or health problems. Review a dog's history in detail before selecting a rescue poodle.


Abuse and neglect are unfortunately common aspects of many rescue dogs' histories. If your poodle has been abused, he may have behavioral problems. He might be skittish or difficult to leave alone. Neglect can also cause health problems. If a dog has been beaten or physically abused, he may have problems with chronic pain.This doesn't mean you shouldn't adopt a dog who has been abused — just be sure you understand that he'll need lots of patience, special attention, love, and training.
Some poodles are abandoned because they have existing health problems. Previous owners may have been unwilling or unable to accommodate the dog's needs. Make sure you ask rescue workers about a dog's health. Know what medications he needs, how much treatment costs, and any other special concerns.
 Unless you're adopting a very elderly poodle, toy poodles are a generally high-energy breed. Make sure any poodle you purchase is eager and playful.If you're going through a breeder, you may notice a couple of poodles from a litter seem high-energy while the others seem a bit sluggish. This is a bad sign. This could mean an illness or infection is going around in the litter. Even if your poodle is not currently sick, she's very likely to get sick later on. Be wary in these situations., Adopting a dog is a big responsibility. You should visit any poodle you're considering several times before making a decision.


Ideally, you should interact with the dog both one-on-one and observe him with other animals. You want a pet that's affectionate and unafraid of people. You also want to make sure your potential dog gets along with other animals. It can be difficult to have a pet that's aggressive or overly skittish in the presence of other dogs.
If you're going through a rescue, it may not be possible to observe your poodle with other dogs. If a dog has known behavioral problems, he may have to be separated from other animals at all times., Once you decide on a poodle, take her to the vet within 48 hours of adoption. You want to have a full exam conducted. You should also bring in a stool sample to check for parasites. If something negative comes up in the exam, you can return the poodle. Most breeders and rescues allow you to change your mind about adopting a dog without penalty within a certain timeframe.