 You might have more property than you even imagined. Digital assets are easy to overlook. Consider whether you own any of the following, and list them all in a spreadsheet:digital photographs
URLs
databases
social media accounts (Twitter, Facebook, Myspace, LinkedIn)
device backups
virtual currency accounts (e.g., Bitcoin)
financial accounts at banks or other institutions
loyalty reward programs;
, On your digital inventory, enter the URL where the asset or account is located. Also include your username/ID and password.Having this information in one place will make it easier for your heirs.
 Many digital assets will have a sentimental value. For example, your Twitter account will help your family remember you. However, your Twitter account probably has no monetary value. Other assets, though, could be worth quite a bit of money. Sit down and estimate how much each digital asset is worth.


For example, virtual currency accounts have real, monetary value. Your successor can withdraw the money.
Go through each asset and assign a value. If the value is sentimental only, then write “sentimental.” Enter this information on your digital inventory., If you want your cyber legacy to last indefinitely, you’ll also want heirs who are savvy when handling digital content. For example, leave your digital photo album to someone who can access it.


Think about who you can trust to keep your privacy, even after death. Your cyber legacy includes a wealth of information about you and your habits. You’ll want to choose someone who can close your accounts without blabbing.
Enter the name of the beneficiary on your digital inventory., On your digital inventory, state what you want done with the account.For example, you might want the beneficiary to close your email accounts. Enter this information on your digital inventory spreadsheet.


Alternately, you might want the beneficiary to copy and then close your YouTube account or Twitter account. They can then share the material with others.
You could also leave it to the beneficiary to decide what to do with the asset.
Of course, you shouldn’t include any account that prohibits another person from accessing your account. Read the terms of service for all digital accounts. Some of them prohibit another person from accessing them.
 You can make things easy on your heirs by making copies of your cyber legacy on a flash drive or disk. You can then store the flash drive or CD in a safe deposit box or in an at-home safe.In your will, you can designate who can access the box.


You may have to continually update your files, which can make it inconvenient. However, think about updating once a year.
You might also use an online backup service, such as carbonite.com or idrive.com.However, there’s no guarantee these companies will stay in business indefinitely. Accordingly, you might be better off creating copies.
 If you become incapacitated, you’ll need someone to make decisions about your assets. You should create a durable power of attorney to give this person the power to access and use your digital assets.


A power of attorney is “durable” when it lasts after you become incapacitated.
There are templates online you can use. Make sure to give your agent the power to access digital assets.
Also remember to talk to your agent about what you want done with each digital asset.Give them a copy of your digital inventory plan, or keep it with your durable power of attorney.
 A codicil is an amendment to a will. If you already have a simple will in place, then you can add a codicil that protects your cyber assets. If you don’t have a will at all, then you’ll want to draft one that includes your digital assets.Codicils are fairly easy to draft on your own. You can find a book in your library that should contain a template you can use. Also, will writing software can make drafting a new will easy. By writing an entirely new will, you revoke a prior will.
Think carefully, however, about putting digital assets in a will. Because wills are public, your username and password will be made public.
 Your executor (or “personal representative”) is responsible for administering your estate after death. They must gather your estate property and keep it safe until they distribute it to your heirs. Choose an executor who can easily handle digital material.For example, an elderly spouse might not know how to get on the Internet or access digital accounts. You should avoid choosing them as an executor.
Talk to your lawyer about naming a separate digital executor. This person will be responsible for only your digital assets.
 You probably shouldn’t give family members access to your digital accounts while you are alive. For example, if you give a child access to your financial accounts, then other heirs might accuse them of taking funds.Instead, keep the inventory with your other legal documents, such as your will and power of attorney.
 Only an experienced attorney can give you advice tailored to your circumstances. You’ll want to meet and talk about your assets, as well as who you want to leave them to.


You can get a referral to an estate planning attorney by contacting your local or state bar association. Visit this website and enter your location: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/abagroups/divisionforbarservices/barassociationdirectories/statelocalbarassociations.aspx.
Call up the lawyer and ask if they have experience with digital estate plans. You’ll want to hire someone experienced in the field.
At your meeting, you can talk about your options for protecting your cyber legacy. Some states have begun to draft laws that make it easy for your heirs to access digital accounts. Talk to the lawyer about whether your state has passed one of these laws.
 With a trust, you transfer ownership of assets to the trust. You appoint a “trustee” to manage the assets and you name a “beneficiary” who will benefit from the assets. You might prefer creating a revocable trust over a will because it is easier to amend in the future. Also a trust’s assets do not go through the probate court process and are therefore private.With a revocable trust, you can transfer the assets back out and into your own name at any time before death. You generally serve as the trustee of the trust during your lifetime.
You can also give the trustee detailed instructions as to what they should do with each digital asset.
If you transfer assets to the trust, then you can register accounts in the trust’s name. This means that whoever succeeds you as trustee can legally access the accounts.

