;
, it is accumulating in your bladder and you cannot urinate), go to the Emergency Room. If you cannot control your urine (i.e. are leaking urine involuntarily), this is another potential sign of CES. Similarly, a sudden inability to control your bowels (such as inadvertently passing stool or leaking stool from your rectum) is a possible sign of CES. All of these warrant prompt medical attention and evaluation.
 Seek medical help immediately.
"If you notice numbness in the "saddle area" (picture the area of your pelvis that would be in contact with a saddle if you were to sit on one), this area it is a "red flag" (worrisome) symptom and you need to see a doctor immediately. Numbness in the genital ("saddle") area is not normal, and may be a sign of impending (or already present) CES.
 You may feel an aching and severe pain in your lower back, which can be debilitating. This is another red flag symptom and it may vary in intensity or grow slowly over time., You may find that your ankle and knee reflexes are diminished. You may also experience deteriorating reflexes in the anus and bulbospongiosus muscle, located between the anus and the genitals.,"Oftentimes, CES follows an incident that causes trauma or another problem in the spinal cord. Things to be aware of that greatly increase your risk of CES include:


A recent infection (it is possible that this may have spread to the spinal cord)
Recent back surgery
Recent back trauma, such as an accident or other injury
A history of cancer (sometimes cancer metastases can spread to the spine leading to compression of the nerve roots)

, Time spent waiting or hesitating is precious time lost that could cost you your long-term function and health.
 If any of these are abnormal, it may be an indication of potential Cauda Equina Syndrome (CES).


Your doctor may test your mobility and coordination by asking you to walk on your heels and toes.
He or she will examine for pain when you bend forward, backward, and to each side.
Your doctor will check your anal sensation and reflexes, as abnormalities here are key aspects of the diagnosis of CES.
 The imaging test will allow the doctor to see your spinal cord, including the nerve roots, and to evaluate what, if anything, may be causing them to be compressed. Possible sources of spinal cord compression that may be detected on CT or MRI include:A primary spine tumor or cancer metastases
A herniated disc in your spine
Bone spurs
An infection that has gotten into your spinal cord
A fracture of the spinal cord
Narrowing of the spinal canal for any reason
Inflammatory spinal disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis (inflammatory arthritis)
Spinal hemorrhages

, This is when contrast material is inserted into the cerebrospinal fluid in your spinal cord, and then an x-ray type image is taken.


The contrast allows clear visualization as to whether there are any abnormalities or displacements in your spinal column.
The myelogram may show herniated discs, bone spurs, or tumors, all of which may be responsible for causing CES.
 Your doctor may perform the following tests:


Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) — This test will measure the speed of electrical impulse as it moves through the nerve. This test can determine if there is nerve damage and can how much.The nerve will be stimulated by an electrode patch attached at one end and the electric impulse is recorded by another patch.Electromyography (EMG) — This test is often done at the same time as an NCV and it measures the electrical activity in your muscles., The surgery needs to be performed within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms, if possible, and the sooner it is done the better.


The surgery will consist of removing whatever material (such as a tumor, or an infection) that is compressing your spinal cord.
The goal is that, by treating the underlying cause (the cause of the spinal cord compression), the tension will be removed from your nerve roots, and you should hopefully be able to regain function.
 These may include:


Chronic pain — some people require long-term pain medications to ease ongoing nerve-related pain following CES.
Bladder or bowel dysfunction — some people continue to struggle with bladder and/or bowel control, even after surgical resolution of their CES. (However, the good news here is that bladder and bowel function often improve in the years following surgery; it just may take longer to regain function than other affected areas.)
Sexual problems — patients are often advised to see a sex therapist for help if they are struggling to regain sexual function.
Motor problems — problems walking or performing other movement tasks, particularly with your lower limbs.
 Needless to say, these are things you want to avoid! Therefore, if in doubt, go to your local Emergency Room for evaluation of your signs and symptoms to ensure that, if you are developing CES, it is treated and resolved as quickly as possible.

