 This is the easiest way to complete your first doll. Once you get a feel for the colors and doll making you can experiment with your own way of doll making. The kit should contain everything you need to complete the project such as paints, stuffing materials, body, doll limbs, mohair, and the tools to complete the doll. A doll making kit should cost around $150 and will contain almost everything needed for your first project. If you do not purchase a kit, the following suggested items will help you get started in reborning. There are purchasing links listed in the sources section of this article.;
, Most dolls will need a head, arms, legs, cloth body, hair. If you are reborning an open-eyed baby, you will need to purchase eyes and perhaps eye lashes, if you choose not to buy a doll making kit.
,, Most reborn artists use Genesis paints which will require the purchase of an oven, preferably a convection oven. You will need to purchase paints, paint brushes, perhaps sea sponges or berry makers.
, Typical areas to find veining would be on the backs of the hands and the bottom of the feet. Look at photos of babies to get a good idea of where to place the veins. Use a very thin paint, almost like watercolor, to paint the veins. Light layers of paint are what is needed to paint a reborn doll.
 Place the doll parts onto the towel.
 The temperature is usually between 260 to 265ʡF (127 to 129ʡC) for 8 minutes to set the Genesis paint.
, Be sure to use a very thin, almost watercolor consistency paint, otherwise your doll will end up looking chalky. Bake according to the previous directions. Let it cool.
 Bake to set paint.
 Typical places to blush would include the bottoms of the feet (use a "U" motion to paint around the outer edges of the sole); in baby creases (do this delicately) and across the bridge of the nose and cheeks. Use a sea sponge or mop brush to pounce the paint. Bake to set paint using previous directions.
 Use a filbert paint brush to apply the paint. Apply one layer of paint to the nails and several layers to the lips. Bake as directed above to set the paint.
 Use a delicate hand, and thinned paint, to carefully paint veins on the eyelids. Use a purplish paint that looks much like Dioxide purple. Bake the doll parts as directed to set the paint.
 The paint should be very thin so the brows look delicate when painted onto the face. Bake the doll parts as directed to set the paint.
 Use a whitish paint and delicately apply a dab of paint following the curvature of the nail. Bake the doll parts as directed to set the paint.
,, Add a good dollop of Gem-Tac or similar glue to inside of the head cavity in the scalp area. Use a hemostat or other long gripping tool and a sponge to smear the glue around. Let dry.
 The eyelashes are rooted the same way. Root the eyelashes in and then glue them from inside the doll head.
 Look at newborn babies to get a general idea of how to style the hair.
 Let it dry.
, In general, line the body cavities with cut off pantyhose and fill with beads or other filler to weight the body and head. Secure the nylons and place in appropriate doll cavities.
,,