 Exfoliation is important because it removes dead skin cells, which prevents these cells from clogging up your pores and creating blackheads. It also revives circulation on your skin and gives you a healthy glow.


Mix two teaspoons of baking soda in a bowl with mineral water to make a paste. Apply the paste on your nose, and massage it gently so you don’t harm the skin.Allow the paste to dry for a few minutes before rinsing it off with warm water. Repeat this remedy once or twice a week.
Baking soda will help to dry up the blackheads and make your skin appear brighter and cleaner.
You can also add apple cider vinegar to the baking soda paste. Apple cider vinegar is a nature astringent and antibacterial.;
, Facial steam will help to reduce the appearance of your pores by softening them and make it easier to remove blackheads with a scrub.Gather together a large bowl, water, and a clean towel.
Boil the water. Let it cool and then pour it into the bowl.
Lean over the bowl and cover your head with the towel to trap the steam over your face.
Steam your face for 5-10 minutes. Be careful not to get too close to the steam to prevent burning your skin.
Rinse your face with warm water and pat it dry.
Repeat the facial steam several times a week, before you apply a facial scrub.
 The combination of oatmeal, lemon juice and yogurt works well to keep your skin free of blackheads.Mix together two tablespoons of oatmeal, three tablespoons of plain yogurt and the juice of half a lemon.
Apply the paste to your nose, leave it on for a few minutes, and rinse it off with warm water.
You can also make an oatmeal scrub with honey and tomatoes. Mix one teaspoon honey with the juice of four tomatoes and several tablespoons of oatmeal.
Apply the paste to your nose and leave it on for 10 minutes. Wash it off with warm water.
Repeat this scrub regularly, at least once a week.
 If possible, use jojoba oil for this sugar scrub, as it is the oil that most closely mimics your skin’s sebum. The sebum is an oily substance produced by your body to prevent your skin from drying out.If you don’t have access to jojoba oil, use other oils like grapeseed, olive, and sweet almond as substitutes.Mix 4 tablespoons of oil into 1 cup of brown or white sugar in an airtight glass jar. Stir until it is mixed well.
Wet your face and then scoop some of the scrub onto your fingertips. Massage it over your nose and face in a circular motion.
Do this for 1-2 minutes and then rinse your face with warm water.
Apply this scrub no more than 2-3 times a week, to avoid drying out or irritating your skin.
Store this scrub in an airtight jar in a cool dark place for up to 2 months.
 For a good clay mask, use Bentonite clay, which can be purchased online and at many health food stores. Bentonite clay is a rich in minerals and has been used for centuries to treat a number of ailments, mainly skin related issues. When you apply a clay mask, your skin gets to drink in these minerals while the clay draws out the blackheads.Mix 1 tablespoon of bentonite clay with water or apple cider vinegar. It should form a paste that is thick but still easy to apply.
Use your fingertips to cover your nose in a thin layer of paste. Let it sit for 10-20 minutes, depending on how long you are letting it dry. The mask will make it feel like your face is tightening as it dries. Some people find clay masks dry or irritate their skin if left on for too long, especially if they already have dry skin. Adjust the drying time of the mask based on your skin type.
Rinse the mask off with warm water and apply moisturizer to your nose.
Apply the clay mask on a regular basis to your nose, at least once a week, to see results., While the smell of raw egg on your face or nose can be unpleasant, egg whites are rich in nutrients and are less drying than other home remedies for blackheads.Gather together one egg, a facial tissue or toilet paper, a small bowl, and a clean towel.
Separate the yolk from the white in a bowl.
Clean your face using your preferred cleanser.
Pat your face dry and use your fingers to apply a thin layer of egg white on your nose.
Let the first layer dry. Then, spread a second layer of egg white on your nose. Let it dry. Apply a third layer, but be sure to let each layer dry before applying another layer.
Allow the final layer to try for 15 minutes. Your face will feel tight and pull a bit. This is a good sign as it means the egg whites are sticking to your nose, and to your blackheads.
Dip the washcloth in warm water and gently scrub the egg whites off your nose. Pat your nose dry.
 Pore strips are made of some sort of adhesive and something to attach the adhesive to your nose or face. When you pull the strip off, you pull the plug of the sebum and dead cells out of the pore, thereby removing the blackhead. Keep in mind pore strips do not prevent blackheads, they only remove them once they have popped up.Use milk and honey to make your own pore strips that are free of the harmful chemical or fragrances found in store bought pore strips.
Gather together 1 tablespoon of raw honey, 1 teaspoon of milk, and a clean strip of cotton (from a shirt or washcloth).
Mix the raw honey with the milk in a microwave safe bowl. Warm the mixture for 5-10 seconds in the microwave. Stir the mixture to make sure it is well blended.
Test the temperature of the mixture to make sure it is not too hot and then apply a thin layer over your nose.
Pat a cotton strip on your nose gently, pressing down on the strip.
Let it dry for at least 20 minutes, and then carefully peel the strip away.
Rinse your nose with cold water and pat it dry.
Use the pore strips on a regular basis to remove blackheads.
 Toner is great for removing any dead skin cells on your face and reducing any redness or inflammation, especially around your nose. Use a cooling herb like mint to soothe any irritated skin.Mix together 3 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar and 3 tablespoons of crushed fresh mint leaves in a small bottle. Let it sit for 1 week in a cool, dark place.
Strain the mixture and add a cup of water. Store the toner in the refrigerator for up to 6 days.
Apply the toner nightly by rinsing your face first with water and then using a clean cotton ball to apply the toner to your nose.
Leave the toner on overnight or for several hours if you have sensitive skin.
Be sure to moisturize your nose after applying the toner.

