 Do not attempt to move anyone who may have a neck or spinal injury. Assume a head or neck injury if:


The person complains of severe neck or back pain
The injury has exerted substantial force on the back or head
The person complains of weakness, numbness or paralysis or lacks control of his limbs, bladder or bowels
The person's neck or back is twisted or positioned oddly;
, While you put yourself and the other person in the proper positions to utilize the human crutch, leave the injured party on the ground. This can help ensure that you don’t drop or further injure the person while you shift yourselves into the proper technique., You and the other rescuer should stand on either side of the injured person's chest, facing each other.Making sure you are in the proper position can help minimize the risk of dropping the person or injuring him further.


Each rescuer should grab the wrist of the injured person with whichever hand is closest to the feet. Make sure to only do this on your side of the person.You and your partner’s remaining free hand should grab the person's clothing or nearest shoulder., Once you and your partner have a firm grasp of the injured person, pull her up into a sitting position. Make sure to do this slowly so that you don’t accidentally jostle or lose grasp of the person.Slowly lifting the person to a seated position can also give her circulatory system a chance to stabilize, especially if she’s been lying on the ground. This can help prevent dizziness that may cause the person to fall.
If she is conscious, you may want to verbally check in with the injured person to make sure that this doesn’t cause her any pain or confirm that she is feeling stable.Allow the person to sit at least for a couple of minutes before moving her to a standing position. At this point, instruct person you are going to move her to safety.
 Once the injured person is ready and able, help the person to stand up. If not, lift the person to his feet by grasping clothing items.Give the person as much time as he needs to stand up, as long as there isn’t any other immediate danger. As with sitting, this can help stabilize his blood pressure and help prevent unnecessary falls.If the person is not able to place either a foot or both his feet on the ground, you may need to offer a little bit more support. Remove as much of the weight from his leg or legs as possible in this case.
 Once the person is standing, place your hands around the waist of the injured person. As you begin to move out the person, this can add an extra measure of security while assisting the person.If the person is unconscious, grasp her belt or waistband. Pull on it slightly to lift the person's upper body., Squat down slightly and put the person's arms over your shoulder and that of your fellow rescuer. This should place you in the same direction as the injured person.


The rescuers should use their legs to stand up with the injured person. Make sure to do this slowly to maintain stability of the grasp.Considering asking the person if he is still ok and ready to move out.Don't rush the person — give him plenty of time to stand up.
 Once everyone is standing and facing the same direction, you are ready to move out with the injured person. Make sure to check that the person is secure either by asking her or checking with your fellow rescuer if the person is unconscious. This can not only help ensure that you don’t drop or jostle the person, but also help you more effectively remove the injured party from the situation.The person's legs should be dragging behind you and your fellow rescuer.Make sure to make slow and deliberate movements when dragging out the person to help ensure safety.