 The best container will be rather short and shallow, rather than deep. Having a wide top allows more air to be exposed to the air, allowing oxygen into the water. Good containers can be purchased at most pet stores, and are good for small numbers of tadpoles. You can easily reuse a container of your own, however.A plastic container will be easiest to move. Glass containers are not recommended, as they may break. Metal containers, including those covered with enamel or porcelain, should not be used.
Make sure your plastic container hasn't been used to carry or store chemicals, which may damage your tadpoles.
If you have the space, plastic molded "kiddie" pools can provide a good living container for many tadpoles.;
, Tadpoles generally enjoy having sand on the bottom of their container. As they often feed on microbials (small life forms) found with the sand, this makes it a good choice. However, having sand in your habitat will make it more difficult to keep clean.River sand is best, as it doesn't contain salt (which is a problem with beach sand)
If you are getting sand from the beach, make sure to rinse it multiples times to remove any trace of salt from the sand.
You may also use rocks in the base of your habitat. Very tiny, round rocks can be purchased at many pet stores. Never use sharp-edged rocks, larger pebbles, or glass, as these can damage your tadpoles.
 Unpolluted pond water or fresh rain water is ideal. Never use water straight from the tap, as it may contain chemicals that are hazardous to growing tadpoles. Make sure you use enough water: "best practice" is to use 1 liter per tadpole.Tap water may be used only if it's been allowed to sit for at least 3 days, so that any harmful chemical will have evaporated. Don't use tap water containing fluoride unless you can treat it with reverse osmosis or another special water filter which specifically says it removes fluoride.
If you live in an area where rainwater is scarce, use bottled spring water, distilled water, or water treated with reverse osmosis.
 The two best ways to do this are to have an aerator which adds air into the water, or to grow leafy plants within the habitat. Good choices of plants are those which grow entirely under the water, have a long, stringy growing habit, and lots of small leaves along the length of the stem.If you will be collecting tadpoles from a stream, having a gentle aerator running in your habitat is a good way to provide oxygen.
If you'll be transporting the tadpoles from a stagnant pond, an aerator may be too disruptive.
 The ideal temperature for common frog tadpoles is between 59째 and 68째 (15째C and 20째C). If your outdoor temperatures will make this difficult to maintain, you'll need to be able to keep your tadpole habitat inside.If the temperature rises above this, pollution can be a problem.
To raise the temperature in your tadpole habitat, you may need to invest in an aquarium heater. Hanging heaters in glass tubes are the most common, but nonbreakable heaters in titanium or stainless steel can also be purchased.
To lower your tank's temperature, try positioning a fan that blows air across the water's surface. This will also increase evaporation, so make sure that you're replacing the lost water as your water cools.You can also freeze water in plastic bottles and place these bottles inside your tadpole habitat. This functions as ice cools liquid in a glass.
 If you can, remove only about 1/3 of the water from the tank as you clean it. Take care when scooping out the water and refill slowly so that the tadpoles and any material on the bottom does not get churned up.If you need to, create another container with fresh rain water in it and gently scoop up the tadpoles with a cup or net, and deposit them into the new tank.
The water you're bringing the tadpoles from should be about the same temperature as the water you're bringing them to.
Transitions between different temperature water can result in shock and death.

