 Insulin is a hormone manufactured by the pancreas. It plays a significant role in regulating metabolism. Your digestive system will break down carbohydrates, such as sugars and starches, into glucose (sugar). Insulin allows your body to absorb and use glucose as energy.Women with PCOS often have a condition called insulin resistance.Insulin resistance causes glucose levels to build up in the bloodstream instead of being absorbed by the body. This can cause prediabetes or type 2 diabetes., Obesity amongst women with PCOS may be as high as 80%.Because women with PCOS have difficulty processing insulin, it is important to eat a diet that does not cause large variations in blood sugar.


Limit processed foods and foods with lots of added sugar. These foods offer little in the way of nutrients and can impact your blood sugar levels.Watch your calories. You may wish to consult with a dietician or nutritionist to determine your optimal calorie level. If you have obesity related to PCOS, reducing your calorie intake may help you lose weight.Eat complex carbohydrates. It is not recommended that you severely restrict carbohydrates. Instead, choose complex carbohydrates such as whole grains, barley, brown rice, and beans. These carbs are high in fiber and are digested slowly, so they don’t cause huge spikes in your insulin levels.Eat plenty of fresh vegetables and fruits. Fruits and vegetables have fiber and plenty of essential nutrients such as vitamins and minerals., Exercise can help improve weight loss and reduce your risk for diabetes and cardiovascular complications.Exercise can also help regulate your blood sugar levels.Aim for at least 30 minutes per day of moderate physical activity, such as aerobic exercise.
Studies have shown that physical activity makes your muscles more sensitive to insulin. This can help lower your blood glucose levels. Exercise can also help your muscles absorb glucose without needing insulin.Even small weight loss levels, between 5%-7%, can be enough to reduce androgen levels and help restore fertility., Studies show that women who smoke have higher androgen levels than non-smokers.Smoking can also aggravate insulin resistance., Many PCOS sufferers will experience excessive or unwanted hair growth. The medications your doctor prescribes may help reduce this symptom. Waxing, shaving, and tweezing may be enough to reduce unwanted hair for many women. However, you can also remove unwanted hair by using the following treatments:Laser hair removal. Laser hair removal is a very common procedure that can permanently eliminate unwanted hair after 3-7 treatments.Laser hair removal must be performed by a professional. It can be expensive, and is usually not covered by insurance.Electrolysis. Electrolysis permanently removes unwanted hair with heat or chemicals. These treatments must be done by a professional. Electrolysis may be more successful at permanently removing hair than laser removal.