 Put some thought into the type of relationship you really want to get into. By determining the type of relationship, you'll be better prepared to find the right person. Are you looking for a:


Close friend.
Romantic partner.
Life-long friend and partner.
Spouse.
Fling or very short-term relationship.
Roommate who cares about you.;
, Before looking for someone to get into a relationship with, you need to think carefully about your prior relationships. By examining prior relationships -- and writing about them -- you’ll get a better idea of how you’ll make a new relationship work in the future.


When journaling about previous relationships, make a list to include information about different aspects of previous relationships.
Think about conflicts between you and previous partners. Did you fight a lot about money, time, priorities, sex, or family? Keep this in mind when you envision your next relationship.
Consider things you enjoyed about previous relationships. Did you have similar interests with prior romantic interests? Use this information when searching for a new partner.
Determine what you would have liked better about previous relationships. For instance, did you and prior partners share interests and hobbies?Did you have joint friends? Did you talk things through well? Answering questions like these can go a long way to make things clearer about future relationships.
 After thinking about prior relationships, create a list of your life and relationship priorities. Without a good idea about what you want to do with your life going forward, you may pick a partner with conflicting priorities and values.


Write out a list and rank different aspects of your life and their importance to you, such as family, career, socializing, leisure time, hobbies. Feel free to include notes, if you want.
Think about if you want to spend a lot of time with your family. If so, you should probably look for partners who live close to you and your children or other family.
Include how you value your career. If you are committed to your career, you should find someone who is somewhat independent and has something they can spend time on when you are apart.
Rank how you value leisure.
Remember to include religion or spirituality in your list., By searching for people with traits that are desirable to you, you'll increase the chance of getting into a successful relationship.


Reflect on what traits you want in a person, but remember to leave room for spontaneity. You want to be more open to a wide range of people, and not be shopping for a "type."
Evaluate potential partners or people you date based on the traits you value the most. For example, if you were previously married to a loner, pay attention to a potential partner's circle of friends and their genuine interest in others.
Don't eliminate people just because they don't match up exactly to your list. Instead, consider the whole person.
Some potential traits you might value include: independence, spontaneity, predictability, romance, a sense of humor, and an easy going attitude., The best thing about starting a new relationship late in life is that you should have a good idea about your personality and your own flaws. By putting some time into figuring out your quirks and flaws, you’ll form a good foundation for future relationships.


Make a list of your flaws or personal weaknesses.
Consider identifying partners who may be able to tolerate or even like your flaws and quirks. For instance, if you’re a frugal person, find someone else who is also frugal.
Think about whether you can take steps to manage flaws and personality quirks that might undermine future relationships. For instance, if you’re somewhat obsessive about neatness, consider seeing a counselor or therapist so you can manage this obsession.
Spend serious time doing self-reflection in anticipation of new relationships.
Consult friends or prior love interests about your flaws and how they might have negatively impacted your relationship. For instance, if you are recently divorced, consider talking to your ex-spouse if enough time has passed and you are on friendly terms.Good friends and family members are also good sources for honest feedback. Remember, none of us are perfect, nor are we supposed to be!

, It is very likely that there will be available singles in your social circle. These might be people you know directly or friends of friends or acquaintances. These will ultimately be the easiest people for you to meet.


Ask your friends if they know anyone who might be compatible with you. People who know you are often great resources because they can connect you with someone else who they know well.
Date long-standing friends or acquaintances that you think you have a romantic connection with.
Be careful when you consider asking a friend or acquaintance on a date. Try to carefully judge whether they are interested in you., You may already be a part of groups or organizations where you can find someone to get into a relationship with. The best thing about looking for people in groups you’re already apart of is that you have something in common. In addition, you may already know the person. Consider:


Looking for a romantic interest at church or synagogue.
Finding someone at your country club.
Locating a person at your home owner’s association or other civic organizations.
Dating someone in your tennis club or a similar group., Be sure to proceed with caution when looking for someone online. For example, do not disclose financial details, lend money, etc. Also, remember that relationship building takes time. Be wary of anyone wanting “too much information” from you up front. There are a variety of websites that specialize in connecting people late in life with each other. Ultimately, you need to find a website that is geared toward your taste so you can find the right person to become involved with. Consider:


OurTime.com
SeniorMatch.com
AgelessFish.com
Match.com., Ultimately, you’re not the only one your age looking for a new relationship. Just take some time and visit many of the places or events where people like you will gather. Consider:


Singles clubs for people over 50 or 60.
Visiting meetup.com for a list of meetups for people in your age group. Starting with a group of like-minded people who enjoy the same things can lead to great friendships or a possible love interest.
Looking for bars where singles like you might frequent. In the end, bars are not only for young people. If you find the right bar, you may also find the right person to get into a relationship with.
Attending events where you mind find someone, like events at art galleries, benefits, or other community gatherings., Ultimately, there is no reason to rush your new relationship. By taking it slow, you’ll be able to get to know the person before you are too committed.


Get to know each other in a casual environment. For instance, spend time with each other among friends or in an organization you are both involved in.
Avoid having expectations about how quickly your relationship will progress., Establishing a successful relationship late in life is highly dependent on successful communication. Without getting to know the person and inquiring about things you think are important, your relationship may not work.


Inquire about financial planning. Have potential romantic interests engaged in financial planning like you have? If not, this might present a problem later. However, don’t disclose (or expect the other person to disclose) too much too soon. There are people who prey on lonely people, so if someone pressures you to share too much too soon, then consider it a red flag.
Where do their children or other family members live? This is important, especially if it far away, as potential partners will likely want to visit their family regularly., Much like asking questions, you need to be prepared to honestly answer questions. In addition, you must be honest and share how you feel about a wide variety of things, including finances, family, and your personal taste.


Avoid the mistake many youthful people make of hiding your true feelings for fear of alienating a potential mate.
As someone with much experience, you need to let the other person know about anything you feel strongly about. For example, if you have strong feelings about religion or politics, don’t hide them. This could become a problem later.Remember that with age comes wisdom, so exercise it. It can be very freeing.

