 Include your name, where you are from, and your age in the letter. Mention your personal connection to the person or the work that they do. You can also mention anything that you and the person may have in common.If you are writing to your favorite basketball player, you might say, "Hello, my name is ___. I am ___ years old, and I am from ___. I have been playing basketball since elementary school."
If you were writing to your favorite singer, you may say, "Hi, I'm ____ from ___. I'm ___ years old. I love to sing and write music just like you do.";
, Are you writing to compliment a specific thing they did? Are you writing a general "I love you" letter? Did the person make a positive impact on your life or inspire you? Write what you feel.This will make your letter feel more sincere and genuine.
For example, instead of saying "I like your music," say "I am a big fan of your music. My favorite song/album is ___. Your music helped get through ___."

, The person you are sending the letter to probably receives a lot of fan mail. Keep your letter short and to the point. If your letter is too long, the person may not read all of it. You are also more likely to get a response if your letter is short.If you type your letter, limit it to one page, single-spaced.If your letter is specific, you should have no problem keeping the letter short.
 Although you may admire and look up to the person you are writing a letter to, the person is still a stranger. Do not include any information beyond your name, age, and address. This is to keep you safe.Sending your address will increase the chances of you getting a response, autograph, or fan club gift.
Also avoid sending any personal items that you want to get back. For example, you would not send your only copy of a picture or item that you wanted the person to sign. You may or may not get a response, and you will have lost that item forever.
 If you would like for the person to respond to you or send you an autograph let them know. They may or may not respond, but it never hurts to ask. It is best to not expect to hear back. If you do hear back, it will be a nice surprise.Be specific if you want something back. For example, you may say, "I would love an autographed picture from you. Thank you so much."
Avoid asking questions in your letter and expecting the person to respond.
 Your letter should simply tell the person that you enjoy what they do, and how it has had a positive effect on you.Do not ask for any personal information, ask to come visit them, threaten them, or talk about anything sexual. You do not want to make the person feel uncomfortable or seem like a stalker.


It is against the law to threaten a person through the mail. You could go to jail or have to pay a fine. If you would not be comfortable saying the content of the letter to the person's face, you probably shouldn't write it to them either.

