 You have let this character become part of your life, especially if he or she has appeared in something you have read or watched for a long time. It is natural to feel some sense of loss.For teenagers and young adults who have not yet experienced death, fictional worlds can be a good entrance to thinking about and discussing the issue. Consider sharing your feelings with others. You may find this can be a good way to start talking about serious issues in your real life as well., If your favorite character has been killed off, or written out of the fictional world, you’ll probably be angry. Let others know about it. You will be experiencing some extreme feelings, and sometimes it’s better just to let those out.Just be careful about spoilers when dealing with popular books, movies, or TV shows. In the modern world, people don’t always experience things together, meaning some people won’t see things as soon as you do. If you posting on a public forum like Twitter, keep your comments vague, saying “I can’t believe that happened” rather than “Why did they kill my favorite character.” Keep the details for people you know are on the same schedule as you., Reflect on what made him so important to the story, and what made you fall for him. Talk to friends or others about the character, why his death is so frustrating, and what you liked most.Reread or rewatch the parts of the book or show where your fictional love appears. The great thing about fictional worlds like this is that we can always go back.
Look for other ways to keep the character in front of you, whether writing your own fan fiction, or drawing the character so you can see him again.
 Good fiction will deal with what follows from a character’s death. After she is gone, stick with the show or book so you can see the other characters react. This can help you accept what has happened.Alternatively, you can take a break from the show or book. If you are truly emotionally afflicted by what has happened, you’ll want to take some time away from this fictional world to make sure it isn’t overly affecting your real life.
 The difficult thing about fictional characters is that their story does end at some point. In the end, all of their actions are the result of someone else’s imagination. That means only that person has control of what happens. Even if your character didn’t die, the book or show would eventually end.