 Administering a coffee enema can have adverse health risks, including colitis,septicemia,, and rectal burns due to the temperature of the coffee. There have even been reports of coffee-enema-related deaths., Despite holistic rumors a coffee enema is unlikely to have significant effects. The caffeine absorption from a coffee enema is far less than drinking coffee, and it has a negligible effect on blood pressure and heart rate.While limited use may not be harmful to every user, the benefits appear to be minimal.
 If you are considering a coffee enema, talk to your doctor about it first. It is likely that your physician will advise against the treatment, but she may be able to offer alternatives or to give you additional information about your prognosis. Other health and lifestyle changes may have a greater effect on your wellbeing with fewer risks.
 Since the theory behind the coffee enema has to do with the body’s response to caffeine, you should try drinking coffee instead of using an enema. You will absorb more caffeine by drinking the coffee without the other health risks of the enema., If you choose do do a coffee enema despite the fact that there are few likely health benefits and many possible risks, then do what you can to minimize the risks:


Cool the temperature to an appropriate temperature to avoid burns.
Keep equipment as sterile as possible.
Watch for signs of infection and seek medical attention immediately if you experience a fever after administering a coffee enema.
Do not discontinue other types of medical treatment in favor of this unproven alternative therapy.
Do not share the enema equipment with anyone.
Always wear vinyl or latex gloves when administering enemas.
 Boil less than 1 quart because you will add ice cubes later.


Use unchlorinated water to make the coffee because chlorine could kill the bacteria and germs your system needs to remain healthy.
 (24 grams) of ground, caffeinated coffee and boil for 5 minutes.
, This will settle the coffee grounds to the bottom of the pan and cool the liquid.
 Strain the coffee into a container you will use only for enemas, as feces could get into the syringe when you refill the bulb for your second enema.
, The bulb will suck in the coffee and should hold about 1 cup (236 ml) of coffee.
, If you encounter any resistance, stop. Piercing a colon is no fun if you do pierce your colon seek medical attention immediately by calling your local Emergency Medical service immediately. In the USA, that number is 911.
, Do not strain to hold the coffee. If you feel it necessary to move your bowels before 12 minutes pass do so.
, Rinse thoroughly with warm, clean water.
 Loosen the clamp a bit; some coffee will run out. When the air is removed from the tubing, clamp the tubing closed again.
,, If you feel fullness or discomfort, clamp the tubing closed immediately. Remove the nozzle when you finish releasing the coffee into yourself.
,,,,, Ensure you remove the protective cover from the nozzle before you attempt to insert the nozzle.
,,,