;
, Depending on your place in the scale, think logically about how things can go. If you're a lower number, thinking rationally would tell you that you're life probably isn't all that bad in comparison to the suffering of others in the world today. If you truly are a higher number on the scale, remember that your situation can only improve.
 A simple but effective solution to stress. Often the best way to eliminate stress is to remove oneself from the situation. It becomes a lot simpler to think through the problem.
 Spending time with uplifting people can have a dramatic effect on our own mood. Always remember to stay in touch with loved ones.
 Take up a relaxing hobby that doesn't take much effort to do, or even half an hour of "me" time. Having time to develop and rejuvenate emotionally is important.
 No matter how insignificant the details may seem, include each and every one of them. Try to fill at least one side of A4 paper with good points in your life. If you reach this point, try to fill the next side. Go on until you can think of no other point. Your success with this exercise will depend on your perception of what is good, so a little optimism is helpful.
 Start and end the day with a smile. Smile at your colleagues, your friends, your family, or the passer-by in the street. It is scientifically proven that smiling releases happy chemicals in our brains, called endorphins. A GUARANTEED pick me up.
 This needn't be strenuous at all, and it needn't cost a penny. It should be something that you enjoy however, and if you can do it with a friend even better. As well as keeping you emotionally healthy, it will keep you physically fit.
 List songs that are uplifting, calming, inspiring... something that can induce a positive feeling, or help us come to terms with a negative one. Anything that suits you and your mood.
 Anger, Sadness and Confusion play an equally important role in our lives as Happiness and Contentment. It's what makes us human. The good comes with the bad. Having the bad there helps us appreciate the good.
 List the feelings that you have, how they were triggered, how they were dealt with.
 Anger, Anxiety and Depression are all treatable, and not uncommon. Sometimes swallowing your pride is the only way to ensure full stability.
 Find a sheet of paper, a pen, a pencil... or even spoken word can help us convey our feelings. When it comes to creativity, the only limit should be the sky, and then some.
 If you WANT to feel happy, you should be able to look into a mirror, smile, stand confidently and tell yourself that you are happy out loud. Appreciate the feelings you do have.
 Find somewhere quiet, like a library, the train or a park. ANYWHERE. Take one minute from your day and listen to the quiet around you. Concentrate on any sounds that ARE there. Listen to them unfolding, list where they come from.
 The best mission is to serve others.
 Saying "Thank you to those who wait on you in various ways, smiling and complimenting strangers are easy ways to practice kindness and you usually are repaid with gratitude.
 For every day.

