 The State of Texas will issue special parking permits for people who have permanent or temporary disabilities.If you have questions, consult your doctor or contact the Department of Motor Vehicles in your area. According to the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles, the following issues are considered disabilities:Eyesight of 20/200 or less
Paralysis
Lung disease
Cardiac deficiency
Wheelchair confinement
Arthritis
Foot disorder
Other mobility problems that would make a special parking permit a necessity
Other medical condition causing the person to use a crutch, cane or other assistive device to move around.;
, The state differentiates between temporary and permanent disabilities. You should consult with your doctor regarding your condition and the length of time that you are likely to need parking assistance.
 Texas issues three different types of disabled parking permits, based on your need and the expected duration of your disability:Red Placard - If you have a condition that limits your mobility but will only last a few months, such as a broken leg for example, you may only need a temporary red placard. This is valid for up to six months. It can be renewed, and may be transferred from one car to another in case other people may be driving you around.
Blue Placard - If your condition is permanent or will last longer than a year or so, you may apply for the permanent blue placard. This is renewable every four years, and is transferable from one vehicle to another as needed.
Permanent license plate. The license plate, like the blue placard, is for someone with a permanent disability. It does not need to be renewed alone, but is treated as any other car registration. The license plate stays on the car and is not transferable if you travel in different vehicles.
 Texas uses a form called the Application for Persons With Disabilities Parking Placard and/or License Plate, Form #VTR-214. You can use this page, http://www.txdmv.gov/motorists/disabled-parking-placards-plates and then select the link to Form VTR-214. Alternatively, you can go to your county tax assessor-collector's office to pick up a copy of the form.
 You will need to provide the following information:


Name, address and driver’s license number
Telephone number and email address
Signature
Your car’s make, model, year and VIN, only if you are applying for permanent license plates

, Your doctor must complete a portion of the form. He or she must certify whether your condition is permanent or temporary.


The doctor’s signature must be notarized, unless the doctor also provides an original prescription along with the completed form. The prescription must include the disabled person’s name, the doctor’s original signature, and a statement if the disability is temporary or permanent. , There is a fee of $5 for a placard for a temporary disability. There is no fee for a permanent placard or for disabled license plates.
 You may submit your completed application in one of two ways, either by mail or in person. Be sure to keep a copy of the completed form before submitting it.


By mail – send the completed form, along with a photo ID, and check, money order or cashier’s check for the fee, if required, to your county tax assessor-collector’s office.
In person – take the completed form, and fee, if required, in person to your county tax assessor-collector’s office.
Find your county tax assessor-collector’s office. From the Texas DMV web site, http://www.txdmv.gov/motorists/disabled-parking-placards-plates, you will see a link on the right side of the screen to “Find Your Local Office,” and just below that another link to “Find Your County Tax Office.” Select “Find Your County Tax Office,” and a list of all Texas counties will appear. Select the one where you live to find the address and contact information for the office in your county.
 If you are planning to submit your application in person, call your county tax office ahead of time. Some may accept appointments to minimize your wait time.
 If your placard was lost or stolen, you can get a replacement. You need to submit a copy of your original Application Form V-214 to your local tax assessor-collector’s office, and they will issue you a new placard., If you do not have a copy of the original form that you completed, then you will need to complete a new form and apply from the beginning., If the police believe that your car has committed a parking offense (probably in violation of the placard rules), then your placard may be confiscated. If this happens, you need to contact the Consumer Relations Division at 888-368-4689.If you do not contact them within five days, the placard will be destroyed.