 This recipe is for Sandesh , which is a sweet treat that can be seen at any Indian celebration in a Bengali household. Traditional Sandesh calls for two separate recipes – the making of the paneer (cheese) and then the recipe for the dessert, where you mix in the fresh cheese with the rest of the ingredients.

Cook Time: 20 - 30 minutes
Cooling Time: 2-3 hours.;
, For making sandesh, the ingredients are:

2 quarts whole milk
¼ cup of lemon juice (or lime juice)
Fresh paneer from 2 quarts of milk
A handful (approx. 8-12) each of almonds and pistachios cut into slivers
A few saffron strands
1 tablespoons warm milk (to soak saffron)
1/2 milk powder
1/2 cup powdered sugar (or regular, granulated sugar)
1/2 tsp cardamom powder
1 teaspoon rose water
Ghee (or butter) to lightly grease molds
Optional additions: pistachio essence (1/2 teaspoon), for flavor.
 These are:

Large heavy bottom pan
Cheesecloth
Molds of any shape you like (a leaf is a traditional holiday shape).
 Then turn off the heat. Do not overcook the milk.,, The solid curds will separate from the liquid whey., Strain out the whey from the curds. Allow the curds to cool for at least 15 minutes. During this time, begin prep for the sandesh., Set aside and begin mixing the ingredients for the dessert., Keep aside to use as topping. If the nuts do not soak up all the milk by the time you are ready to use them, drain it away before you use the nuts as topping.,,, Stir a few more times.,, If using pistachio essence, add in with the sugar and cardamom powder

If using pistachio essence, add in with the sugar and cardamom powder.
,,,, Chop into desired pieces, either large, medium or into smaller pieces., Allow to cook for 15 minutes until the natural oils from chicken mixes with the steamed water., At the same time, add salt according to taste.,,, If required, add half a glass of water to avoid burning the spices.,,,,, Adjust if necessary., This delicious dish serves 4 to 6 people.,, Let the chicken marinate for 6 to 12 hours in the refrigerator, the more the better., Mix together as follows:

8 cloves
1 cinnamon stick
6 green cardamoms
2 bay leaves1
2 teaspoons shahi jeera (caraway seeds)
A few pinches grated nutmeg and mace each
1 teaspoon coriander powder
1 teaspoon red chili powder (to taste)
1 tablespoon garam masala powder
5-6 tablespoons of chopped fresh mint
2-3 chopped green chilies
4-5 chopped tomatoes
A whole bunch of fresh coriander leaves
1 inch piece of ginger root, grated
1 kilo basmati, jasmine or ganador rice
1 cup tomato paste (not tomato sauce)
1 cup milk, cream, or yoghurt

, The ingredients needed are:

About 8-9 medium size onions
Oil for deep frying
3-4 tablespoons for cooking
1 tablespoon of ginger garlic paste
1/2 cup of milk
A few strands of saffron (kesar)
Desi ghee (clarified butter), about 6-7 tablespoons
Cashew nuts (a few or as many as you want)
Raisins and almonds are optional
Salt to taste

, While the chicken is marinating, slice the onions thinly. You can use a food processor for this or a slicer., The heat should be medium. Definitely not high, otherwise the onions will get burned. Stir the onions continuously for uniform browning. When they become light brown, drain them on kitchen paper. Keep them aside. They will get nice crispy as they cool down.Ad, Take a deep, wide mouth vessel and heat 3 to 4 tablespoons of oil in it. In this, add the bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon, cardamoms, little bit of shahi jeera and allow to crackle. Add a tablespoon of ginger garlic paste and stir a little. Tip out all the marinated chicken and the marinade.

Cook on a high flame so that the water gets evaporated quickly.
Add the chopped tomatoes, mint, green chilies, all dry powders( coriander, chili), and salt.
Cook till the chicken is cooked and the gravy (masala) is not watery.
Add one third of the fried onions. Mix well. Keep aside.
 Boiling rice is one of the most important part of cooking a biryani. The rice needs to be parboiled, meaning that it should be three fourth cooked. The rest of it gets cooked on dum (when you layer the chicken and rice, seal it and put on a very slow fire).

Take a big deep wide mouth vessel, add lots of water (at least 10 times more than rice).
Add ample salt (this is very important because the rice needs to be salty when cooked). Also add a cinnamon stick, a couple of green cardamoms, a few cloves and the rest of caraway seeds (shahi jeera), for flavoring the rice.
Boil all this for a few minutes on a high flame (7 minutes or so).
Check for readiness. This is how to check if the rice is done. Without burning your fingers, take a few grains of rice (use a clean spoon to take some out of the boiling water), break a grain, if it breaks into 3 parts easily, the rice is done.
Strain the rice and spread it on a clean surface (a tray or something), so that it cools faster. If you want to pick out the whole spices which you added, you can do that now. Or else just let them be.
 Now that the rice and chicken are cooked and the fried onions are ready, you just need to get a few more things organized, so that the layering can be done.

Chop the coriander leaves.
Boil the milk and add crushed saffron in it. Give it a stir.
In desi ghee, fry the cashew nuts till golden brown. Also the almonds and raisins, if using. Keep aside. Keep some melted desi ghee aside.
 Take some melted ghee and grease the bottom of the pan with it.

Then put a layer of rice, then a layer of chicken followed by a layer of fried onions.
Then a layer of chopped coriander.
Repeat and finish off with the rice layer.
Lastly, sprinkle the leftover fried onions (if any), cashews and other nuts.
Pour the saffron milk on top. Also pour some desi ghee down the sides of the pan and some on top of the rice. It will trickle down with the heat.
 Seal the lid by sticking it with some chapati dough or simply fix a big foil before placing the lid. The idea is to restrict the steam from escaping. Place this pot on a very slow flame. Ideally place this vessel on top of another flat pan or tawa, so that the bottom of the pan doesn't come in direct contact with the heat source., When you open it, what you get is the magical, flavorsome and aromatic chicken biryani. Dig in. Don't forget to prepare a raita while your biryani is cooking. Enjoy hot biryani with a cold raita.,, After a minute of mixing, add the coriander leaves & mint leaves. Then add tomatoes, chicken, salt, and other spices., After the pressure is fully released, open the lid, stir the biriyani without spoiling the rice and serve with raitha.,, After the pressure is fully released, open the lid, stir the biriyani without spoiling the rice and serve with raitha., They are:

Hilsa
Curd
Ginger paste
Onion paste
Green chilli paste
Salt
Sugar
Ghee
Bay leaf
Cardamom
Cloves
Wild cinnamon

,, After washing the body, marinate it with a paste made of the curd, ginger, onion, chilli, salt and sugar.,,,, It will boil within 10 minutes. It's then ready to serve., They are:

1 big purple brinjal/eggplant/aubergine
1 teaspoon chili powder
2 teaspoons rava
1 tsp rice flour
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon jeera powder
1 teaspoon dhania powder
Salt to taste
Mustard oil.
,, This removes the bitterness from the eggplant.,,,,,,,,,, Shallow fry the slices. Brinjal absorbs oil so care should be taken not to use lot of oil while frying.,, Serve as an appetizer.