 You and your roommate probably have different ideas about what is considered clean and neat. This can be a major area of conflict. Make a chore schedule and determine who will do what and how often. For example, you two may designate Sunday afternoons as your cleaning day. Choose a time that works with both of your schedules. Responsibilities you may consider include:Taking out the trash
Sweeping the floor
Cleaning out the mini fridge
Washing the sink
Straightening up the room
Washing dishes;
, Talk about how you will handle friends coming over and intimate visitors. Conflicts are more likely to occur when it involves an intimate partner. Set up a system that both people are comfortable with.What is the time limit for guests?
Can intimate visitors spend the night?
How will you notify the other person that you need privacy (e.g. rubber band on the door knob, a symbol on your name tag, a certain color of paper on the door)?

, You will probably talk on the phone and video chat with your friends and family while you are away at school. Are these conversations private? Should these conversations take place in the room or outside the room?Consider having different rules for daytime talking and nighttime talking.
You may say talking in the room is fine as long as the other person isn’t studying.
 You and your roommate probably do not go to bed at the same time. You may prefer a 9:30 pm bedtime while your roommate doesn’t go to sleep until 2:00 am. To compromise, set up a time when the lights have to be out. During this time, headphones should be used to watch movies and listen to music and a personal light should be used for reading instead of using the overhead lights.For example, a fair compromise between a 9:30 pm bed time and a 2:00 am bed time may be to turn the lights out at 11:00 pm.
You may set a different time for weekdays and weekends.
 Once you have developed ground rules for common situations, write them down and sign them. This will keep both of you accountable. If you someone is not holding up their end of the bargain, you can use the agreement as a starting point for the conversation.


You will have to compromise to come to an agreement. Both of you should get some of the things you want, but things may not be exactly how you want them to be.Be sure that both you and your roommate are comfortable with the terms of the agreement.
You may have to modify and change some of the agreement as the school year goes on.

