 This mousse starts with a base of quick blueberry jam. To make the jam, wash 1 cup (100 g) of blueberries and discard any stems. Put the berries in a small saucepan and mash them with a potato masher. Stir in 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar and 1 teaspoon of kosher salt.Don't worry if the blueberries aren't completely smooth. They'll soften and cook down before you blend the mousse.;
, Turn the saucepan on to medium heat. Stir and cook the blueberry mixture for about 10 minutes. The mixture should bubble gently and become thick. It will start to look like jam once it's finished simmering. Turn off the heat and let it cool completely.The natural pectin in the blueberries will help the blueberry jam set up.
 Scoop the cooled blueberry jam into a blender or food processor. Add 1 cup (230 g) of sour cream and 8 ounces (225 g) of softened cream cheese. Put the lid on and puree the mixture until it's smooth.If you add the jam while it's still warm, the mousse may not set properly.
 Pour 1 cup (236 ml) of chilled heavy cream into a large mixing bowl. Use a stand or electric mixer with whisk attachments to beat the cream on high speed for several minutes. Beat the cream until soft peaks form in the cream when you lift away the attachments.If you can, chill the bowl and attachments in the freezer for a few minutes before you beat the cream. It will beat faster and you'll get more volume.
 Spoon the berry cream into the mixing bowl with the whipped cream. Use a large metal spoon to gently fold the blueberry cream into the whipped cream until it's incorporated.To fold, hold the spoon and use a twisting motion with your wrist to gently combine the blueberry mixture into the whipped cream. The goal is to incorporate the blueberry cream while keeping the volume in the whipped cream.
 Scoop the mousse into small serving glasses. If you'd like a softer mousse, you can serve them immediately. Or if you'd like the mousse to be a little firmer and colder, chill the mousse for about an hour before you serve them.You can garnish the mousse with extra fresh blueberries or chopped pistachios.

