 These gentle, easy exercises help tone crucial muscles in your hips and core. Follow these steps to do a bridge:


Lay on your back with your legs apart and your knees bent at about 45 degree angles.
Squeeze your lower ab muscles as you raise your hips off of the floor.
Raise your hips to a point that they're aligned with your upper body. Hold this position for a few seconds.
Slowly lower your hips back to the floor.
Repeat for three sets of 10 reps (or as many as feel comfortable.)

, These exercises can strengthen the pelvic floor muscles, which are important for balance and stability. In addition, Kegels improve your ability to stop urine flow (which can sometimes be a problem for postpartum women) and can be performed anywhere. Use the steps below to do a Kegel:


Find your pelvic floor muscles by squeezing the muscle you use to stop your urine mid-flow (you can wait until you have to go to the bathroom to test this if you're having a hard time.) These are the muscles you'll use during a Kegel exercise.
Concentrate on gently squeezing your pelvic floor muscles. You can do this in virtually any position, though some find it easiest while sitting.
Hold the squeeze for five seconds.
Gently release your squeeze. Repeat as often as you want, whenever you want.
Note that some women find it uncomfortable to do Kegels with a full bladder, as this can cause pain and may lead to some leakage.
 Back strength is important for anyone, as it's crucial for maintaining proper posture and avoiding lumbar pain. Follow the steps below to do a forward bend:Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your hands on your hips.
Raise your arms over your head. Start to slowly bend forward at the waist.
Keep bending forward until your upper body is level with the floor, keeping your back flat.
Slowly rise back to a standing position.
Repeat for three sets of four to eight reps (or as many as feel comfortable.)

, While ab strength is important, crunches and situps can be a little too intense for someone who's just had a c-section. Try starting instead with an exercise called a plank, which won't put stress on your wound. Follow the steps below to do a plank:


Get into a pushup position (knees and palms on the ground.)
Lower yourself onto your elbows. Simultaneously lift your knees off the ground.
Straighten your body. Your feet, hips, and shoulders should make a straight line.
Hold this position for 30-60 seconds, keeping your ab and hip muscles tight and your form straight.
Repeat two to four times.
 While postpartum exercise routines usually put a great emphasis on core strength, your arms and legs shouldn't be ignored. Try following the steps below to hit both at once:


Stand, legs a shoulder-width apart, with your arms fully extended to your sides.
Trace the smallest circles you can in the air with your fingertips, keeping your arm rigid as you do so.
Increase the circle width slowly over a period of five minutes. Use your leg muscles to stabilize yourself as the larger circles start to affect your balance.
When you get to the fullest circle you can manage, start decreasing the circle size and rotate in the opposite direction.
Rest for several minutes before repeating the exercise once again.

