 Many grocery stores take teenager employees as baggers or stockers, and these kinds of jobs can be good experience for your budding resume. You won’t be paid much more than minimum wage, but the money will be steady and consistent, as long as you show up for your shifts and become a reliable worker for your employer. Chances are, you’ll also get to work and hang out with other like-minded teens. Just make sure you can stand on your feet for several hours at a time, as bagging and stocking are both somewhat physically demanding.If you don’t have a car, make sure the store is within walking distance, or that your parents or siblings are willing to give you regular rides to work. If you do have a car, make sure you’re factoring gas money into your calculations of how much money you’ll be earning.
 While most restaurants require servers and bar staff to be over 18 or 21 years old, many do hire teenagers as bussers, food runners, or delivery drivers. In these jobs, you have less interaction with the customers, but you gain valuable experience in the restaurant industry and often receive a cut of the servers’ tips. It’s also a physically demanding job as you should expect to be on your feet for the duration of a shift, so keep in mind any mobility issues you may have.


Working in a restaurant also has some safety hazards such as slipping and burns, so make sure you go over proper safety regulations before you begin working and that you receive proper training from your employer., It’s not the most glamorous job on earth, but the fast food industry is one of the biggest employers of teenagers in the world. The work is fairly easy, but you should be prepared for a high-pressure environment during peak business hours. Also, be aware that some economists and workers’ rights advocates claim that teens should avoid the fast food industry at all costs. They cite the lack of benefits, rights, and education as ways which employers take advantage of their young employees, so do your research before taking a job in this field.Like other restaurant jobs, there are some workplace hazards you should be aware of ahead of time. Slipping, burns, and cuts are all possible problems you’ll encounter, as well as potential hearing damage from drive-thru headsets., Places like movie theaters, amusement parks, swimming pools, and YMCAs pull a lot of their employment pool from the teen age group, so consider doing something in this field if there’s one available locally.You’ll need to undergo some training and swimming qualifications if you’re trying to be a lifeguard, but many of the other opportunities don’t require any kind of prior experience.


Also think about seasonal opportunities like summer camps and haunted houses. These jobs hire a lot of teenagers, can be a great way to broaden your social circle, and are almost guaranteed to give you some wild stories!