 An overhead is a shot where the other player lobs the ball up high over your head, and you aim to slam it down on his side so it's nearly impossible to return. To hit a perfect overhead, do the footwork to move around enough so that the ball is coming down just in front of your head, just as it would in a good toss for a serve. Treat it like a serve. Here's what you do:


Hold your racket back behind your head so it grazes your back with your dominant serving hand, and point at it with your free hand.
When the ball is at the same height as it would be for you to hit a good serve, slam it down over the net, just as you would do with a serve.
The overhead will generate a lot of power. You can aim the ball either right at your opponent or on the opposite side of the court, so he has no time to get to it.
 Adding topspin to your strokes can help the ball bounce higher and move faster. To use topspin, don't hit the ball head-on to the center of your racket, but use your racket to hit the side and then the top of the ball, thus making the ball spin in an upward arc instead of moving in a straight path. You should put topspin on your forehand and backhand, but not your volleys.


Learning topspin can also help you "lob" the ball over your opponent's head. To do this, hit the ball high up in the air, so that it lands on your opponent's court with enough fast topspin to bounce up over his head and out of his reach.
 Slicing the ball is a skill that allows you to change the direction of the ball, give it backspin, and to also slow down the ball in its path, in many times making lose enough momentum so that it just "dies" on the other player's court before he has a chance to get to it. This is particularly effective if you're up at net and your opponent is all the way at the baseline and won't have enough time to get to a ball that you slice just over his side of the court. Here's how you do it:


Hit under the ball instead of over it, slicing down on it so that it spins backward.
Finish the stroke with your racket swinging up, above the place where the ball was when you hit it.
Bend your knees and get lower to the ground to help the ball move in the right direction.
Use this shot to hit a killer "drop shot" when you're right at net, or to surprise your opponent with a new stroke in the middle of a rally when he won't have time to get to the slower, back-spinning ball.
 To truly master tennis, you have to understand that no two tennis players are exactly alike. To win at tennis, you have to be able to exploit your opponent's weaknesses and to not give him an opportunity to use his strengths. Here are some ways to do this:


Many players, especially beginners, are more comfortable with either a forehand or a backhand. If you notice that your opponent has a weak backhand, keep on hitting the ball to his backhand side until he gets frustrated. You can even serve the ball either to his forehand or backhand.
Many players either love or hate the net. If your opponent hates the net and loses most points up there, then hit short balls and get him up there as much as you can. If he goes up to net every chance he gets, hit the balls deep into the baseline so he doesn't have the opportunity to get up there.
Get to know your opponent's serve. Does he serve long and deep? If so, make sure you keep standing near the baseline so you you don't get crowded by the ball. Does he serve soft "patty cake" shots that barely hit the middle of the service box? If so, move up near the end of the service box. There's no need to stand so far back.
Study your opponent's mental state. Don't let your opponent see you get upset, or he'll take advantage of you. But if you see that he's getting more and more upset and is missing more and more shots, kick your game up a notch so you can win before he can mentally recover.

