 This is important because the system includes a few solar panels and each of them has a certain amount of capacity in generating electricity. If you have a clear calculation of this problem, you won’t waste your budget for purchasing these panels or buy less than needed. Maybe you don’t know about how much electricity your family needs each day or month because you just pay the bill with money. This time you can check out this figure by viewing the power meter installed in your house.
 If you are not willing to install the system on your own (most people are not willing), you had better hire an installing company or a professional installer to do the job for you. This time you need to sign a contract with them. On the contract some specific rules on this installation, warranty and other important elements will be addressed and stressed. In fact, some companies may make an installation plan for this installation. You may read it and give your own suggestions, or just turn to others who offer better plans and services., Indeed there are a sea of suggestions online about where you should install the system. Their focus is your house’s rooftop. Now I need to make this suggestion more specific. This suggestion only means the to-be-used solar panels not the whole system. Yet, as for solar panel installation, there are still some tips and tricks to address too. These panels are used to obtain sunlight. Thus, the more sunlight they obtain, the more electricity they will generate. Therefore, selecting a place where there is no shading and rich sunlight on your roof is surely a wise choice. The rest of this question is where other components of the system should be installed. The “other components” means a PV inverter and a two-way power meter. A PV inverter functions to convert the direct current (AC) generated by the solar panels into alternating current (AC), which is used by every family. It is so important that it should be installed in somewhere secure. The most popular choice is a garage. The two-way power meter used for recording the amount of electricity the system generates can be installed in a garage or somewhere you think safe or within your view., Once they arrive and the installer will come and install the system for you. Specially speaking, they will get onto your rooftop and choose the best place (where the most sunlight can reach in a day and there is no so much trouble to install these panels) to install the panels, which will be fastened by some racks. Also, cables are needed to connect to the inverter from the panels and to the power meter from the inverter. Finally, the alternating current will be transmitted to your family’s power system that supplies each appliance electricity., Obviously this is a typical grid-tied PV power system installation process. In this process, you don’t have to be anxious, for the installer will do the job. Truth be told, this needs the local government’s approval. The installer must hold a license to do the job. Connecting to the grid means your extra electricity can be transmitted back to the grid to earn money for your home. Also, it means if your system’s capacity is affected by special conditions, the system can send back alternating current to you.