;
, Female rats are much livelier than males, male rats tend to be better to just hold and sit on your shoulder. Being bigger, they are more intelligent than mice and tend to bond better with their owners. In general, they smell more than female mice. The male rats are also more allergenic than the female rats.
 A trio of female mice is best, so if one dies unexpectedly you are not left with a lonely mouse. You can also get a male mouse neutered so he can live with a harem - but you must wait 6 weeks after the operation to avoid pregnancy risks. Male mice smell more than rats. Female mice love climbing so it is important that they have a tall wired cage. For male mice, floorspace is more important. A single male mouse will bond with an owner as well as a rat, though he may be less likely to learn commands.
 They must not be kept in tanks, or modular systems due to the serious health and enrichment issues. Mice must be in a cage with bar spacing of 1 centimeter (0.4 in) or less to avoid escapees. Both rats and mice need essential enrichment such as a solid based wheel - large and medium sized respectively, and plenty of hammocks, ropes and chew toys. They both need multiple nests and hideouts and would benefit from a layer of hay to chew to aid their digestion. They should be handled frequently and have fresh fruit and veg on a regular basis.
 See the rat cage calculator under sources, for mice a good guide is simply to double the numbers given and remember bar spacing must be 1 centimeter (0.4 in) or under.
 Nothing pine or cedar based and no sawdust. Something like Megazorb, Finacard, Bedexcel or Carefresh is ideal. You can also shred old newspapers for bedding.
 Rescues often get them as pups due to unexpected litters from pet shops mis-sexing. You also don't run the risk that you do with pet shops that you might be supporting rodent farms. Rescue or ethical breeders give much better support and advice than pet shops. See under sources for a list of UK rescues that take rodents.
 Always check a food is safe first before offering it.
 Rats and mice are very intelligent and can suffer greatly from boredom. It's a good idea to rotate the toys used and give new layouts every clean out.
 If you cannot afford the veterinary care then you should not get any pet. Female mice and rats are sadly prone to cancerous tumours, which in rats can be removed with an easy but costly operation. Any change in behaviour or coat condition should be checked out. Is is rare that you need to isolate an ill mouse or rat - they gain a lot of comfort from their companions whilst ill.
 Some sites will tell you that the cage isn't the rats home, no, it's just a place where they are when you can't have them out of the cage.

