 If you hold the deck with your thumb at the upper end and your fingers at the bottom end and allow the cards to flick off your thumb onto your other hand, you will find that the cards fall in pairs with the deck looking totally normal. This is called riffling the cards. When you riffle the cards, since the duplicates are a bit shorter, they will stay hidden behind the normal cards.
 You can only perform one trick at a time since you can only force one card (the duplicate) onto a spectator. If the same card is forced for multiple tricks, this will be very suspicious.,,
The Mind Blower trick gives the illusion you can find a spectator's card while dealing out the cards face down.
In the Blurt Out trick, you announce the spectator's card while shuffling it back into the deck, right after they choose it.
The Card in Pocket trick makes the spectator's card appear in your pocket, and anywhere else you want.
In the Find Your Own Card trick, the spectator picks their card from the deck after it has been shuffled and cut into many piles.

The Wet Tablecloth trick gives the illusion that the spectator's card traveled from the deck to sit underneath a tablecloth.
In the Picture Perfect trick, the spectator's card appears inside a picture frame.
In the Signed Card trick, the spectator's name is written on the card before it appears in an impossible location.
In the What is Your Name trick the spectator finds their card after spelling out their name with the cards. This trick can be expanded by using multiple objects/names and creating an amusing story around them.
In the Amusing Coincidence trick multiple spectators pick cards to be found.
Reversal! Before doing your show turn over the third card from the top of your deck (a duplicate) so that it is face up in the face down deck. Riffle though the cards and, as per usual, get a spectator to call out, "Stop!", and to look at the card they selected and to replace it. Be careful not to riffle too far as you do not want to expose the reversed card! Give the deck a cut or two or perform a riffle shuffle (Claim to be "mixing up the cards".). Spread the cards out either in your hand or across the table to show that the "freely selected" card has reversed in the deck!

Lie Detector! If you present this well you will find it to be a great trick with lots of laughs! Tell your spectator that you have been training yourself as a human lie detector and you are going to prove them just how good you are. Force a duplicate card onto the spectator and have them put it in their pocket. Explain to them that you are going to begin calling out cards at random and they are to say "That's not my card," every time you say one, even if it is their card! Begin calling out cards and pretend to listen to their answer each time they say "That's not my card". Eventually call out the name of your force card and they will say "That's not my card," then you shout, "Liar!"

, For these tricks you will want to place all your duplicate cards on top of the ordinary cards.


Double Dilemma! Casually spread out the bottom half of the deck to show that all the cards are of different value. Now spread out the top half of the cards, face down, and let your spectator choose one. They will obviously chose one of the duplicates! Now ask another person to pick a card, but this time, only fan out the bottom half of the deck, so they take one of the indifferent cards. Now ask another portion to take a card, but they will take one of the cards from the bottom of the deck also. Now here comes the sneaky bit: You take the duplicate card and put it into the lower half of the deck, and the two indifferent cards go to the top of the deck with the duplicates. You can easily give the deck a couple of cuts because, since the duplicates are a little shorter than the other cards, you will be able to feel the top edge of the pack and cut the deck exactly so that the duplicates and indifferent cards are still in two separate groups! Give the deck a couple of cuts to, "Make it impossible to find the cards!" Look through the cards and you will easily be able to find a duplicate card and set it down on the table, face down. You will also easily be able to find the other two cards because they will be mixed in with the duplicates! Once all three cards are down on the table, turn them over to finish your miracle.



 


Very Ambitious Card! Once more start with all the duplicates on top of the indifferent cards. After showing the deck to be "normal" have a spectator pick a duplicate and return it among the top cards. Do a couple of cuts and say, "I have a feeling you chose a very ambitious card, and it always returns to the top of the heap!" Turn over the top card of the deck to show a duplicate card. They will, of course, believe it is their card! Say, "I'm not kidding, it will always jump right back to the top!" Take the card and put it in the middle of the deck (it does not matter where), then turn over the top card. It will, again, be a duplicate card! You can do this just a few times or so many times it drives your spectator crazy!
Stop the Presses! Most newspapers will have a free, or at least very reasonably priced advertising section. The week before your show take out an advert displaying the words "(NAME OF CARD)". Get a copy of the paper and have it lying around somewhere near the area in which you will be performing. Spread out the deck to show all the cards to be normal. After forcing one of your duplicate cards on a spectator, acknowledge an ad you saw in the paper today and how it was just the strangest thing. Open up the paper to reveal the most shocking revelation!

