 There are many helpful lists detailing what you should pack in your bag, depending on what type of situation you are preparing for. Things you should consider as all-around essentials include:


A set of clothes. You want to pack light layers so that you can be dressed appropriately for all weather. Instead of packing a bunch of heavy clothes (sweaters, parkas, etc), try to pack light layers like a tank top, short sleeve, and long-sleeve t-shirt.
Food and food preparation. It is suggested to have at least three days of prepared food packed and ready to go in a portable bug out bag.This may include MRE (Meals Ready to Eat) or other non-perishable food items like protein bars, peanut butter, or canned vegetables.You may also want to include simple cooking preparation gear such as a collapsible pot and a utility utensil set.
Water. Include a collapsible water canteen, water filter, and at least three days worth of water. This should be about 3 liters (0.8 US gal).Also include a water filter; modern water filters even come in the form of a survival straw.
Portable shelter. This could be a simple sleeping bag, a bed roll, or a blanket. A tent may be more effective, but may be too heavy or large for a portable bag.
First aid and/or medical kit. Pack medications that you know you will need for a pre-existing medical condition.Pack other essentials like bandages, antiseptics, and gauze.;
, These tablets help stop the thyroid from absorbing radiation. This will be useful in the event of nuclear fallout., Your bug out bag should be packed with mobility in mind. Prepare to have to carry and walk for a long period of time. While it is best to be prepared for what happens, it is also essential that you are able to carry your bag.
 Some events are more likely than others. You can prepare events like house fire, or flood, nuclear fallout, or government overthrow. These are “doomsday” events that can upset your livelihood.


Always keep an eye on the weather and on current events.Use a police scanner to keep up to date on information in your area. You will be able to hear potential threats and how the police are responding to them.
Use a battery operated weather radio to pay attention to the weather. A battery operated radio is important in case you lose power.
 You should have multiple well-thought out escape routes detailing multiple situations. Have multiple options in case one is inaccessible.


For example, know how you will escape your living quarters in case of a fire?
How will you escape your town in case of an emergency?
How will you escape if you cannot travel by car?

