 You can only create a wireless network with your computer if you have a wireless adapter installed. If you're using a laptop, you'll already have one. If you are using a desktop computer, you may need to install one. You can use a USB wireless adapter or install a network card.

Press the ⊞ Win key and type ncpa.cpl to load the Network Connections window. If you have an adapter here labeled "Wireless Network Connection," then you have a wireless adapter installed.
See Install a PCI Card for instructions on installing a wireless adapter in a desktop computer.
 Connectify is a program that creates a virtual wireless hotspot using your computer's wireless adapter. If you can't get the built-in tools covered in the previous methods to work, or just need something that will get you up and running in a few clicks, Connectify may help.

Connectify has both a paid and a free option. The free option will allow you to create a wireless network from your computer, but you won't be able to rename the network.
You can download Connectify from connectify.me


, After downloading the program, run it to begin installing the program. Click "I Agree" to begin the installation., You'll need to reboot before you can start Connectify. Power down and restart your computer from the Start menu., You'll be prompted to select if you want to buy or try., If a Windows Firewall window appears, click "Allow Access" for Connectify., This will start the free version of Connectify., This tells Connectify that you want to create a wireless hotspot using your internet connection.

If you don't see any options after selecting "Wi-Fi Hotspot," you may not have a wireless adapter installed in your computer.
 If you have more than one adapter installed, you'll need to select the adapter that is currently being used to connect your computer to the internet. You can select your wireless or wired adapter, depending on what you are using., If you're using the free version of Connectify, the name must start with "Connectify-". If you're using the Pro or Max version, you can enter any name., This password will be required to connect to the network. It is recommended that you protect your network with a password, even if you're at home., Connectify will start broadcasting your new wireless network, and it will appear on your mobile device's list of available networks., Select your new wireless network and enter the password you created. You should connect to the network after a moment, and your mobile device will appear in the Clients tab in Connectify., Once you're connected, open the browser on your mobile device and try to load a website. If everything has been configured correctly, it should begin to load almost immediately.