 To change your gender on Texas documents, such as birth certificates or driver’s licenses, you must have a signed doctor’s letter. This letter must state that you have received irreversible medical treatment that has changed your gender.The US State Department provides guidelines for what information this letter must include when you apply for a passport. It is a good idea to follow these guidelines when asking your physician to prepare his or her letter.The signed doctor’s letter should be on official letterhead and include the following information:


Physician’s full name
Medical license or certificate number
The issuing state or jurisdiction of his or her medical license or certificate
Physician’s address and telephone number
Language attesting that s/he is your attending physician and that s/he has a doctor/patient relationship with you
Language attesting that you have had appropriate clinical treatment for your desired gender transition
Language attesting the following: “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States that the foregoing is true and correct.”
If your gender transition is in process, you may have your doctor attest to that in his or her letter. However, be aware that some jurisdictions in Texas are less amenable to changing gender markers for transitioning individuals.
The Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition offers a template physician’s letter at their website., The process to change your name will be largely the same as for adults in Method 1. You must obtain an official court order to change your name and gender marker before you can change it on your documents.You must also file a petition for a gender marker change at the same court. You must file both petitions at the court in which you live.


Give your reason for your gender change.
Gender marker changes are awarded at the discretion of the individual judge. Unfortunately, some districts and counties are more willing to grant gender marker changes than others. Dallas appears to be fairly friendly to transgender petitioners.Attach a copy of your doctor’s letter to this petition.
 Once you have filed your name and gender marker change petitions, a judge will review them. If the judge signs the order, you simply have to file the signed orders with the county court Clerk’s Office.Be aware that current case law indicates that many Texas officials and judges may be uncooperative in issuing these court orders. Because the order to change your gender is subject to the judge’s discretion, you do not have much legal recourse if the judge refuses to sign your order., You may apply to amend the sex on your Texas birth certificate. You must provide your doctor’s letter and the court order to change your gender. Fill out Form VS170, Application to Amend Certificate of Birth. You can find this at the Texas Department of State Health Services’ website.If you do not have a doctor’s letter, you must provide a notarized, sworn affidavit along with the court order.There is a fee of $15 to file the amendment. You must also pay a fee of $22 to obtain a certified copy of the amended birth certificate.
 The US State Department has specific policies for transgender applicants. You must submit your doctor’s letter (aka “physician certificate”) with your application. All other requirements are the same, including those for name change.Your passport photo must be a reflection of your current appearance.
If your transition is complete, you are eligible to receive a full ten-year passport. If you are in transition, you are eligible to receive a two-year passport. This passport can be upgraded to the full ten-year form once your transition is complete.
Having a passport is not a requirement to change your other documents in Texas. However, because it is a government-issued form of photo ID, a passport may carry more weight with other officials than other types of ID or documentation. It may also serve to persuade resistant officials or institutions to cooperate with your applications.
 You must bring an original certified court order verifying your sex change to the staff at the driver license office.To change the name on your driver’s license, bring the certified court order reflecting your name change. It is probably a good idea to bring your amended birth certificate and your doctor’s letter, although these are not specifically required.
 Once you have completed the basic documentation changes, you can change your information with other institutions, such as banks. Take your doctor’s letter and court order for name and gender changes with you.

