 You usually get presents on your birthday and Christmas, and they're often quite expensive and delightful. These are the best times of the year and you have more of a chance to get a Mac. Asking for an expensive present any other time, will lower your chance of getting it, and your parents may think you are spoiled.;
, You want a Mac. Show your parents you love Apple and not Windows PC or Microsoft.
 Have a friend bring a Mac (recommended) or another Apple product over to show you and your parents. Act fascinated around it to show your parents.
 The point of this is that parents may think that you are just obsessed with all computers, and they may think that your life is just lazing around glued to that computer. Show off your Mac experiences, if you don't like PCs. or your iMac

, Show how well you take care of other things. Then your parents will know that your life is just being on the computer all day. Don't talk about computers. Talk about Macs when you talk about computers, but do so sparingly.
 Your parents will think you are obsessed with electronics, and you will have an ugly life not getting a MacBook for years, when your parents don't want you to have an electronics "obsession".
 The point of this is to show that you want a MacBook and not an iMac. Love laptops more than a desktop, and show your parents that you don't want an Apple iMac, Mac Pro, or a Mac Mini.
 Be very organized in school. Don't rush through tedious tasks such as school work just to get them done. Show your parents that you are behaving well and show them you are responsible enough for one.
 Remember your books, notes and assignments! Getting good grades can lead you to a reward. Your parents will think that you are industrious, if you are a straight A student. Then they could give you a MacBook as a surprise!

, Your parents will think that you are not lazy. Show your parents that you want a Mac as an amazing gift that you will really appreciate, but that your entire life isn't devoted to electronics.
 If your parents tell you to do some chores, do them when they tell you. Don't tell them you will do something unless you are going to do it right away, and not leave it for later and forget about it.
, There are many places to buy Macbooks. Get the cheapest one by shopping for the price/discount. MacMall and Best Buy are often more expensive than buying it from Apple. Buy it from Apple, refurbished from Apple, Ebay, if you or your parents know a lot about computers and are willing to deal with a possible problem seller, or Buy.com.


Highlight the value of AppleCare and being able to bring in your laptop to an Apple retail location for timely service rather than shipping your laptop off to Dell/Texas and waiting weeks for it. Not only are the locations good for warranty service, but the reps there are friendly and willing to help you with all sorts of problems that you'd have to pay outrageous amounts for at somewhere like Best Buy. The Macbooks will likely not get any viruses and last for years, unlike their PC counterparts. You're reading this so you're probably not a PC-geek, and you want a computer that isn't going to have you pulling your hair out on the weekends.

