 If you are wanting to have mail forwarded on a more regular basis, you should contact your local postal service. They should be contacted during business hours by phone or email, and you can visit a post office directly to inquire about a forwarding address change if you so desire.If you're meeting with the post office in person, you'll need to produce two pieces of identification to prove who you are., Postal services will have an option to have your mail automatically forwarded to a new address if you sign up with the applicable program. In the case of the United States Postal Service, you can change your mailing address online.Let them know the address you would like to have the mail forwarded instead.


If you're using the USPS, they will charge a small fee to your credit card simply to confirm your identity.
 Payment will vary depending on the particular postal service you're using. However, a recurring bill such as regular forwarding will require use of a credit card. Whether as an annual, monthly or weekly plan, expect to be billed regularly according to how long you use it for. Some services may offer levels of speed for your mail with different prices; talk to the post office and figure out together what set-up suits you best.


If you need your mail sent to you promptly wherever you are, you can apply to the USPS's Premium Forwarding Service. This costs $18.00 per week of use, but you'll have whatever packages you're waiting on delivered to you within three business days.Forwarding mail is useful if you have recently changed your residential address. Canada Post will charge $75.00 for a year of mail forwarding for a change of residence., If you've had mail sent to your original address prior to getting the new forwarding plan set up, you should get the mail over to your new address. If you live within easy travel distance, you can retrieve the mail yourself. Otherwise, it's a good idea to get in touch with someone that lives near your old address and have them remark and resend the mail for you., If you want to be cautious, or if the email has particular weight or importance, it's a good idea to confer with the other person to make sure the mail has been received. First, let the recipient know you have forwarded the mail along, and wait to hear back. If you've forwarded the mail to a new address of yours, wait to ensure it the forwarded mail makes it on time. If one package makes it through using the new forwarding set up, chances are the rest of it should follow suit smoothly.


If for whatever reason the mail doesn't get through within the expected time, it's a good idea to contact the postal service promptly to find out what happened with it. The sooner the better, as you don't want any of your mail getting lost.

