 Many people have jobs where they work at a desk. This is one of the main places where slouching can be at its worst. As you work throughout the day, you lean toward your computer or over your desk as you work on documents. If you sit too far forward, you put pressure on your pubic bone. If you sit too far back, you put pressure on your tailbone. In order to stop this trend, you should lean back in your chair, keeping your back flush with the chair's support.


If you feel too far away from your desk or computer, pull your chair closer or move your monitor closer to you on the desk.Adjust your computer screen such that the middle of the screen is at eye level. This can help you keep proper posture and prevent back pain.If you find yourself still slouching, try setting an alarm on your phone to remind you every hour to sit up straighter. This will help you get into the habit and you'll eventually not need the reminder., In all aspects of your life, you should sit properly to avoid muscle and back problems. You need to find a comfortable middle range where everything is aligned naturally. Sit with your feet flat on the floor and center your weight between your buttocks and pubic bone.


This goes for every place you sit. For example, make sure you are comfortable and sit straight in the car, especially if you have a long commute. Use a pillow or adjust your seat to get your back and spine aligned and centered while you drive., To assess how your posture normally is, you need to evaluate how you stand. Turn facing a mirror and stand like you normally do. If your palms face your thighs with your thumbs pointing ahead of you, you have good posture. If your hands rest ahead of your thighs or behind your thighs, or if your palms back backwards, then your posture is wrong.


If you find that your posture is off, pull back your head and pull your shoulders down and back. This will realign your spine and get your posture toward the right angle.
If you feel like your chest is popping out, you are standing correctly., Your muscles become fatigued when you still for long periods of time. Strive to get up and stretch for at least 1-2 minutes for every half hour of sitting. Stand and stretch, placing your hands against your lower back with fingers facing down. Lean back as far as you can and hold for a few seconds. Repeat a few times to get the kinks out of your back.


If you are at home, you can also lie flat on the floor with your weight on your elbows. Push your chest up, stretching out your lower back and spine.
Only do these exercises to the extent that your muscles are comfortable. Do not overextend your muscles because you don't want to cause injury., When you sleep, you can have poor posture that reflects in your normal, waking posture. If you sleep on your side, try putting a pillow between your knees to help lessen the pull on your lower back. If you sleep on your back, you can put a pillow underneath your knees to help release the tension placed on your lower back while you sleep.


Whether you sleep on you back or your side, placing a rolled up towel under your neck will allow your head and shoulders proper alignment.You should not sleep on your stomach. This position places too much strain on your neck as you sleep., There are times when you might have to carry a large load, such as a large purse, a backpack, or luggage. When you have to deal with these kinds of loads, you should try to balance the weight around as much as possible to keep strain off of your muscles and joints. If the weight is balanced, you will also be able to keep your normal, straight posture while you walk.


To help balance your loads, you should use bags that distribute the weight evenly, such as backpacks or rolling luggage., When you are at work, at home, or in the car, you can sit for too long and start to feel pain in your lower back. To help prevent this, you can make yourself a pad to place along your lower back to help keep your posture straighter. Take a towel and fold it in half and then in half again. From the long rectangle, roll it into a cylinder, making a cushy pillow to put in your chair.


If a bath towel is too big, you can try a hand towel instead. Just fold it in half once and roll it into a small pillow for your back., Relaxation techniques, such as meditation, massage therapy and yoga, can restore tired muscles. They also calm the central nervous system and combat the fatigue that invites slouching. Whether you join a new yoga class around the corner from your office or simply sit up and take a few deep, cleansing breaths, make time in your day for some relaxation to decrease muscle tension.