 Do this a few days to a week before you are set to fly. If you are traveling east, go to bed one hour earlier each night in the two to three days leading up to your departure. If you are traveling west, go to bed one hour later in the two to three days before your flight. This will give your body a chance to gradually adjust to your new time zone when you land in your destination.You should also try to adjust your eating schedule in the two to three days before your flight. Have your meals closer to when you will be eating them at your destination so your body gets used to the new meal times. For example, if dinner time is one hour ahead in your destination, have your dinner one hour later than usual at home.;
, Make sure you get several nights of good, quality sleep leading up to your flight. Being sleep deprived when you board the plane will make your jet lag much worse. Maintain a regular sleep schedule, do calming activities before bed, and make your sleep space cozy and quiet to help you get to sleep.You may also create a sleep routine in the week leading up to your flight to prepare. Doing a calming activity before bed like reading, taking a bath, or chatting with your partner in bed can make it easier for you to fall asleep and maintain a regular sleep routine.
 Drinking coffee and alcohol before you fly can make your jet lag much worse once you land. Try to stay away from coffee and alcohol 12 hours before you are set to fly. Instead, stay hydrated by drinking lots of water leading up to your flight.Pack a water bottle in your carry-on so you can sip water while you are at the airport waiting for your flight. You can also get the water bottle filled on the plane so you can stay hydrated while in the air.
 If possible, try to book an overnight flight. This way, you can have dinner at a normal time in the evening and are more likely to sleep on the flight during the night. Depending on your destination, you may arrive in the morning or afternoon if you opt for an overnight flight. This will make it easier for you to adjust to the new time zone once you land.If you can’t get an overnight flight, try to get a flight where you land in the morning or afternoon rather than the evening. This can make dealing with jet lag much easier in your destination.

