 While rare, the diet of a nursing mother can affect her breastfed baby enough to cause a temporary bout of diarrhea.


Pay attention to what was eaten by mom in the day before her baby had a bout of diarrhea. If the baby has another bout of diarrhea after her mom has once again consumed that same food, eliminate that food from mom’s diet while she continues to nurse her baby. Wait and see if the condition clears up. Common culprits include dairy, soy, wheat, or peanuts., Know that a change from breastfeeding to formula feeding can lead to the development of diarrhea in newborns. Your baby’s digestive system is still immature and as such is sensitive to the introduction of new foods.


If you have recently introduced a new formula into your baby’s diet and he appears to develop diarrhea shortly after the introduction of that food, it may be that your baby's digestive system is reacting to the sudden change. If this happens, you can make a choice:

Stop feeding your baby formula. Wait until your baby’s digestive system matures a little more before introducing the formula again, and breastfeed in the meantime.
Try to introduce the new formula at a slower pace. Slowly combine more and more formula with less and less breast milk until your baby is able to digest the desired amount of formula.
 While a newborn should not be fed any solid foods before the age of six months,any introduction of new food to your baby’s diet can disrupt the intestinal tract for a short period of time.


Pay close attention to the way that your baby reacts to any new foods and always introduce only one new food at a time for at least three to four days at a time. This may be the only way to determine if your baby is suffering a reaction from the new food.
Be sure to talk to the pediatrician before introducing new foods to your baby's diet, or before introducing any foods but breastmilk or formula before the age of six months.
 Keep a very close eye on your baby and watch for other signs to develop that may indicate illness.


A fever and a runny nose or vomiting usually indicate that the diarrhea is the result of some type of underlying bacterial or viral illness. In a young newborn age two months or younger, you should call the pediatrician immediately about any fever. A fever coupled with diarrhea is particularly dangerous, since a very young baby can dehydrate quickly.
In addition, if other family members also have diarrhea, it is likely caused by an infection, or less likely, food poisoning.
 A change in stool frequency and texture is most likely diarrhea, but other changes indicate other possible causes.


An infant that is on medication, including vitamins or supplements, may have a change in bowel texture or frequency. Antibiotics often cause diarrhea. If diarrhea continues or worsens, you may have to discontinue using that medication and begin another.
You should never give an infant under six months water or juice (they get all the water they need from breastmilk or formula, and too much additional water can dilute their blood and damage their kidneys, resulting in severe complications or even death). However, giving an infant water or juice is also known to cause a change in bowel patterns.
Teething can also cause diarrhea, which is thought to be triggered by the excessive production in saliva during the teething process. While uncommon, newborns can experience early teething resulting in diarrhea.

