 The ADM Cycle is hidden deep inside the framework but is how work progresses in TOGAF and an explanation of everything that is done throughout the TOGAF process.  Essentially this is a product development cycle. ADM stands for Architecture Development Method and is one of the 7 parts to a full TOGAF solution but is the part focused on how work is completed.;
, The middle of the ADM Cycle will be ignored in this step for simplicity. TOGAF starts at “Phase A: Architecture Vision” and ends at “Phase H: Architecture Change Management.”

Like all good IT management cycles, it repeats forever to make sure the solution stays current. Phase A is more business level and each Phase moves towards implementation. The product implementation maxes out around Phase E and then the rest of the phases turn the product into a full solution that can be used by customers in a reliable manner (change management, governance etc)

, TOGAF is all about governance. Every action needs to be approved and evaluated by peers. This middle circle is stating that the governance board monitors every action in the cycle and all required actions are taking place, The “ADM Cycle” described above is the main cycle of activity within TOGAF.  It does not describe the different attributes of these solutions and the unique features of TOGAF. Those are described in the Framework.


TOGAF is a library of information and tools to use through the ADM Cycle. Even though there are 7 “Parts” that does not mean they are synchronized. Instead, they are components to the end solution that are all needed at once to do TOGAF correctly. Note the Frameworks “Parts” are different than the ADM Cycle’s “Phases.” The ADM’s Phases are part of the components described in “Part II.”

, This is TOGAF”, This is where the previously mentioned Architecture Development Method (ADM) Cycle is defined., In other words, Part III is really a component to Part II. Part III contains several strategies to help make the Part II Architecture in different environments., How to create and use these outputs is defined in Part IV,, Technical Reference Model (TRM): The best way to describe the TRM is the below diagram. It is a collection of artifacts and activities to complete all necessary components to a solution to meet the topics addressed in this diagram.


The TDM is one of the two models discussed in Part VI. The other is the IIIRM, or the Integrated Information Infrastructure Reference Model (IIIRM). With the emergence of Internet-based technologies in recent years, for many organizations the main focus of attention, and the main return on investment in architecture effort, has shifted from the Application Platform space to the Application Software space. (Indeed, this has been one of the drivers behind the migration of TOGAF itself from a framework and method for Technology Architecture to one for overall enterprise architecture.) This section describes a reference model that focuses on the Application Software space, and "Common Systems Architecture" in Enterprise Continuum terms. This is the Integrated Information Infrastructure Reference Model (III-RM).
 In order to successfully operate an architecture function within an enterprise, it is necessary to put in place appropriate organization structures, processes, roles, responsibilities, and skills to realize the Architecture Capability. Part VII: Architecture Capability Framework provides a set of reference materials for how to establish such an architecture function. Readers should note that although this part contains a number of guidelines to support key activities, in its current form, the Architecture Capability Framework is not intended to be a comprehensive template for operating an enterprise Architecture Capability.

