 Look for any of the following smells:


Ammonia
Ether
Rotten eggs
Cat urine
Skunk spray
Nail polish remover;
, Is it well kept, or is it dirty and dilapidated? "User Labs," or labs set up by those who use the drugs they make, are often unable to do proper housework due to the effects of their addictions.


Also look at any suspicious features of the house, especially blacked out or painted over windows, diverted electrical lines, suspicious or makeshift plumbing, or excessive security features.
Dead spots on a lawn may be a sign that chemicals have been dumped there. Having lots of loose dirt everywhere may be from burying waste.
 While it's not recommend for you to rummage through people's garbage, look for any waste near or around their house. Common wastes include:


A large amount of cold medication packages.
Opened lithium batteries
Paint thinner
Drain cleaner/lye
Engine starter fluid
Antifreeze
Acetone
Matchbooks or boxes
Epsom salt or rock salt bags
Muriatic acid
Rubbing alcohol
Coleman fuel
Caustic soda bags or cans
Industrial chemical drums
Laboratory glassware
2-liter soda bottles with tubing attached
Propane tanks with valves that have turned blue
Funnels
Rubber tubing or plumbing pipes
Gloves
Coffee filters or rags with red stains
Dust masks and respirator cartridges
Drug paraphernalia

, Unusual hours, late night activity or driving, and large amounts of visitors that stay for a short time may be signs of drug activity.


If the occupants are very standoffish, paranoid, and rarely come outside the house, be wary.
Coming outside to smoke may be a sign, as cooks do not want to ignite flammable fumes inside
Labs often have "Keep Out" signs, security cameras, motion sensors, alarms, booby traps, and other elaborate security systems.
If you are a landlord, and your tenants do not want you to come inside or go into a specific area, this should be a immediate red flag

, Moving into a house that formerly contained a drug lab can be just as dangerous as living near a active one. Unscrupulous realtors or landlords may try to sell you a property that could potentially pose a threat to your family's health.
 Some chemicals, such as hydrochloric acid, can stain wood and carpet flooring. Beware, however, as former damage may be covered up with new carpeting/paint.
 Waste from drug labs is highly toxic and kills grass. Cooks may have used fires in the past to burn waste.
 Could the plumbing be installed to make it easier to dump chemicals without being detected by anyone outside of the house? Could venting systems be installed in basements to vent out chemical fumes? Are electrical outlets, switches, or wiring found in weird places?

, Cooks are often armed and under the influence of drugs. It is important to let the authorities handle a suspected drug lab.


Do not play "hero" and try to stop a chemical reaction. In some processes, highly unstable chemicals may explode or form toxic gases if the reaction is stopped.
 Some cities have a designated clandestine laboratory team to properly handle these situations.
 If you believe you or anyone else is in imminent danger, call your local emergency services immediately.

