 A recent study from the NIH in the UK found that on average, people who eat a low carb diet as opposed to a low fat, carb-focused diet lose more weight, maintain their weight better, and have greater loss of unhealthy cholesterol.If you want to lose weight without putting in much effort, switching to a low-carb diet (less than 40g of carbs a day) is probably your best bet.


Good sources of lean protein include chicken without the skin, turkey, salmon, anchovies, sardines, tofu, edamame, soy nuts, almonds, walnuts, and peanuts.
Try meals like turkey-sausage and eggs, spinach salad with yogurt dressing, or pan-seared chicken with a side of broccoli.
Low carb diets work by switching your body over to using fat as an energy source instead of carbs. This means that you can eat loads of fatty meat if you want to but the less fat you take in, the more of your existing fat will get burned. Choosing lean proteins will give you the greatest weight loss effect but you can balance with red meat and fatty protein once you reach a weight you're comfortable with.
About 50% of your diet should come from one of these protein sources.;
, Vegetables should make up about 30% of your remaining diet. These can be tricky though, since some contain a lot of carbs themselves. Focus on really nutrient-rich vegetables with as few carbs as possible.


Good options include spinach, broccoli, kale, brussels sprouts, and swiss chard.
 These foods can all be eaten with a healthy, low carb diet. However, you'll want to choose which ones you eat carefully and not eat them in too great a number. Your diet should remain focused on meat, nuts, and vegetables.


Dairy is a common staple of a low carb diet. However, dairy products are relatively light on nutrients so don't consume a lot of these. Make the dairy products that you do eat relatively low in fats, by choosing low-fat options. Cottage cheese is a good example.
You can still eat grains on a low carb diet but you'll have to eat only small portions. Choose nutrient-dense grains with a high protein count in order to make these fit with your diet. Good grain options include quinoa and oatmeal.
Fruits contain lots of sugar and carbs, so try to similarly choose very nutrient rich options. A kiwi is a good option, since just one fruit contains more than an entire day's worth of vitamin C and only 13-16 g of carbs., Avoiding eating any foods with a lot of sugar or unhealthy fats. Unhealthy fats include saturated and trans fats and can usually be identified because they are usually solid at room temperature. You should, however, eat lots of healthy fats.


You'll find sugar in soda, juice, candy, and fruit.
Unhealthy fats are usually found in red meats, processed meats, butter, and cheese.
Sources of healthy fats include salmon, anchovies, sardines, and eggs.
 Even on a low carb diet, you want to avoid overeating. This means that you need to control the size of the meals that you eat. Try to learn how to recognize when your body is full.


Try eating from a small side plate instead of a standard dinner plate. Wait 15 minutes after you finish the plate before taking seconds. Sometimes your brain doesn't get the stomach's signals right away.
Remember that sometimes when you feel hungry you're really just thirsty or bored. Try dealing with those feelings first before resorting to food.

