 Other background processes and downloads will consume extra resources and bandwidth that could otherwise be attributed toward live streaming. Quit any games and applications that may be running in the background when doing live streaming., This allows your computer to download more of the video so you can watch the video in its entirety without breaks or pausing.
 Upgrade your Internet router or Internet plan with your Internet Service Provider (ISP), or routinely delete your browser’s cache and cookies to help reduce buffering and lag time.


Try using a dual-band router that offers a five GHz network with extra bandwidth. This router type is often most suitable for online streaming and is known to reduce buffering.
 The servers of content providers such as Netflix, Hulu, and YouTube may be slower or busier than usual depending on the provider’s resources and peak hours. For instance, research conducted by the FCC has shown that peak times for Internet traffic is between the hours of 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. If your videos continue to buffer, wait until the services are less busy before watching videos.
 Multiple devices being used on the same Internet network will consume that network’s bandwidth and cause buffering, especially if your router is unable to support a heavy traffic load. When streaming videos, make sure Internet usage is limited across devices., Malicious software will often cause one or more processes to run in the background and slow down your Internet speed., Reducing the quality of videos helps decrease bandwidth and instances of buffering. If using third-party software or services to stream videos, modify video quality via the settings menu.
 Wireless Internet connections are more likely to be disrupted by problems with signal, frequency, and physical obstructions, such as walls or furniture. Try switching to a wired connection to help eliminate problems with buffering., Most video streaming sites use Adobe Flash, which means running an outdated version of Flash can cause buffering during live streaming. Navigate to the official website for Adobe Flash Player at https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/, and select the option to install the latest software version.
 Most video cards are updated automatically at the time you install Microsoft or Apple updates. However, if you installed your own custom video card, navigate to the manufacturer’s website to download and install updated drivers for your video card.