 Exercise has been shown to reduce stress and have a positive effect on the mood. Getting in some light exercise by going for a walk can be a good way to get rid of stress in your body and make your day a relaxing one.


Try walking to somewhere new to you, exploring and enjoying your neighborhood.
Walk around your favorite local park.
Take your time and enjoy the sights and sounds as you go for your stroll.
 Stress can build up tension and tightness in the body. You can use your relaxing day to get in some stretching practice. Stretching the body, joints, and muscles can restore mobility and reduce built up tension in the body, bringing about a sense of relaxation.


A simple stretch is a toe touch. Stand up straight and then bend down, trying to bring your hands to your feet. You should feel this stretch most strongly in your hamstrings.
You can stretch the front of your legs by standing up straight, grabbing your ankle and pulling it up towards your back.
Never bounce the body part you are stretching as this could cause injury. Gently stretch and hold the stretch for a few seconds instead of any jerky or bouncy motions.
When you stretch an area imagine the tension leaving it and that it is becoming more and more relaxed.
Inhale slowly and deeply as you stretch. Exhale fully and gently as you relax the stretch.
Closing your eyes can help you focus on the stretch.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is a simple and easy method to reduce tension in the body. It allows you to fully feel all areas of the body by deliberately increasing tension and then fully relaxing them. Using this method will allow you to loosen up your muscles on your relaxing day.Start by focusing on your feet. Tense your feet as much as you can for about five seconds and then relax them for thirty.
Do the same technique on each body part as you work your way up to your head and neck.
If any area still feels tight you can repeat the technique to relax it further.
 Taking a hot bath is a great way to relax the body, relieving tension and soreness in your muscles. Think about adding some of your favorite scents, bath salts or decorating the room with candles or other relaxing items. Once you've prepared your bath all that's left to do is soak and enjoy.
 You can go out to a spa and get a massage which can be an excellent way to relax. However, if you want to stay home and enjoy a day to yourself you can give yourself a massage, working out tension in your muscles and bringing about a sense of relaxation.Massage your scalp by gently rubbing the sides of your head near the temples.
Massage your face by using your fingertips, rubbing your jawline, hairline, cheekbones, and earlobes.
Massage your arm by laying it flat on your leg and using your opposite palm to rub down your forearm towards your wrist.
Massage your thighs using your palm or elbows, applying gentle pressure as you move down towards your knee.

