 When you are making one of your favorite cookies, cakes, or other recipes, try substituting 25% of your wheat flour with chickpea flour. Chickpea flour is incredibly versatile and is much more nutritious than conventional flour. In addition, chickpea flour gluten-free. 1/2 cup of chickpea flour has 178 calories, three grams of fat, 10 grams of protein, and five grams of fiber.You can get 16 oz of chickpea flour for approximately $7.
You may be tempted to completely replace your wheat flour with chickpea flour, but this will greatly change the turnout of your cake or other baked product. Wheat flour is going to bake into a stronger, sturdier product due to its gluten content., These chocolate chip cookies are vegan and grain-free. They should take about 20 minutes to make. To make eight cookies, you will need the following: 3/4 cup and one tablespoon of cold chickpea flour; 1/4 teaspoon of sea salt; 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda; 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar; 1/8 of a teaspoon of stevia extract; 3 tablespoons of coconut oil; 3 tablespoons of maple syrup; 1/2 a teaspoon of vanilla; 1/4 cup of chocolate chips; 1 to 2 teaspoons of water. Using these ingredients, make your cookies:Preheat the oven to 350° Fahrenheit (176° Celsius).
Mix all the dry ingredients.
Stir the oil, maple syrup, vanilla and chocolate.
Add the wet to the dry ingredients to form a thick dough.
Roll the dough and form into eight balls.
Place the cookies onto a baking sheet and bake for 12 – 14 minutes.
Serve and enjoy.
 These delicious blondies are vegan, gluten-free, and can be on your plate in twenty five minutes. A bar has 3.5 grams of protein, 1.8 grams of fat, 13.5 grams of carbohydrates, and six grams of fat. To make 16 servings, you will need the following ingredients: cooking spray or oil; a can (15 oz) of chickpeas, drained and rinsed; 1/2 cup of almond or peanut butter; 1/3 cup of maple syrup or agave nectar; 2 teaspoons of vanilla; 1/2 teaspoon of salt; 1/4 teaspoon of baking powder; 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda; 1/3 cup of vegan chocolate chips; sea salt to sprinkle. Using these ingredients, make your vegan, gluten-free blondies:Preheat your oven to 350° Fahrenheit (176° Celsius)
Spray a medium pan with non-stick spray.
Using a food processor, process all the ingredients except the chocolate chips.
Fold the chocolate chips into the mixture.
Spread the mixture evenly in your pan.
Add two tablespoons of chocolate chips on top.
Bake for 20 – 25 minutes.
Cool for 20 minutes, and then cut into squares and serve.

