 You need to do this each day of the week regardless of the state of dryness of your hands. This will not only lead to softer skin, but better health overall thanks to the elimination of germs. But you need to wash gently.Use warm water. Hot water damages the skins natural oils, especially near the surface.
If your hands are already very dry, try just scrubbing the palms.
Use moisturizing soaps or soap-less cleansers. Avoid soaps with fragrances.;
, This should become a part of your daily routine, though also done at any time your hands become dry and/or itchy.Monitor what kind of moisturizers you are using. Avoid water based products, and look to oil-based moisturizers. Ointments and creams tend to be better for this while lotions are the most water-based.
These oil-based products will help soften your hands faster--within the week time period--as they will help trap-in moisture better than lotions and water-based products.
Expensive does not necessarily equate to good in this case.
Look for products like petroleum jelly (petrolatum), mineral oil, and lanolin. Moisturizers with glycerin, dimethicone, and hyaluronic acid also can help skin retain moisture. Products with lactic acid and urea also may work.
Petroleum jelly is one inexpensive moisturizer you can use. Cocoa butter and honey is a home-made moisturizer you can create., Petroleum jelly or any product that requires time to stay on your hands will also require you to have pairs of cotton gloves handy to wear in the meantime.If you do this overnight, you can take advantage of the inactivity to eliminate inconvenience while the product does its work.
Overnight treatments will help soften your hands within the week, and should be maintained as a general treatment going forward.
 This is the act of removing dead skin from your body. You can scrub your hands using products or a number of home-based items. You should limit this to a couple of times during the week period, three at most.exfoliate


If you're looking for home based items, there are several that combine readily available items into solutions that will soften the skin of your hands. These include, but are not limited to: sea salt and olive oil; lemon and glycerin; baby oil and sugar; oats and lemon; milk, honey, and lemon juice; honey, curd, and tomato juice; turmeric and lemon.
Do this several times during the week, two or three times, but not necessarily during every hand-wash.You can get this done during spa treatments as well.
Do not over-exfoliate. Exfoliating too often can damage the surface and/or blood vessels in the skin. Look for signs of dryness, patchiness, dehydration, and/or increased sensitvity--they may indicate you are exfoliating too often., It is important for the health of your hands' skin to maintain this routine beyond just a week. But doing this for several days will at least improve your hands' skin condition in the short-term.


If cost is an issue, consider the home-made version of both the moisturizer and exfoliate product.
Remember you do not need to exfoliate for every single hand-wash.
It is best to take advantage of bedtime to use long-term products, ones that need to stay on your hands for several hours, and wear cotton gloves over your hands while you sleep. Wear gloves over your hands while these long-term products are applied even if you are not asleep.

