 If you want to make love last, then you should focus on your loved one's best qualities -- not their worst qualities. Though you can be honest about your loved one's less-than-ideal qualities, you should focus on his or her ability to make you laugh, their intelligence, and their great smile instead of how they're always late or that they spend too much time on their cell phone.A survey of 470 studies on compatibility revealed that the one thing many long-lasting relationships have in common is "positive illusions", which allowed the people in the relationship to see each other in a positive light. This is also known as the "positive perspective."
Every day, look for the best in your partner and remind yourself why you are with this wonderful person.;
, It's been proven: couples who exercise compassionate love have happier marriages. To have compassion for your loved one you have to learn how to understand why he or she is upset and to be sympathetic to their needs instead of being annoyed that they aren't in a good mood. Look for opportunities to practice random acts of kindness toward your partner and see how much of a positive impact it makes on your relationship.Make it a goal to surprise your partner with a small gesture once a day. It doesn't have to be complicated or cost a dime; the time you take to send a text or leave a little note to tell them how special they are can mean more than expensive gifts.
When your loved one has had a bad day make it a point to be extra kind by helping him or her out around the house, whether it's by making dinner, doing laundry, or even giving him or her a back massage.
 To make love last, you can't underestimate "the sliding door moments." Sliding door moments are the seemingly inconsequential everyday moments filled with the words we haphazardly throw back and forth at each other. They are accompanied by little evanescent pains, frustrations, joys, and laughter, flying through our minds and our hearts that make or break the most important relationships in our lives. These little moments add up.Even if you only have a few minutes of time with your loved one in the morning make it count.
 The six-second kiss is one simple and fun activity you should incorporate into your everyday moments of transition as a couple. This kiss is long enough to feel passionate and romantic, and it can serve as a temporary oasis within a busy day -- for example, when you're going to and from work. Make a goal of sharing this kiss at least once in the morning and once in the evening. You'll see what a difference it makes.


Greeting your partner with affection communicates his or her importance to you while reminding him or her of the good feelings you share when you’re in each other’s company.
 When your partner lets you know that he or she wants an emotional connection, whether he wants to cuddle or briefly step out onto your balcony to look at the stars, try to give him what he needs instead of rejecting him, no matter how busy you are. These moments won't come often, and if you want your relationship to thrive, then you should give your partner the affection he or she needs, so you can get that love and affection in return.Take the time to listen to your partner and to respond to his or her needs thoughtfully.
You can't always give your partner the affection and attention that he or she needs, but you can make a goal to do this much more often.

