 You'll make mistakes - that is part and parcel of getting started.;
, If you want to get acting work, then creating a head shot will be the first photo you need. If commercial modeling work also interests you, then you will need a composite sheet. Commercial models, unlike fashion models, have no weight, height or age restrictions. Commercial models are cast for all of the non-fashion ads you see in magazines, newspapers, direct mail pieces, on billboards, posters, product boxes, the side of a bus, the internet, etc.
 All actors will need a head shot at some point. This is a photo on an 8X10 piece of paper, with a resume on the back.


Some commercial models begin their career using an actor's head shot.
At some point, commercial models will want to produce a composite sheet, also known as a comp or Zed card. This card which can be any size (although it is typically 5X7 or 6X8), has multiple photos showing the different looks a person can portray.
Not understanding how to create the right type of photo is where most people make huge mistakes. Not having the needed photos will cause people to spend a lot of time and money unwisely. This is one of the main reasons for people to drop out of the industry because they can’t get the representation work they desire. Quite often the lack of work is not due to their look, but instead it is because they don’t have the correct materials.
 Don't make the mistake of doing what most people do and just stand in front of a camera and have pretty pictures taken of yourself. Generally those pictures get thrown away by agents and photographers. The way to get an agent's and photographer's attention is by showing them photos that tell a story.


Make the photos look like ads. Bring props (items that help make the photos look like an ad).
However, you never want to use a logo or a brand name in the photos you are creating. You want to create at least 3-4 shots for a composite sheet. Your photos should show a variety of expressions and emotions. You can get wonderful ideas for your photo session by looking at existing ads in non-fashion magazines.
 Once you know what shots are needed, and how to create them, then you will need a photographer. There are many ways to find a local photographer. One way is to go to www.asmp.org. It is a great organization (American Society of Media Photographers). At their website, you should be able to find photographers and even assistant photographers at their site.
 Once some photos are shot, then you want to show them to agents. Contact as many agents as you can, until you decide who will be your best agent. Here are some ways to find great agents:


Go to the local community theater and ask the actors after the play which agents you should be contacting.
Try calling photographers in the area and ask them which agents they deal with when booking models. You can try the same question at advertising agencies.
 However, sometimes even with great experiences, it can be difficult getting hired if your photos do not sell you well.

