 For girls, make sure the bottom of any dress or skirt you wear hits at or below the knee. Even if a skirt seems ok while you’re standing, try sitting down and seeing if the hemline rides too high up your thigh. To stay modest and stylish, try swapping the miniskirts out for maxi dresses., Don’t wear a “low-rise” style that may slide down when you’re seated and reveal skin on your back or midriff. Aim to have the waist of your pants sit at or just below your belly button.Wear a belt if you’re concerned about your pants sagging.
 Choose shirts that have a straight neckline cut across your collarbone. Avoid V-neck shirts or tops with deep scoop-necks since those can dip down when you lean forward. If you wear button-up shirts, fasten all buttons up to the first or second button from the top.


Girls could also pick something more fun like a Peter Pan collar, which can add a feminine, youthful flair to a modest shirt., Girls can wear colorful ballet flats instead of heels, which tend to make you look more mature. Boys can wear clean tennis shoes with tidy laces. You want to avoid looking like a slob, which can create a bad impression, so leave the beat-up sneakers behind., For girls, ditch the eyeliner, blush, and bright lipsticks. Harsh lines and colors on your face can make you look sexy and mature, so wear as little makeup as possible. If you want a little something on your face, add a light coat of mascara to your eyelashes and choose a nude lip gloss., Don’t put too much effort into your hairstyle. Your hair should look carefree, so if you have natural waves, let them flow with little or no product. If you want it off your face, try doing one braid down the back or around the side of your head, or opt for pigtail braids for a really youthful look.


Try adding fun hair accessories like bows, headbands, or colorful clips.
 Smiling is one of the top ways to look more approachable and innocent, but it’s important to make sure you’re smiling naturally. Try sitting in front of a mirror and practicing your smile. Watch your eyes – if the skin beside them crinkles as you smile then it will look more natural.


Don’t smile when it’s not appropriate, such as when someone else is frustrated or sad. When greeting others, listening to light-hearted or funny stories, or receiving or giving compliments are all appropriate times to smile.
 Talking too loudly makes you sound authoritative, while talking more quietly can make you seem shy or sweet.If you’re not used to keeping your voice down, practice with a friend in a public space, and try to speak so that only your friend can hear what you’re saying.
 Vulgar language automatically makes you seem older and less innocent. If you’re frustrated or angry, try saying “Dang it!” or “Shoot!” rather than any swear words you may know., Selfishness makes you look cynical, a quality which tends to come with age and loss of innocence. Try simple acts like holding doors for people, letting someone in front of you in line, or baking cookies for friends. Or go a step further and volunteer at a local soup kitchen or animal shelter.
 Be supportive and empathetic when a friend is sharing something difficult with you. Avoid talking about yourself since this can make you appear selfish, and ask a lot of questions instead. It doesn’t hurt to offer advice occasionally, but don’t pretend like you have all the answers., You won’t look very pure if you voice negative thoughts about everything. Try offering people compliments about their clothes or hair, or share a weekend plan you’re excited about. You could even talk about the weather; if it’s cold out, tell someone how much you love wearing comfy sweaters and drinking hot cocoa.


Avoid participating in gossip. Excuse yourself from conversations that seem like they’re mean or negative about someone.
 Offer friends and family the benefit of the doubt when they do something you don't like. Rather than holding a grudge or getting angry, try seeing the situation from their point of view and forgiving them. You'll feel lighter and appear more carefree and sweet to others.
 Have fun and try to remember what brought you joy when you were younger. If you’re walking down the sidewalk and see a sprinkler, run through it! When you hear music, start dancing in a silly (not sexy) way. Play board games, stick out your tongue, or do cartwheels. The options are endless!

