 Older dogs tend to need fewer calories than they did in their younger years. Dogs gain body fat as they get older, even if they decrease their caloric intake. Feeding your dog too much will only accelerate the amount of body fat it accumulates.The specific calorie needs for your dog depend on its health, activity level, and weight. For instance, if your dog has a high activity level, it will need more calories. Overweight dogs will require fewer calories than a dog that is already at its ideal weight.
Getting your dog’s weight down to a healthy level should be one of the first steps you take toward managing its heart disease.
 Like people, dogs can limit their chances of developing and worsening heart disease if they receive regular exercise. There are many options for keeping your dog fit and trim. For instance:Take your dog for a walk daily. You could walk at the park or just around the block.
Play fetch with your dog. To play fetch, throw a soft ball or chew toy away from your dog in your backyard or other open space. Your dog will run to recover the ball and bring it back to you. Repeat several times until your dog is no longer interested in playing.
Exercise will reduce your dog’s chances of developing arthritis, improve its immune system, and contribute to good overall health.
If your dog is panting heavily, lagging behind or slowing its pace, or starts hacking or coughing, you should call it a day. Take your dog home and go for another round of exercise tomorrow.
 Even if your dog is eating modest meals, you might be encouraging obesity through a number of bad habits. For instance, perhaps your dog begs at the table when you eat with your family and gets table scraps. Maybe your older dog receives a number of small treats throughout the day for doing tricks or just being a good dog. The total calorie count on these small snacks can add up quickly, especially if everyone in the house is giving your dog a little extra.Communicate to your family that your dog is elderly and has heart disease, and therefore can’t get snacks and treats at the same level it used to.
Instead of treats and snacks, give your dog extra verbal praise and physical affection.
Place all treats that you do give in your dog’s bowl. This will reduce the likelihood that it begs for food from you directly.

