 Write it in large letters so it will be easy for you to read. You don’t want to include any of the key information on this side. The point of flash cards is to see a basic concept and then be able to identify pertinent information about that topic. If your teacher has given you key questions to consider, you might just write out the question on this side. Keep this side of the card as simple as possible.
 Your goal is to distill the key information on this side of the notecard. Don’t rewrite a professor’s entire lecture on Mongolian agrarian reform or bicameralism. Take the most important points your professor emphasizes and bullet point them on the notecard.


Write with pencil or light ink so that this information doesn't bleed to the other side of the card.
Draw diagrams if you need to. Don’t be afraid to include additional information on the back of your notecards, as long it is essential information to the studying process.
 If your writing is small, you will not be able to read it easily and if it's crowded you will have too much to take in at one time. Writing clearly will enable you to read your notes easily.


If you find yourself including too much detail on your notecards, either try to distill it further or break it up into several notecards. In this case, you can place the key word on the first side with some kind of qualifier in parentheses. For example, if you wanted to remember the causes of the French Revolution, but couldn’t condense it onto a single card, you might make several cards. “French Revolution Origins (Political)”, “French Revolution Origins (Social)”, and “French Revolution Origins (Economic)” might be possible cards for this subject.
 Colors are your friend. Feel free to color code particular information. For example, if you are studying for a French verb test, you might write the infinitive verb on one side of the card and then on the other, you could write the definition in black and then the conjugated forms in a different color. Get creative. Color can be used to help further organize the salient information on the flash card. Just make sure that you can still read it. Yellow ink on a yellow flash card won’t work.
 Sometimes, you might have a lot of information on a single flashcard. In this case, you might consider adopting a form of shorthand. Most people develop their own that makes sense to them. In general, people use shorthand to highlight essential information and de-emphasize non-essential words. Turn “and” into “&” and “for example” into “e.g.”.