 Before visiting, become familiar with the facility's visitation procedures. Ask about visiting hours, spending the night, and their policy on visitors who are not immediate family members.
 Try to resist the temptation to visit your loved one whenever you want, without asking. Always make sure that your loved one wants you around, and abide by his wishes no matter how you're feeling. Let him direct your level of involvement, and don't take it personally if this level is lower than you expected. Some people find it easier and more comforting to handle pain and sickness on their own.


This same attitude also applies to talking about thoughts and feelings related to the process. Your loved one should know that you're available to listen without feeling forced to speak and explain while getting through a time of weakness.
 If there are others who you think would appreciate the opportunity to visit, give them information about visiting hours. Remember to brief them on how things are going, and give them the same instructions that you are following about how to be supportive visitor.


Don't bring anyone to visit that you think could potentially agitate your loved one. If you're unsure, check with him before inviting anyone else to the facility.
 Avoid putting any unnecessary pressure on your loved one. Since you are not around 24/7 to see the detox process through entirely, you may feel compelled to ask many questions about how he feels and what's happened since you last spoke. However, this may inadvertently make it seem like you want or expect him to be able to recovery very quickly.


You can still express love and encouragement without bringing an anxious tone into his room. Try talking about how proud and excited you are. Emphasize your awareness that the process is long and taxing.
 As an additional form of support, bring along with you any small tokens or forms of entertainment that you think your loved one might like to have around. Especially if your loved one gets homesick easily, have beloved objects with you and even things that might serve as motivators or reminders that recovery is important. These might be photographs, memorabilia, childhood toys, etc.


Check with the detox facility before bringing any home items to ensure they will allow your loved one to have them inside the facility.
 Many detox centers offer programs for the family of users. These might be family therapy or multi-family sessions. Taking this step in support of your loved one will send a clear message that you are available, unashamed, and happy to support him.12-step support groups like Alcoholics Anonymous and its variants (which exist for all addictive drugs) prove very helpful for maintaining ongoing sobriety. These groups usually have family chapters that you can attend.

