 It's easy to forget about the change you carry in your pocket everyday. Whether you deposit it into a designated change jar, toss your coins in a pile or in a drawer, or simply let change fall out of your pockets on laundry day, those coins can add up to a potentially decent sum over time.Check under sofa cushions, in the pockets of your pants, under washers/dryers in your laundry room, or in a drawer where you stash spare change.
Look in your car. Check under the seats, in the cup holders, in the ash tray, inside the center console, and in the glove box.
You can roll coins on your own using paper sleeves from the bank, or take your change to a coin exchange machine (often found in super markets). Exchange machines typically deduct a user fee, but can quickly net you cash for your jar of dirty, unused coins.
 Scrap metal can net you surprising sums of money. Of course, in order to really make any substantial money you'll need to gather a lot of metal, but with diligent work this can easily be done in most areas.Go through surplus building materials that may be left over from your home's construction. Just don't loot other people's materials, or you could be charged with theft.
If you're remodeling and you're planning on replacing old copper pipes in your house, you can get decent money for the copper by taking it to a salvage yard.
Look for old metal in your basement, garage, or outdoor shed.
Check in dumpsters around your neighborhood, but be careful to avoid injuring yourself. It's easy to fall into a dumpster, and climbing into one may lead to injuries if there is any broken glass, sharp metal, or used syringes in the dumpster.
 Scrap metal like copper isn't the only valuable recyclable. You can typically make money by cashing in any type of recyclable. You won't get much per item (most aluminum cans and glass bottles net five cents apiece, for example), but if you gather up a lot of recyclables they can potentially earn you some spare cash.Try asking local businesses if you can collect their recyclables. Some businesses return these items for the money, but many end up simply leaving them in recycling bins or throwing them in the trash.
If you're really desperate you can try searching for recyclables in the trash, but be aware that you'll get very dirty and may be exposed to broken glass, used syringes, and other unsanitary/unsafe items.
 If you're in a bind and need money fast, you might want to consider borrowing money. However, You'll need to proceed with caution when borrowing money from people you know. Money that isn't paid back, or that you take too long to repay, could result in bad feelings between you.Be upfront about your needs, as well as any risks involved.
Set a repayment schedule you can both agree to.
Make sure you repay any money you borrow in a timely manner. Remember that your friends and relatives trust you, and that breaking that trust could have consequences.
 If you need to borrow money but can't ask a friend or relative, payday loans might be your last option. However, it's important to be aware that payday lenders are in the business of making money. Even a small, short-term loan can quickly land you in deeper debt than you began with.Be aware that many payday loans demand very high interest rates, and there may be large penalties if you fail to repay your loan by the deadline stipulated in the terms.
Always ask about the interest rate, fines/penalties, and any hidden costs that may be added to your bill.
Check to see if payday loans are legal in your region. Many states and cities have laws that either ban payday lenders altogether, or tightly regulate how and where they operate.

