 In a food processor, mix the all-purpose gluten free flour with the salt. Pulse the ingredients together until the flour is fluffy and aerated. Next, chop up four sticks of cold, unsalted butter and add them to the food processor. Pulse ten times, or until the mixture looks like sand with visible chunks of butter in it. Finally, pour the water into the processor and pulse five times. When finished, the dough should look like cheese curds.After adding the water, the dough should be moist but not wet. It should be clumpy but not be gathered into a ball.
If your dough is still a little dry, add tiny splashes of water and pulse until the mixture has the right consistency.;
, Pour the dough curds onto a piece of parchment paper or other clean, cool surface. Gather the curds together into a pile and begin to knead them. Place the heel of your hand on the top of the pile and push down and away from you. Continue kneading the dough until you have worked all of the curds into a smooth piece of dough.If you do not have any parchment paper handy, you can knead the dough on a clean countertop or table.
 With a knife, cut your pie dough in half. Smooth out one half of the dough with your hands and then fold it in half on itself. Then form the dough into a smooth disc and cover it with plastic wrap. Repeat with the other piece of dough and then place the discs in the refrigerator for 30 minutes., After the dough has sat in the refrigerator for 30 minutes, take the discs out and allow them to sit at room temperature for about 15 minutes. The dough should be cool to the touch but pliable. Remove the plastic wrap and place one disc of dough between two pieces of greased parchment paper. In a clockwise motion, use a rolling pin to roll out the dough until it is slightly larger than your pie pan. Repeat with the other piece of dough.Use some butter to grease the parchment paper.
 Carefully lift the top piece of parchment paper from one of the rolled out pieces of dough. Place a 9-inch (22.86 cm) pie pan upside down on top of the dough and flip it over. Then gently remove the remaining piece of parchment paper and pat the dough down into the pan.If any of the dough sticks to the paper, you should scrape it off and mold it into the rest of the dough.
 Place the pie pan and the top piece of dough in the freezer. You can leave it in there for about 45 minutes or while you make the filling. You can also make the crust ahead of time and freeze it until you are ready to add the filling., Heat a large pot or Dutch oven over medium-high heat. While the pot warms, cut up two large chicken breasts into one-inch (2.54 cm) chunks and season them with salt and pepper. Pour olive oil into the pot and let it warm. Add half of the chicken to the hot oil and let it cook for about two to three minutes, stirring the chicken until all of the pieces are browned evenly. Remove the seared pieces and repeat with the remaining chicken.If your pot has gotten a little dry after the first chicken pieces, add a little more oil before cooking the second half.
 As you sear the chicken pieces, chop up the mushrooms, one large carrot, one yellow onion, one russet potato, and three cloves of garlic. Once you finish cooking the chicken, heat the remaining two tablespoons (29.57 ml) of olive oil and add the mushrooms, carrots, onion, and garlic. Cook the vegetables for about seven minutes, or until the onion is soft and translucent. Stir in the thyme and, after cooking for one minute, add the potatoes., Sprinkle the all-purpose gluten-free flour mix over the vegetables and stir it in. Continue stirring and cook for two to three minutes, or until the flour is browned. Slowly pour the chicken stock into the vegetables and continue stirring. Bring the stock to a boil and then decrease the heat to a simmer. Continue stirring the gravy for about 15 minutes, or until it thickens.If you do not have any stock, you can make some using bouillon and water. Simply mix one bouillon cube with an amount of water that is equal to the amount of broth called for in the recipe.
 If there are any other vegetables that you would like to add to your pot pie, such as frozen asparagus, peas, or corn, stir them in after you make the gravy. Allow them to cook for about five to ten minutes, or until they are fully incorporated. Taste the filling and add salt and pepper if needed., After your filling is finished cooking, allow it to sit for about 45 minutes and cool to room temperature. Then remove your pie crust from the freezer and pour in the filling. Let the pie crust top come to a cool room temperature.The dough needs to warm up enough so that it is pliable.
 Preheat your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (218.33 degrees Celsius). Remove one piece of parchment paper from your pie top and flip it on top of the pie. Then carefully remove the last piece of parchment paper and pat the top and bottoms to together. Wet your fingers and crimp the edges of the dough together., Once your oven is warm, you will place the pie on a piece of parchment paper in the oven. Cook the pie for about 45 minutes to an hour. The crust should be golden brown and the filling piping hot. Give the pie about 15 minutes to cool before serving.The parchment paper should catch any drippings that ooze out of the pie in the oven.

