 Life throws a number of challenges and desires as you move on and progress to newer stages in life and society. You can feel very desirous to have something, and it may lead you to ask God for whatever you want at the moment. But, immediate wants need not be fulfilled no matter how strongly you pray or ask for them. Be flexible to accept the answers, realizing a denied prayer request possibly means, "No.", but there is another possibility.


Sometimes, God delays the response to a prayer, if it's not denied. You only learn about that with time passing. Was the answer, "Wait and keep believing."? Can you expect any favor from God, if you don't keep believing (and if you don't make your best effort to solve the problems yourself).
Paradoxically, it can also be easy to lose faith if you become too comfortable in life and feel you have no need for God anymore. Comfort can be a stumbling block; it can cause you to become proud and lose dependence on God. Don't let that happen to you. Remember that comfort is a gift from God. That which the Lord gives, he also takes away. Never become complacent and sluggish. Look around you at all the lost souls you can help. Share your faith and do justice to others.;
, Being faithful is a constant fight/battles, a spiritual war. Your devotion might be tested rigorously. Fight strong urges to divert from your religious ways. You can expect a desire, for example: to turn into an atheist, agnostic, or to accuse religion of turning a blind eye to all the atrocities in the society, etc. Turn to your religious teachings and seek references of when a faithful servant of God was tempted to turn away from faith, but overcame the temptation.


Understand that being tempted is common, especially when you are being more and more true to God. The evils in the world try their gimmicks when they see a true follower. You can be tried and tempted anytime.
 Whenever you have temptations to divert from God, deny yourself. If you hold any unfulfilled desires or prayers against God, you can feel let down and your faith can weaken. Maintain self-control and wait patiently for the temptation to die out. Whatsoever is good for you and all that makes you happy will be yours. Remember that God loves you and will give you the very best. However, when and how it will come to you is a mystery in the present, which will be unfolded in the future. Expect to unfold blessings.
 Believers often get angry with God and sometimes temporarily or permanently turn away from faith. When troubles drag you too deep into pain, do what will keep your mind at peace.


Speak with a pastor, priest or minister about what is discouraging you from turning to religious faith. You can also speak with someone who you know is wise to guide you well when you seem to be drifting from religion.
 Understand that God's ways are beyond any man's grasp. No one can fully predict what God will do next in your life and in others'. Do not fall pray to the mysteries of God's doings and where it takes you. Just pray and seek divine help with understanding what you are failing to understand.


Your lack of understanding does not mean that God is doing something wrong or something less. Try to meditate deeper, pray and fast so you can see beyond what is visible to the eyes. Faith is not believing when you have definite proof, but faith is believing even when you have no tangible evidence to do so, but still trusting and holding on to your knowledge.
 If you start feeling that you can't make sense of what is happening, and you feel too confused to stick to religion, wait and suspend your hard decision until your faith is stronger, and you are feeling the call to faith. So long as you are not speaking ill of religious faith and are not doing evil in the society, then you are not being anti-religion. You are very free to take time to seek to understand, and get back to professing your faith when you are ready for it. Terror, poverty, deaths, pain and witnessing inhumane activities can make you wonder whether there is a loving God or if God intends to act against such things. You will find all your answers in faith, if you allow patience to work in you. Realize that good and evil are choices. People and their leaders can choose to do right or not, or else there could be no freedom of choice. Also, natural processes can often seem like an act of God, but are the weather and earthquakes just nature at work?


Take a break so your thoughts get time to untangle and everything starts to make sense again, or you learn something beyond your own capacity.
 The best ways to keep doing what you can do and not be too worried about the doings of God is by helping those who need assistance. There is always someone who can use your help. Divert your mind from frustration, and be constructive in life so your devotion doesn't dwindle.


Remember, an idle mind is the devil's workshop. Don't fall prey to the devil's doings.
If you have already turned away from God and are feeling sorry, forgive yourself, seek forgiveness from God and get back to normal. God is far more forgiving than man and is more than happy to meet you as a lost believer on your way back!

, And, do not think more highly of yourself than you should. And, do not set yourself up to unjustly judge (not even yourself) which is God's exclusive job. There is only one righteous judge, but He is not any human-being.


Who are we to judge the eternal, almighty, creator God? One cannot judge God.
Follow the "Golden Rule", 'Do to others as you would like to have them do to you'.
 One who loves God, even if s/he has 100 ideas of why not to believe, only needs one reason to love and believe.

