 Although most sleepovers are with only one other person, if you'd like, you can plan a small party where a group of friends gather and sleep in the same room. Whether the invitees know your secret or not, it'll be pertinent to know who you are inviting over to the sleepover that night.
 The answer of this must come from deep down inside you. Try to determine your friendship with the invitee and if you would want them to know that you have been having bedwetting accidents. Determine if you can trust them with the fact that they won't let out any of your bedwetting secret to others. A true friend will understand and accept the fact that you wet the bed and that you aren't wetting the bed maliciously.


Bedwetting affects all sorts of people in many different ways. Much like how some people can't see without glasses and some people can't get around without a wheelchair, the bedwetter's body just can't control the urge to urinate when they fall asleep without letting them know that their bladder is full and they need to urinate into the toilet.
 Although current invitations have turned towards digital invitations, you can still handwrite a letter and send or call the person and expect a response after a period of a few days. Mention that you are having a sleepover on a certain night from and to two dated times but try not to mention in the letter that you bed-wet unless you can rest assured that your invitees know your secret and won't divulge your secret on others or from shying away from attending the sleepover.


Date your page containing your invitation accordingly. This can give them the reassurance that they are reading a current invite and not some invite from a party they have already attended but forgot to discard.
Tell your guests that it is a sleepover and they are invited.
Give them the dates and times of drop-off and pick-up, if they choose to attend. Set aside a date and a time when the sleepover will begin and plan in advance. Write this date down in the invitation.






Mention the address the sleepover is being held at. This is critical.






Give your intended guests an RSVP date in the invitation slip, if they plan to attend. Try to get them to give you a yes or no answer within a two week period prior to the sleepover.
Mention which door you'd like your guests to arrive at, if you have to use an alternate door to enter and exit from besides your front door.
 Realize that your friends will need to realize that nothing different changes between you and your guests no matter if you have to wear bedwetting diapers or not.


Assure your guests (if you have siblings) that your siblings won't be permitted to enter your room once you and your guests have settled down for the night and that your siblings will be watched over by your parents so that your guests won't be bothered by their presence(as long as you can efficiently trust your parents to watch over your siblings while you and your guests are asleep or are getting ready to sleep).


Try to give your guests the power to choose whether they will want to sleep on your-provided beds or if they should choose to bring their own beds (such as air mattresses or sleeping bags and the like). If you don't have enough beds for each of your guests, mention to them that there isn't enough beds to go around that that each of these guests bring their own sleeping accommodations. Always try to utilize any empty beds first.
 Prepare a setup plan of how the sleepover will be set up. If you have to sleep in bunk beds, recognize that bunk beds tend to have problems during sleepovers when the hosting family's child bed-wets. Sleeping in the bottom bunk may have some problems with additional leakage, but isn't always the best solution for the problem for the sleepover night.


If you must sleep on bunk beds, the invitee must sleep on the top bunk to ensure that any of the host's bedwetting accidents don't dribble down onto the invitee during that night, as well as so that the invitee doesn't notice that the bedwetter hasn't gotten up to grab a new protective garment (as you'll later learn about in this article) after the accident.

Use common courtesy though if your friend says they have problems with sleeping in the same room or in the top bunk of a bunk bed and can find another suitable place to sleep in your house that's fair to them, their parents, you and your parents.
 Choose some protective bedwetting diapers, along with some disposable bedwetting bed mats and even using a waterproof mattress protector. Become so comfortable with sleeping with these on, you'll want to use these even on the days the sleepover isn't even being used., Changing from your day-clothes into your nightwear and clean bedwetting diaper is crucial to the preparation that must go on during the sleepover night.


Make the transition a part of your standard routine and have your parents help you choose one that best fits you. Make the transition between wearing one at night seem as seemless as possible to ensure you are ready for the transition on the sleepover night.
Yes, there are some emotional triggers that will make you feel like saying "Yuck!" But, protection must be achieved, to ensure the sleepover is a success. It'll be quite a big transition between not having to wear (as you did before the decision was made) and now with the diaper being an integral part of the procedure, but if you don't wear one, you'll wish you had because the sleepover won't be a success if an accident occurs and you weren't wearing one.
Utilize your diapers any time you end up taking any siesta. If you still take siestas (naps) in the afternoon or evening hours, choose to wear these diapers.
 Pre-planning for this transition like this for a sleepover is key when the host kid wets their bed., If you explain to your parents that you don't completely understand the process of changing it, they'll be able to show you. However, if they don't, wikiHow has an article on those steps too.


Make sure that you are aware of this process to ensure you don't have to have a whole-house uproar if and when the accident occurs during the sleepover. If they showed you the process to have prepared you for your own diaper-changes, make sure to brush up on this action at least once the night before the sleepover so it is solidly engrained in your mind.
 Use these mats as secondary and tertiary forms of protection on the bed to ensure the bed can't become wet from your bedwetting accident.


Use a alternative waterproof fitted-style mattress protector as you sleep on the bed each night. Although these can sometimes be called waterproof mattress covers, these can help salvage even more of the bed's fine fibers from becoming ruined due in part to the wetting accident.. However, ToysRUs sells these offline for twin-sized beds. Mattress protectors don't go overtop of the fitted sheet on the bed, but can help the accident from travelling through to the mattress below.
 Try to nix all frilly pieces of lingerie when you go to bed, as the frilly clothing will make for a much tighter fit and with diapers, you want to feel a bit loose on your stomach-line. Use sets of nightwear that include night shirts and night pants until you no longer need to wear the diapers to bed: these can include sweatpants and casual nightwear, but you'll have to buy the more comfortable pieces.The bigger the clothing, the better possibility the protective clothing will not be seen or noticed easily.

If you own an adult blanket sleeper, you may choose to wear it, though you may want to think twice in terms of the current weather conditions since these sleepers are always a bit baggy in the genital areas where the diaper will be utilized.
 Have a trash bag and lidded garbage can around to help you dispose of each wet garment you end up claiming after you spot each wet garment. Most disposable garments can be thrown away quite easily into this trash disposal area lined with the bag.
 It's not your fault for wetting the bed. Even at age eleven, twelve and thirteen, lots of kids still wet their bed, so you are not doing this alone.
 While most kids tend to keep the bedwetting diaper packages visible (so they aren't forgotten once the nighttime routine begins), some kids may need a parental reminder to change into them, so as to ensure you don't forget. Have your parents make sure to remind you such as "Don't forget to change into those diapers that were just bought and placed in your room" every night, or they may help you change into them upon dressing for bedtime.


Although it's a matter of choice where you keep these pieces, most bedwetters prefer to keep their diaper packages open at one end of their dresser to ensure they don't forget to change into their diapers before they begin the sleeping process each and every night preceding the sleepover.
 Make sure that these packages have diapers in them (should you need to change them by yourself at night) and that there are more available if the need drags even further than the first couple (such as if a case of the flu or other stomach bug begins).

Keep a few (two or three) spare diapers in a stack in an "emergencies only" location and recharge this stack during the day following the necessary need to use.
If your parents help you make your bed or help you dress, have them do a daily sweeping check of all your diaper stack piles to ensure that you are stacked with some extra diapers that you can use if you need them during the night. Although most will check into your stack before they turn off the light, they should keep an eye on how many are there at least once per day. and may have to come back to help you replenish (if they notice you are out or coming close to running out). If you can change your clothes by yourself, monitor your stacks very closely, and remind them when it's time to replenish and before you run out and end up reaching into your emergency stash of diapers.
Even if you didn't have an accident in the preceding night's diaper, use a fresh one from out of the package. Sweat can build up inside the bedwetting diaper's parts and can end up sticking back to your diaper's genital region of your skin.
 Sometimes, if the messes aren't too bad, most bedwetters don't even change their diaper and rely on only releasing urine into their diaper alone during the sleepover. However, some parents do think differently, in hopes that you'll take their advice (since wet garments tends to accumulate rashes in affected areas). This decision must be left to the wearer and their parents to decide how they'd like to let this evolve at the sleepover.
 Put them into less visible areas up and out of the way of passersby. Bring out several diapers from the package and set them down in a less visible place, such as in a partially-empty drawer (such as space near your underwear in your dresser) away from prying eyes of your invitees. Arrange your diapers with what can be agreed upon with your parents permission. If you need them during the night, you'll still need to know where to find them, but your parents will want some control so they know where to look prior to the sleepover and/or if they are needed in an emergency.


Never change the orientation the diapers as you work through the pack. If the diapers were standing with the front facing you, make sure that the diapers can sit tight with the outer edge facing outward. (Never reverse the direction.) You've started a regimen before, and changing it now would be completely useless and forgotten where and how to grab it.

If you kept the center core facing you, make sure to make sure the core is facing you during the sleepover night. If the diaper was in a pile, keep them in a pile.
 Empty out and dispose of the dirty pairs of bedwetting diapers you have previously used, so as not to show your medical secrets to your invitees once they arrive. If there are many that are inside your drawers or are in another trash can, you may need to use a trash bag to bag these diapers up.

Bedwetting diapers are different than just standard styled disposable diapers meant for babies. Diaper Genie machines can't handle bedwetting diapers; so don't try to fit them inside of them.
 On the morning you awake from your sleepover, you'll need something to change into to make it seem as if you had no accident and that no sweat has built up during the night. You'll want to plan on using the diaper until your invitee leaves, so keeping one handy is of utmost concern. (You'll learn where the dirty one goes momentarily.), Make sure to change the bedmat and replace the mattress protector (if you have more than one) onto the bed you are using. This must be done at least an hour before the sleepover begins; even if it's not wet, change it! Dispose of the old bed mat into the trash bag containing the previously-used diapers, and place a new one on the bed in it's place. Make the transition to that sleepover night seem seamless.
 Give yourself some space in time, so you are not scrambling at the last second and accidentally tear or urinate into the diaper (causing a mishap to happen at the very last second). Even if the sleepover doesn't start until later in the evening, you'll want as little contact with your invitees as possible when showing your guests that you must wear a diaper to bed and having an embarrassment happen when they arrive and are walked through your door.


If your invitees normally arrive at other parties unexpectedly early, plan on changing at least one hour before the sleepover is supposed to begin but shortly after you have changed your own bedwash. If your invitee arrives unexpectedly early and you don't have time to change into the diaper , secretly grab a diaper and change yourself into your diaper in your own bathroom - all in hopes of not seeming odd, strange or even remotely different than your invitee.
 Utilize your bathroom until the sleeping portion of the sleepover begins. You're guests will smell the stench of the urine when they come through the door if you utilize your diaper, and they can spot when things are amiss and your genital region sags more than normal. Add in a few extra minutes to make the adjustment when going into the bathroom to pull up your pants., However, keep this information you mention to a bare minimum. If they are a true friend, you can tell them your deep dark secret during any evening activities without stirring up trouble or causing an embarrassing situation to arise.


Don't worry: Some bedwetting diapers (such as Pampers UnderJams and most store-brand bedwetting diapers (if available)) have the association of being more spotted than those associated to Goodnites (by Huggies). With a little more disguise and planning, you can achieve a great result in the end.
Realize that with underwear may be worn with bedwetting diapers if you plan accordingly. Bedwetting diapers tend to be thicker than than a normal pair of underwear, so plan to wear at least one size larger underwear to ensure the diaper doesn't become lodged in the diaper when you go to move around when you have an accident in them.

You can go around without a pair of underwear on top of the diapers wearing a pair of pants and shirt instead, but beware that you must be able to conceal your diapers until all of your guests know about your bedwetting issue or until your guests leave the next morning, all to ensure you don't expose your medical secret too early.
 Most sleepovers begin with a cheery connection between you and the invitee(s), but how you greet them is up to you. However, most host families with a bedwetter traditionally neglect to make much mention of your use of bedwetting diapers for your bedwetting problem.


If your friends are your true friends of yours, you may want to tell or hint to them that you have to wear the diaper. They might want to know and you should really hint that you need to wear them. Tell them that you have wetting accidents in your bed, and that these diapers help prevent your sleeping accommodations from becoming wet but they shouldn't be alarmed - all without using the proper term "diaper" in your description of the preventative item.
Don't reveal that you wet your bed if your invitees don't trust that you'll know how to handle accidents when they occur, since this will almost always backfire on your plan to handle an accident when they occur.
Mention to those who choose to accidentally reveal that they too have bedwetting problems, that you side with them and must wear diapers for your bedwetting problem too. But pick your battles wisely, if you think this secret might backfire on your plan.

If you suspect or have noticed your guests also wearing a bedwetting diaper, you're in luck. If you can, share your diaper stack with them. They will later thank you for telling them and make adequate plans to keep your diaper stack freshly stocked for both you and your invitees to share during that sleepover night.


Don't make the greeting be any more dramatic other than saying hello and walking them in. However, don't make it seem as if you were awaiting their arrival while sitting next to the door when you provide the greeting.
 Even if you realize that you can still hold your urine in during the day, having to change into the diaper when the friend is at your house can become chaotic and problematic for most.

Don't feel ashamed if your sleepover guest must find out that you wet your bed and have to wear these diapers. It's a natural problem that kids must know exists, and eventually they will want to know why you have to keep concealing your "secret" from them. That issue must be only up to the wearer and the wearer's parents to decide.
 If you have to take medications to help manage frequent bedwetting, by all means take that medication! Don't skip your medications on the night of the sleepover. You may have to take your medications in an alternate place if you are afraid your guests will accidentally find out, but that's a small price to pay in part with dealing with life while stuck in a phase that makes you urinate while you sleep without waking you up., Utilize the system of diaper-wearing as you have during those last few weeks.It all comes down to handling your bedwetting, much like you've been handling it with the same processes from the past few weeks.
 The diaper and bed mat may protect your body and bed a bit, but no piece of clothing is foolproof - no matter how disposable it is believed or claimed to be. Things happen that can make accidents seem very disastrous during sleepover nights. Change only the wet diaper after the accident during the night, but don't make a big fuss; don't talk or allow the furniture or your diapers to creek around as you walk., You'll get your chance to change your diaper into your day clothes in a little while, but for now you'll have to live with wearing this diaper and nightclothes until your invitees leave for their homes the next morning.


Look into changing your diapers in your bathroom, if you have time before your invitees awaken. However, if your invitees have arisen out of bed before or with you, you'll need to delay your diaper and clothing change after the guest departs.
 To ensure the natural transition at a sleepover, let the morning routine flow. Whether that means allowing to serve them breakfast or allowing them to arise from their slumbers at their will on their casual planning, this sleepover can be an easy solution.

As was stated earlier when talking about placing an extra diaper in the bathroom, use the period after you have awakened and before the guests wake up to change your diapers. Place all used diapers in a small plastic bag that can be tied shut and knotted and placed separately into any trash can in your home - however, most bedwetters will use their bathroom trash can for convenience purposes.
 Walk your friend to the door when you hear the doorbell ring for your guests parent's arrival. Thank your friend for coming, and let them walk to their ride for pick-up.
, If you are intending to have other sleepovers at your house soon thereafter, plan on continuing to use the diaper regimen and keep up the process so as not to forget and get out of your routine.
 Prepare the bed with a new disposable bed mat, once the bedwash has been changed.

