 Start at the beginning-- if you have not watched episode 1,don't start with episode 2. If you need to get to a certain point in the series within a time limit, filler episodes can be skipped, but you should try to go back and watch them later.;
, It is important to know your stuff - there is quite a lot of filler in the anime, and you want to be up to date with what is going on in the series, so reading it is a must. Places like MangaFox will have it.
 These can be found at sites such as Quizilla.com and Fanfiction.net and are useful for gathering other Naruto fans' opinions, theories and ideas.
 After reading this article, there will be a list of connected articles about specific characters. These are helpful to build your knowledge of useless trivia.
 It is necessary to view all icons with the keyword "Naruto," but optional to also view all icons for your favorite characters. such as the great nations symbols

, This includes Japanese word and special Naruto words.


Kunoichi- a female ninja.
Shinobi- the title given to a ninja, or ninja in training.
Akatsuki- a criminal organization composed of ten high-level ninja that have defected from their village of origin. Akatsuki also translates to "red dawn".
Dattebayo- This is a verbal exclamation point in Japanese. It is Naruto's 'catch phrase' which the English version has translated as "believe it", though it doesn't actually translate as that. Noticing closely, all the characters say this at some point.
Nani- Japanese for "what"?
Konohagakure- the village of Konoha.(the Leaf Village)
Sunagakure- literally, "The Village Hidden among Sand".
Hokage- the most powerful person in the Leaf village.
Kazekage- the Sand Village leader.
Sabaku- Desert
Jinchuuriki- those who have a tailed-beast sealed within. (ex. Naruto)
Jutsu- a technique, skill, or trick(ex: Chidori, Rasengan, Fire ball jutsu, shadow clone.)
Kyuubi- the Nine Tails fox that is sealed within Naruto.
Shukaku- the demon hidden within Gaara of the Sand.
Kekkei Genkai- a technique passed down through a bloodline (ex:Uchiha-Sharingan)

,","What happened to all those other people who graduated Ninja Academy in the same year as Naruto who you never see again?","Would Gaara be able to defeat Deidara in a fair fight?", and "My Naruto Boyfriend is better than yours!"

, It doesn't matter what it is; cosplaying photos, fan art, fanfics, lyrics, poems, AMVs, but make something celebrating your total obsession and share your creativity with the world.
,, (Ex: Gaara's 'Ai' symbol, Kiba's 'fangs', Naruto's 'whiskers', even hidden village symbols.)

,,,
Sakura= Cherry Blossom, Haruno=Blooming fields, Haruno Sakura=A blooming field of cherry blossoms.
Kakashi= Scarecrow, Hatake= Field, Hatake Kakashi=Field of scarecrows.
Sasuke= Ninja warrior, Uchiha=Fan, Uchiha Sasuke=fan ninja warrior. ]
Gaara= Demon that only loves himself
Anko= Sweet bean soup Mitarashi=A sweet topping for beans in Japan. She's always eating sweet bean soup.
Kiba= Fang Inuzuka=Dog clan, Inuzuka Kiba=Fanged dog clan
Kankuro= Literally means "Black Cat"
Ino= Boar Yamanaka=In the mountains, Yamanaka Ino=Boar in the mountains
Iruka= Dolphin

