 Nearly all US males must enroll for the selective services within 30 days of turning 18. This includes citizens, non-permanent residents, residents of US territories like Guam and Puerto Rico, dual citizens, both illegal and legal immigrants, and the disabled. Even men who have undergone a gender realignment surgery to become female must register. The only exceptions are:


Women
Any male resident above the age of 26
Residents of American Samoa who have never lived in the US
Active duty military personnel
Hospitalized, incarcerated, or imprisoned men (though they must apply within 30 days of release)
US residents on student or visitor visas
Individuals living in the US as part of a diplomatic or trade mission
Individuals who are born female and choose to realign as men;
, You can only register online if you are a US citizen with a valid social security number.According to the Federal Government, this is the fastest and most reliable way to register.
 If you have not recently moved and are a registered citizen you will receive a pre-stamped registration card sometime around your 18th birthday. Simply fill it out and put it back in the mail to register.


You will need your name, address, birthday, social security number (if applicable), and signature to register.
 Check "Yes" on Box 29 of the Free Application for Federal Student Financial Aid (FAFSA) to be automatically registered for the Selective Service. The Department of Education will furnish Selective Service with the information to register you.
 Any man, regardless of citizenship, visa, or immigration status can register at any US post office. They will also take care to send your registration for you as well.


The Selective Service has no contact with the Immigration Bureau, and will never share personal information with other branches of government.
 You should receive a letter in the mail within 90 days of registering that proves that you successfully signed up for the Selective Service. If you do not receive this letter after 90 days, call the Selective Service at 1-847-688-6888.


You can also call this number if you require a proof of registration card.
 If you change addresses, legally change your name, get a new Social Security number, or otherwise change your information, you must inform the Selective Service at this website. You can also call this number: 1-847-688-6888.
 Not registering for the Selective Service can result in 5 years of jail time and/or a $250,000 fine. If you neglect to register before turning 26 you will be barred from all federal student aid, job training grants, or tuition breaks. In 40 states and territories you cannot get a driver's license unless you register.For a complete list of state sanctions for unregistered men, see the Social Services website.

If you did not register for the Selective Service by 26, but can prove that you did not do so "knowingly and willingly," you may be able to avoid punishment., In the event of a draft, registered males are selected by a random lottery and their birth year. If you are a "conscientious objector," someone who has a moral or psychological aversion to war, or disabled, you can still be exempted from the draft.