 While doing parkour, you will often need to bypass medium-sized obstacles without slowing your run. To do this, you will likely perform a speed vault:


As you approach the obstacle, kick off from the ground using your left leg while raising your right.
Simultaneously reach your left arm forward and place one hand flat on the object. Avoid contacting the obstacle before your body is airborne.
As your hand catches the obstacle, use the momentum from your kickoff to bring both legs together up towards your right side.
Use your left arm as a pivot to direct your body's momentum over the obstacle.
Once you're over the object, land on your left foot to regain vertical posture. Return to your run.;
, In a "cat leap," the traceur jumps onto the face of a wall and uses all four limbs for grip and balance. While in the air, position your arms in front of you so that your hands can grip the wall ledge when landing. Orient your legs to be nearly parallel with your arms and so that your feet will connect with the wall's face first. Allow your legs to absorb the impact, bend at the knee, and catch the ledge with your hands.


A cat leap can be done using almost any type of leap as a base, from running jumps to vaults. As long as you can orient your body so that all four of your limbs can extend forward, you can turn a normal leap into a cat leap.
In practice, this move is typically used to reach slightly higher surfaces. From this position, the traceur often pulls his or her body up onto the top of the wall., Find a horizontal bar you'd like to swing from and jump towards it. Before catching the bar with your hands, curl your body and bring your legs up and forward. Once your hands make contact with the bar, add to the momentum and direct your body forward.When you are doing parkour, be careful that any bars you grab onto are sturdy enough to hold your weight.
 Any time you land, you will need to do so safely. In general, you will be landing upright on two feet. This could easily cause injuries to your knees and wear out your joints over time if not done properly. Keep the following in mind when landing:


Land on the balls of your feet. This is the semi-flat space between the toes and the arch. When you land, angle your feet pointing downward while lifting your toes.
Don't land with your legs straight. Bend your knees to absorb the shock of your landing.
Never bend your knees to an angle less than 90 degrees., Rolls can be done at the end of a controlled drop or after an unexpected fall. Their purpose is to spread out the force of impact, preventing injury. With practice, a quick roll can even be done painlessly on concrete. Until then, it's best to practice on soft surfaces, such as grass and gym mats. To execute a roll diagonally across your back:


When practicing, begin in a standing position with one leg slightly forward. The leg in front should correspond to the same side as the shoulder you plan on rolling onto.
Crouch down into a squat, placing your hands on the ground palms down. The hand of the side you're rolling into should be slightly behind the other, making a diagonal line with your front foot. The opposite hand should form a straight line with your back foot.
Push with your front leg to create momentum. Roll onto the corresponding arm and then drop onto your shoulder.
When your shoulder hits the ground, tuck your back leg into your side. Shift your weight and use your momentum to roll from your shoulder to your hip on the opposite side.
Hit the ground with your front foot first as you finish your roll.
It's extremely important to keep your head up and away from the ground at all times.