 Start out by signing up for a slow-paced class like a group yoga session where you won’t feel singled out. Once you are comfortable, you may join a class that focuses on teamwork and group encouragement, like a boot camp or CrossFit class. This way you slowly build up your confidence so you can take on bigger challenges.Once you start feeling comfortable in your classes, strike up light conversations with your classmates. You can discuss your experiences at the gym, or your opinion of the class you’re both in. Having a conversation will help you feel more welcome and less socially awkward at the gym.
 Consider regularly going to the gym with a friend or family member to help alleviate your anxiety. Being around someone you’re comfortable with can help to keep you motivated. Plus, they can help ease you into a new workout, encourage you to try a new class, or help you meet other members of your gym.Having a buddy with you at the gym will also give you someone to talk with. Jokes and light conversation can help decrease your anxiety and ensure that you have a good time at the gym.
 Making an effort to engage in small talk can help you overcome your social anxiety.Next time you have questions about the gym equipment or would like to talk about your exercise routine, seek out a personal trainer or coach. Remind yourself that they are there to help, and that they will not judge you for asking questions.


If a trainer isn’t around, ask another gym-goer for help. Talking with a trainer or gym-goer about workout plans or gym equipment will help you feel included and welcome at the gym, and reduce the anxiety that you feel in a new and unfamiliar place.
 People who have social anxiety disorder are often held back by negative thoughts, like “People at the gym won’t like me,” or “I’m not as fit as that person.” Remind yourself that these are assumptions and not facts.Over time, you can reduce these negative thoughts and have a more realistic, positive outlook about going to the gym.For example, you may think to yourself, “Everyone will judge me if I try to use that new piece of gym equipment.” Evaluate these thoughts so you can lessen their impact. Ask yourself, “Will someone truly think I’m incompetent just because I’m nervous?”