 Debt financing is probably the most common way to finance your business. You take out a loan and agree to pay it back over a certain amount of time. The lender charges interest and makes a profit that way. The most common business lenders are the following:



Commercial banks. If you do business with a bank, you can stop in and ask how to get a business loan.

Small Business Administration. The SBA technically doesn’t make loans, but it will guarantee loans for small businesses. This means if you default, then the SBA will cover the loan. Whether your business qualifies as “small” will depend on your industry.Online lenders. Generally, online lenders have looser lending standards and won’t require that you pledge collateral. However, you’ll need to make sure the lender is reputable by checking with the Better Business Bureau and a local consumer protection agency.;
, A lender will need to analyze your business’ finances before extending a loan. Collect the following paperwork, which most lenders require:resumes for all owners and managers
business plan
personal and business tax returns for the past three years
personal and business credit reports
personal and business bank statements
accounts receivable and accounts payable
business licenses
articles of incorporation or organization
commercial leases

, You’ll also need to submit financial reports to most lenders. Make sure you have created the following and that the information is updated:Signed personal financial statements from any significant owner of the business. Generally, you’ll need a personal financial statement from anyone who owns more than 20% of the business.

Balance sheet for the business. This is the snapshot of your business and contains information about assets, liabilities, and owner’s equity.Income statement. This document shows your business’ profitability during a specific period of time.

Cash flow analysis.
 Unless your business is established, a bank won’t lend to the business. Instead, they will lend based on your personal credit history. Review your credit history and clean up any errors before applying for loans.


Common errors include inaccurate balances, wrong credit limits, and accounts listed inaccurately as in default or collections.Dispute errors online or by writing a letter to the credit bureau that has the error. The Federal Trade Commission has a sample letter you can use., It might be easier to get a secured loan that is backed up with assets pledged as collateral. If you default on the loan, then your lender can seize the assets. Because of this added protection, banks might require collateral if you don’t have an established credit history.


You can pledge a variety of assets as collateral. For example, you can pledge your vehicle, home, equipment, or other assets. Talk to banks about their specific requirements.
Fully document the condition and value of your collateral.For example, you may need to have your collateral appraised.
 After you submit an application, the lender should decide whether to approve you. Generally, it takes two to four weeks to hear back.If you applied to more than one lender, then you should compare the loan details:Interest rate. Find out what percent will be charged annually on the loan.
Fees. You may have to pay an origination fee or other fees. Read the fine print to find out the fees charged.
Prepayment penalty. If you want to pay off your loan early, then some lenders might hit you with a fee for the privilege.
Length of repayment. Check how long you have to repay the loan. Generally, the longer the loan, the less you will pay each month. However, the total amount you pay will be higher.
 Provide all requested information and double check that it is accurate. If you have questions, contact the lending officer you have been working with. Submit your application with all supporting documentation and keep a copy for your records.

