 Seek professional help from your doctor immediately if you feel any numbness or tingling in your groin or legs, if you lose control of your bladder or bowels, or if your walk is affected.You should also see your doctor if you are unsure of the cause of your back pain or if it is getting worse. You will need further evaluation if you develop a fever or any new symptoms.
 Schedule an appointment. Be able to describe the exact nature of your back pain, how frequently your back hurts, what activities have become unbearable due to back pain, and any additional information that your physician might find useful. Your doctor will prescribe NSAIDs for general back pain, but can prescribe stronger medications if the pain becomes unbearable.
 Depending on the severity of the back pain, a doctor may suggest a steroid injection. Some people get relief for months or years when a steroid is injected into areas of the spine that suffer from extreme inflammation., Chiropractic professionals are dedicated to the non-surgical treatment of musculoskeletal conditions. Generally, they focus on your spine and the surrounding areas. Chiropractors use manual (hands-on) treatment to focus on lower back pain and herniated disc issues. , This trained professional will prescribe necessary exercises much like a doctor prescribes medication. Physical therapists will teach you how to stretch and strengthen your back muscles. They’ll also help you prevent unnecessary strain.


Egoscue practitioners specialize in posture therapy. He’ll focus on your back pain and identify any posture problems you may be having. He’ll examine the way you walk, sit, and sleep. Afterwards, he’ll outline a series of exercises that will help reduce pressure and tension in your back., The two best massages for lower back pain specifically are a quadratus lumborum (QL) muscle massage and a gluteus medius massage.


The QL massage focuses on the connection between your ribs and your pelvis - an area that is normally a source of lower back pain. This area becomes strained when your lower back remains mobile while your upper body sits still or when you sit slumped in a chair. Your therapist can stretch and massage this area with a QL massage.The gluteus medius massage works wonders in tandem with the QL massage. When the area between your ribs and pelvis becomes strained, it immediately causes strain in your upper buttocks region as well., A practitioner will insert thin needles into precise points throughout your body. Most acupuncturists argue that their needles stimulate the production of endorphins, serotonin, and acetylcholine. These are powerful painkilling chemicals naturally produced in your body. While the medical community is still out on the exact scientific effects of acupuncture, on-going clinical trials are hopeful. Certainly, there is a lot of anecdotal evidence (by patients) to support acupuncture’s effectiveness., A Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulator (TENS) unit may be used as a treatment option to help block severe nerve pain. This is not a cure. It is merely a pain management technique. It essentially blocks pain signals to the brain, so you don’t notice your back pain as much or at all. Only consider this technique after consulting your doctor and if all other methods have failed.