 If you know your boyfriend is busy, don’t call or text him, even if you miss him. If you interrupt him too often, you’ll seem clingy and he’ll get annoyed. Stick to the times you agreed on for talking and hanging out together.Don’t initiate all your conversations. Give your boyfriend a chance to call you first sometimes, too.
If you’re really tempted to call or text but you know it’s a bad time, turn off your phone, or go somewhere and leave your phone at home.
 If your boyfriend is really busy, he may not have time to watch the adorable baby video you tagged him in, or to check out the list of artists for a local concert. Ask him what's a happy medium for social media activity and stick to it. Numerous Facebook and Instagram messages can distract him from school or work.
 There are all kinds of reasons your boyfriend might not call or text you back. Maybe he forgot to take his phone off silent mode after class, or maybe he got held up by something at work. Don’t panic or assume he’s being passive-aggressive with you – everything is probably fine.Whatever you do, don’t send him a barrage of texts or calls. He’ll get back to you when he can. Find a way to distract yourself in the meantime.
 Be easygoing and flexible, and don’t try to monopolize your boyfriend’s free time. His family and other friends are important to him, and he needs to spend time with them sometimes. He may also need regular time alone to recharge., If your boyfriend never seems to make time for you, you may want to decide if that's the kind of relationship you were looking for. Some partners aren't simply cut out to be together. You might prefer a relationship in which your partner is more available to you--and that's not what you're getting with a boyfriend who's always busy.Before you make a decision, you might first talk to him about your needs. You might say something like, "I really want to spend more time with you on the weekends, but your schedule is always jam-packed. Us not spending time together is really bothering me. Will it always be like this?"
If your boyfriend tries to make changes to better accommodate you in his schedule, then you might give the relationship another shot.
You might also look for other signs of incompatibility, like different values and beliefs.
 If you suspect that your boyfriend is using being busy as an excuse to push you away, he’s probably not the right person for you. He might be married to his job or goals, and unless you have a similar mindset, you’ll probably end up feeling unloved and neglected.Sometimes people avoid their significant other because they don’t know how to break up. If you think this is what your boyfriend is doing, don’t drag things out. Be the more mature person and call it quits.

