 The first thing you need to do to get into the Hero pose is to position yourself on the mat properly. Without being positioned on the mat properly, you won’t be able to set yourself up for the pose.


Position yourself on your mat with your knees, shins, and feet flat on the mat.
Your legs (from feet to knees) should be spaced hip width apart.
Your body should be tilted forward a little bit.
Inhale and exhale as you are situating yourself.;
, After you’re positioned on the mat with your legs hip width apart, you’ll need to slowly sit in between your heels. Do this movement slowly and deliberately, otherwise you might mess up the movement or injure yourself.


Your arms should be parallel with your body and your hands should be touching/grabbing your legs and calves.
Tuck your thumbs into your knee creases,
Your ankles should be in line with your knees.
Move your behind slowly down toward the ground between your feet., If because of pain or discomfort, you are unable to completely sit on the floor between your feet, use a pillow or a block to prop your behind up. Don’t be ashamed to use a pillow or a block. Your ability to sit fully on the ground will come slowly, as you do more stretches and practice the pose.
 Now that you’re sitting on the ground (or on a pillow), you need to make sure that your torso is straight in the air. Sitting straight up, perpendicular to your feet, will promote good posture and stretch your muscles.


The straightening of your torso will complete the Hero pose.
Inhale and exhale as you sit up.
Take several moments to stretch and enjoy the pose., Before you begin to transition from the Hero to the Reclining Hero pose, you should breathe deeply and inhale and exhale. Breathing deeply will help relax your mind and body.


Inhale and count to 5.
Slowly begin a long exhale while counting from 6 to 10.
Repeat this as many times as you like., Slowly place your palms on the mat behind your feet. This will begin the process of reclining from the Hero pose. The end of this transition will be a full recline.


Make sure to move your arms, hands, and palms slowly as you begin to place them on the mat behind you.
Make sure your movements are slow and deliberate.
Continue breathing exercises, if you want., Slowly begin the process of leaning back. At the same time, take your hands (and palms) that are already on the ground and walk them further back from your feet as you lean back.


This is a transitionary position that you will do quickly, but deliberately.
The process of leaning back will continue until you are almost parallel with the ground.
Move slowly so as to not hurt your back or pull any muscles., Continue the process of reclining/leaning backward. Make sure your elbows are now touching the ground and your forearm is flat on the ground in a line with your feet and legs.


Your hands should now be touching the last few inches of the bottom of your feet.
Your upper arm should be perpendicular with your forearm
Your torso should be angled slightly to your arms and the ground., Slowly begin the process of lowering your body flat to the ground. Lowering your body to the ground will complete the reclining hero position.


As you are lowering your body to the ground, slowly slide your forearms forward so your hands are gripping the heels of your feet.
Hold the pose and breathe deeply.
If you want, bring your arms over your head to stretch them., After you’ve held the pose for as long as you want, it will be time to release yourself from the pose. Releasing the pose will be a moment of relief, as your mind and body will be able to relax a bit.


Begin releasing from the pose by pressing up from your arms and elbows.
Slowly push yourself and then pull yourself up toward your legs.
Use all of your muscles, including your stomach muscles and leg muscles., The Reclining Hero Pose is a moderate to advanced pose that requires a certain level of fitness. Before you attempt it, you need to know if you are fit enough. Consider:


Talking to your doctor.
Discussing the pose and your fitness level with a personal trainer or a yoga instructor.
Making sure you work into the pose by starting with simpler and beginner poses.
Stopping immediately if you feel pain or a high level of discomfort.
Avoiding this pose if you have persistent back problems, are pregnant, or have other relevant health issues., Practicing the reclining hero pose is best done in a quiet and relaxing location. Making sure you are in a relaxed and quiet location will not only help you relax, but will help you concentrate on the complex movements you will need to perform in order to do the pose.
 After you’ve found a good location, make sure you have a flat surface to lay your yoga mat on. A flat surface is very important, since you’ll be reclining and laying down during the pose. If you cannot find a flat surface where you are, look for a different location.
 Many people who do yoga like to start off with breathing exercises before they start different movements and poses. This is highly recommended, as not only does it help relax your body, but it also helps clear your mind.


Breathe deeply.
Consider counting out your breaths. Inhale and then count to five. Start your exhale at six and complete it at the count of ten.
Make sure to experiment with breathing and to consult a yoga teacher if you have any questions.

