 Draw up a list of things you do every night before bed. You probably have a routine, even if you don't keep it consciously. Maybe you always watch TV, or you always change into pajamas. Write a list of everything you normally do before bedtime.


Do the same for your morning routine. You should be brushing your teeth twice a day.
In the morning, it may be easiest to brush teeth when you first get up, like washing your face to refresh yourself.
If you groggy when you first wake up, try brushing your teeth after you have had breakfast.
 Look at the list and ask yourself "when would it make sense to brush my teeth?" You should brush your teeth after you have finished eating and drinking for the day. It is a good idea to brush your teeth before you get into bed, as you may fall asleep without completing your routine. Add "brush teeth" to the list.


Brush your teeth as early as makes sense for your routine. If you never eat or drink anything but water after dinner, brush immediately after dinner.
Add "brush teeth" to the list before you get too tired to brush your teeth and remember it is the most important thing you need to do before sleeping.
Attach your brushing to something you do reliably. If you always eat at certain times, set your brushing to happen right after you eat.
If you shower daily, try always brushing your teeth while you shower.
 Your list is now an "order of operations." Make copies of your list, and check off each item as you do it. Do this every night for a week, or until you feel that brushing is a part of your routine. Next, try leaving the list by your bed. Don't look at it until you have gotten into bed. Did you brush your teeth?


If you keep forgetting to brush your teeth, use the list again. Use it until it is no longer useful for you.
It is important to list things beside "brush teeth" to the list, because otherwise you may forget the list entirely.
 Once you have established an order of operations that makes sense to you, follow it. You are trying to break one habit and establish another. Losing track of your new routine could put you right back where you started. Re-introduce the list whenever you fall out of your new habit.


Let yourself know that not brushing isn't an option. When you realize you forgot to brush, brush. Do this even if it means you'll have to get out of a warm bed or interrupt your workflow.
Also, make sure to use a mouthwash to rinse before going to bed. You might try leaving the bottle in awkward places, such as your desk or close to your bed to remember that you have to brush. Then, move the bottle to another place to catch your attention the next day.

