 Before you agree to make payments, you should review your own finances so you know the amount you can afford each month.


Although back child support is one debt you can't discharge in bankruptcy, if you have significant consumer debt including credit card debt, you might consider filing for bankruptcy to free up additional funds each month that you can use to pay your child support arrears.Additionally, some states such as California allow for a suspension of interest on arrears if you file Chapter 13 bankruptcy. To qualify, you must have a job and be able to pay all your back child support within five years., Many states have programs to settle a portion or all of the debt owed to the state.Statutory programs exist in 29 states, with another 17 states that are willing to compromise debt on a case-by-case basis. In some of those states such as Maine and South Carolina, debt forgiveness is rare. Others such as Pennsylvania require court approval of all agreements to compromise child support debt.Five states do not allow any compromise of back child support, including interest owed: Arkansas, Idaho, Mississippi, Missouri, and Virginia.Some plans require continuous payments for a period of time before any amount of back child support owed will be forgiven. For example, Alabama's child support debt compromise law allows for forgiveness of interest on arrears if you pay current child support for at least 12 consecutive months.Some state laws require the agreement of the custodial parent before any back child support, including interest, will be forgiven., If you live in a state with a debt compromise program, you may be eligible only if you owe back child support to the state agency rather than to the other parent directly.


The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has a map of all the state child support agencies with debt compromise policies at http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/css/state-child-support-agencies-with-debt-compromise-policies-map.
You may have to work with the agency to create a plan that fits in your budget, but continue to indicate a desire and willingness to pay your debt., The agency should send you a full accounting of the amount you owe, the amount of the monthly payments, how those payments will be made, and how long you must make payments before your back child support will be considered paid in full.


Make sure you understand the terms of the agreement before you agree to it, particularly if payments are being automatically deducted from a bank account or withheld from your paycheck.

