 You will need about twelve ounces (340g) if you want to make enough coffee for one mug, although you will need some extra in order to soak the filter, so put much more water to boil than you think you'll need.


The type of water used matters. It should always be fresh and cold and never distilled or chemically softened. If you do not like drinking tap water, it stands to reason that you will probably prefer coffee made with filtered water instead. However, be aware that soft water isn't ideal as a coffee base because it lacks the flavor-enhancing minerals and sodium found in hard water.;
, You will get the best flavor from coffee that has been freshly ground in your kitchen, but you can also use preground coffee. Generally, it's best to use one tablespoon of grounds for every cup of water (or approximate six ounces/170g), but it may differ for the type of coffee and your tastes. Another rule of thumb is one tablespoon of whole coffee beans per three ounces of water. Bear in mind that being generous with the coffee is always better than being stingy. You can always dilute coffee after brewing it but you can't make it stronger.
 Place the dripper on top of the mug, and place a paper filter inside. Usually a ceramic or glass dipper is best for extracting the most of the coffee flavor.


Some filters need to be folded. Check your filter's instructions.
 This will rinse out any persistent paper taste.
 For example, with three tablespoons of beans having been freshly ground, nine ounces of water will do. Use a measuring cup with a good pouring spout if you can. Let it sit and cool to off-boil (195°F or 90°C) while you take the next step.
 Pour any milk and sugar into the mug being used for the coffee. This way you can brew directly into your cup and any sugars will dissolve nicely. If you're making pour over, though, you'll probably enjoy the coffee without any additives.
, The coffee will begin to froth, and create a "flume." Wait 30 seconds for the flume to go down somewhat.
 With some dripper/filter setups it's recommended that you don't pour directly onto the filter; always pour onto the grounds. While pouring, make sure the dripper stays on top of the mug––sometimes it can topple over! As you're pouring, check that the mug does not overflow.
