 LKM is a form of meditation that enhances your feelings of kindness for yourself and others. LKM can give you the tools that you need to become proficient in self-love., Loving-Kindness Meditation involves loving without the imposition of expectations or conditions. It encourages you to love without judgment (either of yourself or others). Judgments of ourselves or others often causes misery in relationships with others or in our own minds. Learning to love without judgment is learning to love selflessly.
 Begin with breathing in slowly and deeply. Sit comfortably in a chair and allow your chest to fill completely with air, expanding from your diaphragm. Then exhale slowly and completely. , As you continue your deep breaths, begin repeating the following affirmations to yourself: May I achieve my dreams and live in happiness and peace.
May I love others with my whole heart.
I wish for myself and my family to be protected from harm.
I wish for a life of heath for myself, my family, and my friends.
May I learn to forgive myself and others.
 If you find yourself thinking negative thoughts while you are repeating these affirmations, think about who is triggering these negative thoughts. Identify people towards whom you have difficulty feeling unconditional love. Repeat your affirmations, thinking about these people. , Repeat the affirmations, keeping that person in your mind as you repeat them.
 Repeat the affirmations, keeping that person about whom you feel neutral in mind.
 Repeat the affirmations without thinking of anyone in particular. Focus instead on the positivity of the affirmations. Allow the feelings of positivity to fill you completely, and send that positivity out from yourself to the entire planet. , Once you have extended feelings of positivity everywhere, repeat the following mantra: “May all living humans feel and be joyous, happiness, and healthfulness.” Repeat this affirmation five times as you feel the words resonate in your body and extend out to everything in the universe. 