 You can make positive connections with your boyfriend’s friend by getting to know him. Try to find things you can connect over, such as shared interests, and use these connections to create a bond that is unique to your relationship with him. Ask him what he likes to do on the weekend, or what his favorite movie genre or sport is. You can get to know him on a deeper level by finding out what he studied in college, and why.After you learn some of your boyfriend’s best friend’s interests, make an effort to include him when you and your boyfriend do things he enjoys.


You can ask, “What’s your favorite sport?” “What’s your favorite position to play in the sport?” and “Did you see the game over the weekend?”
You can also ask, “What's your favorite subject in school?” Once they have replied, you can ask, “How did you become interested in the subject?” and “What do you find most fascinating about the subject?”
You might even try spending some time alone with your boyfriend's best friend. Ask him to lunch or to help you pick out something for your boyfriend.;
, Making someone feel less important will only bring tension and frustration into the relationship between you and the other person. Instead, make him feel good about himself by offering sincere praise and appreciation. You can either compliment him on specific past achievements, highlight the great work he’s doing, or let him know that you are having an enjoyable time hanging out.You can say, “Jason (your boyfriend) told me that that you practiced every day in order to get the sports scholarship. I really admire your work ethic and motivation.”

, Try to hold back any criticisms or insults when interacting with your boyfriend’s friend. Disapproving of and judging his actions will only create distrust between you and him. Instead, decline to make a comment, or turn it into something more positive.For example, if he is bragging about his drunkenness and sexual liaisons Saturday night, try not to degrade him by calling him a pig or disgusting. Instead, steer the conversation into another direction, for example, “What else did you do over the weekend?”
Try treat him as you would your own close friend. If he personally upsets you in some way, try to communicate about this and find a solution so that resentment does not occur when your boyfriend wants to spend time with him. However, it is not your job to judge or lecture him for his choices that don't involve you.

