 Get a #2 yellow pencil, an eraser, a ruler, a compass or varied round objects such as dishes to use as a circle templates.;
, You can use watercolors of any type, tubes or dry pads, an array of watercolor brushes, a water bucket, a piece of old terry toweling to hold supplies, and tissues or napkins.
  This will guarantee fresh, dark, ink that won't skip or disappear halfway through your project.  If your design has small, complicated areas, also purchase a black Sharpie with a tip that is pointed.
  Hold the paper either horizontally or vertically and using a ruler, draw a light pencil line, dividing your paper into four equal quarters.  These light lines will help keep you on track and will assist you in keeping all lines straight.
  Pick something that is meaningful to you and draw it in the center of the paper, any size you wish. Draw it free hand or use stencils from the art store.
 Use a ruler, and drop horizontal and vertical lines to surround and outline the central figure.  Work symmetrically, having the shapes the same on both sides of the center line.  Divide all of those spaces again, breaking them into smaller shapes, if you wish.
  Use plates, saucers, cups, etc. as templates to get rounded shapes.,  Always try to use the biggest brush possible to cover an area on your work. Premix tube paints thoroughly on the palette with enough water to make it easily spreadable, but retaining the illusion of luminosity. Have your paint transparent enough so the white of the paper shines through.,  You can do random colors or devise a color plan, keeping the painted shapes symmetrical, or the same color on both sides.  There is no correct or right way to work the window panes.  Just enjoy playing with beautiful colors and making a pleasing array of colors.
,  This will give bold dividing lines similar to the leading in stained glass. Do this freehand. Go slowly and follow the guide lines you drew initially. Use the sharp pointed Sharpie marker for details. Look on the internet for stained glass watercolors to see how to break up larger areas of color into smaller shapes.
  If any section needs enriching, repeat with a second coat or layer of the same or another color. Just remember to keep it sheer so the white of the paper shows through.,  Pat the section dry.  Always bear in mind to work for the illusion of light coming through the window.  If you remove too much, simply dry the piece and retouch more color onto an area.

