 If you know you're going to an emotional event, (wedding, funeral, etc.) where you know you will have a high chance of crying, be sure to wear waterproof makeup, to avoid those panda eyes.;
, A quick wipe-up can at least prevent you from crying even more about spoiled makeup or having a snotty nose.
 Most useful is a low-brow hat that can be tilted over the eye area. But you could try a scarf, sunglasses or a veil as well.


If you're lacking clothing to help, shield your eye area with a magazine, book or clutch bag until the crying is over.
 If you rub them too hard, they will most likely turn red, and puffy, and that does not look attractive. Instead, just let the tears flow down your cheeks. If you're crying because of a smaller reason(not a funeral or something where you'll cry a lot, but rather getting frustrated about something you know you'll get over quickly with only a few tears), then don't hold it in. If you do, then your eyes can become red, and eventually you'll have to let the tears out anyway, so your efforts will be wasted. If you don't try to hold it back at all(which can be very hard sometimes), then the tears will come out without any redness, or lasting effects. Then, gently wipe the tears away once they have fallen down your cheek.


Use a tissue to gently dab away the wetness, if you need. When you wipe your tears, gently swipe them off your face. Or else your face will feel sticky and shiny, and yes, it makes your skin look worse. So, gently swipe the tears off, then smile!

, This is a common thing that lots of people, especially children, tend to do automatically. Screwing or scrunching up your face mars its natural attractiveness, so avoid this as much as possible.


Don't purposely make an ugly face, although some people do it by instinct. Think positive thoughts, not negative. Smile and be happy.
 This can help you to relax and calm the belly sobs welling up. Breathe in, and out, in and out. Focus on trying to relax.


Purse your lips together to contain yourself better.
 Try your best not to make any heavy, loud breathing sounds, (although it is hard to control for some people). Instead, take slow and steady breaths and just sob or sniffle every once in a while.
 If you act all serious and dark, you won't look cute. Although giggling does induce a few more tears, it makes you look prettier and happier, so giggle!

, If you are an ugly crier and you can't help but make an ugly face and sob really loudly, which is not uncommon, once you start crying, bury your face in your hands. Once you have slowed down your crying and you're just sobbing and sniffling, put your head back up and continue on.

