 Alcohol dehydrates you, and since Jagermeister has such high alcohol by volume, it dehydrates you very quickly. Try alternating a full glass of water with every drink of Jager you take. The water will slow down the dehydration process and keep you from getting too drunk.Understand that because you are drinking so much water, you will be running to the bathroom quite frequently.
The more alcohol you drink, the less water you will remember to consume. Drink a couple glasses of water before you start drinking alcohol to help level the playing field.
If a room is especially warm, you may find yourself dehydrated sooner rather than later. If you’re sweating more than you normally do, drink even more water to avoid becoming too drunk.;
, Going to the bathroom frequently doesn’t just dehydrate your body – it also depletes it of necessary nutrients. This loss of nutrients is partially responsible for the hangover you feel the next day. To counteract this, drink plenty of electrolytes while drinking Jagermeister.Keep packets of Emergen-C handy, so you can mix them into water and drink them between glasses of Jager.
Buy a bottle of Gatorade and chug that between drinks of Jager.
 Drinking from a curved or round glass can result in you drinking more alcohol, because it’s tougher to gauge how much alcohol you’ve consumed. Keep track of how many drinks you’ve had (and if you can, how many ounces are in each drink). This will keep you from drinking too much too quickly.Standard drink size for Jagermeister is usually 1.5 fluid ounces.Standard drink size for a glass of wine is 5 fluid ounces. For beer, it's 12 ounces.
 Ask for your Jagermeister neat or on the rocks. Mixing Jager with sugar will only increase your chances of getting dehydrated. And if you are drinking Jagermeister, stick to Jagermeister. Mixing different types of alcohol is the easiest way to get sick or too drunk.


If you plan on mixing your Jager with sugary drinks, decrease your sugar intake earlier in the day to help your body maintain balance.Sugary drinks go down easier and faster, so removing sugar from your drink is a great way to help nurse your drink longer.
 Moderate drinking for men is described as 2 drinks per day and 14 drinks per week. For women, moderate drinking consists of 1 drink per day and 7 drinks per week. Decide ahead of time how buzzed you want to get while drinking, set a concrete number of drinks you're allowed to have and stick to that number.No-risk drinking for men consists of 3-4 drinks per day. For women, it's 2-3 drinks per day.
Low-risk drinking for men consists of 5-7 drinks per day. For women, it's 4-5 drinks per day.

