 Apple juice and yeast are the only essential ingredients, but there are a few other ingredients that can be added in order to alter the final product.

You can either use apple juice or apple cider. Many prefer the taste of pasteurized, sweet apple cider, but you could use fresh apple juice just as easily. Note, however, that unpasteurized juice will need to be sanitized before you can ferment it.
Dry wine yeasts are affordable and effective. Beer yeasts are also affordable, and many beginning cider makers find them easier to work with. Specialized yeast packages specifically labeled for use with hard apple cider are also available but tend to be more expensive.
Pectic enzyme helps clear cloudiness and is often used with heat-brewed cider.
Adding sugar to the cider will product a higher alcohol content.
The extra apple juice is only needed if you plan to use a starter.;
, All of your supplies need to be washed with hot water and mild dish detergent before use.

Rinse well to remove any soapy residue.
Let the supplies dry completely before use.
Wild bacteria can cause the cider to taste bad and can even turn your batch of hard cider into vinegar.


Pour your apple juice into a resealable container with a tight lid.
Pour half of your yeast into the apple juice, seal the container, and shake well for a few seconds.
When bubbling occurs, release the pressure inside the container by opening the lid. Note that it may take five to six hours before bubbling starts.
Reseal the lid and place the container in the refrigerator overnight.
Remove the starter a few hours before you brew your cider.
 Using heat to brew your hard cider is the safest, most common method.

If starting with unpasteurized juice from an unknown source or juice from imperfect apples, the heat method is the safest one to use.
Heat does reduce the aroma of the cider, however. The heat is also more likely to lead to a cloudy cider.
 Place the saucepan of cider on the stove and heat over medium.

Do not allow the juice to boil. The high temperatures required for boiling to occur will cause the pectins in the apple juice or apple cider to set. As a result, you will end up with a cloudier cider.
Monitor the heat of the juice using a food-grade thermometer that clips onto the side of your saucepan. Make sure that the thermometer take the temperature of the liquid, not the temperature of the side or bottom of the pan.
 Once the juice or cider reaches this temperature, cover the saucepan with a lid and let sit for 10 minutes.

Peek at the juice through the lid frequently to make sure that it has not begun to boil.
 Fill a large tub or container with cold water and ice. Place the covered saucepan in the ice water to quickly bring down the temperature.

Your juice is ready for the next part of the process once it reaches 70 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius).
 This is an alternate brewing method and should be used if you do not intend to heat your juice before fermenting it. You should not use both brewing methods.

Sulfites come in the form of campden tablets.
The sulfites are fairly mild and are usually neutralized by the time the cider is ready to enjoy.
You will need to let the juice sit for a while after adding the sulfites in order to reduce the strength of the sulfites. Otherwise, the sulfites may kill some of the yeast.
 Pour the juice or cider directly into the container you intend to ferment the cider in.

A professional-grade fermenter leaves the smallest room for error, but you can use five 1-gallon (4-L) empty milk jugs for a cheaper option.
 Use the back of a spoon to crush the tablets into a fine dust.

Crush the tablets on a plate or other surface that you can easily remove the powder from.
 Add the crushed campden tablets to your juice or cider and stir slightly with a spoon to mix., Cover the fermenter and allow the sulfites to sit in the juice for a full two days before you ferment the cider.

You will ferment the juice with remnants of the sulfites in it. These sulfites will not get filtered out.
 Bring the water to a boil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Turn the heat off once the water boils.

You only need to boil the water if you plan on using a yeast nutrient, and you only need to use a yeast nutrient if you do not plan to use a starter. A starter essentially serves the same purpose as the yeast nutrient, so you only need to use one or the other.
 Stir the yeast nutrient into the hot water until dissolved. Let the water cool until it reaches a range between 80 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit (27 and 38 degrees Celsius).

Note that it is perfectly normal for the mixture to smell bad after you add the yeast nutrient.
 If desired, stir the pectic enzyme into the mixture once it drops to room temperature.

Pectic enzyme is used to clear cloudiness.
If using a starter instead of the yeast nutrient, combine the pectic enzyme with the starter just before adding the starter to the fermenter. Make sure that the starter is at room temperature.
 Pour your juice into the fermenter if it is not already inside. Add the nutrient mixture or starter to the juice and stir slightly to combine.

A professional-grade fermenter may work best, but you could use five 1-gallon (4-L) empty milk jugs for a cheaper option.
Make sure to leave at least 2 inches (5 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the fermenter.
 The sugar is not necessary, but adding sugar to the juice before you ferment it will create a cider with a higher alcohol content.

Moreover, hard cider with sugar in it will continue to improve the longer it ages.
 Gently stir any remaining yeast into your cider.,

Fit the airlock into the top of the fermenter.
Note that instead of an airlock, you could use a piece of plastic wrap stretched over the top of the fermenter and held in place with a rubber band. This method does not work quite as well, but is usually effective.
 Place the cider out of direct sunlight in an area that reaches between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18 and 24 degrees Celsius).

The cider should ferment over the next two weeks. During this time, expect to see activity through the clear sides of the airlock.
Once you no longer see any activity in the airlock, wait another 3 to 5 days before bottling the cider.
 This is not absolutely essential, but it is the best way to verify that the fermentation process has been completed.

The hard cider should also taste quite dry.
 Your hard cider is ready to bottle as soon as the fermentation process is finished.

Attach a plastic spigot to the fermenter if it does not already have one on it. Fix food-grade tubing to this spigot, and pour the cider directly into clean, food-grade bottles.
Seal the bottles.
Within two weeks, the cider should be ready to drink.
Wait for several months if you want it to be fizzy.
 If your hard cider is too cloudy for your liking, clarify it by putting it through a second fermenter before bottling it.

Siphon the cider into a second fermenter using a spigot and food-grade tubing.
Allow the cider to ferment in this container for an extra month.
Bottle the clarified cider using the same method you would use to bottle hard cider immediately, as outlined above.
Note that clarified cider will not have any bubbles.
 Store your hard cider for months and enjoy as desired.