 Sometimes you can get a referral by asking people you know.Ask friends or colleagues if they would recommend a debt relief lawyer.


People might be hesitant to admit that they have used a debt relief lawyer. However, they might know of someone else who has. In this situation, people might tell you the name of the lawyer that person used.;
, Your local or state bar association probably runs a referral program or can point you in the direction of an approved referral program.Contact the bar association and ask for a referral for a debt relief lawyer.


You can find your bar association by searching the Internet. Type “your state” or “your city” and “lawyer referral.”
The referral service may give you the name of one attorney, or it may host a database that you can browse.
 Lawyers are another great source for referrals.If you used a lawyer on a real estate matter or to write a will, then you can ask him or her to recommend a debt relief lawyer.


Lawyers often know the reputations of other lawyers in the community, so they should only refer you to someone that the lawyer feels is qualified.
Reconnect with your attorney by stopping in or calling. Briefly explain your situation and ask if they know a debt relief lawyer you could call.
 Once you have the names of several attorneys, you should do some preliminary research. You want to find lawyers who are experienced in debt relief and who run professional law firms. As you browse each lawyer’s website, look for the following:


Relevant experience. You want to hire a lawyer who has handled debt relief matters before. Some lawyers might specialize in only debt relief. If the lawyer runs a more general practice, then look to see if any debt relief experience is specifically mentioned. A lawyer’s profile should contain information about his or her experience.Client testimonials. Lawyers often include a few sentences from former clients testifying to the good experience they had with the lawyer.
Grammar and spelling. The website should be free of grammatical or spelling errors. Also, if the website talks about legal concepts, it should do so in an understandable way. A lawyer who doesn’t care how he comes across on his website will probably be sloppy in his legal representation.
 You should narrow your list of attorneys to two or three. If none of the lawyers look appropriate based on your review of their websites, then you should contact your bar association again and get more referrals.


Try to keep your list short. You need to set up consultations. You might not have enough time to meet with more than three lawyers.
 Once you have narrowed your list of attorneys, you can set up consultations with each. Most lawyers offer 15-30 minute consultations.Depending on the lawyer’s schedule, you might need to set up a consultation by telephone.Although a telephone consultation is not as ideal as meeting with a lawyer face-to-face, you should consider a telephone consultation if you liked the lawyer’s experience and website.
Many lawyers now offer free consultations. However, some might charge a modest fee (around $25-35). You shouldn’t automatically dismiss meeting with a lawyer who charges a small fee. These lawyers sometimes are more willing to share information about how to defend yourself. If you are thinking about representing yourself, then paying a small fee might pay off down the road.
 You should prepare for your consultation by pulling together relevant documents which will give your lawyer a good sense of your debt. For example, you should gather copies of the following:any letter or email you have received from the creditor
any communication from a debt collection agency
information on the debt, e.g., the original loan documents
financial information, such as how much you make and your monthly expenses

, There should be time during the consultation to ask the lawyer some questions. You should prepare a half dozen questions. Try to avoid asking a question if you can find the answer on the attorney’s website. For example, most lawyers should include information about what law school they went to and how long they have been admitted to practice. Instead, think about asking these questions:How much of the lawyer’s caseload involves representing clients on debt matters?
Has the lawyer handled a case like yours before?
Has the lawyer negotiated with your creditor or the collection agency before?
What percentage of cases successfully settle? (Say upfront that you know the lawyer cannot promise a result.)

, Always remember to talk about how much the lawyer charges.Typically, lawyers have charged by the hour. They set an hourly rate and then bill you every month for the amount of time they have spent on your case.
 Lawyers are very busy and often try to squeeze consultations in between trips to court. You should try to arrive fifteen minutes early. Give yourself enough time to find parking.


If you are running late, then be sure to call the lawyer’s office as soon as possible. You may have to reschedule the consultation or conduct the consultation over the phone.
 Every lawyer belongs to at least one state bar. Each state has set up a disciplinary commission to investigate allegations of attorney misconduct. If the commission finds that the lawyer has violated the code of ethics, it will discipline the lawyer.Lawyer ethics cover such things as keeping a client’s confidences, billing and handling a clients’ money appropriately, and not representing clients if there is a conflict of interest. When a lawyer violates any of these ethical rules, he or she can be sanctioned.
Find your state’s disciplinary commission on the Internet and search for the lawyer’s disciplinary history. There should be a notation of any discipline.
 Many websites now host reviews of lawyers and law firms. These should pop up on the first few pages when you perform a web search for the attorney. Clients now leave reviews on websites such as Avvo, Yelp, and Google.You should certainly look at these reviews. However, you should take them with a grain of salt. Because many reviews are anonymous, there is no way of knowing whether the reviewer was actually a client or not. Also, some clients are impossible to please. A negative review might not actually reflect the lawyer’s skill.
However, be on the lookout for repeated complaints about the same thing. If more than one person complains that the lawyer doesn’t bill accurately, then this could reflect a real problem.
 There are some signs, or “red flags,” that you are dealing with a bad debt relief lawyer. Pay attention to the following and avoid the lawyer if he or she did any of the following during your consultation:The lawyer promises a quick resolution. No lawyer can guarantee that settlement negotiations can be conducted quickly. Generally, it can take several months of back and forth before reaching a result.
The lawyer swears that you need a lawyer. Actually, you can negotiate on your own behalf. Although you might not be as experienced at negotiations as a lawyer, it is false for a lawyer to suggest you absolutely must have a lawyer.
The lawyer wants to bill a set amount each month. This is not a productive way of charging a client. Flat-rate billing actually increases the amount of time it can take to settle a matter because the lawyer has an incentive to drag out negotiations.
 A lawyer is ethically prohibited from telling clients that he or she can “guarantee” a result.Instead, a lawyer can generally discuss your chances based on the lawyer’s experience and the strengths and weaknesses of your case.


For example, a lawyer can say, “I have negotiated settlements with that credit card company before, and the company was very eager to settle. I think your case is about as strong as the other cases. So it depends on whether the credit card company is still as eager to settle as they used to be in the past.”
An unethical attorney would say, “I can guarantee that I will reduce your debt by 50%.”

, There are many quality debt relief lawyers who can help you. Just as you must guard against hiring a bad lawyer, you should be on the lookout for these signs of a good attorney:Explains the case in a way that you can understand. This shows that the lawyer cares about your opinion. You can’t actively participate in your own settlement if you don’t understand what is happening.
Only tries to charge you for work done. The lawyer should send you an itemized bill, showing what tasks were performed and how much was billed for each task.
Promises to work diligently on your behalf, but doesn’t promise specific results.
Describes the bankruptcy process and the fact that your entire debt could be wiped out in bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is always an option. If you want to pursue bankruptcy, then the debt relief attorney should be able to provide you with a referral to a bankruptcy attorney.
 Once you have eliminated any bad lawyers, you should review the remaining candidates. If all of the candidates you consulted with were bad, then you will need to start over and get more referrals. However, if you found some acceptable, then make a choice about who to hire.


It is important that you feel comfortable with whatever lawyer you choose.You will be working closely with the attorney, and you need to hire someone you feel at ease with. Think back to your consultation. Did you feel comfortable asking the lawyer questions? Did she answer them in a way that you understood?
You should trust your gut. So long as the lawyer has sufficient experience, charges a reasonable fee, and makes you feel comfortable, then you can’t choose wrong.
 After notifying the lawyer that you want to hire them, you should receive a letter in the mail. This is called the “engagement letter” or “employment agreement.” It tells you exactly what work the lawyer will perform, and explains fees and expenses. The agreement should also explain your obligations as a client (such as being cooperative and paying bills in a timely manner).Once you receive the letter, read it carefully and make notes about anything you don’t understand or anything you disagree with. Contact your lawyer to discuss these problems.
Once you have resolved any differences, ask the lawyer to send you a clean engagement letter and sign it. Keep a copy for your records.

