 If you’re able to plan an outdoor wedding during the day or early evening, you can enjoy a completely naturally lit wedding. If you want an indoor affair, try to book a spot with large windows and encourage the organizers to limit their use of the electrical lighting.


For both indoor and outdoor weddings, you may need to supplement the natural light. To do this in a particularly lovely way, light different sized candles and spread them throughout the space.
 Meat production, especially of red meat, has a high environmental cost. There are many vegetarian options that can delight your guests while also satisfying your desire to help the planet. Consider pasta dishes, salads, and elegant but meat-free finger foods.You can make your menu meat-free from start to finish. Start with deep-fried goat cheese, mozzarella risotto balls, and an elaborate crudité platter filled with cut vegetables. Move on to a caprese salad and some marinated portabella mushrooms for the main course. You can supplement the meal with side options such as eggplant fritters or baked polenta., The harvesting of many vegetables, flowers, and other items worldwide is often conducted by workers experiencing exploitative conditions. Do research to find out if the providers you’re using adhere to fair and equitable work standards.Check the labels of the food you buy and see if it’s certified as “Fair Trade.” The non-profit Fair Trade USA is a reliable certifier of suppliers both in and outside of the United States. Even when purchasing at farmer’s markets, be sure to ask your suppliers questions not just about the organic and local quality of the food, but also the working conditions of their laborers., Rather than decorating the tables with flower arrangements that will die in a few days or weeks, choose potted plants and flowers that you and your guests can take home and plant. Your wedding decorations could become part of gardens that attendees can enjoy for years to come., Instead of flowers, consider materials that could be either reused or disposed of safely. Try a bouquet of unique and colorful vegetables that could be eaten after the ceremony, and place stones and pebbles on the tables., Be sure your caterer and baker plan to use only edible decorations on their food. Work with them to ensure that there will be a minimal amount of leftover food. You’ll also want to hire providers who compost all of their biodegradable waste., The most important goal of your wedding day should be to ensure that nothing is thrown away that could be reused. Food is often disposed of when it could be given to those in need. You and your guests may also want to take home leftovers, as this could save you a few nights of cooking weeks or even months later.
 Book a photographer who uses a digital camera and will commit to giving you digital, rather than paper, prints. You can also ask your photographer if they’re willing to use a printing lab that adheres to environmental printing practices and is certified by the Forestry Stewardship Council.Don’t give your guests disposable cameras. While this is a sweet and cute idea, it’s unnecessary in the age of smartphones, and it’s not eco-friendly.

