 Perhaps just as important as the career of choice is the office that you choose to work in. People with ADHD often have a need for structure in their work environments, but also for spaces that are not dull or slow paced. Look for jobs that will keep you actively engaged during your entire work day. If you are interviewing, pay attention to the demeanors of the staff and to the overall buzz of the office.If the staff seems upbeat and excited, this could be an indication that the office environment is fast paced.
If you hear laughter, this could also be an indication of a fun and dynamic office structure.
Pay attention to the colors of the office and the artwork. Often times, you can tell how the office structure is by looking at your physical surroundings.
 As a person with ADHD, you are very likely to need autonomy, clearly defined expectations, and open lines of communication. Should you secure an interview with a potential employer, ask them about their style of supervision and see if it lines up with your needs and values.If your potential boss says that they are looking for someone that needs little to no instruction, consider if this role would be suitable for you.
 You will likely need a bit of flexibility in your role in order to not feel suffocated and to work at your optimal level. Look for jobs that will provide you with the kinds of flexibility that will be important to you.


For instance, if you work best at night, you might look for jobs that have lots of night time hours, but provide flex time during the day.
Also, if you would like the opportunity to work from home, you should assess if that is an option from the start.
Don’t push your luck, however. Though you want to find a job and office that will fit your needs, realize that you will also have to be flexible, as well.
 If you know of someone who works in the department or office that you are interested in or have secured an interview with, reach out to them to ask if they can tell you about their experience. During the interview, most employers like to portray their office in the best light possible, and can sometimes be misleading. Get the inside scoop if possible to determine the true office dynamics and structure.


You can also ask these staff questions during the interview if they are present. Most interviews will not only be with the boss or supervisor, but with some of their staff, as well.
Don’t make a decision based solely on what a staff person says, however. Consider all of the information available to you when deciding on a job.
 If you should have any hesitations or concerns about a particular job or office, then you should make those concerns known by asking questions during the interview. Don’t be alarmist, but do seek to understand. This decision will be an important one for you so it is critical to have as much information as possible.For instance, don’t ask things like “why do you have such a high staff turnover rate?” but instead ask “how do you incentivize talented staff to stay rather than moving on to other opportunities?”
You might ask things like “what do you enjoy about working here?” or “what are some challenges?”

, Once you have secured a job in an office that you like, remember that this is not the end. You are unlikely to feel completely happy every day at your job and that is okay and perfectly normal. Recognize that you can make certain tweaks to your environment to ensure that you are able to both manage and use your ADHD to your advantage. Consider the following options:Ask to use flex time to come in late some days and stay late so that you are working during your peak hours and when less coworkers are around.
Take structured breaks throughout the day to give your brain a break. Consider taking a quick walk outside or inside the building.
 Just as you have the flexibility to select certain assignments or may have leeway in determining your hours, you can also reconstruct your physical space to tailor it to you. Consider the following options in making your space hospitable:Position your chair facing away from the door to reduce distractions.
If you have to share an office, ask permission to use a quiet conference room every so often when you have a lot of work or are feeling unfocused.
Limit the items on your desk so that you don’t get distracted.

