 They should be less than two years old, from a reputable source, and suitable for your growing region. You'll have better luck with seeds that came from plants local to your area - they'll like the environment, soil, and other conditions you can provide. Buy your seeds at a local nursery, a farmer's market, or an online vendor that sells seeds for different growing regions.Try checking to see if there is a seed swap in your area. You can meet other gardeners, get seeds, and get tips for germinating specific types of seeds in your area.;
, Some seeds need to germinate indoors several weeks before the weather gets warm, while others need only a few days' time. The time you need to start your seeds also differs by growing region. Getting the timing right is important if you want to give your seeds the best chance to grow into strong, healthy plants.


Check the back of the packet your seeds came in for instructions on when they should be started. Seed packets come with a lot of vital information.
You can also look online for more info about when to start your seeds.
If you're still not sure when to start your seeds, plant to start them a few weeks before the last frost of the season. You can start growing them indoors and let them sprout a few inches high before transplanting them outside. This is a safe bet for many types of plants.
 Seeds need to germinate in a growing medium that's usually different from standard potting soil or dirt. They require a certain soil texture to germinate, and it's different for different seeds. Research the needs of the seeds you're growing and get the appropriate growing medium from a nursery or online vendor.


You can buy a soilless growing medium that's premixed, and it works for many types of seeds.It's cheap to make your own growing medium from vermiculite, perlite, and milled sphagnum moss, all available at garden stores. A ration of 1:1:1 is usually effective.
Don't try to plant seeds in regular soil. Seeds already contain all the nutrients they need to germinate within them. The extra nutrients in regular potting soil are detrimental during the germination period.
 You'll need a container that's 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm) deep with drainage holes in the bottom. It can be shaped like an open tray or have individual segments for different seeds. The width of your container depends on how many seeds you're planting; make sure you allow plenty of space for the seeds to germinate.


You can buy a seed pallet or tray, but it's just as easy to make your own out of an old egg carton, newspaper, a wooden box, or other household supplies.
When the seeds germinate and sprout, the seedlings will need to be moved to larger containers or planted in the ground. For this reason the aesthetics of the seed germination containers aren't as important as their utility.

