 Your friend may be reluctant to go therapy because of logistical reasons like lacking transportation or not being able to afford the fees. Offer to help them arrange transportation when you aren’t able to provide it. If you can, help to pay for the sessions and medications they may need. Or, help them research community programs that offer low-cost or free services to individuals in need.


If you can’t drive them, consider calling a taxi or ride service to get them there. Your support and willingness to make their health a priority can give them the boost they need to get better.Be sure to ask your friend before you make these kinds of arrangements for them. Let them know that you only want to help make it easier for them to seek treatment, but that you do not want to take away their control.
 Your friend may be worried about what the appointments will be like, particularly if they suffer from anxiety or depression. Offering to go to therapy with them or sit next to them during a support group meeting may make the thought of going there easier to fathom. Knowing that you will be with them every step of the way may encourage them to take their mental health more seriously.


You may only need to attend the first appointment or two until your friend becomes comfortable. After that, your friend may prefer to attend alone. Don’t take this as an insult. Look at it as a big step in their improvement.Be respectful of your friend’s privacy regarding these appointments as well. Your friend may not want you there or they might not want to talk about the appointment at all.
 If your friend is skeptical about seeking therapy, they likely aren’t going to be excited about finding a doctor and making the appointments. It would probably be a big help if you do that part for them. They may already feel overwhelmed about the process, and having to research and do the other steps may make them even more so.


If you make an appointment for your friend and they back out, attend the session anyways. You can talk to the therapist about your friend and they may be able to offer suggestions on how to help your friend cope with their condition and how you may be able to convince them to attend therapy.Only schedule appointments if your friend agrees to see a therapist. Your friend may feel violated if you go behind their back. Ask them if they want your help first.
 Mental health still carries a big stigma with it. This negativity could play a role in how willing your friend is to attend therapy. Offer to help your friend talk to their other friends and family members if they need help explaining why they are going to therapy, or if the people around them are giving them a hard time about their illness. It is especially important to do this right when the comment has been made. Let your friend hear you stand up for them.


You could say to their family, “I’m really concerned about this person, and I suggested that they seek professional help. Fortunately, they were willing to and the doctor believes that they do have a condition that requires therapy. It would be great if everyone could offer the support and encouragement needed to help our loved one get better.”
If someone says something negative about your friend, you can tell them, “I think it’s really courageous that they understood there was a problem and are taking the steps to get better. If you can’t be supportive of that, please keep your thoughts to yourself, or perhaps stay away.”, You can suggest that your friend see a therapist, but you can't play the role for them. Helping a mentally ill or unstable friend can be taxing. Don't bite off more than you can chew. And, be sure to tend to your own mental and emotional well-being. Set personal boundaries.For example, take at least one night off a week to do things you enjoy such as taking a relaxing bubble bath or seeing a movie at the cinema. Tell your friend they won't be able to reach you. Be sure to give them another number they can call in case of emergencies, like another friend, relative, or crisis hotline.

Be aware of codependent behaviors as well. As you are helping your friend, it is possible to fall into a pattern where you are enabling them.

