 If you can't hit that high B-flat more than nine times out of ten, don't do it. You want to be completely confident about your song. Also, the more you enjoy the song, the more any onlooker will as well. Never sing when you can't, especially if your throat is sore or strained!;
, A unique song will make you stand out in the director's mind and will set you apart from everybody else. It may seem natural to perform a song from the musical which you are auditioning for, but this can backfire if you don't exactly fit the image the director has in mind.


Don't do a song from this musical, choose one that is similar in style to those of the show for which you are auditioning. Don't audition for Mary Poppins with a song from Rent! Look for similar time periods, composers, and themes. It's great if you can find a song by the same composer, but never pick a song from the musical you are auditioning for (unless required to), because if you don't fit with their mental image, they probably won't consider you.
 Ever notice that the people who get the big parts are the ones who can speak and sing very loudly! You could be the best actor in the world, but if you're so quiet that you can't be heard above the music, who's going to know about it? Practice ahead of time. Go outside and just belt out whatever comes to mind as loud as you possibly can. (Just don't make it look like screaming) It will help. However, if louder means more off-key, be careful, because nobody likes to listen to a wrong note that is very loud.
 Most open-minded directors, however, will be open to new and interesting interpretations (as long as they are reasonable), and this may go over well with him or her. Just be sure that you commit to "something" because a strong commitment to an unexpected interpretation is infinitely better than no commitment at all.
 (Or, "Act" confident.) Confidence is key--if you look confident (even if you don't feel that way), the directors will probably like your performance more. Having the guts to stand in front of an audience and sing out with confidence is courageous, and they'll like you for it!

, It either means that the director has seen enough to make a judgment, or is now going to give you instructions on how to perform it differently. It is KEY that you be able to follow instructions and pay attention to notes, and your director wants to see how well you do this.
 When another person is up on stage, be respectful. That means being quiet; you might learn something about the play, or "How to act" from the person who is on stage.


Always say, "Thank you for your time." afterward.
 These will clog up your throat.

