 Watering your houseplants as needed on a regular basis will prevent spider mite infestation, since spider mites only thrive on houseplants that are dry.


Use cold water instead of lukewarm water to water your houseplants. Spider mites will not infest your plants if the temperature is too cold.;
, This will prevent spider mites from nesting and laying eggs on the dry, dusty leaves; in addition to providing an environment in which existing predator mites can feed on spider mites.


Depending on the indoor climate and environment in which your houseplants reside, you may need to remove dust as needed, which can be once every few days or once every 2 weeks.
Dust your houseplants by spraying them with powerful jets of water or use a damp, wet cloth to dust each leaf separately. The method you use may vary depending on the size of your houseplants or where they are located inside your home.
Place your houseplants in a large sink, bathtub, shower, or outside next to a garden hose.
Use a powerful jet hose or spray nozzle to spray water on the leaves of your houseplants to remove all the dust.
Spray and dust on the undersides of leaves, where spider mites will thrive more often to escape direct sunlight.
If you decide to dust your houseplants with a soft, damp cloth, wipe down each side of each leaf on every houseplant.



Mist your houseplants using a spray bottle of cold water between 2 and 3 times per day.
If your houseplants reside in pots that sit atop platters or dishes, fill each platter with water to provide extra humidity.
 Excessive exposure to heat may dry the leaves of your plant and attract spider mites.


Draw the curtains or close the shades near your plants during the hottest hours of the day and when they are exposed to direct sunlight.
If your indoor environment does not allow you to provide shade for your houseplants, you can place a humidifier next to any houseplants at risk for spider mites.
 Certain types of predatory mites will prey and feed on spider mites without harming your plants.


There are several species of predatory mites you can choose from; however, the most common types of predatory mites are Metaseiulus occidentalis, Phytoseiulus persimilis, and Phytoseiulus longpipes.
To prevent Metaseiulus occidentalis from dying, you must make sure that the temperature in which your houseplants reside averages between 44 degrees and 89 degrees Fahrenheit (6.66 degrees and 31.66 degrees Celsius).
Purchase predatory mites from gardening vendors on the Internet or order them by mail from a horticultural website.
If you do not have Internet access, you may visit your local nursery or gardening store for assistance or recommendations for ordering predatory mites.

