 Locate the app icon of a curvy red “P” on your device’s home screen or app drawer, and tap it to open Pinterest.


The Pinterest app is compatible with Android and iOS devices.
 Enter your email address and password into the fields provided, and tap “Sign in” to continue.
 To do this, tap the icon of a person on the top right side. You’ll be taken to your account page showing all your pins.
 Look for the section that says “Boards” underneath your name, tap it and the options below will change. It will show all of your boards.
 Now you can start making a new board for your Lookbook.
 Enter the name of the new board in the box that pops up. You should pick something catchy that demonstrates the name of the fashion style, and what season it is in. Once you pick a name, click the red “Create” button.
 Go back to your Pinterest home page, and you will see a plus mark at the top of the screen. Tap it to open extra settings.
 From this point, you can pick your phone’s gallery, micro SD card, or take a photo right now to pin to the board you created. Pick the method you would like to use by tapping it.
 Locate the picture, or capture it with your phone’s camera, and tap it again to start the upload process. If you wish to enter a description, tap the description box and enter the name of that particular article of clothing.
 Tap “Pinning to Board” below your new image and make sure you select the board that you just made. Finally, tap the “Pin It” button to put the new photo in your Lookbook.


You can repeat the process as often as necessary when you want to create more boards or upload new pins to your boards.
 The Lookbook board doesn’t have to be entirely composed of pins you uploaded. You can repin pins of other Pinterest users, especially if you find that the image will fit well into your Lookbook. To do this, search for the image by typing in keywords into the search bar at the top. Use words that describe the image you found, like “Floral Summer Dress,” if the image you found was a summer dress in floral prints.


When you find the image, tap it to enlarge it, then tap the “Pin it” button at the bottom. A menu will pop-up listing all your boards.
Select your Lookbook board from the list, and the user’s pin will be repinned to your Lookbook board.

