 The ideal candidate for Mod Podging is thin, flexible, and porous. You will be gluing this onto something else. If the item you choose is too bulky, the Mod Podge won't hold it, and it will fall off. Here are some ideas:


Fabric and lace
Paper, including scrapbooking paper and tissue paper
Photos are great to use, but it might be a good idea to use a copy instead of an original
Glitter, Epsom salts, and sand
Food coloring can also be mixed into Mod Podge to tint items another color
Leaves;
, You can use Mod Podge to apply things like paper and fabric to almost anything. The best items to use are bulky items that you can hold. Here are some items to get you started:


Wooden and papier-mâché frames, trays, and boxes
Glass cups, candle holders, and mason jars
Terra cotta pots and vases
Other 3D, such as trays, figurines, etc.
 You can either use a flat paintbrush or a foam brush. If you are going to use a paintbrush, look for something that has firm, but smooth, bristles, such as taklon. Avoid boar-bristle brushes, as they are too stiff and will leave streaks. Camelhair brushes are too soft to be used with Mod Podge.
 Mod Podge can be used as both a glue and a finish. This means that you can paint it over paper to make it glossy. Here are some common finishes and what they are:"Classic" is your basic Mod Podge. It comes in glossy or matte.
"Satin" gives you a finish that is between glossy and matte.
"Hard Coat" gives you a durable finish, idea for furniture. It comes only in a satin finish.
"Outdoor" is durable and water-resistant. It is not water-proof, however, and cannot sit in water.
"Sparkle" already has glitter mixed into it. It's great for adding some sparkle to any surface. For a heavily-glittered finish, however, you will need to mix extra glitter into the Mod Podge.
"Glow-in-the-Dark" can be painted over a surface to make it glow at night. It is thin, however, and will require multiple coats.
 Some items, such as paper, are ready to be applied to your base items. Other items, such as fabric, need a little more preparation in order to get the best results. Here is a list of items commonly used for Mod Podging, and how to best prepare them:Fabric needs to be washed and ironed. Washing will remove excess dye and help prevent bleeding. Ironing will make the fabric smooth and easier to work with.
Paper, including scrapbooking paper, is ready to use as it is. You do not need to do anything to it.
Paper printed from a laser printer does not need preparation. Paper printed from an inkjet printer will. Click here to learn how to prepare it.
Photographs will need to be photocopied onto regular paper. Photograph paper is not suitable for Mod Podging. The moisture can cause the ink to melt off.
Tissue paper does not need any preparation. Keep in mind, however, that it is thin and may wrinkle. It may be a good idea to have extra sheets, in case the first one wrinkles or tears.
Natural items need to be wiped clean with a damp cloth and then dried.
 Print what you need to print, then let the paper dry for 10 minutes. Spray the front and back of the paper with an acrylic sealer. Wait for it to dry, then paint both sides with Mod Podge. Let the paper dry all the way before you use it for your project.
 Whether you are using wood or glass, you will need to prepare your base. If you don't, the Mod Podge may not stick well, and whatever your Mod Podges may fall off. Here are common surfaces that people use for Mod Podging projects, and how to prepare them:








Wood surfaces need to be sanded with fine-grit sandpaper, and then wiped clean with a dust cloth. If you don't have a dust cloth, use a damp cloth or sponge instead.
Glass needs to be washed with soap and warm water. You can wipe it with some rubbing alcohol to remove any residue.
Primed canvas needs to be wiped clean with a damp cloth. Un-primed canvas needs to be coated with two layers of gesso or acrylic paint.
Plastic needs to be cleaned with soap and water. Keep in mind that some types of plastic may repel the Mod Podge. If this happens, you will need to find another surface.
Plaster, Papier-Mâché, and Terra Cotta surfaces need to be wiped clean with a damp cloth to remove any surface dirt and dust.
Tin needs to be washed with soap and warm water. If it is very dirty, wipe it clean with a cloth soaked in white vinegar.
 You will need to have the item you are Mod Podging already the right side before you start applying it. Set the frame or box down on the paper or fabric, and trace around it using a pencil. Cut the paper or fabric out using a pair of scissors or a craft knife.









If you want to Mod Podge a round item, like a can, measure the height of the item, and cut the paper/fabric according to that height. Next, wrap the paper/fabric around the cylinder, and mark where it starts to overlap. Cut off the excess paper/fabric.
 Mod Podge can be used as a sealer to protect painted surfaces. You can paint your base item all one color, and Mod Podge cut paper or lace onto it. You can also paint designs onto it, and use Mod Podge as a finish.









Keep in mind that Mod Podge is not water-proof. It will dissolve if you leave it in water too long.

