 Do you eat anything special or cook anything creepy on Halloween? It's an easy tradition to keep, and can turn out delicious. Here are some ideas to get you started.


Attempt a Halloween Dinner poem. On each bite at dinner on Halloween, whisper, "Halloween night is full of fright," and you will have good luck all Halloween.
Do some pumpkin seed baking! After carving the pumpkin, save as many seeds as possible and keep them in the refrigerator. On Halloween, cook them and salt them on cookie sheets.
Do a Lemon Morning. Every Halloween morning, before anything else is done, eat one single lemon with no water, keeping your Halloween both sour and sweet.;
, Crazy traditions can be wacky and fun to follow on each Halloween. Invent some, or use some of these:


Keep the orange devil out. Put an orange by the window and the devil will not come in, knowing Halloween is celebrated there and he is not wanted.
Know that your Aunt will know who to spare. Keep a key from one of your Aunt's houses and put it under the mat. Each trick-or-treater must step on it if they deserve any candy. If they do not, give no candy to them.
Don't say, "red," "rabbit," or "calendar" before 8:35 on Halloween.
 Sometimes, instead of doing specific things, don't do something. The five-year-old will love correcting you dramatically if you do something you shouldn't. It's a great and easy way to keep a simple tradition. Try this one, for example.


Never be selfish. Don't ever take more than ten pieces of candy, or the sugar will join and take over the household.
 It's part of having the traditions in the first place! Make sure to follow your rules and traditions every Halloween, but remember that if you slip, it's not the end of the world.


Have a list of rules you should follow on Halloween that your family or friends need to follow.
 Do you go trick-or-treating? Do you have a Halloween party? Consider those your own traditions. Keep doing this, and consider putting a little twist on them.


Try the candy corn ritual. Many kids trick-or-treat. This time, on every different place you go, whether it's each floor of the building you trick-or-treat in or the block you trick-or-treat on as well as live on, leave one candy corn on each stop along the way, leaving all the bad luck behind in each corn and leaving the rest of the candy delicious!
Get the candy and leave the bad luck behind. When the house gives you the candy, cross your fingers while they're handing it to you.

