 In order to boost your skills as an actor, you will want to consider taking acting classes. Although you will be acting specifically in commercials, it can still be a good idea to round out your skills and take a variety of other acting classes. These classes will show you new methods of acting, help you refine you existing skills and can help you make professional contacts. Try looking for acting classes in these main areas of acting:Classes that deal with commercial actor training.
Improvisation classes.
Auditioning classes.;
, People are often cast in commercials based on the way they look. Since commercials are so short, they will often require a person to be immediately identifiable as being a certain character or role. When you are applying to auditions, consider what roles you think your look would best fit in to increase your chances of being selected.Think about what the commercial is selling. Could you play a part that fits with that product?
For example, you'll likely want to look like a “mom” if you are going to be in a diaper commercial.
There are roles for everyone. Don't worry too much if you don't feel you have the right look.
 A big part of getting a role in a commercial will be your personality. You will want to present yourself in a positive and professional light. During an audition, callback or work, you will want to be at your best, treat everyone well and strive to give it your all.Even when you aren't filming or auditioning, keep a positive and likable attitude.
Not only will having a good attitude make landing a role more likely, it can help leave a good impression and make future work easier to obtain.
 Beyond being a good actor, you'll want to learn some of the technical skills that can help when shooting a commercial. These skills can help you do your best when acting for the commercial format. Check out some of these skills to get an idea of what you should know:Know where to stand and how to move during a shoot.
You should learn how to look and speak at a camera during a commercial.
Be ready to take direction and adapt to instructions.
Knowing how to stay relaxed and natural can be valuable skills to have when filming.
 Even if you've had some success in landing auditions or roles, you'll still want to keep working on your acting skills. Keep taking acting classes and getting in consistent practice to help improve the quality of your work and make your future auditions successful.Try working with independent films or projects to get some extra experience.
Consider joining an improv group to keep your skills sharp.
 You may be selected for work as a commercial actor due to your personal look and the photos you send in with your resume. Often times, directors will be looking for someone with a certain appearance. Having a great photo that highlights your features can go a long way in helping you land your next commercial acting spot.Make sure your photos are professionally done.
It can be a good idea to provide many different angles of your head and face.
Try to include different looks in your head-shots to show your versatility.
 Without auditions, your chances of getting a role in a commercial will be slim. You'll want to try and attend any audition you can and never turn one down, no matter what you think of the actual content of that project. There will be a lot of competition and you will need to work hard to get a role in a commercial.Turning down auditions can make it more difficult to successfully land a future role.
It's a good idea to attend auditions, even if you don't care for the role or project.
Even if you don't get the role, you might still make professional contacts.
 Having a properly prepared resume can go a long way in helping you land a role in a commercial. Your resume will represent your skills, qualifications and past experience, allowing your professional contacts to know if you might be the right person for the role.Avoid listing other commercials you've been in on your resume. This can be seen as a potential conflict of interest.
Write your training and any classes you've complete on your resume.
Include a list of your acting skills.
 Using online casting websites can be a good way to look for openings and auditions. You'll need to create a profile and likely pay membership fees when you resister on a casting site. These sites will post openings for commercial actors that you can easily apply for if you think the opening is right for you.You'll want to find a website that caters to your area.
There may be many sites that serve one specific area. Take your time and find one that is right for you.
 Agents can be a great ally to have when looking for your next commercial acting gig. Your agent will know what roles are available and will help get you selected for an audition. If you think your skills and experience are developed enough, you might consider hiring an agent to help you succeed even more in your commercial acting career.Agents are a good idea if you've already got a developed resume and some commercial acting experience.
You'll want to send a head-shot to your agent. It's recommended that you don't spend too much money on your head-shot, as your agent may want to take a new one.
Most agents will take a percentage of your earnings, once you complete your work on a commercial.
 SAG-AFTRA is an acting union that can help you make your career a successful one. The union supports actors, helps them find new roles and offers workshops to help keep your acting skills sharp. Take a few minutes to review the benefits that membership can bring to decide if joining SAG-AFTRA is right for you:Access to union workshops.
Collective bargaining.
Access to casting directors.
Pension, retirement and health care programs are available.
Get discounts on things like entertainment, legal services and car rentals.
 Looking your best is a big part of successfully auditioning and landing a role. Exactly how you should dress and look will largely depend on the role you are auditioning for. However, there are some standards that can generally apply to any audition. Keep some of these tips in mind to help boost your chances of getting the role you're auditioning for:You will want to wear makeup. Go for a natural look and avoid any trendy or overly stylish elements.
Dress well for the audition. Avoid blue jeans, baggy clothes or wearing something that could look strange or unprofessional.
Try to recapture the look that you had in your headshots.
You should try to look as if you were ready to film the actual commercial.
 You should always arrive early before an audition to give yourself a much better chance of getting the role. Arriving early will give you time to pick up the copy, ask questions and get ready for the moment of your audition. Always make sure to give yourself plenty of time to help you be prepared and to make your audition a successful one.


Don't be afraid to ask questions about your role or the style of the commercial.
Spend some time practicing your lines out-loud.
It can be helpful to work on a few different methods of playing the role.
Stay focused, positive and professional while you wait for your audition.
Keep relaxed and have fun with your audition.
 If you've successfully auditioned, you will be offered the role and asked to sign some form of contract. The exact terms of your contract will vary greatly depending on the role, the company, the project and if you are a unionized actor. However, there are some common mistakes that you can avoid making.Always read over your contract entirely and make sure you understand everything you are agreeing to.
If you don't understand your contract, you can try speaking with your attorney to learn more.
Look out for any exclusivity agreements. These will prevent you from working on other projects.
Learn how long your contract will last and what you can expect while it is active.

