 Instead of focusing on what's bothering you, take some time to focus on only your breathing. Close your eyes, and count to four as you breathe in. Count to four again as you breathe out. Place all your concentration on your breathing rather than your problem.


Put your hand on your belly. You should feel your stomach expand as you breathe in. This is called diaphragmatic breathing, and it helps you calm down.;
, Whether it's a friend or family member, taking a minute to talk about what's bothering you can help defuse the situation. It can also help you figure out what's actually bothering you.Talk to someone you trust. It can be difficult to say you're having a hard time if you're worried the person will judge you or make fun of you. Find a trusted friend, family member, teacher, or counselor to share your thoughts with.
 Sometimes, all it takes to make your tears disappear is to step away from the problem. If you can, try going outside for a few minutes to truly get away. Plus, being outside can help lower your tension.Tell the people you're with what you're doing, if you'd like. You can say something such as "I need to take a break right now. I'll be back in five minutes."

, If you can't physically step away, try mentally refocusing. Think about something that made you very happy. You can think of a person and the happy memories you had with her. Alternatively, try thinking about your favorite vacation. Focus fully on that thought for several minutes, trying to draw up as many details of the memory as you can., Take a moment to think about what you're actually feeling. Are you angry? Are you sad? Are you actually feeling joy? Many emotions can trigger tears, and by beginning to identify them, you can head off the tears more easily as you are better able to notice when the emotion is beginning.Notice what's going on in your body. For example, anger may make you frown, feel red or hot, or make your muscles feel tense. Sadness can make you feel "down" or "slow."

, You have a right to have emotions. Tears are a sign of those emotions. If you find yourself tearing up, don't start beating yourself up; you'll only make yourself more upset, and it won't help the situation.


Instead, try being accepting of yourself. For example, if you feel angry, tell yourself, "I feel angry right now. That's a natural emotion. It's okay to feel that way, but I can control my response to that feeling. I don't have to cry."

, It can really hurt when people are unkind to you. This can cause tears to show up. Remember to examine what people have said to you in a way that's kind to yourself.


For example, if someone has made fun of your new haircut, it would be natural to feel angry or hurt. Try reminding yourself that others' opinions of you don't matter; what matters is how you feel about yourself. You could say, "I feel hurt that my friend made fun of my haircut, but I like it. I don't have to feel bad that someone else doesn't like it."
Tell yourself nice things in the mirror every morning. This will help build up your self-confidence, which can help you keep those tears in check. You're strong and smart, and you can do this!

