 Toner and moisturizer help to achieve a glowing complexion. Toner tightens your pores and reduces the oil that builds up on skin and makes it shiny. Moisturizer keeps the skin hydrated, reducing flakes and scales. If you have oily or combination skin, use toner before you moisturize. If you have dry skin you can probably skip the toner. , Face makeup helps to even out your skin tone and make your face look smooth and flawless. A basic makeup routine each morning before school will help you look your best all day long. Use concealer to cover-up blemishes. Find a concealer that matches your skin tone as closely as possible. Use a concealer brush to apply the concealer to blemishes, dark spots, or anything you want to hide. Use a makeup sponge to blend the concealer so it looks seamless with your skin.
Apply blush and/or bronzer. Blush gives your cheeks a rosy hue and defines your cheekbones. Bronzer makes you look tanner. Both bronzer and blush come in powder, cream or liquid form. Use a contoured makeup brush to apply powdered blush (many brands include this) and a big makeup brush to apply powdered bronzer. Creams and liquids can be applied with a makeup sponge or your finger. Blend well.
Set makeup with translucent powder. Translucent powder helps makeup to stay in place all day and soaks up oils that build up on your face. Use a big makeup brush to apply.
 Wearing eye makeup highlights one of the most mesmerizing parts of your face. Basic eye makeup consists of eyeliner, eyeshadow, and mascara. Choose which of these, if any, you want to use. Wear eye makeup that works best with your eye color.



Blue Eyes- Wear neutral shades of eyeshadow such as brown, rose, terracotta, or even a light purple. Apply eyeliner with a slight "cat-eye" look by extending the liner on your top lid just past the edge of your eye out to the side.Brown Eyes- For dark brown eyes, wear deep colors of eyeshadow like plum, charcoal, or forest green. For medium brown eyes, try purple, green, or bronze shadow. Light brown eyes should wear neutral shades of shadow such as bronze or champagne and opt for dark brown eyeliner instead of black.Green Eyes- Try different shades of purple shadow, copper, or gold. Avoid eyeshadow and black eyeliner. Chocolate brown or espresso eyeliner works well on green eyes., Adding color to your lips makes them look fuller while slimming the rest of your face.Basic lip makeup consists of lip liner, lipstick, and lip gloss. If using all three, carefully line your lips first. Follow with lipstick and top with gloss. Use colors on your lips that complement your features.Blonde Hair/Light Complexion- Wear hues that look light and natural, such as pale pinks, peach, or rose.Red Hair and Light Complexion- Try nude and beige colors on your lips, and avoid pink or red lipsticks.Brown or Black Hair/Light or Dark Complexion- Regardless of skin color, dark-haired women should swipe on deep, rich tones, such as spicy reds or bright corals. Skip pale, neutral lipstick tones., Different kinds of faces look best with different hairstyles. Choose the style that will best fit your face shape.Round Face- Wear your hair down with long layers. Angle the hair in the front and stay away from bangs. Middle parts work well for round faces. Avoid bob cuts and side parts.

Oval Face- This shape can wear any hairstyle- long or short, with or without bangs, curly or straight, waves or layers- all work on an oval face, but one of the best hairstyles is long, voluminous layers.

Heart-Shaped Face- Wear bangs that are cut straight across the face or swept off to one side. Wear your hair in layers that fall around your cheeks. Shoulder-length and chin-length hair looks best. Slicked-back or sleek, straight looks don't work as well.

Square Face- Wear hair wispy and falling in front of your face at your jawline. Side-swept bangs and hairstyles that are high (teased) at the crown work well. Avoid blunt haircuts and bobs.

Oblong Face- Straight-across bangs with a side part look best, along with layered, wavy styles. Avoid middle parts, and hairstyles that are high at the crown.

Triangle Face- Try layered hairstyles that taper at the jaw line. Stay away from longer hairstyles, but don't go as short as a bob cut.
 Wear clothing that flatters our bodies and instills a sense of confidence when we put it on. Decide what kinds of clothes accentuate the best features of your body, while downplaying other areas you’re not as comfortable with. There are certain clothes that look universally great on different body types. Hourglass Body (curvy with a small waist)- To highlight curves and accentuate a thin waistline, try a wrap dress, pencil skirt, belted jacket or sweater, or wide legged pants belted at the waist.

Apple Body (thinner on the bottom, heavier on the top)- To accentuate thin legs, while de-emphasizing the waistline, try a flowing top, low-waisted straight leg pants, circle skirt, or shift dress.

Pear Body (heavier on the bottom, slimmer on the top)- To draw attention to a small waistline, while downplaying hips, butt, and thighs, try an A-Line skirt, fit and flare dress, embellished shirt, bootcut or flare pants, or structured jacket.

Banana Body shapes (thin with few curves)- To create the appearance of curves, while highlighting thin areas, try a ruffled top, mini skirt, side cutout dress, tapered pants (like skinny jeans), or cropped jacket.
 Decide which colors best complement your skin-tone and features. Choose clothes within that color palette to underscore your natural beauty.Warm Skin Tones- Try wearing red (especially warm reds like tomato), peach, golden yellow, golden brown, olive green, gold

Cool Skin Tones- Pick clothes that are red (with cool undertones such as cherry), pink, blue, teal, turquoise, purple, mint green, silver

, Accessories add pizzazz to an outfit. Even the most basic of clothing can look great when dressed with the right accessories. Consider the kinds of accessories that will complement your outfit and reflect your personal style.Big earrings dress up any outfit and bring attention to your face.
Long necklaces emphasize your top.
Belts break up the monotony of an outfit. They can cinch your waistline to accentuate a small waist, or be worn across the hips to bring attention to small hips.
Basic clothes should have more and bolder accessories. Flashy outfits with loud prints should use fewer and more simpler accessories.
Don't be afraid to mix metals when wearing jewelry.
Don't wear too many accessories at once.
Wear accessories that say something about your personality.
 Each morning before school or the night before, take a shower or bath and wash yourself thoroughly with soap or body wash. Cleanliness is key in achieving a comely appearance.
 Frequency of hair washing is an individual preference, depending largely on your hair type. Figure out how often you need to wash your hair for it to maintain a clean look. For some, this may be every day, for others a couple of times a week. Use shampoo every time, and conditioner if desired.
 Dentists recommend brushing your teeth at least twice a day and flossing at least once a day. No exceptions. This will help maintain a healthy-looking smile. , While not necessarily affecting the way you look, wearing an antiperspirant or deodorant will make you feel and smell fresh throughout the day. An antiperspirant will also help to eliminate sweat stains on your clothing, adding to your hygienic appearance.
 Studies have shown that people find a smiling face more attractive than one with a scowl.People are naturally drawn to happiness and will gravitate toward you if they see your happy, smiling face. A smile will also make you look more approachable to others., True beauty comes from within. If you feel beautiful on the inside, it'll be reflected in how you look on the outside. As celebrity makeup artist Bobbi Brown once said, "Feeling confident, being comfortable in your skin — that's what really makes you beautiful.", We all want the perfect body, thick lustrous hair, pouty lips, and impeccable skin. Very few people have all of these qualities. Be thankful for the things about yourself that you love, and learn to embrace the imperfections. 