 The easiest way to instantly look chic and pretty with glasses is to tie your hair up in a bun. You can do a messy bun, a perfectly braided bun, a crazy, puffy one, or even a ponytail. This look is timeless and it draws any onlookers eye up to your face and showcases your eyes and glasses., First, pick a style of bangs that works with your face shape. Then, have them trimmed so they don’t fall underneath your glasses and into your eyes or over your lenses. You want your bangs to fall just above or around your frames so that your face doesn’t look overcrowded.


Generally a rounder face works well with asymmetrical bangs and a face with sharp chin or cheek angles can work well with tousled or softened bangs.
If you want to draw attention to the whole upper part of your face, pair bangs with vibrant glasses, mascara, and eyeliner and leave your lips and cheek makeup simple.
Bangs that are cut straight across the forehead when paired with glasses can have a fun librarian vibe, but it can also look matronly. If you’re trying to look younger as well as pretty, stay away from this look.
Longer side bangs will help lengthen your face, which may work well with squared off glasses.
Consult your hairstylist for the best kind of bangs for your face. They may have suggestions that also work well for your glasses.
 Give your hair a little volume by teasing it with some mousse or using a curling iron to add some dimension. Playing with your hair adds femininity to your look and won’t compete with your glasses.


A messy ‘do with a bright red lipstick looks fresh and adventurous with any style of frames.To tease your hair, run some styling gel or mousse through damp hair and blow dry it. Blow dry with your head upside down to give it even more volume.
 Whatever hairstyle you choose, try to avoid hiding behind your hair and glasses. A few loose strands isn’t the end of the world, but a curtain of hair across your face will distract people from your pretty eyes and face.Pull a few strands of hair back with bobby pins or a hair tie if your hair tends to flop into your face.Oil and hair product residue from your hair can also dirty your glasses, so it’s best to try and keep them apart anyways.
If you’re going for more of an edgy look, an asymmetrical cut is a fun way to cover a portion of your face, but be careful that you don’t look overdo it.

