 Being honest with yourself about how well you are battling your eating disorder will help you know if you are ready to pursue romance.Assess whether you are doing the things that you need to do to take care of yourself. If you aren’t then romance might not be a good idea right now. But, if you are, then pursuing romance might work out well.


Are you seeking or receiving treatment for your eating disorder? If not, you should do this before you pursue romance.
Are you sticking to your meal and exercise plans? Commitment to your plan shows that you may be ready to pursue romance.
How are you feeling emotionally? Pursuing romance when you feel depressed, anxious, or over-stressed may hinder your recovery.
 One of the reasons people with an eating disorder relapse is because they start romantic relationships too soon into their recovery process.By starting a romance too fast you may be replacing one addiction (food, eating, dieting, exercising) for another (romance).


Romance, relationships, and intimacy can become a substitute for your eating disorder in the early stages of recovery.
Work on re-establishing relationships and building new supportive relationships in general before you look for romance.
If your romantic interest really likes you, they’ll be okay with taking it slow and getting to know you as a friend.
 One reason people with an eating disorder are discouraged from pursuing romance during the first year of recovery is because it can become a distraction from treatment.If you want to pursue romance, make sure that you keep your focus on recovering from you eating disorder.


Attend your therapy sessions. Don’t skip sessions to pursue romance. For example, don’t skip your group meeting in order to hang out with your crush.
Stick to your routines. They are an important part of recovering from your eating disorder.
For instance, continue with your same sleep schedule – don’t stay up late to talk to your romantic interest.
 As you address your eating disorder and pursue romance there will be times that you feel anxious or stressed.You may have a hard time sticking to your recovery plan or you may not know how to approach a romantic interest. If you practice coping strategies you’ll be able to handle the stress of pursuing romance and dealing with an eating disorder.


Meditate on a regular basis. Calming your mind and body can help you cope with stress in general and reduce your anxiety.
Practice deep breathing. Techniques such as breathing slowly while you count can help you relieve tension in your body and relax you.

