 You can choose an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) program or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program. The ADN is a two-year program, where the BSN is a four-year program.You will need a high school diploma or GED to enroll in an ADN or BSN program.
Second baccalaureate and entry-level master's of science in nursing programs are available for people who already have bachelor's degrees in fields other than nursing.
BSN graduates may be preferred by employers over other degree types.Consider earning a master's degree in psychiatric-mental health nursing. The degree will enable you to diagnose and treat some mental health problems yourself. In some states you can also prescribe medication.;
, Programs accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) or Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) ensure a path to RN licensure.Complete all requirements to graduate from the program you have chosen with your degree.


Meet with your advisor to make sure you are completing the program requirements.
 To get licensed as an RN, you must pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN). This examination is given by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing. The license you receive after passing the exam must be periodically renewed, so you will have to take some continuing education courses.Requirements for licensure vary by state, so check with yours to see what requirements you may have to meet.
 Working in the psychiatric-mental health field as an RN translates to clinical practice, of which you will need 2000 hours should you desire to get certified as a psychiatric-mental health nurse.Look for jobs in this field to secure a position and get the experience you need. You can ask for a psychiatric rotation at a hospital if that's where you work, volunteer in a community program, or work as a psychiatric aide.


Many employers will provide tuition reimbursement or assistance if you pursue an ADN, BSN, MSN, or DNP. Check with your employer to find out if this is something they offer.
 Certification is not required to work in the psychiatric-mental health field, but it can be useful for finding a job and could mean higher salaries. You'll need an RN license, two years' experience working as an RN, 2000 hours of clinical practice in the psychiatric-mental health field within three years, and 30 hours of continuing education in the psychiatric-mental health field within three years.Certification is administered by American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC).
 Board-certified psychiatric-mental health nurses must be recertified every five years. The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) requires professional development plus either 1000 hours of practice as a psychiatric-mental health nurse or passage of the certification exam.Professional development includes continuing education, academic credits, presentations or publication/research, professional service, or teaching hours (preceptorship).

