 Rest your hands on you rib cage so that you pinky touches your torso and your thumb faces up.;
, Keeping your other fingers clenched, raise your thumb so it points up and parallel to your body.
 Generally, you will be putting the tip of your middle finger on the middle joint of your thumb. Your goal is to make the circle with your index finger while your thumb forms the straight line.
 Your middle finger should be parallel with your thumb. The "L" will appear to come up from behind the "B."

, One side of the "O" will be your curled ring finger, the other will be your straight middle finger.
 You do not need your pinky to make the symbol, so tuck it out of the way however it that feels comfortable.
 Rest your fist on you rib cage so that you pinky touches your torso and your thumb faces up.
 Keeping your other fingers clenched, raise your thumb so it stands parallel to your body.
 Move your index finger so it is comfortable and makes a visible circle.
 Touch the tip of your middle finger to the first joint of your index finger (the "d") to form the second "O."

, The middle sections of your right ring finger and left middle finger will be touching.
 The Bloods were originally a Los Angeles gang that rose in prominence as a counter to the infamous Crips. The Bloods have since spread across the United States, often with the profits from the illegal sale of crack cocaine. Often violent and constantly at war with other gangs, the Bloods symbol is a way for gang members to identify themselves to other Bloods.


This symbol is not a joke, and can lead to serious trouble if used in the wrong circumstances.
 If you are in public, especially an unfamiliar area, refrain from using the symbol completely. Gang feuds with the Bloods have spread from Los Angeles into many major urban areas, and you should always choose not to flash the Blood symbol if you have any doubts about local gang politics.
 When you look down you will be reading the word in reverse. The sign is meant to be read by other people as the word "Blood."

, Because you will not be able to read the word by looking down, try practicing in front of a mirror to see if you can actually write the word "Blood."


It will take some time to be able to form the word quickly.

