 Consider whether you are using more than the prescribed dose. If you suspect you may be addicted to Alprazolam, you should seek immediate medical help.Symptoms of abuse may include problems concentrating, lack of inhibition, dizziness and depression.To determine whether you are addicted, consider whether you answer yes to any of the following:


“Do I have withdrawal symptoms when I don’t take Alprazolam?”
“Is my use of Alprazolam negatively impacting my personal relationships?”
“Is my desire for Alprazolam uncontrollable?”

, You will have to check in with a counsellor a few times a week and follow their recovery guidelines. During the course of your treatment, you will gradually come off the drug and take periodic drug tests.If you choose an outpatient treatment program, you will benefit from a strong family support network to support your recovery.
In person or online support groups can also help you recover.
 You will have the comfort of medical and psychological support on-hand during your recovery from Alprazolam addiction. You will also have immediate medical support if you experience any side effects during the detoxification process.


Inpatient recovery is more expensive than outpatient programs. However, you have the advantage of constant medical support and recovering away from potentially abusive environments.
 You will learn how to cope with your relationship to Alprazolam. You will also learn coping strategies for dealing the stress and anxiety that may have led you to addiction in the first place. This form of therapy may be a part of both inpatient and outpatient programs.You can find a cognitive behavioral therapist by phoning psychologists in your region and asking whether they use cognitive behavioral therapy.
You could ask your family physician for a referral to a psychologist who uses cognitive behavioral therapy.
 You should obtain proper treatment for Alprazolam addition rather than trying to wean yourself off the drug too suddenly or on your own. It is best to obtain professional medical help., If you are feeling very depressed and suicidal while on Alprazolam, you should phone for help. Ask the help line counsellor for advice and information on finding treatment for Alprazolam addiction.


Call the national hotline of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services administration. They are open all day, every day of the year. They are based in the USA. Call: 1800 662 4357 (HELP).