 Long wearing lip colors are nearly impossible to simply wipe off. However, before you begin the removal process, blot or wipe off as much lip color as you can using a tissue or cotton makeup remover pad., Depending on the lasting power of your long wear lipstick, lip balm might work to remove some or all of your lipstick. Apply a heavy coat of lip balm to your lips and wait a minute or two for it to soak in.
 With the lip balm still on your lips, wet a soft-bristled toothbrush and gently scrub your lips in a circular motion. Be sure to do this very lightly so you don’t hurt your lips.The combinations of lip balm and lightly brushing your lips with the toothbrush will help loosen the long wearing lipstick.
If the lip balm and exfoliating method is going to work, it will start working almost immediately. Don't keep scrubbing your lips if this method isn't working on your particular lip color. You can hurt your lips, making them sore or cracked.
 This won’t remove a waterproof lip color. However, it will “loosen” the color on your lips, which will help your makeup removal products be more effective at removing the color., If you notice that the warm washcloth seems to be working to remove your lipstick, then rinse the washcloth with warm water and again gently wipe your lips. Rinsing the washcloth will help you avoid smearing the lip color to other parts of your face.
 Petroleum jelly is one of many products that you can use to create a hydrating “mask” that will loosen even stubborn lipsticks. Apply a thick layer to your lips. Be sure to leave the jelly on your lips for at least five minutes to let it soak in and work on the lipstick color., Much like petroleum jelly, coconut oil will create a hydrating layer over your lipstick that will help loosen it and make it easier to wipe off. Both coconut oil and petroleum jelly accomplish the same things, so it’s up to you as to which one you prefer to use. Wipe thin layers of coconut oil onto your lips, and let it soak in for a least five minutes to loosen the lip color.Because of its consistency, be aware that coconut oil can run and will be somewhat messier than petroleum jelly.
 Although this will dry your lips out more than coconut oil or petroleum jelly, standard eye makeup removal products will often do the trick on stubborn long wear lipsticks. Eye makeup remover will be especially effective if you prep your lips first by applying lip balm and then exfoliating. Put the eye makeup remover on a cotton pad or paper towel and wipe over lips, repeating if needed.


Avoid getting eye makeup remover in your mouth because it's only designed for external use.
 Sometimes when you’re on the go, you might not have access to coconut oil, petroleum jelly, or a proper makeup remover. Lotions can serve as makeup removers in a pinch. While lotions might be better suited to removing eye makeup and foundation/face powders, they will be helpful if you have none of the other options handy.


Be careful to avoid getting the lotion in your mouth. Only apply it to the outside of your mouth.
 The lipstick should easily wipe off after applying your choice of makeup removal products (petroleum jelly, eye makeup remover, or coconut oil). Avoid wiping your lipstick off with cotton balls because they will leave a fuzzy mess on your lips., Aside from applying products externally to your lips, staying hydrated will keep your lips from drying and cracking. If you find yourself with dry, flaky lips, try increasing the amount of water you drink.


Try carrying a refillable water bottle with you throughout the day. In addition to being good for your overall health, staying hydrated can help with skin and lip health by improving circulation., You can easily Make a Tasty Lip Scrub with sugar, honey, and olive oil. Mixing these three ingredients will help moisturize your lips and remove dry, dead skin cells.To make a basic lip scrub at home, mix together roughly one tablespoon of sugar and a half a teaspoon each of honey and olive oil. You can modify this basic recipe to your taste (using more or less honey or oil) or to make a larger batch at once.
If you decide to make a larger batch of lip scrub, be sure to store it in an airtight container with a lid so your scrub doesn't dry out.
If you prefer, you can add different scents like mint or vanilla to your lip scrub to get the exact scent/taste that you like.
Add your lip scrub to your evening routine right after you brush your teeth. Making lip exfoliation part of your daily routine will keep your lips healthy and hydrated. Experts recommend using a scrub at least once per week and more often if you have very dry lips., Apply lip balm or lip moisturizer to restore moisture to the lips. Reapply as needed, especially if you wear matte finish lip colors regularly because these can be very drying., Matte long wear lip colors are often extremely drying and difficult to remove. If you love the look of these lipsticks, try alternating them with lipsticks advertised as “hydrating.” It’s easier to remove lipstick from hydrated lips than dry, flaky ones.


If you choose matte long wear lip colors, be sure to thoroughly hydrate your lips before applying the lip color. Look for a natural lip balm with aloe and vitamin E in it. These components in natural lip balms protect and hydrate your lips without creating a sheen on your lips that can interfere with applying matte lipsticks.
 If you have an especially stubborn lip color that won’t come off easily, then you might need to give your lips a rest between removal attempts. Don’t scrub your lips so much that they feel raw.

