 Purchase a premade one from your local craft or garden store. Or, make your own by constructing a cross out of wood and then covering it with clothes. Place your scarecrow in the vicinity of the pesky birds and watch them fly away.Move your scarecrow around every few days to keep the birds from getting too comfortable with it. Changing up the clothes can help as well.;
, Buy a number of cheap, plastic animal decoys. Choose natural predators of birds, such as snakes, owls, swans, and even coyotes. Set one or two of these up around the perimeter of the bird-infested area. Rotate them out with fresh ones every few days to keep the birds on edge., This solution is not feasible in every space, but can be a great tool to keep birds away from decks or pools. Install a motion-activated sprinkler aimed at the area of concern. Purchase one online or at your local garden store. Every time a bird tries to land a spray of water will scare them away.Don’t worry about the strength of the water stream. This is a harmless way of keeping an area bird-free., Get a number of balloons with faces on them and hang these throughout the bird-infested space. Tie the balloons tightly to branches or posts so that they don’t fly away. Add some flyaway pieces of shiny ribbon for even more effect. Rotate everything every few days to keep the birds uneasy., Cut out strips of aluminum foil and hang them from the trees or shrubs. Punch holes in thin aluminum disposable pans and do the same thing. Hanging shiny CDs or reflective tape is another way to deter birds. Make sure that you leave plenty of room for these objects to spin around and move, as this will scare birds even more.








There is also a product called “optical fire gel” that mimics the appearance of moving flames. This can be applied to the edges of buildings to deter landing or roosting.Metallic spinning propellers sold at most garden centers do an excellent job of ridding an area of birds., Get a CD of these sounds and play it near to the infested area. You may need to boost up the volume to reach up into the highest trees. Although it may be a hassle, playing these noises for numerous evenings in a row will get you the best results. Starlings, grackles, and other pest birds have been known to move roosts due to harassing noises.
 Border collies, sheepdogs, and other breeds enjoy chasing birds and are very good at it. Hire a trained dog handler to patrol your bird-infested space or borrow a friend’s dog and do it yourself. Walk the dog in the early morning and early evening hours when birds are most active.For example, a single sheepdog walking up and down a beach line at peak hours can reduce gull numbers almost 99 percent., Contact your local zoo or wildlife refuge and ask for the information for a falconer, a trainer who works with falcons and other birds of prey. The falconer will likely charge an hourly rate to come out to your site. They will let their falcon or hawk fly around and scare away any smaller birds.This is a great option for areas where the birds are no longer frightened by decoys or less aggressive methods. However, it can get expensive, with multiple treatments averaging around $55 an hour.
There are also kites available that resemble birds of prey. Some people have been successful when flying these over bird infested areas., Birds can be pretty smart and determined when it comes to finding a place to hang out and nest. To keep them away for long periods you must switch up tactics every few days and create many layers of defense. Look for how you can gain the element of surprise.