 Adoptive parent support groups give you the opportunity to share and network with other adoptive parents, as well as learn from their experiences.Support groups provide informal networking opportunities for adoptive parents and can connect you to other post-adoption resources for financial assistance, training, and other services.
Your state also may offer additional services, such as family, adjustment, and crisis counseling.
Many states also offer respite programs, through which free care is provided for the child to give the parents an afternoon or morning off.
 You can deduct adoption expenses including agency fees, court costs, attorney's fees, or other expenses directly related to the adoption of an eligible child and apply the amount as a credit toward your federal tax liability.You may be eligible to claim the adoption tax credit even if you didn't adopt a child with special needs, or the child was not eligible for either federal or state financial adoption assistance.
The tax credit covers non-recurring expenses you had to pay to adopt the child, and does not cover expenses related to the child's care such as money you paid to buy clothes for the child, or furniture for the child's room.
The tax credit is non-refundable, which means it only applies against your tax liability. However, you can carry over unused credit amounts for up to five tax years after the year in which the adoption was finalized.
 States have a variety of resources to assist parents who have adopted a child with ongoing medical needs, including physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.If your child qualified for federal adoption assistance, he or she automatically qualifies for Medicaid. These benefits are nationwide.
Many states also offer counseling services for children with special needs, regardless of whether the child qualifies for either federal or state financial assistance.
In most cases, medical assistance will be negotiated as part of your adoption assistance agreement. However, your child may qualify for additional assistance such as counseling or crisis intervention under some circumstances.
 If you adopted a teenager, that child may qualify for assistance that will pay his or her tuition and other educational expenses at a community college or four-year university.Children over the age of 13 who were adopted from foster care are considered independent students for the purposes of federal financial aid, which means the income of you or your spouse is not considered in determining that child's eligibility for grants and loans.
Many states also offer tuition waivers for adopted children who previously were in foster care, and who want to attend a state-supported public college or university.
State governments and nonprofit organizations also offer scholarships and grants for children previously in the foster care system who want to continue their education beyond high school. These grants and scholarships may be applied to tuition and fees at public or private colleges and universities, as well as community colleges and trade schools.
 If your child requires additional medical, mental health, or special services than he or she needed when the adoption was finalized, you may be able to get more financial assistance.If you were receiving the maximum amount available according to the amount a foster family would receive, but the state has increased its foster care board rate, you may be able to renegotiate to receive assistance at the new, higher rate.
You also may want to renegotiate your adoption assistance agreement if it didn't include medical assistance and you now require it.
This may happen if your adopted child is newly diagnosed with a condition that he or she suffered from at the time of adoption, and requires additional medical treatment or services as a result.

