 If you're repulsed by the thought of cleaning a toilet, you'll want to have everything you need ready to go beforehand so the process is as quick as possible. Grab rubber gloves, which are essential, plus as many of the following things as you can find: a toilet brush, sanitary wipes, an old, out-of-use toothbrush, clean rags (or paper towels), and/or toilet cleaner.









Here's a sanitation tip - keep a pair of rubber gloves solely for the purpose of cleaning the toilet. Buy them in a distinct color that's different from every other pair of gloves you own. This way, you won't accidentally use them for washing dishes, etc.
You may also want to have some all-purpose cleaner handy. You can find this at the grocery store, but, if you want to save cash, you can also make your own cleaning solution by adding 1 tbsp dish soap to 6 oz of water.,, You can clean the different parts of the toilet in any order you like, but, if you're in a hurry, you may find that it's smartest to start with the bowl. This way, if you splash any dirty water out of the bowl while you're cleaning it, it won't get parts of the toilet that you've already cleaned dirty. Use a toilet brush to scrub away any stains or mineral deposits you see. You may need to apply some pressure to eliminate caked-on stains. For added cleaning power, drop a little toilet cleaner or all-purpose cleaner into the water, then dip the brush in it.
 Now that you've cleaned the bowl, it's time to clean the main points of contact - the top and bottom lids. Use all-purpose cleaner and rags/paper towels (or disposable sanitary wipes) to give both the lids a quick but thorough cleaning on both sides. If you want to, use an old toothbrush to scrub the hard-to reach spots between the lid and the body of the toilet as well as the hinges.
 Finally, it's time to give your toilet's porcelain a squeaky-clean shine. Using a spray bottle, mist the exterior of the toilet with all-purpose cleaner. Use a rag or paper towel to wipe down the toilet's porcelain, paying special attention to the handle. Alternatively, you may simply dip a rag or paper towel in cleaning solution or warm water, re-dipping the rag or towel when it is soiled.









Start cleaning the highest point on the toilet first - this way, if dirty water or cleaning fluid drips down, it will only touch areas you haven't cleaned yet.
Don't forget to clean hard-to-see areas like the base of the toilet and the back of the tank, which faces the wall. To successfully clean these areas, you may need to use pipe cleaners or a tooth-brush.
 Your toilet should now be looking much better than it did before. Give your toilet a flush to dispose of any dirty water that's accumulated in the bowl. If you used any toilet tissue while cleaning your toilet, this is also a good chance to get rid of it, provided you used an amount small enough that you're sure your toilet won't clog.









As a precaution, wash your hands after taking your gloves off. Small amounts of water may have splashed inside the gloves while cleaning.
If your toilet only needed a quick, "light" clean, congratulations - you're done! If, however, your toilet has serious stains or hasn't been cleaned in a long time, you may have more success with the "deep cleaning" method below.

