;
, It's important to ensure that you’re on the video page and that the video is open/playing; that way, the correct link for the video will be in the address bar.
 To copy the video’s URL, go to the address bar (at the top center of your browser window), highlight the URL, and right click your mouse and choose “copy”, or hit ctrl+c (on a PC) or command+c (on a Mac).
 Open a new tab or browser window and type “YouTube to MP3 converter” into your search engine’s search field. Your search will likely return many websites. The MP3 quality may differ depending on which site you use, but you should be able to find something decent for free. As these sites are constantly changing, it's best to search current reviews when choosing which site to use.


If a site asks you to pay for the service, it might even be a scam; you’re better off just trying another site that doesn’t charge.
Be careful when choosing a conversion site that you don’t wind up on a scam site. Before going to the site, do an online search of the site’s name to see if any negative search results come up.Another thing you can do if you’re unsure of how to tell whether a site is safe, is to type “https://google.com/safebrowsing/diagnostic?site=“ into your browser, followed by the web address of the site you’re considering opening., Once you’ve chosen which conversion website you'll use, open it up and paste your YouTube video’s URL into the relevant field — exactly where this field is and how it looks will differ depending on the website, but it should be pretty obvious. If it isn’t, access the website’s Help page for detailed instructions.


To paste the URL, right click your mouse and select “paste”, or hit ctrl+v (on a PC) or command+v (on a Mac).
 Once you’ve pasted your YouTube video's URL into the appropriate box on the conversion website, click the “convert” button. The button may be named something else (for example, “Start” or “Go”), but it should be pretty obvious — if it isn't, you'll find instructions on the website's Help page.
 Depending on your Internet connection and the YouTube video’s file size, the conversion may take anywhere from 30 seconds to several minutes to complete.
 Once the website has finished converting the YouTube video into an MP3 file, it should offer you the option to click a “download” button. Click on this button to download the file on to your computer.
 Unless you’ve specified otherwise, the file will likely download to your computer’s “Downloads” folder.
 Once you’ve downloaded the MP3 file you should be able to open it and listen to it in a media player (for example, Windows Media Player or iTunes) and/or add it to your music library.

