 If you use your deep fryer frequently, changing the oil and cleaning it every few days will help prevent a buildup of grime that can be much harder to remove.If you only use your deep fryer every couple weeks or less frequently, clean it after each use.


Do not put your fryer in the sink or dishwasher. Immersion in water may cause an electrical short and damage the fryer.;
, Never clean your deep fryer while it is still plugged in.Let the oil cool completely to avoid burns. Never add water to a container of hot oil, or the mixture could explode.
 If you plan to use the oil again, drain it into a food safe container with a sealed lid and store it in a cool place.Otherwise, find out how you can use cooking oil for other purposes or simply throw it away in a sealed container.


Do not pour oil down your sink. It can clog your drain.
 Put two or three drops of dish washing detergent on the basket for later cleaning., Use damp, but not dripping, paper towels or a sponge to wipe away oil residue and bits of food from inside the deep fryer pot.If the oil has caked on, scrape it off with a pan scraper or spatula, taking care not to damage the finish. Some lids are removable for easy cleaning. Dispose of the oil as before.


Stiff plastic utensils will scrape off the oil without scratching your fryer.
 Most deep fryers have a heating element composed of a pair metal rods. If these are covered in oily residue, wipe them down with paper towels. Be careful not to bend or damage any parts while wiping, especially if there are thin wires.Some models have removable heating elements for easy cleaning, or elements that are attached to a hinge that can be pulled up nearer the fryer's surface. Check your model's manual to see if yours has this feature.
 Use about four drops on the base of the fryer and four drops spread evenly around the sides.Start at the bottom and scrub in circles to create a lather. Continue to scrub with a circular motion up the sides.
 Transfer it from your faucet/tap with a pitcher/jug/kettle or other container, rather than exposing your fryer's electrical components to a wet sink. Use as much water as you normally would oil and no more. Let the hot water sit for 30 minutes.Whilst you wait you can move on to the next step and clean the other pieces.


If your tap water isn't that hot, you may heat some in a kettle or bring the water to a boil in the fryer by plugging it back in - be sure not to leave it unattended and do not allow it to boil dry. Unplug your fryer and wait 30 minutes for the water to cool. Boil for several minutes if there is a large amount of caked on residue., Use a scrubbing-brush (a tooth-brush works well) to remove food particles. Once clean, rinse the basket to remove the remaining soap, blot off remaining water with a paper towel and leave it to dry on a dish rack or towel.
 Check your manufacturer's instructions to see if your filters are removable, and whether you can clean them. Foam grease-filters can be washed in hot soapy water and left to dry. Charcoal odor-filters are not washable and need to be replaced once they become grimy and clogged.If any filters are not removable, you cannot immerse the lid in water. Instead, wipe with a damp cloth with a little detergent, then a plain damp cloth to remove the detergent and oil., Use a sponge or cloth to wipe the sides and bottom with the remaining water, then pour that down the sink as well.


If the water contains a large amount of oil, you may need to put it in a container and throw it in the trash instead of pouring it down the sink.
 If some caked on residue or sticky layer of oil still hasn't been removed, try mixing a little bit of baking soda with warm water to create a thick paste. Put on to a sponge and use this to scrub off stubborn area with a circular motion until it is removed.Only use other abrasive or chemical substances to clean your fryer as an absolute last resort. If you do need to use an oven cleaner or other cleaning product, scrub with soapy water afterward and rinse several times to remove all traces of the chemical before using it to cook., Add clean water without soap and swirl with your hand to pick up all soap particles from the sides and base. Pour out the water and repeat the process until the fryer is free of soap.


If there is a stubborn grease film (run your bare hand over the surfaces to feel for any remaining greasy/sticky patches) rinse again with diluted vinegar. Add 1 part vinegar for every 10 parts water, or 1/2 cup for every quart of water (110 mL vinegar for each liter of water)., Use a towel to dry the outside of the deep fryer, but let the inside air dry. Wait long enough for the fryer to dry completely. This gives any water that accidentally entered the electrical system a chance to drain before you plug the fryer back in.