 Different types of insurance are available based on where you are going and how much coverage you want. In general, the policies can be divided into certain types.



Travel insurance will cover lost luggage, missed or cancelled flights, or even basic medical care.

Travel medical insurance will provide the cost of medical care in foreign countries.

Medical evacuation services will assist you if emergency evacuation or travel is needed. These services may pay for the cost of an ambulance or help escort you back home in case of illness or injury.Multi-trip policies will cover numerous journeys in a year, reducing the number of policies you have to buy.Accidental death policies will insure your life for death or dismemberment. There are three types: air flight (death or dismemberment on an airplane), common carrier (death or dismemberment on a taxi, bus, ferry, or other type of public transportation), and general accidental death (all situations of death or dismemberment).;
, Knowing what you are at risk for will help you determine what kind of coverage is worth paying for and what kinds you can skip. Research your destination, either by checking their local tourism agencies or your own governmental advisory boards. There are various types of coverage that may be included or added to your policy:


Baggage loss and delay
Missed, delayed, or cancelled flights
Terrorism
Life insurance
Rental car insurance
Hurricane and weather, If you already have homeowners, auto, life, or health insurance, you may already be covered for travel-related expenses. Check your current policies or call your agent. They can help clarify what is and is not currently covered for you when traveling.When you call your insurance company, you can ask them if they provide travel insurance or if they would be willing to add a travel rider to your current insurance policy. This may be a cheaper option than finding a new company, and it will be with a company you already trust.
 A number of institutions sell travel insurance, including banks, tour operators, insurance companies, and specific travel insurance websites.You can easily find a wide range of insurance companies by searching for “travel insurance,” but you may find the policies to be vague or too complicated to understand. The best way to know your needs for travel is to call the company itself to speak to an agent. An agent can walk through the company's various policies and help you assess which kind of policy you need.


Even if you consult an agent, be sure to read the policy thoroughly yourself before signing. If you have any further questions, you can ask the agent for clarification.
 There are a number of internationally recognized insurers who have a network of affiliates that could offer you assistance inside and outside the country you’re visiting. Buy from a licensed agent/website that is authorized to sell the policy. Check their license number or licensed ID if necessary.