 Maybe other students try to pick fights with you. Or maybe you feel the urge to fight with someone else. Either way, dealing with potential aggression can be a very emotional experience. Look for people who can help support you.Your parents can help you deal with this tough situation. Ask them if you can talk.
Be specific in your request. Say, "Mom, can I talk to you about a tough problem I'm dealing with?"
Be open and honest. Tell your parents exactly what the issue is. Work together to try to find a solution.
 Teachers are another very helpful resource. If you have a teacher that you are close to, consider asking that person to offer you some tips. You can ask to keep your conversation confidential.Tell your teacher your concerns. For example, you can say, "I have been arguing a lot with Jason lately. I'm worried that we might get in an actual fight."
You can also try talking to the school guidance counselor. Counselors are trained to help students deal with difficult situations.
Consider talking to a coach or an adviser of one of your after school activities. Any adult who knows you will likely be able to help you think of some ways to avoid fights.
 You're likely busy with school, activities, and chores. But don't forget to make time to hang out with your friends. Friends are an important resource, too.Your friends can make you laugh. When you are more relaxed, you will be less likely to be tempted to fight.
Spend time with people who are genuine. You and your friends should be kind to one another. You should also be honest with each other.
If you're having an issue with a classmate, tell your friend about it. Say, "I'm worried I might get in a fight. Can you sit with me at lunch next week?"

, Junior high and high school can cause stress. It is difficult to find a positive way to deal with changes as you get older. Just remember, there is always someone who can listen.Use the internet. There are lots of discussion forums and chat rooms devoted to helping teens.
Look for a site that offers advice for fighting bullying. You can learn to avoid bullies, and to avoid becoming one.
Consider going to a site such as Teenline.org. You can choose to chat, text, e-mail, or talk on the phone to someone who understands what you're dealing with.