 Vinyl convertible tops are designed to be washed along with the rest of the car using traditional automotive soaps. Follow the directions provided on your car wash soap of choice when mixing it with water to ensure you wash the top using the proper ratio of soap to water to avoid drying the top out. Avoid using any soap with bleaches or strong detergents on your car or vinyl top. If your vinyl top is in good condition, washing it with car wash soap is a great way to keep it clean.
As with your car, do not wash a vinyl top in direct sunlight, as it may cause the soap to dry onto the vinyl.;
, If your vinyl top is particularly dirty, you can use a convertible top cleaner that is specially designed to properly clean and protect vinyl. Read the instructions for use when purchasing vinyl top cleaner to ensure you use it properly and always clean the entire top at once. Cleaning the top in sections can result in the vinyl’s color fading at different rates.There are a number of brands that offer vinyl top cleaners such as Maguire’s, Wolfgang and RaggTopp.
Make sure to rinse the top thoroughly after using a vinyl cleaner.
 If your vinyl convertible top has hard to remove dirt and debris stuck to it, you can incorporate a medium to soft toothed brush when cleaning it. Spray vinyl top cleaner on the convertible top, then scrub the area gently with the brush until the debris comes loose.Do not ever use a steel bristled brush on your vinyl top.
 Vinyl tops can be a breeding ground for mildew in high humidity areas. To prevent mildew from developing, choose a vinyl cleaner that includes an anti-mildew agent designed specifically for vinyl if you live in an area that rains frequently or regularly experiences high levels of humidity.Vinyl top cleaners that include anti-mildew agents will be clearly labeled.
Do not use a household mildew remover on your vinyl top, as it may damage the material.
 Make sure the top is completely dry before spraying on a vinyl protectant. These protectants can prevent the top from fading in the sun and help to maintain its waterproof seal. Vinyl protectants should be applied with increasing regularity on older vehicles.After about seven years, you should apply a vinyl protectant to your convertible top every few months.
If your vehicle sits in direct sunlight often, you may want to apply vinyl protector more often.

