 Andrographis may reduce the severity of flu symptoms and the length of illness if it is taken as soon as the symptoms start.Make sure that you talk to your doctor before trying this herb.


Do not use andrographis if you have high or low blood pressure, diabetes, take a blood thinner, have an immune disorder, or if you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant.Choose a supplement that has been standardized to 4-5.6 mg andrographolide.
To use andrographis, take two 250- 500mg tablets or capsules three times a day for the duration of the flu.;
, Ginger has a long history of use for flu symptoms. It can help provide relief for an upset stomach, diarrhea, and nausea. Ginger can also provide warmth, soothe a headache, and help with congestion.Try adding about one teaspoon of minced, fresh ginger to a mug of hot water. Drink 1-3 cups per day while you have the flu.
 Studies have indicated that Echinacea can reduce the severity of flu symptoms and the length of illness.Check with your doctor first, especially if you are being treated for a condition or if you are taking any medications.


Do not use Echinacea if you are allergic to any member of the Asteraceae family (daisies, ragweed, chrysanthemums and marigolds).
To use Echinacea, take 300 mg three times a day during illness.
You may also drink Echinacea as a tea. Drink 3-4 cups per day of a commercial Echinacea tea or steep one teaspoon of dried herb (root) or three tablespoons of fresh herb (root) in one cup of boiled water for five minutes. After five minutes, strain the tea and drink when it reaches a comfortable temperature.
 Elderberry syrup or lozenges may help to reduce the severity of flu symptoms.Some studies showed that elderberry relieves flu symptoms in as little as 2-4 days.Do not use elderberry if you are taking anti-inflammatory medicines, diuretics, laxatives, or if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
To use elderberry syrup, take one tablespoon of either Sambucol or Nature’s Way elderberry syrup four times daily.
Be aware that elderberries may contain cyanide, so use commercial brands only.
 Boneset has been used traditionally in Native American medicine.Some studies have indicated that boneset may help fight the flu by improving the function of immune-cells.To use boneset, add one teaspoon of the dried herb or three tablespoons of fresh herb in one cup of boiled water. Drink 3-4 cups per day.
 Osha is an Ayurvedic herb that has also been used in traditional European medicine. Osha may be helpful for flus symptoms such as a cough and sore throat. Make sure that you get osha root from a reputable source because it looks similar to hemlock, which is poisonous.Osha is often taken as a tincture, which is an herbal solution in alcohol.


Do not take osha if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. Osha may cause a miscarriage.
The recommend dose for osha is between 20-60 drops 4-5 times a day. Since the dosage depends on many factors such as age, sex, and weight, it is best to seek the advice of an experienced naturopath before taking osha.

