 Hyperactivity comes from an excess amount of energy. Put that energy to good use by exercising. You don’t need to go to the gym.


Make exercise a part of your everyday routine. Join a gym. Get out and run in your neighborhood. Or even just incorporate walks into your daily routine. If you live close enough to work, try walking instead of driving. If you take the necessary steps to burn excess energy on a regular basis, you won't have to worry about bouts of hyperactivity.
If you feel yourself getting hyper before a big meeting, try running in place for a minute — long enough to use up some energy, but not long enough to look sweaty.
Watch less TV. Most of the time, hyperactivity can be the result of too much downtime. Sitting and watching TV for extended periods of time means that your body is not burning very much energy. If you find that you feel hyper after watching TV, try reducing the time you watch or watch TV is short bursts rather than long stretches of time., Most often fidgeting appears as a sign of hyperactivity, but it is actually just the body trying to burn off excess energy. Since fidgeting is often involuntary, try to find a voluntary and fun way of fidgeting. Many people like to drum with their hands and feet. Try repeating small, nearly unnoticeable movements at home or at work, when you are feeling hyper.Whether you are and adult or a child, strategic "fidgeting" is a great way to burn energy.
 There are many hobbies that you might try. Play sports. Learn any dance that requires you to move a lot. Alternatively, you might learn a craft or a trade. Work with wood, brick, or some other building material that requires you to lift heavy materials. They key is to burn energy. If you learn something or are left with a product afterwards, you’ll be more likely to stick with it.
 You can burn off excess energy with your brain too. Try activities that strain your brain like puzzles. Plan out your weekend in great detail. Focus on complex problems. Know that sometimes hyperactivity is just a sign of boredom.

