 The key to increasing productivity is working efficiently. If you have several tasks on your plate, prioritize them in a way that will keep you active and working hard. Different people work in different ways, but this advice should give you a significant productivity boost:


It's usually best to start with tasks you dislike. If you get through the fun work early in the day, you'll be tired when you get to the less pleasant work, and more likely to put it off.
Avoid jumping from task to task. Whenever possible, put all of your energy toward completing one task. When you have to divide your attention, spend at least an hour at a time on each task. Squeezing in five or ten minutes between other projects is an inefficient way to work.;
, If you continue without any breaks, you'll burn out more quickly. Your brain needs to rest to stay alert and focused. Take a few minutes off whenever you feel tired, or whenever you've reached a good stopping point. Walk around, drink some water, or have a conversation.


Avoid break activities that could distract you from your work. "Screen time" on the computer or television is especially likely to lead to a long procrastination session.
If burning out is a problem for you, set an alarm to go off every hour or two as a break reminder.
 Set up a realistic schedule for your work, using a physical or electronic calendar. Turning your plans into concrete, visible reminders can motivate you to push onward.


Include break times and longer meal breaks in the schedule.
Just schedule one day at a time, especially when starting out. At the end of every workday, take a few minutes to draft the next day's list.
 Set short and long term goals for a project, and give yourself rewards after each accomplished goal. For small goals, such as cleaning the kitchen or finishing a day's project, reward yourself with an ice cream cone or half an hour of pampering. For large goals, such as earning a degree or a promotion, give yourself a vacation or a weekend adventure.
 Give your work your best effort, but avoid unnecessary extensions. Quick, professional results are more efficient and often more appreciated than an extra week of optional additions. Save your "above and beyond" moments for the truly important projects.

