 Every day, write down three to five things you’re grateful for. Over time, this simple habit will make you more aware of the good things that happen in your life.Keeping a gratitude journal can also have positive impact on your well-being.Write about little things as well as big things. Getting a promotion at work is a great entry for your gratitude journal, but so is wearing your favorite pair of colorful socks.
It’s a good idea to write in your gratitude journal in the evening, so you can reflect on the events of your day. Some good apps to look into include Gratitude Journal: The Life Changing App, Thankful For: Gratitude and Appreciation Reminder, and Uplifter.
Another option is to say a few things out loud that you feel grateful for. This will help to start your day on a positive note. Starting your day with gratitude will make it more likely that you will be able to feel gratitude throughout the day. It will also help to improve your mood and decrease negative emotions.;
, Meditation will help you establish the habit of mindfulness, which is essential for noticing and appreciating the little things in life. Incorporate some simple meditation exercises into your daily routine.A good meditation exercise for beginners is to clear your mind and focus on the pattern of your breathing. The more you practice, the better you will get at tuning out distractions and keeping your mind on the present moment.
You can also meditate on a word, a phrase, or a specific thing that you’re grateful for.
 If you’re grateful that someone helped you out, let them know! You can send thank-you notes anytime, not just when someone has given you a gift. Expressing your gratitude will make both you and the other person feel good, and you’ll get into the habit of appreciating other people’s kindness more.Consider sending a card or note to a friend who’s always been there for you, a coworker who makes your life easier, or a family member who recently did you a favor.
 Get into the habit of noticing and appreciating the things that go right in your life. When you catch yourself complaining about or focusing on the negative aspects of something, challenge yourself to find something good about it instead.For instance, instead of dreading your long commute, you could think about it as an opportunity to listen to your favorite music or podcasts.
Other ways to accentuate the positive include giving people compliments, commenting on something that’s going well, and enjoying small pleasures like a morning cup of coffee.
 Sharing gratitude helps you stay in a positive frame of mind. Make a weekly tradition of talking about gratitude with your family and close friends. Encourage them to talk about what they’re grateful for, and share your own appreciation for what’s happening in your life.You can also create a gratitude book at home or at work. Encourage your family or coworkers to jot down what they’re grateful for.

