 If you do your research, you'll find that thunderstorms aren't as scary as they seem. Few accidents as a result of lightning strikes occur, especially for those indoors. Lightning will always strike the nearest electrically conductible object in its vicinity, and if you're indoors, that is most definitely not you.;
, Watch a local weather channel and see how strong the storm is and if it's moving out of your area.
 If they tell you there's nothing to be afraid of, then believe them. It's true. Remember, it's just a bunch of noise that seems like it's trying to scare you. If you fall for it, you'll just get more and more scared every time.
 Find someone who will stay up with you all night just to comfort you. This could be a family member, a friend, even your boyfriend or your girlfriend. Just be sure to choose someone who doesn't mind thunderstorms! They will distract you from the thunder and can keep reassuring you.


If they are having to cope with it too, then you can be thunder buddies reassuring each other as much as yourself. Everyone is afraid of something, even if they act brave all the time.
 It's nothing to be ashamed of, they will know why you are scared. Alternatively, make a den under the quilt of your bed or pull blankets over your head.
 Talk to them to try to calm down. If your heart is beating fast, talk together about happy moments.
 They always make you feel better and will make you feel safe.
 They will keep you company and hopefully cheer you up!

, Find a place to do something you love like reading a book or watching TV.
 Imagine that the lightning is just lights coming from a party in the sky. Picture the thumping of feet on the ground from the dancing. Having a fun picture in your head makes thunder storms easier to bear. In fact, you might actually start to like them!


Thunder may sound scary right? Well it's just a bunch of noise outside your window. Thunderstorms aren't really scary; they just sound scary. Think of them as a person and they are really annoying, and what do you do to people that are really annoying? You ignore them, so do that to the thunderstorms.
Pretend the lightning is just party lights and the thunder is banging footsteps from dancing.
 Burn them on to a CD or your iPod/MP3 Player. If possible, wear headphones. You can turn it up so that it blocks out the noise of the storm, but don't have it blasting in your ear. Ask someone to stand 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) away from you. If they can hear the music coming from your headphones, then it's too loud. If it truly means enough to you, you can buy noise-canceling headphones that allow you to tune out the outside world and listen to your favorite jams at the same time.
 For example: Use a blanket over your head or place headphones over your ears with music. Or, if you are really that bothered, get earplugs for your ears; they work just as well.
 For example, use something like a scarf over your eyes, to block out the lightning.
 Play music, if possible.

