 A Clerk of Court is a county employee who issues and maintains legal records. You can get a license from any county in the state. However, it's usually most convenient to get one from your own.You can contact the Clerk of Court by visiting the county court in person or via phone. A list of all offices in the state is available here.When you contact the Clerk of Court, describe your situation. Ask if there are any special requirements to get a marriage license. The rest of the steps in this section are generally true for the entire state. Specific requirements may vary from county to county.;
, To get your marriage license, you will usually need to visit the office of the Clerk of Court or the county court building. Often, these are the same. You will need to go with your future spouse in person. Both parties will need to provide one form of government-issued ID. Examples include driver' licenses, U.S. passports, and birth certificates. Both parties will also need to provide their Social Security number.


You do not need to bring your Social Security card unless specifically required by your county.If you are a non-citizen, provide your alien registration number.If you don't have one, provide the best ID you can. W-2 forms and paycheck stubs work.
 If either party has been married before, you will need to prove that each previous marriage has ended.


For divorces, the official report of the divorce is kept on file by the Clerk of Court for the country where the marriage was dissolved.If you are applying in the same county you divorced in, the Clerk can usually look up this information.
For a spouse's death, you can order death certificates from the Florida Health Department., Florida marriage licenses cost $93.50.Many county offices allow for credit/debit card payments. This is not guaranteed, so it is wise to bring a check book.


Your fee is reduced by up to $32.50 if you took a state-sanctioned marriage prep course (see below).
 If both parties can present a certificate of completion for a marriage prep course, your license is effective immediately. You will also get a discount on your application fee. The premarital course must:Instruct spouses in communication skills, conflict management, parenting responsibilities, and financial issues relating to marriage.
Be administered by a licensed psychologist, social worker, marriage and family therapist, mental health counselor, or religious figure. It can also be taught by any other court-appointed individual.
Last at least four hours.
There are lots of ways to take the course. Options include both in-person and remote learning. For instance, you can take it online here., If you didn't take the premarital course, your marriage license will not take effect until three days after it is issued. Carefully note the date on the marriage certificate. The waiting period should be reflected. You cannot get legally married during this period.
 Marriage licenses in Florida have a 60-day expiration period. If you don't get married within this time frame, you will need to get another marriage license (and pay the fee again).
 To be legally binding, a marriage must be presided over by someone who has the authority to grant marriages. This includes several different kinds of people, including:All normally-ordained priests, ministers, and other religious personnel
All judicial officers (judges), including retired ones
All clerks of the state circuit courts
All notaries public (see below)

, Anyone who is a licensed notary may legally perform the rites of marriage. Most city and county clerks in Florida are notaries. The courthouse that issues the marriage license may be able to provide you with a list of local notaries.


If you want a friend or relative to say your wedding, this is your best option. The process for becoming a notary is cheap and can mostly be done online. Instructions are available via the governor's office here.If you're getting married in a state park, at a private estate, or in an unusual place like on a boat, you may also want to ask about notaries on-site.
 During the ceremony, the officiant will guide the spouses as they say their vows, exchange rings, and affirm their marriage. The specifics of a marriage ceremony can vary based on the venue, the number of guests attending, whether the ceremony is religious, and so on. See our selection of wedding articles for specific guides. From a legal standpoint, all that's important is that the officiant is there to witness the wedding and confirm your intention to marry.


"Scripts" for very simple wedding ceremonies are available in English and Spanish via the governor's office here. These are the sort of ceremony you would have if you get married at a county court building.
 Usually, a pre-adressed envelope will be provided with the form so it can be mailed easily. This is not the responsibility of either spouse, but you may want to check in with the officiant anyway to ensure speedy processing of your marriage.


After the Marriage Record is received, the Clerk's Office will mail a certified copy to the newly-married couple.At this point, your marriage is official.
 This is a concern for nearly any wedding. However, it matters especially if you intend to have a large reception or you want to reserve a historic Florida location, like Sarasota's John and Mabel Ringling Estate, the St. Augustine lighthouse, or the Carillon tower at Bok Tower Gardens.
 With Florida's balmy climate and dazzling locales, outdoor weddings are understandably sought-after. If your wedding is on public land, be sure that you have valid permission and documentation to avoid embarrassing legal snafus.


Florida's public beach parks require a permit before having a ceremony on-site. Some of these permits are free while others cost money. For Florida beach weddings, inquire at city hall.
For government-run parks such as Fort DeSoto in Pinellas county or Bahia Honda State Park, contact the ranger station or park headquarters.
 Florida is well-known for its hot, subtropical climate. However, many visitors are not aware that it actually has a pronounced rainy season for much of the year. This is important to know, especially if you're having an outdoor ceremony. As a very general rule:


The dry season lasts from October through April for most of the state.
The wet season lasts from May to October for most of the state.

