 There are many restaurants in airports that offer healthy selections if you need to eat a full meal. Reviewing restaurants close to your gate or terminal in advance can help you save time.Most restaurants make their menus available online. You also may be able to find information about the restaurants in the airport by looking in the flight magazine available on the airplane.
While you typically won't be able to find out specific nutritional information, you can get a sense of what's available and find the healthiest restaurant.
Try to aim for a restaurant that has several menu options you think would work, in case the full menu isn't available when you arrive. Look for steamed or sautéed vegetables, and lean meat that is steamed, broiled, baked, or grilled. Avoid fried foods.
If a meal is going to be served on your flight, call the airline in advance if you have specific dietary needs that you want accommodated. For example, if you're on a gluten-free diet, you can let the airline know that you need a gluten-free meal option.
 If you decide to go with a salad, request that the restaurant serve any dressing separately so you can control the amount you use. The same is true for other sauces, such as on pasta dishes.Avoid thick, creamy sauces and dressings, which typically have more fat and calories. Heavy and creamy sauces also may cause digestive problems or bloating, which will be extremely uncomfortable when you're on an airplane.
If you're planning on taking your meal on the plane with you, make sure the dressings or sauces are in a closed container so you won't have to worry about making a mess.
 Airline cabins are extremely dry, which can lead to dehydration. If you get dehydrated, especially on longer flights, you may end up with headaches, fatigue, and painful muscle cramps.Avoid dehydration by buying a large bottle of water once you pass through security. Drink water regularly — don't wait until you feel thirsty. You may want more than one bottle for long flights.
You also can bring your own (empty) water bottle to fill up before you get on the plane. Many airports have water fountains designed to refill water bottles.
 A single glass of wine or a light beer typically is fine, but drinking too much at the airport (or on the plane) can increase your appetite and lower your inhibitions. This is a recipe for ruining your diet.A single liquor drink also is okay, provided you have it straight or over ice. Stay away from sugary mixers. If you must mix your liquor with something use club soda, which is sugar free and won't add significant calories to your drink.
Keep in mind that alcohol can affect you differently at altitude, which is another reason to limit your intake, even on longer flights and when you don't have to worry about driving a car once you reach your destination.

