 Locate and tap the oDesk Mobile app on your phone’s home screen or via the app drawer at the bottom right side of the screen.


Its icon is a green circle with the words “oDesk Mobile” inside of it.
 Tap on the button to open a menu to the right of the page. Tap on the top item, which is the login tab, to load the oDesk sign-in page.
 Tap on the text fields one at a time, enter your username and password into the appropriate box, and tap on “Sign In” to access your account.
 To do this, tap on the three-line button again, and click on “Desktop View” found at the bottom of the menu to the right of the screen.


This will load the desktop version of the site on your phone screen, right in the oDesk app.
 To get to Settings, swipe towards the right, and you will see the button with the gear icon. Tap the button to load your Profile Settings.
 On the left side of the Profile Settings page are different submenus arranged in a column. Tap on “My Contractor Profile” to open its settings.
 Scroll through the settings until you see the Education tab. Tap on the “Add” button right next to it.
 On the newly opened window, click on the first box and enter the name of your college or university.
 In the next section, indicate the years you spent there using the drop-down number menus: on the first one, click on the year you started at the school you’re listing, and on the second one, the year you finished (or expecting to graduate).
 The next three sections are optional, but if you want to impress, give it your all! Describe in adequate detail what you have achieved education-wise.


In its appropriate box, specify the degree you hold, your area of study (e.g., “English Literature,” which is a great way to attract writing jobs), and other information you want to add.
You can list any extracurricular activities, awards, and even your 4.0 GPA. It will give your profile a little more punch especially if you have little or no work experience yet.
 Review the information you just added, and click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the screen to save your education history to your profile.

