 The skinny end will likely fall out higher up along your torso.


The trinity knot is considered to be an "exotic" knot or special occasion knot, but as far as special knots go, it's actually fairly simple. The movements needed to create the knot are somewhat basic and easy to perform; it's just that there are a few more than you would find with a standard tie knot.
The trinity knot consumes a moderate amount of fabric as you tie it. As such, it can be a little more difficult than a standard knot, but it is not quite as hard to adjust as many other exotic knots, like the Eldredge knot.;
,


Pinching is not an absolute essential part of the process, but it can make it easier to weave the smaller end around the thicker end without the fabric bunching up.
 Wrap the thinner side of the tie over the thicker side, then pass it beneath the underside of the thick end so that it circles around it completely.



In a sense, this action closes the loop around your neck.
 There should now be a v-shaped loop around your neck. For the next pass, you need to bring the same side you've been working with behind the hanging portion of your tie.


Note that in this step, you are not directly affecting the loop.
, Take it back down through the loop of the smaller end you just formed.


Your knot will begin to form right around this step. At this point, and throughout most of the process, you should keep the knot pretty loose so that you have plenty of material to adjust with. You can tighten the knot as needed once you complete the basic structure of the trinity knot.
,,,, Make any adjustments needed, such as straightening the tie out or tightening the knot, before stepping out your door in style.



When done correctly, the trinity knot should be somewhat hexagonal in shape with three-way symmetry.
You can wear this knot loosely or tightly. A loose knot will appear bigger and easier to see, but the choice is really a matter of personal preference.
You might need to make adjustments on a trial-and-error basis until you figure out how you like it and what makes it look best.
 Certain patterns can highlight the knot while others drown it it.


A solid color tie is usually the best choice, especially if you are just learning to tie the trinity knot. With a solid tie, you can see the trinity pattern rather well and there are no patterns you need to match up.
Once you get comfortable with the trinity knot, you could try a tie with diagonal stripes. It takes a little adjustment and a little practice, but if the knot is tightened in just the right way, you can get the stripes to converge in the center like a pinwheel or go out toward the edges like a triangle.
Light patterns, like small polka dots or diamonds, can work with a trinity knot but start to drown out the look of the knot itself.
Stay away from paisley patterns and other bold, loud, large patterns. These tend to hide the knot's folds, making all your effort stand out less.
 The best type of shirt collar to wear with a trinity knot is a narrow spread collar, while wider spread collars tend to work less favorably.


A narrow spread or pointed collar has a narrow opening between the two sides of the collar, so the trinity knot is framed rather nicely. Medium spread collars can also work.
Once the spread or gap starts getting wider, though, the style compliments the trinity knot less. Avoid widespread collars, cut-away collars, and club or rounded collars.
 In other words, keep your outfit simple so that the eyes of others are automatically drawn to the fancy trinity knot rather than other components of your attire.


Avoid shirts with patterns or wild colors. Instead, opt for a solid colored shirt in a fairly classic color or a pastel.
You can also wear a vest with this knot to accent the trinity knot more effectively.
 A trinity knot can be a great fashion statement, but as with most style statements of this nature, there's a time and a place for it. In general, a trinity knot is easier to pass off during an occasion that is either lighthearted or mundane.


You can pass off a trinity knot at work if you can be casual about it. This means wearing it at random to break up the monotony of standard tie knots. It does not mean wearing it every single day of the week.
You can also wear this knot at lighthearted special occasions, like wedding, anniversary parties, or functions at which you are the guest of honor.
You should avoid wearing it at serious formal events, however, like an important trial, political dinner, or reception for someone of great power. The knot could be an unwelcome distraction from the serious matter at hand.
 As a general rule of thumb, it's a wise move to know a few classic knots like the Windsor or four-in-hand before moving onto something exotic like the trinity knot.


Classic knots are more suited for everyday use than the trinity knot or other special occasion knots, so they tend to be more versatile.
Additionally, learning the easier classic knots can help you prepare for more exotic options, ultimately making these special knots easier to learn. For instance, the beginning of a trinity knot is very similar to the beginning of a Windsor knot.

