 The exercises in this section are part of the American Temperament Testing Society, Inc temperament test. For this test, the handler should not be familiar with the dog; an expert tester will evaluate your dog’s responses. The objective of this first exercise is to evaluate how your dog responds to a non-threatening stranger.The first stranger will be neutral — he will approach and shake hands with the handler, then engage the handler in a short conversation while ignoring the dog. This interaction tests how your dog responds to passive socialization (when no one is interacting with your dog), and whether he has a protective instinct when a stranger approaches.The second type of stranger will be friendlier, and will actively engage with the dog. This will evaluate your dog’s active socialization., For this exercise, your dog will be exposed to different noises. The first noise will be hidden — someone other than the handler will rattle a metal bucket of rocks from a hidden position, then set the bucket in the path of the handler and your dog. This will evaluate your dog’s level of curiosity (will your dog investigate the bucket?) and alertness.The second noise will be a gunshot. Someone who is standing a distance back from the handler will fire three gunshots. This tests how your dog responds to a sudden, loud noise.Each person in the testing vicinity will be safely out of harm’s way when the gun is fired.
 Your dog and his handler will approach someone who is sitting in a chair with a closed umbrella. When your dog and the handler are about five feet away, the other person will open the umbrella. The tester will be looking to see how your dog reacts to something in his path that he wasn’t expecting., The handler will have your dog walk on two types of unfamiliar surfaces: a 15 x 6 foot (4.6 x 1.8 meter) plastic strip and a 12 x 3 foot (3.7 x 0.9m) unfolded exercise pen. For this exercise, the tester will evaluate how your dog responds when he’s walking on an unusual surface. (Is he fearful of the new surface? Can he get over that fear? Does he demonstrate curiosity while walking on the surface?), This exercise is conducted in multiple steps to observe how your dog responds to an unusual situation that becomes increasingly threatening. In the first part of this exercise, your dog and his handler will stop at a designated point and an oddly dressed stranger will cross about 40 feet (12m) in front of them. The tester will be watching to see if your dog recognizes this as unusual.Next, this stranger will walk closer to your dog and his handler (about 30 ft / 9m), as if to provoke them. At this point, your dog should start to perceive that the situation is starting to escalate.The stranger will then walk even closer (about 20 f / 6m), this time more aggressively. At this point, the trainer evaluates your dog’s protective instincts. Different breeds have varying levels of protective instincts, so your dog’s breed will be taken into consideration as his protective response is evaluated., No dog is perfect for every situation. Your dog may be great in some situations, and not so great in others. Hopefully, the temperament test has helped you identify these areas. In future training, focus on the areas where your dog needs improvement.