 Each creeper drops 0, 1, or 2 units of gunpowder, but only if you kill it before it explodes. Now that you know the basics read on for a few ways to kill it without damaging its precious goods.


The steps below are organized by the tools they require. Methods lower down are faster and easier but require more advanced items.;
, One way to kill a creeper without fancy tools is to place cactus blocks behind you as it chases you. The cactus will damage them when they brush past it.This is much faster if you just let the cacti injure it enough to finish it with a single sword blow.


Thirteen cacti hits and one iron sword blow will kill a creeper.
Twelve cacti hits and one diamond sword blow will kill a creeper.
One cactus will sometimes hit the Creeper more than once. The creeper makes a noise each time it gets hurt, so you can count these to keep track of cactus hits.
 Explosions cannot hurt you underwater.Lure the creeper to water deep enough to submerge yourself completely. Staying underwater, kill it with a sword.


Remember, you need to kill the Creeper before it explodes to get gunpowder. The water is a safety feature if something goes wrong.
 You can kill creepers without any fancy tactics. Needless to say, this is dangerous. Stash all your valuable items in a chest, and pick up an iron or diamond sword. Here's how to make a successful attack:Lure the creeper to open ground.
Double-tap the forward key to start sprinting. (On Pocket Edition, this requires version 0.12.1+.)
Strike the creeper with your sword while sprinting to knock it backwards. This should cancel its explosion countdown.
Immediately retreat to get some distance between you.
Repeat. The creeper will die after three hits with a regular iron or diamond sword.
 Equip flint and steel. Get the creeper to chase you over grass, planks, or other flammable ground. Run backwards and light the ground in front of you on fire. The creeper will catch on fire, then slowly burn to death. This will not cause an explosion, so you can still pick up any gunpowder that drops.
 This is one of the easiest ways to kill creepers, especially if you start on the higher ground. Here's how to get this weapon:


Each skeleton killed has a small chance to drop a bow and/or 0 to 2 arrows.To make a bow instead, combine three sticks and three strings. You can get string by killing spiders or breaking cobwebs with a sword.
To make your own arrows, combine one flint, one stick, and one feather. Flint is an uncommon drop from gravel. Feathers come from chickens.
 Ocelots are cat-like animals that spawn in jungles, available in all versions of Minecraft. (You may need to update Pocket Edition to 0.12.1.) Creepers will not come near ocelots, so hunting for gunpowder is much easier with these cats around. Here's how to tame them:Gather as much fish as you can, usually by fishing.
Approach the ocelot, preferably in an open area. Sneaking is recommended. Hold the fish.
Stay still and wait for the ocelot to look at you and approach.
Feed the fish to the ocelot. Use the left trigger or L2 button on a console. Hold down the right mouse button on PC.
Keep feeding fish until the Ocelot turns into a cat. It will now follow you.

