 Jealousy and envy are natural, although uncomfortable, emotions.Everyone feels them from time to time.If you ignore it or don’t accept your own jealousy, you could end up feeling angry and resentful.Remind yourself that you are not a helpless victim, you are in control of yourself.
Think of your jealousy as useful information, it is telling you that something needs to change – either in your own thinking or in how you treat or care for yourself.
Understand that idealized beauty standards in culture can make it very difficult for women to interact with other women and can cause conflict.This can negatively affect your well-being.;
, There are many negative thoughts you might have including, "I think I won't be able to handle an adult relationship. I think I may be too needy. I think I am too much of a rescuer to choose the right kind of partner. I am scared of being vulnerable, of trusting the wrong person."


List your negative thoughts.
 Separate all the tangled threads of your beliefs and assumptions and start examining them one by one.


Once you have identified negative thoughts such as, “All of the younger women are taking available partners. I will be left out,” change these types of negative thoughts into more realistic alternatives such as, “There are plenty of available partners out there.”
Recognize that everyone has insecurities. Even the most beautiful and wealthy have weaknesses and have made mistakes. Nobody is perfect.
 It is easy to get stuck thinking about what you do not have. When you count all that does exist in your life, all that you can be thankful for, then you may be able to let go of the need to constantly search for that one more thing to make you happy.


Celebrate what you already have instead of worrying about what you don’t have.
Some examples of things to be appreciate of include: If you are making your own money, contributing to charity, being a good friend, and striving to do meaningful work.
Another way to practice gratitude is to make a gratitude journal where each day you list at least three things you are grateful for.
 Focusing on others can not only increase your gratitude, but can help you focus on what is important – human connection.


Help a friend in need. Provide a shoulder to cry on or words of solace.
Volunteer your time at a homeless shelter or other organization.
Donate goods, services, or money to companies that help people in need.

