 Allow him/her to stand when ready as the basic and most important gross motor skill needed to learn to walk. Occasionally using a high-sided playpen gives the child opportunity to pull up, stand and freedom to walk around holding to the railings, being very active in a safe area (get rid of the pen when the child is getting close to being able to climb out). A baby "gate" in a doorway will keep the very young child in a room that is safe and clear of dangers.;
, Obviously, soft toys should be available, but the crawling child will taste and swallow anything on or near the floor. You cannot be too sure, so ensure that the following issues have been taken care of:


Secure cleaning products, shoe polish, glass that can shatter, forks and knives out of reach, etc. Keep the floors free of bits, pieces and objects.
Put/tie up venetian blind cords, and any other dangling objects that can entangle the child.
No electric cords to pull an iron or lamp, etc. down on the child's head.
No small wheels and such that can be pulled or broken off, chewed and/or swallowed. Hand to mouth action makes a floor sweeper that will put any debris, or bits in the mouth.
 You can be "it": follow and catch (tag) your child and then vice versa (let the child catch you).
 Place a newspaper on the floor and ask your child to walk around the newspaper without stepping on it. If the child steps on newspaper, he or she will have to start again. You can also do the same thing.
 Hide the child’s favorite toy on the floor beneath a baby blanket, or such, and ask the child to find it. Then you can ask your child to hide something and you can find it. Let the young child be messy, until you ask for help cleaning up.
 Play kick ball/soccer games. You will have the most amazing time.
 Try gently throwing and retrieving a very light, soft, fairly large ball with your young child. Toss the ball "underhand" and ask your child to throw it back and you catch it. Let it be a game where one loses and other wins. Allow your child to win a few times. But don’t make it a habit to allow him/her to win every time. Let them lose too.
 Develop throwing and catching skills. Eventually play football and baseball with your child.
 It will help them develop their grip, which is required for writing skills.
 Let them open and close the zips and button and unbutton the shirt. This will enhance their fine motor skills along with eye-hand co-ordination and self help skills, which are required before the child starts to go to a pre-school.
 One option is snap together a soft cube. Large Lego blocks are available for small children, smaller ones when old enough. Another good task is lacing. You can make lacing boards at home by punching holes in different shapes. Then ask your child to pass a bulky cord through, to lace through the holes.
 Let the child be messy and create different forms from it. This will also enhance your child’s creativity.
 Spread out plain paper around the floor or attach to an easel board. (Do not use newspaper or paper with something written on it, as the child will not like it visually and might not want to paint on it.) Allow the child to be the messiest he/she can ever be and let him/her paint imaginatively with the paints and brushes. Another option is to allow the child to just dip his/her hands and fingers in the paint and create "masterpieces". Though it can be very messy, it's the most fun. You can also take part with your child and paint and have fun with colours.
 Ask your child to tear it, then twist it and crumple it. The child can make balls, then you can play an aiming game with the child; for example, lay aim the balls in the bin. This will enhance fine motor as well as gross motor skills. Older children can be asked to tear it and then paste it to make a collage.
 This will enhance their fine motor skills and helps their eye to hand co-ordination. If beads are not available, give them macaroni and let them weave it onto string.

