 You never know if a barista is going to know your specialty drink, and they do not want to sit there while you ask for secret "suggestions" or browse on your phone. You need to know what you're getting before you get in line, or you might get an impatient worker who refuses to make your drink. Some sites to check out include the Secret Menu site or the ever-popular Hack the Menu.;
, You aren't walking in and getting a "Butterbeer Frappuccino, for example. This can confuse baristas who have never made this unofficial drink. What you're actually getting is a Vanilla Bean Cream Frappuccino that you've had customized into a Butterbeer flavored drink.


This Vanilla Bean Cream Frappuccino is one of the most popular bases for secret menu orders.
 The ability to make secret drinks is mostly due to the profusion of syrups on hand at any given Starbucks. To make the popular Butterbeer Frappuccino, for example, you would get an extra pump of Toffee Nut and Carmel syrups. For medium drinks, get 1.5 pumps, and for larges you would get 2 pumps of each.


Be specific with the barista. Know the pumps you want, and how much, before you order so that you can order in one clear sentence: "I'd like a Vanilla Bean Cream Frappuccino with a pump of caramel and a pump of toffee nut, please."

, The following secret drinks have been making the rounds online for a long time, long enough that some baristas will know them without direction.


Cotton Candy Frap: Vanilla Bean Frappuccino, Raspberry Syrup (1 pump tall, 1.5 pumps grande, 2 pumps venti).
Cookies and Cream: Double Chocolate Chip Frappuccino with white mocha sauce instead of regular mocha.
Cake Batter Frap: Ask your barista for some Almond or Hazelnut Flavoring to add to a Vanilla Bean Creme Frappuccino.
Banana Nut Frap: Hazelnut Frappuccino -- grande or venti -- with an entire banana blended in.
 Some baristas will throw in a few pumps of syrup for nothing, but you're likely to pay a little extra for the mix ins. Be sure to thank the barista for their help and patience and pay the amount they suggest. This is one of the drawbacks of a secret menu, but you'll rarely have to pay more than $1-2 extra.

