 When you go to a party, try sticking to the fruits and vegetables for the bulk of your food. Of course, you want to try some of the other foods, but try to limit your intake to just a few bites of the higher-calorie foods.If you're not sure if the party will have healthy snacks, try eating something healthy before you go or even bringing something healthy with you. For instance, you could volunteer to bring a vegetable tray, so you know you'll have something healthy around., When you do pick out higher-calorie foods at parties, take the time to really enjoy it. If you plow through it without really tasting it, you'll just end up going back for more. You might as well take the time to really enjoy the calories you're taking in.For instance, if you want a bite of Halloween candy, don't just gobble down three or four pieces. Take small bites, and let each one melt in your mouth. Pick and choose. For example, you could have a small Kit Kat one day and a piece of hard candy the next day.
 Parties are notorious for having free-flowing high-calorie beverages, from punch to alcohol. If you indulge, try to keep it to just a little bit, as you can add on calories quickly. Plus, drinking alcohol in particular can make you hungrier and dissolve your resolve, reducing your self-control, affecting your judgement, and increasing your caloric intake., That is, physically try to keep yourself out of areas where they are kept. For instance, if you know there are pumpkin muffins in the break room at work, try to keep yourself out of there. At home, keep as many high-calorie foods out of your house as possible. When you do bring them home, put them somewhere that's not easy to reach, such as in a high cabinet.If you have extra candy leftover after Halloween, consider giving it to a family you know or donating it to an organization that will take candy, such as organizations that send candy to troops.
 During the fall, you're bound to run into candy and sweets all over the place, given the holidays. You don't have to completely skip all the fun. Rather, just consume in moderation by only having one small piece a day., That is, instead of congregating around the food table, try to move to where other people are at a party. Put the emphasis on talking to people and catching up, rather than on eating and enjoying the food.