 High insulin levels prevent your body from releasing GH. Eat foods that rank low on the glycemic index, such as complex carbohydrates. Avoid foods that are composed of simple sugars, such as most cookies or cakes. Make a point to especially avoid any sugar-laden snacks immediately before and after a work-out.Lean proteins, such as skinless chicken or lean cuts of beef, help to balance out the absorption of glucose into the blood, keeping your insulin levels down. Fiber-rich foods, like broccoli or beans, are good options, too.
Also, be sure to avoid consuming any sugary snacks before you go to sleep., Talk with your doctor about which method, or combination, might work the best for you. Vitamin D deficiency can lead to a lowered amount of numerous hormones, including GH.Some foods that are rich in vitamin D, include tuna and egg yolks. Many dairy products are also fortified with vitamin D, such as milk and yogurt., Look for foods that contain ample amounts of protein, such as dairy products and meats. Chicken, steak, cheese, and yogurt are all good amino options. When your amino acid levels are high, your body boosts the production of GH., Timing of your meals and snacks is particularly important. Get a GH boost by consuming a protein-rich snack within 30 minutes, before or after, or a work out. You can drink a yogurt shake or even eat a boiled egg. This protein will give your body the fuel to maximum muscle breakdown and regeneration, prompting GH increases., Try not to eat at least one hour prior to going to bed, as this will allow your body to fully process your food. Or, if you simply cannot give up late night snacking, try to give your body additional fuel in the form of complex carbohydrates or proteins. Go for combination snacks, such as an egg and wheat bagel sandwich., This is a diet plan where you consume fewer calories (usually half of your normal amount) for two days out of each week. If you typically eat 1,500 calories each day, then on Tuesdays and Thursdays, for example, you would limit yourself to only 750 calories for those days. This diet change can help to burn off fat and keep insulin levels under control. However, this can be a controversial method, so make sure to get your doctor’s OK before proceeding.