 Locate your specific model's user manual, and get familiar with the terminology used in the manual. There is usually a glossary of terms located near the end of the manual. Also become familiar with where all the engine parts are located.


Install the glow plug into the top of the cylinder head. Do not over tighten, snug will do just fine.
Fill the model's fuel tank.
Turn on the transmitter and receiver.
Make sure the throttle, braking, and steering servos are responding to transmitter (controller) inputs.
Set the carburetor needle settings to the factory positions specified in the user manual.
 If your model is equipped with an electric starter and built in glow plug igniter you will not have to purchase a separate glow plug igniter. If your model is fitted with a pull start starting system you will have to purchase the glow plug igniter. The glow plug igniter heats the glow plug to initiate combustion and start the engine. Once the engine is running the glow plug igniter needs to be removed before driving the model.

Plug the glow plug igniter into the glow plug at the top of the cylinder head.
Cover the exhaust pipe with the tip of your finger while pulling the engine over 3 times. This primes the carburetor and makes starting the engine easier.
With your finger now off the exhaust pipe pull the engine over until it starts. If using an electric start system do not exceed 10 seconds of continuous turning over at any one time.
 Then remove the glow plug igniter from the glow plug. Be careful as the cylinder head becomes hot very quickly., Do not let the engine sit at a high idle as this may cause excessive heat and premature wear to engine components. Once the idle has been dialed in the break in process can begin., We want to keep as much excessive heat out of the engine as possible during break in., Do not let the engine idle for an excessive amount of time. The engine is air cooled, this means that the engine is not being cooled when air is not flowing through the cooling fins. Prolonged idling will cause excessive heat build up and damage to the engine., Do not run the engine at a constant throttle for the duration of the fuel tank. You should see a steady stream of blue/white smoke coming from the exhaust pipe.

If this smoke it not present, turn the mixture screw counter clock wise until the smoke is present. This is called "richening" the fuel mixture. This means that you are adding more fuel to the air/fuel ratio.
On the other hand if the smoke is excessive turn the mixture screw clock wise until the smoke it present but not excessive. This is called "leaning" the fuel mixture. Note that running the air/fuel mixture too lean will cause excessive heat in the motor and could damage it.
 When the model is close to running out of fuel, bring it back to yourself and shut it off. Let the engine completely cool down to room temperature., You cannot over-break-in your engine, so the slower you go the better off you will be. You can however under-break-in the engine, and this can cause premature engine failure.