 Eating raw garlic may help to fight off a cold. To make it more palatable, you can crush the garlic into a spoonful of honey or olive oil. Or, you can add 2 to 4 grams of fresh minced cloves to your meals. Just take care when cooking garlic to avoid cooking it over high heat, which could destroy its healthful compounds. Garlic contains vitamin B6, vitamin C, and manganese which call all improve your immunity. It also has anti-viral and anti-inflammatory properties that can help decongest your sinuses.You can get garlic in seasoning, powder or salt form if you want to cook with it. Garlic extract can also be taken in liquid or capsule form to prevent colds. If you supplement, take 2 200mg capsules 3 times a day. Always talk with your doctor before taking supplements.
 Siberian ginseng can treat cold symptoms, reduce the recovery period, stimulate the immune system to fight against viruses, and improve mental alertness.Look for it as a liquid extract, capsule, tablet, powdered extract, or dried root for teas. Ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you find a reputable manufacturer for supplements and determine the right dosage for you.


Never give Siberian ginseng to a child. People with high blood pressure, sleep disorders, heart disease, schizophrenia, autoimmune diseases, or women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should not take Siberian ginseng.
 Elderberry is commonly used to treat respiratory illnesses, sore throats, coughs and fevers due to its anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. It also stimulates the immune system. Elderberry extract can be found as a syrup, lozenge or dietary capsule supplement at most nutrition or drug stores. You can also try steeping 3 to 5 grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes. Drink this as a herbal tea, up to 3 times per day. Some precautions to remember are:You shouldn't use elderberry for a prolonged period, so take it as a tea or supplement every 2 to 3 days.
Elderberry is a blood thinner and may not be recommended for people with low blood pressure.
Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries as they may be poisonous.
Elderberry may have some side effects for pregnant women, people with autoimmune disease, and people taking diabetic medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants. Talk with your doctor before taking a supplement.
 There are several ways to apply or use peppermint. Use peppermint lozenges, take peppermint extract in dietary supplements, drink peppermint tea, use peppermint essential oil, or use it as a fresh herb (as a garnish or flavoring in meals). Peppermint contains menthol, which can help soothe sore throats and dry coughs. It works as a decongestant to thin mucus and help break up phlegm. Just be sure not to use peppermint or menthol for children under 2 years old.To make your own peppermint tea, steep 1 bag (3- grams or 1.5 teaspoons) of dried peppermint leaves in a cup of hot water. Take it 3 times a day.
To use peppermint as a rub, dilute peppermint essential oil in a carrier oil, like jojoba or almond oil. Add 5 drops of peppermint essential oil to 1/2 fluid oz (approx. 15ml) of carrier oil. Store any unused portions in a dark-glass dropper bottle that has a tight screw top. Massage the oil onto your forehead, back of your neck or wrists for 3 to 5 minutes. Never take peppermint oil orally.
 Eucalyptus can also be used in a variety of ways. You can buy eucalyptus lozenges, cough syrups, and vapor baths to sooth sore throats. Topical ointments containing eucalyptus leaves can applied to the nose and chest to relieve congestion and loosen phlegm which can prevent mucus from aggravating the throat. For adults, eucalyptus is generally safe when applied to the skin. Eucalyptus contains a compound (cineole) that works as an expectorant to fight respiratory infections, reduce congestion and alleviate coughs. It also has antioxidant properties that protect against free radicals, molecules that can damage and infect cells.To make eucalyptus tea, steep 2 to 4 grams of dried eucalyptus leaves in a cup of hot water for 10 to 15 minutes. Take it up to 3 times a day.
To make a eucalyptus gargle, steep 2 to 4 grams of dried eucalyptus leaves in 1 cup of warm water for 5 to 10 minutes. Gargle the liquid after meals to reduce bad breath, help drain mucus, and soothe your throat. Do this up to 3 or 4 times a day.
Do not take eucalyptus oil by mouth as it can be poisonous. People with asthma, seizures, liver or kidney disease, or low blood pressure should not use eucalyptus without asking their doctor.
 Blue vervain is a flowering plant that can act as an expectorant. It loosens phlegm and mucus from the chest and throat which can ease congestion. It also makes your body sweat, which can cool your body and reduce fevers. Blue vervain also has anti-inflammatory properties to flush toxins from your body. You can take it as a supplement, tea, or syrup. Take 1 capsule with a meal and glass of water at least once or twice a day.To make blue vervain tea, steep 1/2 teaspoon of blue vervain in 1 cup of boiling water for 3 to 5 minutes. Strain the liquid and drink the tea up to 2 times a day, especially before bed.
Blue vervain should not be used if you are taking diuretic medication or caffeine, as it may cause dehydration. Ask your doctor before using blue vervain if you are pregnant, have a digestive problem, or are taking any other medications.
 Eating licorice root can help alleviate a cough or sore throat commonly associated with a cold. There are several licorice root pills and serums you can buy at health foods stores, or you can eat 1 to 5 grams of real licorice root at home. When buying licorice, look for licorice with a main ingredient of licorice root (not anise or licorice flavoring).To make a licorice tea, soak 1 to 5 grams of licorice sticks in a cup of boiling water for 3 to 5 minutes. Strain and drink the liquid once a week.
Don't give a child licorice tea for more than a day without talking to your doctor. Never give any licorice tea to an infant or toddler. Licorice should also be avoided by anyone with high blood pressure, hepatitis, liver or kidney disease, or is pregnant.

