 Your rotator cuff muscles are weaker and smaller than the other muscles in your arm and they will wear out faster without properly warming up before training sessions.


Rotator cuff muscles must be strengthened in order to prevent injury, and warming up properly is the best way to start every training session.
Come up with a customized warm up and stretch routine that begins every session.
 Start about 45 feet (14 m) apart from each other and make 10-15 throws to warm up. Then move back two or three steps with each throw until you get to 60 feet. At 60 feet, throw until you feel your arm begin to fatigue. This should only take about 10 minutes.


During your next training session you will begin exactly the same way, except you will go out to 70 feet (21.3 m) instead of 60. At 70 feet (21.3 m), make 10-15 throws (until your arm starts to feel fatigued) and then stop. Work to increase your distance a little at each session.Avoid long tossing at distances over 300 feet, and perform long tossing between bullpen sessions. Do not spend more time long tossing than in the bullpen.
Make sure to use a fastball grip during long tossing. Ask your pitching coach to pay particular attention to your angle and release point. To gain maximum benefit from a long toss program, have a pitching coach on hand to supervise the mechanics of your throw.
 Weight training for pitchers has always been a controversial subject because of concerns that the increase in muscle mass would diminish flexibility. However, many recent studies have shown evidence to the contrary, as long as muscle density is increased, not muscle mass.Focus on lifting lighter weights to increase muscle density. The best upper body exercises for pitchers are dumbbell flat bench presses, incline dumbbells, lateral pulldowns, single-arm dumbbells pulls, hammer curls and tricep rope extensions.Use a stretch cord and three-pound dumbbells. Don't lift heavy weights and limit to two or three sets.
 To perform a squat jump, hold the weights securely in your hand, squat down, and then jump as high as you can from that position. When doing lunges, alternate legs frequently.


Don't forget to stretch well before you start training. After training sessions, make sure to stretch again. Always strive to consume a lot of water while weight training for muscle health.
 On top of the typical arm and shoulder strengthening exercises that all pitchers should be doing, you should also spend time upper body training. Exercises that emphasize pulling motions are ideal for pitchers because they strengthen the upper back.Strengthening the upper back with these types of exercises will result in strengthening the muscles you need to decelerate your arm when pitching.
The best exercises for this purpose are bent over rows and pull-ups. When performing them, make a special effort to squeeze your shoulder blades together, then back and down.
 Training with medicine balls is another popular weight training technique for pitchers. It is normally incorporated alongside weight training programs.The most popular medicine ball exercises for pitchers are Russian twists, granny throws, rotational throws, med ball slams, and squat explosions.
 Resistance training is one of the best ways to keep your shoulders healthy and to gain strength. Using resistance tubing (also known as Jobe's exercises) and resistance bands are the most highly recommended and effective ways for pitchers to train with resistance., A major and often overlooked component of properly maintaining arm strength is the inclusion of a good recovery system. Frequently use ice treatments to keep inflammation down.


Allow your muscles appropriate rest periods in between sessions so that your arm has the chance to rebuild broken down muscle tissue.
Perform simple post-training stretching exercises to improve your range of motion and prevent injuries.