 Even kids who are not bullies in real life might find that the anonymity and distance of the internet emboldens them to engage in bullying. Tell your kids that bullying is wrong in any situation. Furthermore, bullying others could lead to reprisals against them, and they might find themselves getting bullied in return. Ask your kids to talk about a time that they were bullied. Inquire how it made them feel. Say, “It is unkind to bully others. I want you to think about the time you were bullied when you use social media, and never engage in hurtful bullying.”, Texting and driving can be fatal. Say to your kids, “It only takes a moment’s inattention to cause an accident. Never use your phone while driving.” Encourage your child to turn their phone off while in the car so they aren’t tempted to log on to social media while driving.Use online videos and statistics to help educate your teen about the dangers of texting while driving.
Remind your teen that you can monitor their texting. Tell them that if you discover that they have texted even once while driving, they may lose their phone for an extended period of time.
 Tweens and teens often send nude images of themselves to the people they’re dating. This practice is known as “sexting.” These nude pictures are often sent via social media. When your child begins sex education, they might also get a lesson on sexting. But you should also initiate a conversation about sexting with them. Ask your child if they know what sexting is. For instance, you might ask, “Do you know what sexting is? Have any of your friends engaged in sexting?”


If they know what it is, ask them if they understand the potential consequences of sexting. Say, “Sexting is illegal in many places and could result in real trouble. If the person you sext with shares the images, you will never be able to regain control over those images of your body. This could lead to embarrassment for many years.”
Sexting is considered child pornography in many places. If your teen sends or receives nude photos of themselves or another minor, they can be charged with possessing and distributing child pornography. To illustrate the dangers of this, show your teen news stories of these events happening to other teens.
Show your child news stories about kids their age who have suffered serious consequences due to sexting. Ask, “Have you seen this news story? What do you think about this?”
Use the conversation about sexting to remind your child about the big picture – that they should always use social media responsibly.
 Remind your child that many things cannot be deleted once they’re put online, so if they send a picture or message on social media, it might never go away. Emphasize the importance of good judgment, and point out particular consequences of posting to social media. For instance, you might say:”If you send a nude picture to someone else, you could be charged with a crime.”
”If you post content about yourself that is sensitive or personal, you might be embarrassed later.”
”If you say something that offends or embarrasses others, you might get bullied online or in real life.”
"Try waiting an hour before posting something. Maybe even try sleeping on it. That way you can make sure it is not an impulsive decision."

