 Tight clothing and hats can increase your chances of developing body acne, especially when you have been sweating.Make sure that you wear clothes that allow your skin to breathe and remove sweaty clothes soon after exercising to help prevent body acne breakouts.


Wear cotton clothing as much as possible. Cotton seems to be the least irritating fabric for people who suffer from frequent body acne., While it may be tempting to pick at zits or try to squeeze them out, you are better off leaving them alone. Popping a zit can cause it to become inflamed.Squeezing a zit can also lead to infections or even scars.If you get a zit, continue to care for your skin as usual, but do not pick at the zit or attempt to pop it.


If you want to try to treat a blemish actively, instead of popping it, apply a 1% over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream.
 Some studies have shown that certain foods may increase acne breakouts. Sugar and simple carbohydrates seem to make people more susceptible to acne breakouts. Steer clear of sugary sodas, potato chips, candy and other junk foods that may be contributing to your breakouts. Instead eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins to help reduce your chances of an acne breakout.Try avoiding dairy products. Some people develop acne in conjunction with consuming dairy.Going dairy-free (including dairy proteins) may be a way to reduce your acne from the inside.
 Not sleeping enough can make your acne worse, so it is crucial to get the recommended amount of sleep every night.Adults need about 7-9 hours of sleep per night, but teenagers need between 8.5-9.5 hours of sleep every night to feel their best. Keep in mind that everyone is different and you may need more or less sleep than the recommendations for your age., Stress has not been found to cause acne, but some studies have shown that stress can make existing acne worse.To help prevent your stress levels from intensifying your acne, take time every day to relax. Some possible stress-reducing activities you might try include deep breathing, yoga, and meditation.

