 If you and your sister or sisters don’t live in the same city, National Sister’s Day is even more important! Talk to your sister before the holiday to make sure she knows that it’s coming, Try to set up a call or a video chat for the day.Wish your sister Happy National Sister’s Day after you say hello. This will show your sister that it’s not just a regular phone call: you’re calling so that you both can celebrate your relationship together.
Tell your sister that you love her and miss her. Try to keep the conversation positive and happy, but also honest. You do want to tell your sister what has been going on in your life, but don’t talk about sad subjects if they aren’t necessary.
If you have more than one sister, figure out how to arrange a conference call or a group video chat.
 Since you and your sister can’t share the day together, buying or making a gift is a great way to bridge the gap between the two of you. Try to think of something that your sister would like to receive. Keep in mind that a smaller gift is easier to send through the mail.Make sure to send your gift so it will arrive on or before the holiday. If you are worried that your sister will open the gift before the holiday, write a note on the front of the package that reminds her not to open it until National Sister’s Day.
If you don’t want to send a gift through mail, you can also try to send something to your sister through the Internet. You can send your sister a gift certificate, share music tracks with her that she would like, or even write her a thoughtful email to send the day of.
 If you and your sister are both active on social media, make a post to celebrate National Sister’s Day. Your post could include a picture of the two of you and a few sentences about your special relationship.For instance, under your picture you could write something like, “Sophia, I’m so glad to have you in my life. Hope you’re having a great time in New York and Happy National Sister’s Day!”

, Enlist your sister’s friends to help you make the holiday extra special for her. You can ask her friends to decorate her room with National Sister’s Day decorations, or even plan something more creative like a scavenger hunt that leads to your present!


Don’t wait until the last minute to ask her friends for help, and make sure that they’ll keep your plan a secret!

