 People with PTSD often experience hopelessness, among other symptoms. Consider whether you might be suffering from PTSD and talk to a mental health professional if you suspect that you are. Some of the common types of PTSD and their corresponding symptoms include:Hyperarousal: irritability, agitation, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, feelings of panic, always ready to attack or respond
Re-experiencing: nightmares, intrusive memories, and flashbacks, experiencing physical symptoms of a traumatic event, extra-sensitive to reminders of trauma
Numbing: feeling disconnected or robotic, losing interest in people and activities, feeling hopeless, isolated, and/or depressed, avoiding thinking about people associated with trauma

, Research has shown that having unrealistic expectations for yourself—in a sense, having “false hope”—can produce anxiety.This anxiety can make it difficult to see the opportunities that are available to you. Unchecked anxiety can hinder your progress and make you feel less hopeful. In order to create realistic hope, as opposed to “false hope,” you need to learn to deal with your anxiety.


Try practicing systematic desensitization. Systematic desensitization eases people into distressing situations so that they can feel more comfortable with them. Start by learning basic relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing exercises or meditation. Then, perform such techniques in situations that make you uncomfortable.For example, if you start to feel anxious when thinking about plans for tomorrow, concentrate on your breath and regulate it as you imagine possibilities for yourself.
As you become less anxious about situations that make you a little bit uncomfortable, challenge yourself to practice relaxation techniques in situations that make you feel more anxious. Keep progressing until you have tackled the situation that produces the most anxiety for you.
 Almost everyone experiences anxiety in certain situations or feels sad during short periods of their life. These can be helpful reactions to certain unhealthy things in life. But when these feelings start to become attached to everything in your surroundings, it could be an indication of something more serious, such as an anxiety disorder or depression.


Try to address the patterns of thinking that have been keeping you down by talking to someone about how you have been feeling. Consider seeing a therapist or mental health counselor, or even a mental health support group.
When your anxiety or depression is associated with something or someone in your life, it might be necessary to make an extreme change, such as moving to a new location or simply away from the person who has been bothering you. Get feedback from other people in your community who you trust before making any decisions that might drastically change your life.
 If you happen to experience a high degree of anxiety, or just can’t seem to break out of an unhealthy habit or thought pattern, seeing a professional therapist could help get you moving in the right direction. They can offer you helpful psychological tools and/or techniques, which might help you to overcome your unique obstacles. This can be especially helpful if you keep feeling frustrated with your life after multiple failed attempts to change it.

