 Not all graphics cards can support multiple monitors. If your computer can not support more than one monitor, then this will not work. You could try right-clicking on the desktop and select "Graphics Properties..", or see here for 3 ways to Find Out What Graphics Card You Have


Another easy way to find out is that if the graphics card has to places to connect your cable to. In the image above, the graphics card has two VGA ports. This graphics card should support two monitors.
Most laptops come with a little sticker that states all the computers specs (hardware).;
, You should be able to use a VGA, DVI, or HDMI cable to hook up the second monitor.


VGA, DVI and HDMI cables can range in price from approximately $5 USD to $30 USD on Amazon.com depending on length.
 Monitors can really range in price from about $25 USD to $400 USD depending on what you're looking for. When shopping for a monitor, make sure you do some research into what you're looking at.
 You should have your two monitors sitting side-by-side or one above and one below. You could also place one in the basement and one in the attic, but side-by-side works the best.
 You will need your computer to be running for this to work. You could follow these steps with your monitor and computer both turned off, but you will not see any results. Make sure they are both connected to a power source if needed.
 You should be able to use a VGA, DVI, or HDMI cable to hook up the two monitors.
 This should open a list of options.
 This will open up the display section in your computers settings. You can find the display settings option as the second last on the list.
 This will help you when you're Configuring the monitors. A big box with an identifying number will show up on each screen.
 This will help your computer know how your two monitors are set up so it will work more fluently.
 You can adjust the screen brightness, change the screen resolution (advanced settings) and more.
 Once you're done, hit the blue "Apply" button to apply your changes. After that, you can close down the settings window. That's it! You have set up your second monitor.

