 Perhaps there is something particularly stressful that you would like to address in the anger room. Maybe you are having a rough time at work or at home and want the anger room to replicate that situation. Ask for any customizations that you would like to be made and see what they are able to do.For instance, during the 2016 US Presidential Election, by popular demand, some anger rooms provided dummies with the candidates’ faces on them.
If your anger is less political and more professional, perhaps you would ask that your boss’s face be put on one of the dummies or that your anger room look more like your office.;
, Most anger rooms will ask that you arrive a bit early so that you can fill out all of the necessary paperwork before entering. You will likely be asked to fill out some basic identification questions as well as an agreement not to sue if you should harm yourself in the room. If it is your first time visiting, you may also have some questions, so be prepared to ask those quickly.For instance, you might want to ask if you could purchase additional time or perhaps even a monthly package so that you can return more frequently.
 Most anger rooms provide you with your own choice of music while you are in the room smashing things. Think beforehand on the genre of music you would like played. Many offer rock or rap as popular options, but others could be available, as well., Anger rooms often have a wide range of different weapons for you to use based on your needs. Many offer baseball bats, golf clubs, or two-by-fours. Choose the weapon that works best for you and will do the damage that you desire., If you would prefer to demolish a room in a group rather than alone, know that many places offer group packages or will allow you to bring in a friend at an extra charge. Consider making this an outing with you and your friends or with someone who you want to release your anger with.

Only do this with people you trust and who trust you in return. This environment has the potential to be very dangerous, so only enter into with people who you know won’t hurt you.
 Once you have made these preparations and selections, now is the time to use the anger room. Most places offer 15-30 minute sessions, so be prepared for this time limit. After putting on the proper protective gear including goggles, gloves, and a helmet, use your weapon to beat and demolish everything in sight. Enjoy your time in the room and let all of your anger out.

When you are finished, simply put all of your tools down, take off your protective gear, and then exit the room. Take a few deep breathes to calm yourself and enjoy the feeling of exhilaration that you might have.
If you feel nervous about beginning, begin to think about all that has made you angry lately, whether that be a person, project, or situation. Use that as an incentive to begin unleashing your anger in the room.
 In order to find the anger rooms closest to you, do a quick google search. The original Anger Room is located in Dallas, Texas, but there are also others located across the world. Find anger rooms close to you or travel to these cities if you are able., In general, the cost is about $20 - $25 for 5 minutes in anger rooms, with the cost going up the longer you are in the room and the more customized you would like your experience to be. For example, for a visit lasting 25 minutes in a room designed to look like the Oval Office, you will pay a minimum of $75 at most anger rooms.Some offer coupons or promo codes. Check those online if you would like to get a discount.
 Most anger rooms provide safety gear free of charge, but see if it is advised that you bring anything in addition, as well. You will likely not be authorized to bring your own tools or weapons, so be sure to ask beforehand or leave those at home., Though you may be very excited about visiting your local anger room, know that some people have to be excluded from participation due to medical reasons. For instance, anger rooms often will not allow anyone who is pregnant or who has any heart issues to enter. Some anger rooms have age requirements, but others allow those who are under age 18 as long as they have parental supervision., After you have successfully found an anger room and done the appropriate amount of research, make a reservation. You can do so online at some places or over the phone. Be sure to book your visit at the most optimal time for you, perhaps on a day that you know you will be stressed and looking for a release., Though anger rooms can certainly serve as an outlet for anger, they may not be accessible to you either geographically or financially. Consider what things you can do at home to replicate anger rooms without destroying your house. Always consult with your parents, spouse, or any other tenants of your home before destroying anything.

For instance, perhaps you have just purchased a new printer and are about to throw out your old one. Before doing that, destroy it instead. You can use a baseball bat or any similar object.
Make sure you wear the proper safety gear including gloves and safety goggles.
Avoid being very loud so that you don’t disturb your neighbors. Destroy the item in a fairly empty space so that cleanup will be easy.
 Recognize that unleashing your anger through destroying rooms is not necessarily the most healthy way to resolve or deal with your rage. One activity that has been proven to help deal with stress, however, is exercise. Rather than unleashing your feelings via deconstruction, consider doing so through being constructive, productive, and healthy.Join the gym or run for a few miles around your neighborhood.
Join a group fitness class or find workout videos online.
 Other more constructive ways of handling stress and wrath are yoga, deep breathing, and meditation. Consider employing one of these into your daily life and then assessing if your overall anger subsides or lessens in any way., A final and perhaps most long lasting way of addressing your rage is to think about what causes your anger, and then work to remedy it. For example, perhaps you are dealing with some issues from your childhood that you have never moved past; therapy might be helpful for you. Or maybe you have serious road rage issues; consider taking a different route to work or taking public transportation.