 From Chandigarh, you can have a taxi or bus, which is continuously available in service.;
, Airport in Chandigarh is 112 kilometers (70 mi), but have regular flights to each and other hill stations.
 And from Delhi, the Howrah-Delhi-Kalka mail would be one of the best train to reach. It would be 2-hrs consuming ride to Chail by bus or taxi from Kalka. From Kalka Chail, a toy train runs that takes around 5 hrs to reach the location, but it takes you on ride through hills and tunnels.
 From Delhi, you can directly board NH1 to Ambala and NH 22 to Kandaghat. There are several buses and taxis are available to reach to Chail from Delhi, Chandigarh, Kalka, Shimla and Kandaghat.

Keep driving onto NH 22, you will pass through a petrol pump in the left hand side at Pinjaur, then you will reach to Soorajpur after driving 7 more kilometres. You will drive for more 3 kilometers (1.9 mi) to reach onto NH 5 in the slight right hand side.
Keep driving straight onto NH 5 for more 5 kilometers (3.1 mi), and Chakki Modh will be there in the right, you will have to drive for more 19 kilometers (12 mi) on NH 5, and then take a right turn to get connected to NH 22 again.
Now you will have to follow the signboard for around 10 kilometers (6.2 mi). You will pass by a Salon, where you can have some refreshments at Cafe 7, Paragon and Himalayan Coffee House.
After refreshment, you will have to get back on NH 22 and make sure to stay on NH 22. While driving you will pass by a Pine Grove on your left, you'll need to drive 10 kilometers (6.2 mi) more, and then take turn to left at Mandir road.
After taking left turn, drive for more 22 kilometers (14 mi) and take right turn onto MDR 8. Once you will be on MDR 8, it will take little more time to reach to Chail.
,


Start driving from Delhi to Chail, you need to drive onto GT road to get out of Delhi and then reach to NH 1.
You will find an Indian Oil Petrol Pump on the highway. You can have some refreshments at the Zhilmil Dhaba near Murthal for special stuffed tandoori parathas and lassi. And if you'd like to have some continental food then Oasis Resort is a better option.
While driving, you will find Karni lake which is located off the highway behind McDonalds. It has the boating facilities too.
Once you will exit NH 1, you will have to keep your eye on the signboard to reach NH 22, near Ambala.
Keep driving for more 53 kilometers (33 mi) on NH 22 to reach Chail, you will pass by Chandigarh where you can have some refreshments.
After having the refreshments, you will have to get back onto NH 22 to reach to Chakki Modh.
Now take a right turn and keep driving for more 36 kilometers (22 mi), and take a correct turn at Salon Bypass Chowk, from where you'll have to take a left turn to get on Mandir Road/ MDR 8.
Drive straight on MDR 8 roadways for more 24 kilometers (15 mi), and you will be at Chail.
