 An old beauty remedy is to use a little bit of spicy cayenne on the outside of your lips. Mix a small amount of pepper with water to form a thin paste, then apply this on your lips and leave it for about ten minutes. Rinse off with water.Avoid licking your lips when the paste is applied on your lips.
This essentially works by irritating your skin, and eventually drying it out. Don't use this as a long term solution.
 Peppermint and cinnamon oil are sometimes used in very small doses to plump lips. This causes your lips to swell, which makes them appear fuller and pink. But in generally, applying cinnamon oil to lips causes great irritation, so it's better to mix lip balm while using the cinnamon oil.


Remember the oil is very spicy and irritating, and not generally recommended as a solution.
There are some natural lip plumpers containing vitamin E, cinnamon oil, and olive oil which is sometimes sold commercially. Lip plumper reviews will help you choose the product that is suitable for your skin type.
 Whistling engages your lip muscles, thereby increasing the volume with repeated "reps." How much bigger you can make your lips by whistling is pretty debatable, but it also can't hurt as an easy, free, and natural remedy for fuller lips. It can't hurt!


Try doing whistling scales, going up and down and up and down repeatedly. Continue repeating until you can feel the muscles getting engaged. You should feel some soreness and tension when you're working them.
 Try kissing as a lip-plumping solution. Pucker up your lips, using all your energy as if kissing. Keep your lips pursed for 10-15 seconds and do ten reps. try to repeat this three times each day. Better yet, find somebody to practice with., Just try alternating smiles and frowns, to work your lip muscles around and exercise them. Press your lips together and try smiling.


Some people worry about "smile lines" and wrinkles. To avoid wrinkles pull on your lip corners with fingers, to keep wrinkles from forming. Hold this position for 10-15 and do 10 reps, three times a day.
 Enjoying your lip workout? Here are a few more lip-exercises you can try to boost up the volume of your lips:


Hold together both your lips and move it from left to right. Again move them from right to left. Repeat this exercise four or five times to boost volume of your lips.
Hold your lips together and rotate it in clockwise motion. Do this three times. Now change the direction of rotation perform rotation in anti-clockwise.

