 Draw a thin bead of tacky glue down the center of the barrette base.


Alternatively, you can lay a dot a glue directly beneath the estimated position of each stud. You'll need to line up the studs beside the base of the barrette to determine how many you'll use and how far apart to space the glue dots.;
, Arrange a line of pyramid-style studs over the barrette, lining them up so that the flat edges face one another. Press the back of each stud firmly into the applied adhesive, making sure it sticks, and use as many studs as needed to cover the full length of the barrette.Check the studs before lining them up. Ideally, the studs should be just a little wider than the width of the barrette.
Before arranging the studs, fold out the prongs of each stud so that they lie completely flat.
Wipe away any excess glue with a damp paper towel. Allow the glue to dry completely before continuing to the next step.
 After the glue dries, use pliers to bend the prongs of each stud around the barrette back.


Make sure that the prongs only bend around the backing and not around the clip portion of the barrette.
If the pressure you apply causes the glue to weaken and the stud to break away, reapply the glue as needed. Wipe away any excess glue and let it dry completely before continuing.
 Apply one or two coats of white spray primer to the front, back, and sides of the barrette. The studs must be completely coated, as well.


For best results, use a spray primer labeled for use with metal.
You'll usually need to wait at least 30 minutes in between coats, but each primer can be a little different, so you should check and follow the label instructions to be sure.
 Apply two to three coats of spray paint to the barrette. Choose any color you want and make sure that it covers the entire barrette, including the attached studs.


As with primer, you should use a spray paint approved for use with metal and follow the label instructions carefully. You will usually need to wait 30 minutes or so in between coats.
Allow the paint to dry completely before wearing or otherwise handling the barrette. The final wait time can be as much as double the wait time given in between coats.
 Once the paint is dry, the barrette is complete and ready to wear.

