 At the early stages, it might not hurt, so it may be tempting to put off going to the dentist. But once the problem is more severe, it will be harder to treat. Schedule a cleaning and dental exam if you have:Red, swollen, or painful gums
Bleeding when you brush and floss
Gums that are contracting away from your teeth
Permanent teeth that are loose
Sensitivity to the temperature of your food
Bad breath or a strange taste in your mouth that doesn’t go away
Pain
Swelling in your jaw
Headaches

, If you have tooth or mouth pain, you may need treatment for:Cavities
An abscessed tooth
An impacted tooth
Gum disease

, It is best to get your teeth cleaned and get an exam every six months. Children should start seeing a dentist as soon as they begin getting baby teeth. Your dentist or hygienist will:Thoroughly clean your teeth
Removing any of the hard plaques that often develop in hard to clean places
Check to make sure you are not developing any cavities
Check the health of your gums
Show you the proper technique for brushing and flossing

, Two common and effective ones are fluoride varnish and fissure sealants. Both are suitable for adults and children.Fluoride varnish is a treatment where a strong fluoride is applied to the teeth to make the enamel stronger and less vulnerable to decay. This can be done every six months on both baby and permanent teeth.
A fissure sealant is a plastic or resin-based composite coating that is applied to the crevices of the teeth to protect them from bacteria and food that might get stuck in them. This is applied to permanent teeth and can last up to 10 years.
 Dental care can be expensive and many health insurance plans may not cover it. You can look for low cost dental care by:Contacting dentistry and dental hygiene schools to see if they offer low cost treatment to help students get experience. This will be supervised by an experienced dentist or hygienist. You can search online at the websites of organizations like the American Dental Association or the American Dental Hygienists Association.
Calling or searching the websites of your community health center, county or state health department, and the US Health Resources and Services Administration to find clinics in your area that charge based on income.
Contacting health organizations like United Way. You can dial 211 in the US to reach your local United Way organization.

