 The bad news is, there’s probably a reason that you fought, and it needs to be addressed. Don’t allow potential points of irritability or distance between the two of your to turn into deeper animosities by recognizing tensions before they lead to another fight.Self-reflection will lead to realizations that you can address after you’ve apologized.
Specific questions you might ask yourself include:

What are the specific things I said or did that likely hurt the other person?
Was I intending to hurt the other person, or get back at them for something? If so, why did I do so?
Do interactions such as this often occur between you?



, The answers you provide for yourself to these questions can help inform the specific things you need to apologize for.Be clear, by saying things like, “I’m really sorry about saying ______, I can see how hurtful that likely was.”
If fights are recurring, bring it up, especially if you’re at fault. Say something like. “I’m sorry for fighting with you again. I recognize that my behavior needs to change. Are you willing to talk about this with me?”
Let it go! Alternatively, you may realize that there wasn’t a good reason for a fight – it was just an especially bad moment for one or both of you. If you’re sure there’s not an underlying issue that needs to be talked about, letting it go (after apologizing) might be the best route to take.
More than likely there is something that needs to be addressed. Articulate not only the things you recognize that you did wrong, but also the things the other person said or did that hurt you, though do so after you’ve apologized.
 If you or your loved one feels as though one of your “gave in” during the fight, or didn’t get something off of their chest that they need to, there are likely unresolved issues between you.For instance, Ask each other, “Are you angry about how the argument ended?”
Did you try to convince your loved one to do something they didn’t want to do? Be sure to apologize and rescind any coercive agreements by saying things like, “I know I insisted on _______, and that I didn’t hear you out on why you disagreed. Let’s talk about it together, and I’ll be more open to your considerations.”
Articulate the things specific things that hurt of offended you that your loved one has said or done. Do so calmly, and avoid being accusatory, but you need to be clear about behavior that cannot continue. Say things likes, “It really hurt me when you said/did _______.”
Be ready to forgive your loved one, and expect the same, if you’re able to apologize to one another, have the constructive conversations to grow closer, and move on.
 Even if you are extremely upset or disgusted about what was said or done, recognize that holding onto the emotion of anger will not improve the situation for anyone. Ensure that there aren’t any grudges that may drive a wedge between the two of you.Don’t persist in giving others the cold shoulder or the silent treatment.
Similarly, if you find yourself being especially critical of one another, there are likely unresolved feelings that need to be discussed.
Monitor yourself and reflect on the observations you make about how you’re acting.
Take responsibility for your own actions by working to adjust your own behavior and being willing to speak openly and listen fully to your loved ones.
 You need to make it clear that you intend not to repeat any hurtful behavior.Your apology is only as good as your willingness to ensure you don’t have to make the same apology again.


Clearly and specifically articulate a commitment not to repeat any hurtful things you said or did.
Emphasize the fact that you do not want to hurt the other person, and are sorry for having done so.
Following egregious or repeated behavior during arguments with your loved ones, you may need to do more than apologize.
Commit to a plan or process to help you deal with whatever might be leading to your hurtful behavior, and seek professional guidance or join a support group to help you follow through on these commitments.
 Don’t ever think that simply giving a gift is a sufficient apology. If you go the gift route, it needs to be something well-thought out that will be meaningful to the recipient.


If you apologized in person, following it up with a letter about how much your relationship with the person means to you may be the best gift you can give someone.
Think of something the other person likes to do, and get them something accordingly.
Tickets or passes to a show or other activity you know your loved one will enjoy are a great option, as you can go together. Spending time together is another great gift, as it indicates you’re hoping to maintain your connection.
 If you fought with your romantic partner, tangibly re-establishing your commitment to one another is vital, not to mention (especially) enjoyable. Make-up sex has a reputation for solidifying a particularly gratifying reunion after a fight.Remind one another, both verbally and tangibly (with kissing, hand-holding, hugging), that even though you are capable of hurting one another, that you’re still there for one another as well.
When emotionally excited by the stimulus of an intense fight, the pleasures of sex may be amplified by a psychological (and biological) phenomenon called the arousal transfer.
Allow the relief you’re both feeling on account of your reconciliation to spill over into a session of romantic reunion that reaffirms the bonds between you.

