 If you do not wear hearing aids but need some assistance, an amplifier may be a good idea for you.These devices use a transmitting base that plugs into your television's headphone jack, and you wear a headset or neckloop. You can adjust the sound and tone to a comfortable level without disturbing the volume on your TV.


When searching for an amplifier, consider if you prefer headphones or a neckloop, the range of the transmitter (e.g. can you leave the room and still hear the TV?), the battery life, and the warranty.
Popular brands include TV Ears, Sennheiser, Serene, and Innovations.These devices differ from everyday headphones because they enhance the speech and reduce background noise.The connection cables, transmitter, listening device, and instructions are all included in the package when you purchase your amplifying system.;
, The transmitter should be placed near the TV, but not close to any metal objects as they can decrease the range of the transmitter. Turn off your TV before connecting. Plug one end of the cable into your transmitter and the other end into your TV. Depending on your TV, you will plug into the headphone socket, RCA socket, or the SCART socket.Always read the directions before connecting your transmitter to the TV.
 Your receiver may be rechargeable or run on batteries. Adjust the sound and tone to a comfortable level. You should also test the amplifying range now. Make sure the sound is clear. If it sounds fuzzy, the audio jack may not be plugged all the way into the transmitter or the TV or your transmitter may not be in a good spot.
 If you wear hearing aids, your amplifier can be connected directly to your hearing aids. Most hearing aids have a t-coil that can pick up the signal to your transmitter. Switch your hearing aid to the "T" position to use them with your amplifier. The TV sound should now be directly transmitted to your hearing aid.If you are having trouble using your t-coil, talk to your audiologist or healthcare professional. He or she can make sure that your t-coil is working properly and can program and adjust the volume of the t-coil.The t-coil function may not automatically be turned on when you start wearing hearing aids.

