 Not all furniture is a good candidate for refinishing. Valuable antiques, for instance, should be refinished by a professional, since the refinishing process could devalue the piece if you aren't careful. To choose a piece to refinish, look for these qualities:


Furniture made from sturdy wood. Furniture made with fine wood that could be easily damaged, particle board, or other non-sturdy wood won't do well during the refinishing process.
Furniture without too many coats of paint. Taking off layer after layer of paint may not be worth the time it takes.
Furniture with smooth, flat faces. If this is your first time, avoid furniture with intricate carvings or turned legs.;
, Take a look at the furniture you have chosen to refinish and craft a plan for turning it into the perfect piece for your dining room, front porch or kitchen. You'll need to consider the following questions:


What will it take to refinish the piece? If it's painted, you need paint stripper; if it has an old varnish or finish, you need a thinner finish stripper.
How do you want your new piece to look? Will it be painted a new color, or do you want the natural wood to be exposed? You may not know the answer to this question until you see what the wood looks like underneath the old paint or finish.
Consider going to furniture stores, browsing online, and talking to experts for ideas on how to create the look you want.
 Now that you have a plan, you'll need the following supplies to get the job done:


Protective equipment. You'll need a ventilator (especially if you're working indoors), goggles, chemical-resistant gloves and an apron. To protect your floor or yard, get a chemical-resistant drop cloth as well.
Paint stripper and/or finish stripper. If the furniture has paint, you need thick paint stripper to remove it. Otherwise, you just need a thinner finish stripper.
Brushes for applying the stripper and scraping tools for removing it.
100 grit sandpaper and/or a power sanding machine, plus a finishing sander.
Wood stain in the color of your choice.
A protective polyurethane topcoat to seal the stain.
 Take off the knobs, pulls, hinges, and other metal hardware to prepare the furniture to be refinished. These items could be ruined by the chemicals used to strip the furniture.


Place the hardware in labeled bags so you remember where everything goes when it's time to place it back on the furniture.
Plan to polish the hardware so that it matches your newly refinished piece. Alternatively, you could buy new hardware to spruce up your furniture.

