 Instead, it recommends that you first identify your individual “eating pattern”; this term is defined as “the combination of foods and drinks you consume over time.”Essentially, it is asking you to focus on the “big picture,” the overall eating habits and behaviors that you will carry throughout life. Day-to-day variations are not as important as adjusting your long-term patterns to better meet the general nutritional guidelines.;
, The five general principles that introduce the new dietary guide build off this concept of eating patterns, along with familiar points of emphasis. According to these overarching guidelines, you should:Establish healthy eating patterns throughout your lifetime.
Consume a variety and sufficient amount of nutrient-dense foods.
Limit caloric intake from added sugars, saturated fats, and sodium.
Emphasize healthier beverage as well as food choices.
Support healthy eating patterns for all people.
 Instead of adding or deleting specific foods, the new dietary guidelines recommend that you shift your existing eating pattern to better reflect the recommended nutritional breakdown for your age, sex, and activity level. For the typical American diet, these shifts include:Eating more vegetables and fruits. Try to eat half of your meal plate from vegetables.
Making whole grains at least 50% of your grain intake.
Focusing on low-fat, nutrient-dense dairy products (for instance, lowfat yogurt, not cheese)
Adding more variety and nutrient density to your protein choices.
Consuming comparatively more oils and fewer solid fats.
 Much of the information is tucked away in the appendices of the official Dietary Guidelines, but it is worth seeking out the comparisons of three recommended eating patterns. These include the “Healthy U.S.-Style Eating Pattern,” “Healthy Mediterranean-Style Eating Pattern,” and “Healthy Vegetarian-Style Eating Pattern.” You can draw from any or all of these in order to develop your improved, personalized eating pattern.The U.S. pattern accounts for a typical American tendency for higher animal protein and dairy consumption, for instance.
The Mediterranean pattern, meanwhile, adjusts for the increased intake of seafood and fruits, and reduced dairy intake common to eating patterns in that part of the world.
Similarly, the vegetarian pattern adapts to the typical increase in soy, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains as a result of the elimination of animal proteins.
 While the specific guidelines vary by age, sex, and activity level, you should typically seek to eat at least 2.5 cups of vegetables daily. Really, though, you would be hard-pressed to eat too many vegetables. They are chock-full of essential nutrients and tend to fill you up faster, thus reducing your overall caloric intake.One of the specific guidelines regarding vegetable variety is to pick from a range of colors, because they provide different beneficial nutrients. Of particular importance are dark green (like broccoli or kale), red (like peppers and tomatoes), and orange (like carrots and peppers). Basically, eating lots of vegetables is always a good thing, but the more colorful your salad bowl or veggie stir-fry is, the better. Eat a rainbow of colorful food.
 As with vegetables, the recommended amount varies based on individual circumstances, but you should typically eat around two cups of fruit daily. “Eat” is important to note, as it is the recommended way to consume fruit. Eating whole fruits is preferred to drinking fruit juice, for example.By eating whole fruits, you get the maximum benefits out of the range of vitamins and nutrients available. A whole apple, for instance, will provide you with significantly more fiber than apple juice. The Dietary Guidelines also emphasize variety in fruit choices, in colors and types.
 When it comes to protein consumption, variety is once again a key element of the new guidelines. Both meat-eaters and vegetarians can choose from a wide range of foods that pack a protein punch. Seafood, poultry, lean meats, eggs, legumes, soy, seeds, and nuts all offer good sources of protein without significant saturated fat content.Typically, you should eat eight ounces or more of seafood per week, for instance. For more examples of recommended amounts and varieties of lean proteins, see the appendices at the end of the official Dietary Guidelines.Eggs are now more highly recommended in the newest guidelines, because previous limits on daily cholesterol intake (previously 300 mg per day) have been removed. Research has indicated a weak correlation between eating cholesterol-heavy foods and increased blood cholesterol levels. Eggs, therefore, high in protein (and cholesterol) but low in saturated fat, are back “in.”, The new guidelines are more specific on the importance of choosing whole grains, recommending that they make up at least fifty percent of your total daily grain intake. Whole grains possess a more complete nutritional profile than refined, processed grains, and offer more fiber content, to name a few benefits.The guidelines also specify that dairy selections should focus on nutrient-dense options that have no fat or reduced fat content. Fat-free, unsweetened yogurt, for instance, provides protein, calcium, and a host of nutrients without saturated fat or added sugars.
 For the first time, the official Dietary Guidelines make a specific recommendation on limiting your consumption of sugars that are added to foods, as opposed to those naturally occurring in fruits, for instance. While there is no nutritional difference between naturally-occurring and added sugars, the latter makes up a significant majority of the average American’s overconsumption of sugars.The guidelines state that less than ten percent of your total daily calorie intake should come from added sugars. For a 2,000 calorie diet (recommended daily calorie amounts vary by age, sex, and activity level), that equates to about 50 grams of added sugars per day.
For sake of comparison, eight ounces of soda contains about 27 g of added sugars, so it is quite easy to see how many of our “eating patterns” include significantly too much sugar. Excess sugar intake can cause a host of health problems, not limited to obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and tooth decay. Try to incorporate zero calorie drinks with low or no sugar in them like Coke Zero, Pepsi Max, Power Aid Zero, and Vitamin Water Zero.
 Previous versions of the Dietary Guidelines have sharpened the differentiation between “good” and “bad” fats, and the newest version continues that trend. While unhealthy trans fats have largely been removed from processed foods because of changes in federal regulations, excessive saturated fat intake is still a major health problem for many people.Similar to added sugars, the guidelines recommend that no more than ten percent of your daily calorie intake should come from saturated fats. Saturated fats are found in abundance in red meats, whole dairy products, and processed foods; always check packaged food labels.
Processed meats like deli cuts, bacon, and sausages tend to be high in saturated fat and sodium, and groups like the World Health Organization (in 2015) have deemed them to contain carcinogenic compounds that should not be consumed. The new U.S. Dietary Guidelines edition does not preach avoidance of processed meats or set a specific maximum intake, but it does recommend that their consumption be very limited., Excessive salt intake has become an increasing concern of nutritionists and health experts in recent years. There is ample evidence that too much sodium consumption can cause hypertension (high blood pressure) and, by extension, a host of significant health problems. If you are like the typical American, you consume far beyond the recommended amount of sodium. As with sugars and saturated fat, the main culprit is processed foods.An average adult should consume no more than 2,300 mg of sodium per day, which equates to about one teaspoon. Again, the vast majority of most people’s sodium intake comes not from the salt shaker, but from prepared, packaged, and processed foods. Always look at labels, and adjust your eating patterns to include more fresh, minimally-processed foods.

