 When you’re hungry it can add to your stress and you are more likely to eat things that will actually increase your stress instead of reduce it. But, if you make a habit of eating meals at regular times, you can fight stress with food by making sure your body has the nutrition it needs when it needs it.Although you don’t have to eat immediately when you wake up, you should have breakfast every morning.
Try to have lunch each day. A midday meal can give your body the energy it needs to fight the stress of the afternoon.
 Planning and preparing your meals in advance will give you the opportunity to select foods that will help your body fight stress.Because you already have planned what you will eat, you will be less likely to eat foods that increase your stress.


Each week think about what meals you will have so that you are meeting all of your nutritional needs for the week.
For example, you might think about needing to eat fish several times, more vegetables, and less simple carbohydrates.
Check the kitchen to determine if there are any ingredients you need to buy for your meals.
Plan to include foods that will help you combat stress. For example, plan to have fish at least twice a week and to include leafy greens in at least one meal a day.
 There is nothing wrong with having a snack or two throughout the day. In fact, having a healthy snack can give you the boost of nutrients you need to fight stress.Occasionally it’s okay to snack on chips or candy bar, but this shouldn’t be an everyday snack.
Snack on things such as fresh fruit and vegetables. For example, a sliced tomato sprinkled with pepper or a cup of mandarin oranges.
Try to bring snacks from home so that you are less tempted to buy something unhealthy just because it’s convenient.
Watch your portions so that your snack doesn’t become meal.
 There are times when you are feeling stressed and even though you aren’t hungry, you are craving your favorite snack. It’s okay to give in occasionally, but using food as a regular coping mechanism can lead to obesity, eating disorders, and more stress.Avoid using emotional eating as a way to fight stress with food.


Emotional eating can lead to binging on food because you aren’t paying attention to how much you are eating.
Before you eat, ask yourself if you are actually hungry or if you are eating just to make yourself feel better.
You might think something like, “Is now the right time to eat? Am I hungry or just trying to make myself feel better?”

