 It may take thousands of tries to hit a home run with Waluigi against the computer, so a second player is a must-have. Make sure this person is okay with being the one to give up the big hit.;
, You will sign in as Waluigi and your second player should select Wario. Wario is an excellent choice, because his fastball is always perfectly straight and for some reason, batters tend to hit his pitches farther than anyone else's.
 This ballpark works great, because the outfield walls are closer in than all the other stadiums, making the homerun more likely.
 Also make sure Waluigi's team is batting first. This makes it so that you can get right to hitting with Waluigi.
 Waluigi is a strange hitter, so be sure he charges up at exactly the same time Wario does. When Wario is fully charged, he will throw his "blazing fastball," the fastest pitch he can throw. This is important, because the faster the throw is, the faster the hit will be, and thus it will go farther.
 Once Wario has thrown the pitch, you (Waluigi) should swing. But there is a catch to this - Waluigi has to swing late. Not late enough that he misses the pitch, but just late enough so that it goes to the left part of the field. Waluigi is left handed, and most lefties pull the ball towards right field, but with Waluigi this doesn't work. It will actually be less powerful if he pulls it right.
 It will soar towards the left field foul-pole. And if you hit it perfectly, the ball will land fair or hit the pole, both resulting in a home run just over the outfield wall. But most likely, the ball will not be hit perfectly. Either the outfielders will catch it, or it will be a foul ball. You might even miss the pitch entirely by trying to swing too late. If this is the case, just try to get the next pitch. If Waluigi is out, then exit back out to the Main Menu and try again. It may take many tries before you hit it right. But when you do, you get the satisfaction of accomplishing the hardest feat in this game - hitting a home run with Waluigi. You also get to see his almost never-before-seen home run celebration!

