 There's a chance that your voicemail inbox may not transfer to your new device, so make sure to listen to all of your messages before activating your new phone.
 Like voicemails, there's a chance that your old text history will not transfer.


See this guide for details on backing up your old texts.
 While most modern contact systems are synced with your account, your contacts on your old phone may be stuck there until you back them up. Either use a contact syncing program or write down the details of your most important contacts.
 Your new phone will come with a SIM card if your carrier requires one. The SIM card may already be inserted in your phone.


If you're upgrading from an older device on the same plan, you can most likely use your old SIM card unless it physically doesn't fit.
 This may not be required during activation, but it can be helpful to have around.


Dial *#06# to display your new phone's IMEI. You can also usually find it printed on your phone's packaging.
 Most carrier's have activation services that are available through their websites. This can be a much quicker method than trying to call and get activated.


The process is slightly different, but generally you will need to log in, select the line you are activating a device on, and then enter the IMEI number for the phone you are activating.
If you're activating a prepaid plan online, you will likely need to enter an Activation Code. This is typically included with your SIM purchase. If you don't have one, you'll need to call the number below for your carrier, or go into a retail store.
 If you are having difficulty activating online, or have a special case (such as activating an upgrade received from someone else's line on the same plan), calling your carrier will be the easiest way to ensure that everything activates properly. You may need the account holder's SSN or other identifying information.


AT&T - (866) 895-1099
Verizon - (800) 922-0204
T-Mobile - (844) 730-5912
Sprint - (888) 211-4727

, While this is the most inconvenient way to activate your phone, it is also the most sure-fire way to activate without any problems. If you aren't able to activate online or over the phone, or didn't get a SIM card with your new phone, visiting the store will get your problem quickly solved.

