 Notes are one of the most common and effective ways to confess a crush. It tends to be less awkward than in-person confessions, giving you some space and comfort if the person doesn't feel the same way. Write a short note confessing your crush, and pass it to the person in person, or put it in their locker.


Make sure your note is hand-written, legible, and relatively short and to the point. It doesn't need to be clever, or overly romantic. Just cut to the chase: "I've always noticed that you seem really sweet, kind, and cute. I'd love to get to know you better, because I really like you."
When you want to confess to your crush, in person is always better than just over a text, or online. A note is a good balance, because it can be personal, but also gives you some space if you're nervous. If all else fails, having a conversation on the phone, or via Skype is always preferable to texting it.;
, In some cases, your actions can make your crush more obvious than saying, "You know, I really like you." If your crush gradually becomes aware that you like them, it'll be more natural and clear than having to say so bluntly.


Go out of your way to talk to your crush and "bump" into them in the hallway. Change your routes so you see them regularly, and always make a point of saying hi.
Always make eye-contact. Don't shy away from it, like you're embarrassed. Make eye contact and smile flirtatiously when you see the person you're crushing on.
Show an interest in what they do and what they are like. Try to get to know your crush as a friend first, before you confess anything. It may grow naturally.
 One great way to start a conversation or to get your crush talking is to ask some help with something simple.Depending on who your crush is and what they're like, this can get you into some flirtatious conversations.


Ask for help with a homework assignment for a class that you're in together. Start with a compliment, like, "You seem so smart in this class. Do you think we could talk a little sometime about this assignment? I need some help."
Pretend you lost something. "Hey, have you seen a book around here? I just had it..." When your crush helps out, say, "You're so sweet..."

, In some cases, a rumor started could actually work to your advantage. If you tell a friend that you've got a major crush on someone, and that gets around to a friend of your crush, which gets around to your crush, you might have done the job without really doing anything at all. Then they'll know, and talking will be a lot easier.


Tell a couple of your friends, and don't be embarrassed about it. If it spreads, you can always deny it later. If you never actually said anything, there'll be no evidence that you did anything embarrassing, or got rejected.
Never deny it, if you're really interested in someone. Why would you care if someone knew you liked somebody? That's nothing to be embarrassed about.
 The scariest thing is not knowing how your crush feels about you. It's a lot easier to confess a crush bluntly if you're pretty sure that your crush likes you back. One great way of figuring this out is to invite your crush to some kind of event, like a party, or an after-school activity, which isn't necessarily a date.


Keep an eye out for things your crush might enjoy going to: "I know you really like Marvel movies, so I thought you might want to come see the new Iron Man, because my dad gets extra tickets. I was just curious, thought you might appreciate them."
If your crush gets really excited, or seems really flattered and really wants to go with you, take it as a good sign and take the next step when you get a chance.
 Be friendly and flirty whenever you get the chance. This can do a whole lot more to communicate a crush than saying so out loud. Talk to your crush the same way you might mess around with your friends, or other people you're comfortable around. Just be yourself.


Tease your crush in a friendly way. Find funny reasons to let your sense of humor out when you talk to them. Instead of saying, "Hey, how are you today?" say something like, "I'm thinking of organizing a jailbreak from school. Need an accomplice. What do you say? In or out?"
There's not much romantic about the phrase, "I have a crush on you." Instead of telling someone, make it obvious that you're interested, so it will become unnecessary to say out loud.

