 Dusting gloves easily slip onto your hand and allow you to wipe away dust using multiple contoured projections, but a simple cloth will work if you’re dusting by hand and don’t want to go to the trouble of shopping for new supplies. A dusting glove will be ready to use right out of the package, but you’ll want to slightly dampen the cloth before getting started as this will allow it to hold more dust.Softer materials like cotton and composites like microfiber will do a better job of collecting dust, especially when damp., You’ll need to get level with the ceiling fan in order to clean it by hand. Using an indoor ladder or step-stool, carefully position yourself under and slightly to the side of the fan. One of the advantages of manually cleaning your ceiling fan is that you can grab hold of the blades to stabilize them, and once you’ve finished cleaning one blade all you have to do is rotate the fan and you’re ready for the next.Be extremely careful when using a ladder for household tasks. Have someone hold the ladder for you, if you can, and never climb to the highest step. If no one is around to help, use conservative motions while on the ladder to prevent it from rocking.
 It’s recommended that you use a dusting spray like Pledge or Endust for best results; these sprays provide a layer of moisture to hold the dust in place and leave surfaces with a polished shine. Spritz a small stripe of dusting spray on each blade. You may not need to dampen your cloth when using a dusting spray.Some dusting sprays contain wax that can build up on surfaces and may not be good for them over time. Obviously, these are not recommended for use on certain materials. Make sure you look the product over to know exactly what you’re buying.
 Go over each fan blade with the cloth or dusting glove using straight, linear strokes. Thicker coatings of dust will likely require multiple passes when cleaning by hand, so you may have to periodically wring out the cloth before continuing. Apply the dusting spray a second time if you prefer, and look for dust that has escaped the fan once you’re done.

