 To obtain a birth certificate through the mail, fax, or in person, fill out an application.The application requires the following information:


Basic information about the requestor, including full legal name, mailing address, phone number, relationship to the birth certificate owner, and reason for request.
Basic information about the registrant (birth certificate owner), including full legal name, date of birth, place of birth, and full names of the father and mother.
 Obtaining a birth certificate requires certain documentation along with your application. This includes:


A copy of the requester's current driver's license or other valid form of identification.
Fully completed application.
Signature of the requestor
Proof of relationship
Copy of death certificate if the registrant is deceased, Birth certificates are only issued to certain people. To obtain a birth certificate for someone other than yourself, you must be related to the person. This includes: spouse, parent, stepparent, legal guardian, grandparents, great grandparents, siblings, half-siblings, children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren.You must provide proof of the familial relationship before the birth certificate can be issued.


Those entitled to obtain a copy include the registrant, parents, grandparents, great grandparents, grandchildren,stepparents, siblings, spouse, adult children, legal guardian, and legal representatives.
Legal guardians and legal representatives of any family members with proof of client relationship can request birth certificates. This may include a notarized letter giving the representative permission.
The application provides special options for adoptions, including the adoptive parents or adopted individual., Each birth certificate request has to be accompanied by a non-refundable fee. The fee for the first copy is $17.75. Additional copies ordered at the same time are $10.00 a piece.You can pay by cash, check, money order, or credit card.
 You can fax your application, along with all the supporting documents, to the Vital Records Office. The fax number is 1-800-423-1108.


Include your credit card information with all of the faxed documents.
This method usually takes 5 business days., You can also mail your application to: Vital Records Section, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246.Make sure to include a check, money order, or your credit card information in the envelope.The check and money order should be payable to Vital Records. Do not send cash when mailing the application.
This method takes around 3 weeks.
 Another way to request a birth certificate is to do it in person. You can do this Monday-Fridays, from 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Go to Vital Records Section, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246.You can also go to local county public health departments for a birth certificate that was issued in that county.


You can pay with any method in person.
Walks in receive same-day service.
You may be able to obtain a birth certificate from your local vital records office. These are located in each counties, or tri-country areas. Locate your local vital records office to see if you can obtain a birth certificate from them. You can also contact the local vital records office of the country in which the person was born.