 Rabbits are natural burrowers, and when kept in captivity they may need to exercise these hardwired instincts to dig. You can make a quick and easy box for your rabbit that lets him feel like he's digging and burrowing in the wild.


Find a large box. It can be a deep cardboard box if you don't have any other options, but an old dish bin, wicker basket, or litter box will last longer.Fill the box with hay. If you don't have hay or don't want hay inside your house, you can shred newspaper or magazines instead.If you're comfortable letting your rabbit get a little dirty, you can also use a flower pot or a litter box filled with clean topsoil. Just be careful where you leave this box, as your rabbit's digging may send soil flying all over the room.Try giving your rabbit a litter box filled with clean, child-friendly sand. But just like the litter box filled with topsoil, this burrow box could get messy if you're having your rabbit play in a carpeted room.If your rabbit tends to dig at the carpet in a certain spot in your home, you may want to cover that spot with the burrow box until your rabbit gets used to using the box as an outlet for his digging compulsions.;
, In the wild, rabbits tend to dig tunnels underground. If you build an artificial tunnel for your rabbit, he will probably take a liking to it immediately.


Buy a cardboard concrete tube. You should be able to find one at most building supply stores, and it shouldn't cost much money. If you can't find a cardboard concrete tube, try using a long, narrow cardboard box instead.Stuff one end of the tube (or box) with crumpled up newspapers. Your rabbit will either hide in the tube or shred and "dig" at the newspapers, making him feel like he is tunneling in the wild., If your rabbit tends to dig at the carpet, try laying out a grass mat on the floor. It will allow your rabbit to scratch and "dig," without damaging the rug or floors of your home.Lay out a pile of polar fleece blankets for your rabbit to dig and burrow in. He'll love being able to scratch at the plush blankets, and the fibers on polar fleece are short enough that they won't cause digestive issues in the event that your rabbit swallows some of the blanket fuzz.You can also try laying out old magazines for your rabbit to scratch at. Just be sure that your rabbit doesn't eat any of the paper, and make sure there are no staples in the binding that could injure your pet.

