 Start with a curved line for the top part of the necklace—use the collar from a shirt or sweater as a template. Draw at least seven, evenly spaced lines radiating downward from the collar. Make the one at the center the longest and the ones at the edges the shortest. Connect them with a series of slightly-curved lines.


Go over the lines using a black marker. This will make the pattern more visible in the later steps.;
, The wax paper will make it easier to remove the necklace when you are done. If you don't have any wax paper, you can use parchment paper instead.If you wish to use hot glue, you must use parchment paper.
 Tulle would work best for this, but you can use another sheer fabric, such as chiffon. You want the fabric to be barely visible against your skin or costume.If you wish to use hot glue, you can skip this step, and draw directly on the parchment paper., You may also find it labeled as "dimensional fabric paint". For an extra-spooky effect, use glow-in-the-dark puff paint.You can also use hot glue, but make sure that you are using parchment paper. Wax paper will melt if you use it with hot glue.
 Glue a large, oval rhinestone and a smaller, round rhinestone to the web. The oval rhinestone will make the body, and the round rhinestone will make the head. Outline both with puff paint, then add eight legs to the oval rhinestone. You can use glow-in-the-dark puff paint or black puff paint for this.


Make a simpler spider using puff paint and no rhinestones.
 This may take several hours to overnight. Refer to the drying times on the label of the product you are using. If you are using hot glue, the drying time will only be a few minutes.
 Only cut along the outer edges of the spider web. Don't cut out the small spaces inside the web., Glue the end of each ribbon to each end of your spider web. Be sure to glue the ribbon to the underside, so that the ends won't be visible. You can use hot glue or fabric glue for this.


Choose a ribbon color that goes well with your spider web.
The thinner ribbon you use for this, the better.
If you are using hot glue, you can punch holes to either end of the spider web, and thread the ribbon through them instead.