 This is the easiest way to start playing effective punk bass without having to learn too much about the bass. Simply follow (or ask) the power chords that the guitarist is using. Note the root note, or where their index finger is, and play this note. Using a pick, strum this note quickly, in time with the strumming of the guitarist. It isn't a particularly unique or flashy bass line, but it will more than suffice for most punk songs.


Rancid's "Olympia, WA" is a good example of straight 16th notes carrying the song through.
Remember that, above all, energy is key to great punk. Really drive into the groove of the song and hit those notes in time with the guitarists for irresistibly high-tempo punk.
 You have all of the same strings and frets a guitarist needs for power chords on your 4-string bass. A good example is Green Day's "J.A.R," which opens with a bass-only riff that basically mimics the power chords in the actual song, through with a few extra flourishes. Any notes that are in the same scale or power chords are fair game for the bass to play as well, even if they aren't the root notes. This is where experimentation will do you wonders. Let your guitarist play themselves ragged while you noodle around on the bass, figuring out which notes sound the best.


Try moving the same bass riff with each chord. For example, you might play the three notes in the first power chord before the chord shifts. Instead of making up a new riff, play the same exact "shape" of notes, just starting it on the new power chord this time.
 One of the few things binding most punk bass together is the need to keep the song moving. The bass provides the almost subconsciousness groove of the song, and thus a static, plodding bass line will slow down a song even if you can't quite hear why. A moving bass line is one that keeps your fingers dancing on the fretboard. This doesn't mean it is intensely difficult or speedy -- you just have a regular pattern keeps the song rolling.


While not a punk song, the guitar and bassline from the Stray Cats' "Rock This Town" is a good, simple way to see how a moving bassline can keep a song moving.
You want, at a minimum, one bass note per chord change.
Check out "Maxwell Murder," which also features a blistering bass solo, for a good punk example of a moving bass line.
 Most punk bassists use picks instead of their fingers because picks have a sharper, harder sound. Experiment with both up-and-down picking and straight picking -- do you get different sounds? In general, straight picking is a little harder and messier, while up-and-down (or "alternating" picking) provides a cleaner, smoother sound. Which songs need which kind of tone?You want some of the thickest picks you can find, as thin picks will get bullied around by thick bass strings.
 It might seem like distortion is essential for punk, but that isn't so with the bass guitar. Most punk basses have a relatively clean tone, which prevents them from muddling up the guitar sound confusingly. Listening to old punk songs, note how the bass is generally clean and noticeable if you're listening for it -- a throbbing heartbeat of the song underneath the screaming guitars and blasting drums.


The bass is the linkage between the melody of the guitar and the rhythm of the drums. You want to sit between the two of them without overpowering either of them.
When things are hectic, provide a simple bass "base" for the listener to grab a hold of. When the drums are locked in together you might get a little dirty or experimental with your bass lines.