 Call your health insurance provider as far in advance as possible for pre-approval.


When calling your insurance company, the representative should also let you know how long your stay will be approved. The average length of time for a hospital that is "in plan" is three to five days. Hospitals not on your insurance policy's primary list might be more expensive.;
, In particular, you should figure out who will help you with the baby and around the house after your C-section. The recovery period can last for weeks, and you'll want to know ahead of time who can help out during that period to remove that stress from you later on.


Make sure that you have caretakers for your other children and pets during your recovery period. It can also be a good idea to get helpers who can clean and cook during the first few weeks of recovery.
For that matter, you should also figure out who can care for other children or pets during your trip to the hospital.
 Even though a C-section is technically major surgery, the rules and regulations governing the procedure are often more lax than those governing other surgeries. Nonetheless, if you have any specific requests regarding what goes on in the room, place them with the hospital staff ahead of time.


Find out if your husband can be in the room with you. Nowadays, most hospitals allow the baby's father and/or the mother's partner to be in the room during the procedure as long as the mother gives consent. There are still a few hospitals and situations where stricter regulations might be followed, though, so it is a good idea to check.
If you want support from another friend, relative, doula, or midwife during the procedure, you may need to clear that person ahead of time with the hospital staff.
Consider the mood you want. While unusual, some surgeons like to operate to music and may be open to the suggestion if you pose it. Additionally, a curtain will usually block you from seeing the procedure as it's being performed, but you can request the removal of that curtain if you really want to see the entire event for yourself.
If you want to record the C-section, make sure that you find out whether or not cameras are allowed in the operating room.



After giving you your chosen anesthetic, you will lie down on the operating table. Nurses will insert a catheter to drain urine during and after the procedure, and a curtain will be drawn above your chest to separate you from the surgical team.
Some hospitals still insist that your arms be secured during the surgery. This is both degrading and unnecessary. And not done in many hospitals now. Find out beforehand if this is the case. You have the right to refuse this. If the hospital says no, then try another hospital. In UK hospitals this is not done at all and a women's arms are never tried down for C Sections as this is not done in the UK.
After the birth, you'll be able to see your baby before the doctor takes him or her away for all the post-birth tests and measurements. Your husband or other supporters may be asked to step out of the room as you get stitched up.
Once the anesthesia wears off, you will be given your requested pain medication and will usually be permitted to hold your newborn.
 It's only natural for loved ones to want to visit you and your newborn after the birth, but as a general guideline, you should ask most of your family and friends to hold off on visiting until a day or two after the birth. Doing so will give you time to begin recovering without added stress.
 Postpartum depression is a very real reality for most women who give birth, and C-section mothers are no exception. Many women who give birth via Cesarean experience feelings of guilt about not doing things "the normal way," even if they were satisfied with the decision before their babies were born.


As with most forms of postpartum depression, any guilt you experience will likely fade away with time as your hormones balance out and the excitement of being a new mother kicks in.
 Specifically taking time the night before to acknowledge the birth in a special way can help reconnect your emotions and prepare you on a psychological level.


Anything is better than nothing. You can simply talk to your husband, family, or friends about the upcoming birth. On the other hand, you could have a small ceremony of sorts to acknowledge the birth by lighting a candle in your baby's honor or decorating the house in anticipation of the day you bring your baby home.
Some psychologists also recommend talking to your baby the night before and throughout the prep work for your C-section to keep you emotionally connected to the event.
 There are three forms of anesthesia that can be used during a C-section. Discuss the options with an anesthesiologist at the hospital to learn about each form in depth. Once you figure out which choice you want, include this information in your birth plan.


General anesthesia is sometimes used and will also be used if the Epidural does not work well or for other medical reasons.
Spinal block anesthesia is one of the most common. The medication will work within minutes, and the mother will not be able to feel anything from her waist down once it takes effect. It is given in a single dose and takes a long time to wear off.
Epidural anesthesia is also another common choice. A catheter is placed in the spinal cord and a constant flow of pain medication is pumped into your body. The medicine takes about 90 minutes to kick in, but it wears off shortly after the catheter is removed.
 These tests will reveal crucial information about your health and your baby's health, thereby allowing the doctors to prepare for any potential complications as needed.


At minimum, you should expect to take a blood test that will show your blood type and hemoglobin level. While major blood loss is very uncommon during a C-section, it can occur, and this information will allow doctors to quickly give you a blood transfusion should that happen.
Blood and urine tests may also be used to check for diabetes and other possible medical issues.
You may also go through amniocentesis if complications have prompted your doctor to schedule you for a C-section before you reach 39 weeks of pregnancy. This procedure samples the amniotic fluid surrounding the baby in the uterus and tests it to verify that your baby's lungs are fully mature.
 Without any pain medication, your recovery period can be very painful. The obstetrician will usually prescribe a pain medication that is also safe for your baby by default, but if you have additional concerns, you should bring them up in advance.


If you're breastfeeding, the doctor will make sure that the pain medication prescribed to you is safe for the baby. If you are committed to a more "natural" course of treatment that does not use conventional medication, though, you'll need to specifically ask your doctor for guidance.
If you don't plan on breastfeeding, the doctor may prescribe a stronger pain medication based on the amount of pain you feel.
 As with most surgeries, you will need to refrain from consuming any food or drink for a period of 8 to 12 hours before the C-section.


You should receive a reminder the day before a scheduled C-section, but just in case you don't, it's strongly recommended that you remind yourself.
 Even if you schedule your C-section for a specific day, there is still a chance that you could go into labor before your intended delivery date. As a result, you should try to have your bags packed and ready to go at least one month before your scheduled C-section., Aside from the basic necessities, you should pack your bags with belongings that can keep you comfortable during your stay. After all, you will likely remain in the hospital for several days after the birth of your baby.


Bring all the necessary paperwork. You'll need a valid picture ID, your insurance card, and any hospital paperwork issued to you in advance.
For your own benefit, it can be helpful to keep a list of people to call after the birth, as well as a cell phone (complete with its charger) or a prepaid phone card.
Pack all the necessary toiletries. This can include a toothbrush, toothpaste, lip balm, deodorant, hair brush, makeup, and hair bands. If you want your own shampoo, soap, and lotion, bring those, as well. Many hospitals will provide you with shampoos and soaps if you do not bring yours, though.
Bring your eyeglasses or contacts, if applicable.
Pack the right clothes. You'll need nursing bras and maternity underpants, at minimum, but you might also want to consider bringing your own bathrobe, nightgown, slippers, and socks to make your stay more comfortable.
Pack a comfortable, loose outfit to go home in. Make sure that any pants you pack have a waistband that will not press on your incision.
Bring along anything that might help you feel more comfortable. This includes your own pillow, favorite music, favorite reading material, and pictures of your kids or other loved ones. You might also want to bring a book on newborn care and a journal to keep track of your baby's first few days.
 Aside from your needs, you should also pack anything you know you will need to have for your newborn.


Bring a going-home outfit. Your baby will need clothes to go home in, so bring at least one outfit along, complete with socks and a soft cap. Most hospitals will provide basic clothing during your baby's stay, but you can also bring your own baby clothes for the stay, if desired.
Bring a receiving blanket. The hospital will give you blankets to use during the stay, but you might want to pack a blanket that you can wrap around your baby in the carseat when you take him or her home.
Make sure that you have a properly installed car seat. The hospital will not let you go home unless you have one.
 Hopefully your husband or whoever tags along with you for support will be able to pack without your assistance, but it doesn't hurt to make sure that a few things are in order.


Pack a camera and/or video camera, along with any batteries, chargers, or memory cards needed.
Also bring separate toiletries for your partner, along with shoes, a few changes of comfortable clothes, snacks, something to read, and money for parking and vending machines.
 Believe it or not, there is such a thing as being too prepared.


Avoid bringing jewelry, cash, or other valuables.
Leave the diapers and breast pump at home since the hospital will provide these things to you as needed during your stay.
Leave your medications at home, as well. Notify your doctor about the medications you're taking ahead of time. The hospital will provide them to you during your stay if your doctor believes that it is safe for you to continue taking them during this time.
 On the day of your scheduled C-section, go to the hospital at your scheduled time and check in at the main desk. From there, someone should guide you to the right floor and to your hospital room.


You will usually be asked to change into a hospital gown as soon as you get to your room.
 The doctors and nurses will guide you through any remaining tests and procedures they want you to follow prior to the C-section.


The first thing you can expect is a physical assessment. During this procedure, your vital signs will be checked and your medical history will be reviewed.
A nurse will likely hook you up to an IV shortly after your assessment, and your abdomen will be shaved down to the pubic hair. You may or may not be given an enema, depending on the current state of your digestive system.
You should be able to review your birth plans with nurses and anesthetists before the procedure starts. Make sure that they know all the details you've planned out, including the administration of pain medication during and after the procedure. Sign the appropriate consent forms as they come your way to move the process along.

