 Realize that she was only 13 years old when she released Friday, and has since become remarkably known throughout America. Her mother spent $4,000 for her song to be made into a single and the same week it was released to the Internet.Although it was for all the wrong reasons, her single Friday went viral on YouTube, receiving over 167 million views before being taken off of YouTube due to, according to the video, copyright reasons. Additionally, it is possible that the video was removed from YouTube also due to negative/threatening comments and cyber-bullying, which had a very strong impact on Black's life,with the result of Black being homeschooled instead of being taught at a school.


Notice that not very long after removing Friday from YouTube, Rebecca Black re-posted the video on YouTube, despite influence to not repost the video. This can show that Rebecca Black was not afraid of threats and hatred.;
, Although the lyrics are so simple and obvious that they're silly, think about how relatable they really are for teenagers. Everyone wakes up in the morning and has breakfast, and people do look forward to the weekend. Although the lyrics are repetitive, they ring true.
 If you listen closely to the beats of the song and, you will realize what a creative song she created. The song uses an I-vi-IV-V chord progression. Many other popular songs have used this chord progression. "Friday" is performed in the key of B major with a tempo of 122 beats per minute. The familiar structure makes the song catchy.
 Black used auto-tune in Friday, meaning that her voice was edited a lot. Realize that because of the excessive use of Auto-Tune, Rebecca's real voice is not portrayed in the song, so she is not necessarily as bad a singer as it seems. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with her musical talent because her voice was completely edited. Realize that if there hadn't been a use of auto-tune (or not as much of it), the song may have been better.
 Black's following single, My Moment used little auto-tune compared to Friday. Possibly because of this, My Moment has a much better "like/dislike" ratio on YouTube than "Friday".
 My Moment is about the fact that she didn't get discouraged from becoming a singer after all the "dislikes" that Friday received. Black states "this song is for you, haters". Admire the fact that instead of quitting singing for good, Rebecca Black decided to record another song, showing her determination.
 Don't predetermine that you will hate Black's new music just because you hated Friday. Go in with an open mind and treat it like somebody else's song. Instead of thinking about Friday, think about only her new songs. Realize that Black's music shouldn't be hated just because of it's predecessor.
 Rebecca Black is generally busy writing songs and preparing them for the public.



Person of Interest, which followed My Moment, was another single released by Rebecca Black.

