 This way, when you are done, you can fold the paper in half and funnel the glitter back into its container.
 If you use matte or satin Mod Podge, then your finish won't be as shiny. You can also use Epsom salts to create something that looks like ice or snow. You can also use sand, for a fun, beach-themed item.









If you are going to use more than one color of glitter, then paint the area where you want the first color to go. You will need to let this first color dry completely before moving onto the next.
If you want to only glitter part of the item, mask off what you don't want glittered with painter's tape or an adhesive stencil.
If your item is very dark, and you are going to use epsom salts or a lighter color of glitter, consider painting the item white first.
 Try using more glitter than you think you will need. A thick layer will be fine. If you are applying glitter to a jar or cup, try to hold the item from the inside so you don't get your fingers dirty. You can also turn the jar or cup upside down and stick it on top of a narrow soda bottle or water bottle; this will hold the jar/cup steady while you work.









The best sort of glitter to use for this would be the extra fine crafting glitter. You can find it in the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store. The standard, chunky glitter will also work, but it will look more coarse.
T=If you are using Epsom salts, consider mixing in some clear or iridescent glitter. This will give you more of a snowball effect.
 Turn the item on its side, and tap the glitter off. Be careful not to touch any area that you just glittered, or you may create a smudge or dent.
 If you want to add another color, let the Mod Podge dry for one hour before adding more colors. If you are done adding the glitter, remove any masking tape and wait 24 hours.
 Choose an acrylic sealer with an appropriate finish, and lightly spray the item. If you need to apply more than one coat, let the sealer dry first before spraying the item again. You will need to lead the sealer all the way before you can use your project. Most sealers will take about four hours to dry, but you might want to refer to the instructions on the can for a more specific drying time.









If you used glitter, use a glossy sealer.
If you used Epsom salts, do not use a sealer.
If you used sand, you can try lightly spraying the surface with a matte sealer.

