 Usually the things we love are the things we are good at. Research the fields and options that best deal with those interests so you can spend your time at work doing things that you enjoy. To begin, you can start off by simply researching job titles online.


Consider your current hobbies and how you can apply them to a job.
Think about your past work experience and the things you liked and didn't like about them.;
, This will give you a better sense of what certain jobs entail. Many communities offer job fairs that can be found on your local city website. These are great opportunities to ask questions. You can ask friends or family members about their experiences too.Ask about the hours they work, the highlights of their job, and what they find to be most challenging.
Get opinions on the jobs you're considering and feedback about your plans to get there.
 Job shadowing is a career evaluation activity that allows you the chance to spend time with a professional currently working in a particular career field. You can see what it’s really like working in a certain job.Check with the local college to see if they offer a formal job shadowing program through their Career Services Office. Career counselors can also be a huge help in assisting you to find potential job shadowing opportunities.
Government agencies also offer job shadowing programs for students who are interested.
 There are many free tests on the web that will psychoanalyze your mind to help narrow down interesting jobs for you. These tests are designed to provide you with specific jobs that fit your unique interests and ultimately help you down a career path. You may even see jobs you didn't know existed be recommended to you.You can find the test at https://www.careertest.net/cgi-bin/quiz.pl?submit=signup

The test has 68 questions and takes approximately 10 minutes to complete.
Your responses should reflect who you really are and not the way you want to be, think you should be, or are asked to be by someone else.
You will be provided with some helpful links to help you research the jobs that are suggested to you.
Remember, there are no right or wrong answers or personality types.
 Your results will help you discover deeper traits about yourself like if you are more of a logical or emotional thinker, or whether you enjoy working around a crowd or by yourself. Consider your ideal work environment. If you are extroverted and like being around people, you may want to think about jobs that allow you to meet new people and converse with them. If you are more of an introvert, you may want to think about jobs that involve more solitaire work. The career personality test will tell you which side you fall on.


Extroverts may enjoy fields such as teaching, sales, hotel management, restaurant work, or jobs in medicine.
Introverts may enjoy more secluded jobs such as office work, accounting, writing and editing.
 If you see yourself having a more lavish lifestyle, or one filled with travel, you may want to seek out a higher paying job. Look at the salary and wage averages for the jobs you are considering to decide if they will provide you the type of lifestyle you are looking for. Salary averages for jobs in specific areas can be found at http://www.payscale.com/research/US/Country=United_States/Salary.Also, consider if you want a family and will be raising kids. Some jobs require more than 40 hours of work per week and this is something to consider with a family.

