 He is not real, so what's the point in being afraid? He was a meme invented in 2009 by some guy named Victor Surge on the Something Awful forums. Turns out Victor Surge goes by "Eric" and lives in Japan.Maybe Eric has a mermaid girlfriend named Ariel and spends most of his time on boats. Terrifying.


Slenderman was part of a contest. Part of a contest ran by amateur artists that were interested in Photoshop and the paranormal. He is the figment of some guy's (Eric's!) imagination and thousands of people took off with it, making their own stories.
 There is very little actual evidence that can be traced back in history linking to Slenderman (what little evidence there is is made up). So, beyond popular belief, he's not real. And if he is, think about it. There are about 7 billion people in the world and just as many places, in fact many more, where he could be (if he were real). What are the odds that he's coming after you?


What makes you so special that Slenderman would show up on your doorstep? Unless you're leaving him milk and cookies, he probably won't. Think of it like Santa Claus (unless you believe in Santa Claus). How long did it take you to say, "Mom, Dad. There's no way Santa can hit all the homes in the world in 8 hours' time, especially with the time it takes to climb up a chimney. I know it's you"? This is pretty much the same thing, only he doesn't have a booming laugh or a tummy that rumbles like a bowl full of jelly.
 If you think about it, Slenderman would make a pretty cool superhero. He can just pop up in places randomly! How sweet would that be?! All you have to do is get close to him, latch onto him, and wait for him to teleport. Like a portkey in Harry Potter. Heck, maybe he could teach you how to do it!


When you start being able to teleport, you're gonna become so popular. Slenderman could be your ticket to being the big cheese. All you've gotta do right now is think about whether you'd use your powers for good or evil.
 Not only does it seem like Slenderman can teleport, but he can travel in time. You know how you're walking around the woods at night, and then all of a sudden you wake up in the daytime? What's up with that? Oh yeah, Slenderman is a TARDIS. You want to go back and retake that Chem test? No problem, friend.


The jury is still out on whether he's going forward or back in time. Science says that traveling backwards in time is impossible, but even Stephen Hawking says forward time travel is possible (if you go fast enough, time slows around you while it stays "normal" everywhere else). Provided Slenderman abides by the laws of physics here on Earth, he's going forward in time.So, oops, that Chem test may not be happening. Sorry.
 Sitting huddled in the corner under your Snuggie while you keep your ears open will only make you hear more noises. Instead, get up! Go looking for its source. Maybe you have mice. If you hear a weird noise or a whisper out of nowhere, don't automatically link it to Slenderman. It's probably not him.


Slenderman doesn't really make noise. If you do hear a noise, it's anything but Slenderman. Big Foot makes noise -- maybe it's him.
 "Hey, Slenderman! What's up ma man?" Imagine that if he's there, you're gonna have a slendy party. Do the wave and eat some Doritos. If nothing else, he'll initially be freaked out by your warmth and gumption. No one else has the cajones to be so friendly and inviting!


You may need some low-cal snacks and bottled water on hand. Slenderman is really self-conscious about his weight. The tortilla chips are just for you. Offer him some out of courtesy, but keep alternatives on hand for good measure.

