 Crying will get out all of your emotions instead of keeping them bottled up inside. This is called "catharsis." Research shows that crying is a stress reliever and it actually makes you healthier.Think about it. Let's say you're filling water up in a bathtub and your phone rings. You figure "it's taking forever to fill up, I'll just go talk to so and so for a moment and come right back." You talk on the phone for 10 minutes, forgetting all about the water you left running in the bathroom. By the time you're done on the phone and you enter the restroom, water has seeped everywhere and onto the floor. You run to turn it off, but by that time it's too late. That's what it is like if you don't cry. You will eventually explode and overflow with emotions.
The best thing to do is get it all out. Don't be afraid of crying. If you feel more comfortable doing it in private, ask to be excused for a moment to use the restroom or go to your room. Find a good place for crying. Depending on how emotionally attached you were to this person, you'll probably be going to this special place specifically for crying a lot.;
, You might think this person has no flaws and they're perfect, but that's probably not true. The old saying really is true: nobody's perfect. Try to make a list of everything you disliked about them and their flaws. The more you find about the person that you didn't like, the easier it will be to convince your heart that they were the wrong person for you.


Maybe they were rude to your best friend or they had horrible friends. Maybe they constantly put you down, damaging your self-esteem. Maybe they had a problem being honest, saying they'd do things and then never follow through. Whatever it is, write it down and when you start feeling those old feelings creeping back, read the list.
Also, try to think about any negative feelings you had while interacting him/her. Negative feelings are different from bad qualities: they're how s/he made you feel, not what s/he did. Did you feel like your family friendships were compromised because your parents thought that person was wrong for you? Did that make you feel less secure in your judgments? Does that person bring you down a lot? These are only some of the things you can consider.
 Maybe there weren't very many negative consequences that happened as a result of your relationship. But there's a good chance that you can probably think of some if you try:


Did s/he cause an unhealthy fixation on the past?
Did s/he manipulate you to get what they wanted?
Did s/he keep you from realizing your own dreams in favor of theirs?
Did s/he cause you to believe that you should only been spending time with them, and not with other friends or family?
Did s/he cause you to learn bad stress management or conflict resolution skills by constantly fighting or playing games with you?

