 Decide how often you'll work from a coffee shop. It may not be practical to work there daily, especially if you have a lot of reference texts, papers, and other information you need at your home or studio space. However, every freelancer should be able to slot in at least one occasion a week that is marked for working outside the home so that you can have the chance to mingle with people and soak up the energy from being near others.


Creating a regular schedule will depend on your ease of getting to the shop as well as what days and hours the shop is open.
Don’t forget to factor in travel time. For a suburban worker it's going to take more effort than for someone already situated near a cafe and restaurant district.
 Ask yourself ahead of time how you can best use your time away from your office. Plan out what you want to accomplish by the end of the visit.


It can help to write down your goals in a calendar or activity book so that you can prepare ahead of time and keep track of what you have, or have not, accomplished.
 These can be an excellent way to stay focused on your work if the ambient noise is distracting. They will also come in handy if you need to listen to an audio or video file.
 Sitting at a desk in front of a computer screen for long periods of time can cause serious health problems, so it's a good idea to schedule in your breaks from the computer.Look away from the computer every fifty minutes or so to refocus your eyes from the screen.
Get up and stretch to refresh and restore your circulation.
Enjoy a breather; just don't forget to eventually get back to work!

, Working in a coffee shop can attract attention. A curious bystander might try to strike up a conversation with you. Being friendly is great, but be aware that too many interruptions will likely prevent you from finishing your work.


If you don't wish to be disturbed, you can smile and say something like: "I wish I had time to chat, but I'm on deadline. Maybe I can catch you during a break." This is friendly but also keeps you in control of your time.

