 A hardy, gorgeous perennial, catmint can grow from one to four feet in height and are very useful for borders and rock gardens. In addition, many gardeners find them useful for rose gardens, since they can protect your knees from the thorns. They typically have purple-blue flowers but can also be found in yellow, pink, and white flowering varieties. Catmint is an excellent choice for your deer-resistant garden because deer dislike them., A medicinal plant that grows up to two feet in height, lemon balm has small clusters of yellow flowers.It is disliked by deer and has a wonderful scent, which will add aroma to your deer-resistant garden., Lavender is a perennial plant that has purple or pinkish flowers and green foliage. It has a strong scent that deer dislike.It is a great choice for hedges, borders, and rock garden parts of your deer-resistant garden. It has an excellent rating for deer-resistance. , If you need some ground cover or something to put in a border, lamb’s ear is a great choice. It is slightly prickly, which really annoys deer.It is very hardy and has thick, white and wooly foliage. It has pink-purple flowers in the summer. Deer dislike lamb’s ear, so it is an excellent choice for filling in areas of your deer-resistant garden., Peonies  have a lush and rich bloom. They have a scent that deer dislike.They are great additions to borders and will come back every year with fresh, gorgeous blooms.Deer dislike peonies. If you are looking to fill in a border or add color to your deer-resistant garden, peonies are a great choice., Irises are tall and have distinctive flowers that have three outer petals that fall down and three inner petals that stay upright. They have soft hairs on the inside, which inspires people to call them bearded.The flowers have a scent that deer dislike.They attract butterflies and hummingbirds. Luckily, they repel deer and have an excellent rating for deer-resistance., Hyssop is a wonderful choice for your deer-resistant garden. They have spiky flowers and the leaves can be harvested for stews, salads, and soups.Hyssops are a pretty and functional choice for your deer-resistant garden., Sage is a wonderful and flavorful addition to your deer-resistant garden. Deer dislike the smell of sage.They are a low lying shrub that is usually wider than tall, so they are great for covering large areas of your deer-resistant garden. They can also be planted in pots with other Mediterranean herbs such as oregano.With an excellent rating on deer-resistance, you should choose sage for your garden., These low lying plants offer an abundance of tiny, typically blue flowers in the spring. They will grow six to twelve inches in height and the flowers are very delicate. Deer tend to ignore Forget-Me-Not flowers, so you can enjoy them without the pesky deer.