 Coffee, soda, caffeinated tea and other sources of caffeine are toxic to cats. Alcohol is also toxic, as three tablespoons of 40 percent liquor can prove deadly to cats. Keep your cat away from cups of coffee or open alcohol, as well as people food that contains alcohol, like penne vodka sauce or tomato red wine sauce., You should also avoid giving your cat chocolate, as it can be harmful to cats even in small amounts. Dark chocolate, milk chocolate, and white chocolate are all no-nos for cats.
 Bread dough that is raw and has not been baked is highly toxic to cats. The warm, moist environment of your cat’s stomach can cause the dough to expand, leading to bloating and a condition called “twisted stomach,” which can be painful for cats., Xylitol is an artificial sweetener used in gum, candy, and some toothpastes. This additive can cause seizures and liver failure in cats. Though it may be tempting, do not give your cat gum, candy, or access to your toothpaste., Diets containing raw beef, pork, chicken, fish, and eggs increase the cat's risk of getting parasites and bacterial infections such as salmonella. Avoid feeding your cat raw meats. Raw diets for cats are controversial, and they are not supported by many vets. Some cats may carry salmonella without getting sick themselves. They can, however, pass it onto humans. If the owners are very young, elderly or have weak immune systems, it is especially important not to feed the cat raw foods.
Avoid giving your cat the bones from raw meat, such as chicken bones or fish bones, as they can get caught your cat’s throat and cause choking.
It is not recommended that you put your cat on a raw food diet, as this can put your cat at risk of health issues like salmonella poisoning.
 Macadamia nuts contain an unknown toxin that is bad for cats. It can negatively affect your cat’s nervous system and digestive system. Other types of nuts like walnuts are also considered toxic for cats.People foods high in salt like potato or corn chips are also a no-no for cats. Salty snacks like pretzels, chips, and popcorn can cause vomiting, diarrhea, and seizures in cats.

