 Wrist curls are one of the quintessential wrist and forearm exercises. To do a wrist curl, you'll need a weighted dumbbell (you can also use a barbell to hit both hands at once).Sit at a bench or bicep curl rack. Hold your dumbbell so your palm faces upwards. Using only your forearm muscles, curl the dumbbell up toward your wrist as far as you can without bending your elbow. Lower the dumbbell back down and repeat the curling motion. Repeat for both arms.
Do three sets of 15 reps or until you feel sufficiently fatigued. Unless otherwise noted, these set recommendations hold true for all exercises in this article.

You can also do this exercise at home with a soup can or a jug of milk in place of a dumbbell.;
, Reverse wrist curls are just what they sound like — normal wrist curls performed backwards. These are great to do right after a few sets of ordinary wrist curls to ensure that you work out all of your wrist muscles.


Sit on a bench. Rest one forearm on your thigh so that your hand extends beyond your knee. Take a dumbbell and hold it so your palm faces downward. Let the dumbbell hang limp in your hand, then, using only your wrist, pull it up so it is level with the rest of your arm. Lower the dumbbell back down and repeat the raising motion. Repeat for both arms.
 These exercises may look unconventional, but if you can power through them, they're highly effective at strengthening your wrists. For this exercise, you'll need a sturdy stick or rod (like a broom handle or a dumbbell without weight on it. Tie a modest weight (like five or ten pounds) to the end of a sturdy string and tie the other end to the center of the rod.









Hold the rod out in front of you and let the weight hang at the end of its string. Your palms should be facing down. Start to turn the rod with your arms — the string should start winding up and the weight should start climbing towards the stick. Stop when the weight touches the stick, then, carefully roll it back down to the floor. Do not stop or let your arms fall throughout this exercise.
Repeat for three to five windings or until you are sufficiently fatigued.
 This challenging exercise uses heavy barbell plates, making it a good choice for those who are already strong and want to take their wrist and forearm strength to the next level. Because these plates can cause serious injury if they are dropped, you may want to stick to the exercises above if you aren't already an experienced gym-goer.


Place two barbell plates of the same size on the floor in front of you so that you are facing their wide edge and so that they are touching each other. Grip both plates at once over the top — your fingers should be on one side of the plates and your thumbs should be on the other. Lift the weight off of the ground and hold it in front of your hips as if you were doing a deadlift. Pinch the weights together to keep them from slipping. Hold for 30 seconds (or as long as you can), then set the weights back down.
Repeat for 3-5 sets or until you are sufficiently fatigued.
Perform this exercise while sitting on a bench and hold the weights well away from your feet. If you must stand, keep a wide stance. If you keep your feet together, the plates are more likely to hit them if they slip out of your hands.
 A huge variety of gym exercises that don't directly target the wrists still rely on grip strength and thus will indirectly work the forearm and wrist muscles. If you're serious about improving your wrist strength, try adding more of these exercises to your workout schedule to give yourself extra opportunities throughout your week. Below is a short list of exercises that use forearm/wrist grip strength for support — there are many more (you'll notice that all involve gripping a bar or handle to move weight.)









Pullups
Chin ups
Bicep curls
Deadlifts
Seated rows
Lat pulldowns
Chest presses
Chest flies
Shoulder presses.
 Just like the other muscles you train at the gym, wrists need stretching to maintain flexibility and keep them feeling great from week to week. In addition, regularly stretching your wrists is one way to stave off painful conditions like carpal tunnel syndrome that can develop over time as the body matures. Below are a few recommended wrist stretches:Prayer stretches: Start with your palms together in front of your chest. Slowly lower your palms (keeping them together) until your forearms form a straight line. This should look a little like you're praying and you should feel a gentle stretch in your forearms. Hold this stretch for 30 seconds and repeat several times for best results.
Wrist flexor stretch: Extend one arm in front of you with the palm facing up. Point your hand at the floor by bending your wrist — don't turn your arm. Apply gently pressure with your other hand until you feel a moderate stretch. Hold for 30 seconds, then switch hands.
Wrist extensor stretch: Extend one arm in front of your with the palm facing down. Point your hand at the floor by bending your wrist. Apply gentle pressure with your other hand until you feel a moderate stretch. Hold for 30 seconds, then switch hands.

