 Smiling can release endorphins into your brain, which in turn can help you to feel better.


Thinking of something amusing can help.
Even forcing a smile can cause you to feel better; just be careful not to let it appear as a smirk!
In some cases, it can help you to smile if you realize that smiling in front of someone who really upsets you can unsettle that person if they want you to be unhappy.;
, Find something funny to watch online or something funny to read that is short and amusing. Or, think of something that makes you happy, whether it is a joke someone recently told, a person that makes you laugh a lot, or a fond memory in general. As with smiling, laughter can help to cheer you up.
, We all suffer from personal and office problems. Ensuring yourself every time that you are the happiest person is unusual at first but it really helps. Not believing in yourself leads to very harmful diseases and no one wants to live a life which has nothing but suffering from problem until your last breath.
 A lot of unhappy feelings come from feeling overwhelmed about all the things you have to get done. Thinking about them doesn't get them done, so try getting stuck into the things bothering you and in the doing, you will likely start to feel better.
 Tap your pencil on a table, drum your fingers on the edge of your seat, daydream, stretch out, hum quietly. Do whatever you do on your average good day, do on this day.
 Keeping up appearances is a lot of effort and can cause you to feel even less happy. By participating in something you love to do, the feelings that come from being in the flow and enjoying yourself will be genuine and unforced. Give yourself the space and the time to get involved in such things more often and you won't need to pretend to be happy!

, It's a mini vacation and you will discover your own very self. It will help you to grow stronger with your emotions and handling matters which are a bit difficult. Make a personal diary; it can be helpful for sure.
 Sometimes it is just better to stop pretending you're happy and start letting out some of your sadness or anger instead. Talk to someone you trust and vent. It might a close friend or family member, or maybe a counselor. Letting your feelings stay bottled up will cause you to feel more unhappy and can harm your overall health in the long run.
 This can help you feel happier even though you don't feel great. Reaching out and helping others is a good way of shifting the focus from inside yourself to seeing how other people are coping (or not) and doing your best to give them a helping hand.
 We all know sun is not the brightest star in universe, but it's the one which gives us light after a dark night. Once you stick to this example, you will never feel low in confidence. Don't admire people until they are showing you the correct path because after this, you have to make yourself happy and then the others will try to become an example which everyone who knows you will feel. This is not you; this is someone great.
 This can give you a clue to how much of your life is about putting on a front rather than living authentically. If you think that there is a massive imbalance, this might be a telltale sign that something isn't right for you, whether it's your job, your studies, your relationships or something else. If this is the case, it is time to focus more on the source of your pain and do something constructive about managing, reducing or removing it from your life.

