 Cable terminology can be confusing. Look on the side of your coax cable for the size description. In mostly homes, the two most common sizes are RG-6 or RG-59.


RG stands for “Radio Guide.” The numbers of the different versions of RG cable refer to the diameter (59 meaning .059, and 6 meaning .06, etc) and inner characteristics of the cable, containing the amount of shielding or the cable’s reduction, which refers to how much signal loss there is per length of cable. You may also see the term RF used with these coaxial cables, which stands for “Radio Frequency.”
Most non-industrial coaxial cable is now identified as RG-6, while the previous thinner lower-quality standard of RG-59 is still used in some applications or older homes. Business installers may use a thicker RG cable, such as RG-11(which is only used if the distance from the source hit to your point of termination at the residence is greater than 200 feet).
RG coax cables used in residence for ordinary reasons should be 75 ohm (RG-6 or RG-59).


You must be aware that all cables (and their connectors) come in a variety of qualities.





;
, Most connectors for home video installations are complete with F-Style connectors. But, it is possible your system uses N-type connectors. You must be aware that there are many types of F-type RG-6 cable available in the market, primarily screw-on or crimp-style connectors.


Screw-on connectors are easy to use, but they are less secure and can leave a small air pocket. Some people believe this may influence your signal quality.
Crimp-style connectors have two parts: a ring (or crimp) or a terminator. They are normally more difficult to install, but can achieve the greatest lengths and best connections when used properly.
 Trim the outer cover of cable (usually black rubber) back 1/2". You must be very careful not to cut into the metal braiding directly under the outer housing. The braiding maybe both “loose” cable and a foil-like metal present in shielded cable.
 Check to ensure none of the braided cable gets covered around or touches the copper center conductor. Be completely sure not to scratch or cut the center conductor. Any damage to this conductor can severely impact on your signal.
,, The thread will cut into the outer housing and cover the shielding weave, making a tight fit of RG-6 coaxial cable with TV cabling.