 If you have a small, painful pimple, you can eliminate it using watered down hydrogen peroxide.


This solution is antiseptic and liberates oxygen when it comes in contact with organic material; this will drain the pimple of pus and disinfect the area.
Just soak a cotton swab in some hydrogen peroxide that has been diluted to half strength with water and rub it very gently over the small pimple. Any pain and redness should be significantly reduced by the following day.
 Lemon juice contains citric acid which can help to dry out and disinfect cystic acne. Simply squeeze some fresh lemon juice into a bowl, dip a cotton swab into the juice and apply it to the pimple(s).


Allow the lemon juice to sit on the skin for 15 minutes, then wash your face with warm water. You can do this once per day.
Some people may find the lemon juice too irritating for sensitive skin. If this is the case, try diluting the juice to half strength with water before applying.
 Another effective home remedy for cystic acne is to crush an aspirin tablet and mix it with water until it forms a paste.


Apply this paste to any pimples and allow it to sit for ten minutes before rinsing off with warm water.
The aspirin works to decrease inflammation in the angry pimple and reduce the associated pain.
 Mix some oatmeal with water and rub this into gently into your skin using small, circular motions.


This will help to slough off any dead skin, keeping the pores clean. Oatmeal also helps to balance the skin's pH, which can be helpful in preventing pimples.
You can use this oatmeal exfoliant every day, as it's quite gentle on the skin.
 Open a leaf of aloe vera and apply the sap directly onto the acne cyst. This should help to relieve irritation, inflammation and pain. Aloe vera is very gentle and beneficial for the skin, so feel free to apply it twice a day or more.
 Make a paste by mixing a teaspoon of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) with a few drops of water. Use this paste to wash your face, rubbing it into the skin using gentle circular motions.


Sodium bicarbonate works as an astringent; it balances the pH of the skin making it less prone to acne.

