 Find something that you really care about and join a club that can help you explore your interests. There will be dozens of clubs to choose from, such as newspaper, yearbook, poetry, French and Spanish, ski club, and so on. Picking one or two clubs that you can really focus on and devote your time to is better than picking five or six just so you can put them on your résumé. Clubs will not only make you a more well-rounded person, but you can meet some great friends at them along the way.


It's okay to start off with five or six clubs -- you can see which ones you like the most and drop the rest.
Check out Key Club, the volunteering club at most high schools.
Remember that not all clubs are created equal. Yearbook, for example, can take up much more of your free time than other clubs that only meet once or twice a month, so make sure you don't get overwhelmed.
Make it something you're genuinely interested in, not just something that you think will make you "look cool". If you have no interest in anime yet join the Anime Society, that's an hour or so spent on something you could be enjoying!

, If you're completely not an athletic person, then don't worry about joining a sport. But if there are a few sports you already play or which you'd like to try, then join a sport. Not only will you make new friends, but you'll be staying healthy and developing a stable routine -- studies show that student athletes actually get higher grades than non-athletes.


Just remember that a sport is a big commitment, much bigger than the commitment required by many clubs. If you're doing a sport, or especially if you're doing three sports year-round (one for every season), then don't bite off more than you can chew by also joining five clubs.
 Though you may not exactly be best friends with Mom and Dad during your freshman year of high school, you should treat your parents like your friends, not your enemies. After all, they cook for you, they give you rides, and they probably give you some of the spending money you need to go to the mall with your buddies. So don't look back on your life and regret being mean to your parents just because you were moody or because your crush rejects you.


Having your parents on your side will make your high school experience much better than having them against you.
 Though many high school freshmen haven't even had their first kiss yet, it's true that a number of high school freshman have lost their virginity. You should really not have sex until you're ready and committed to a person you really love, not just a guy you met when you accidentally drank too much. That is to say, don't have sex until you're comfortable with yourself and the person, unless you're sober, or just to give in to outside pressure. If you do have sex make sure to use protection (condoms, etc).


If you're dating a guy who is trying to convince you to sleep with him, then he's not the right guy for you.
Do not have sex until you are of the legal age of consent, which varies depending on where you live.

