 Calling 911 or other emergency services establishes a legal record of the abuse. It will usually stop your abuser for a time.


Tell the police about abuse. Document any marks on your body or injuries. Describe what is happening in detail, including any physical or emotional abuse.Write down officers’ badge numbers, names, and the report number. This will help you get a copy of the police report later if you need it.
 It can be hard to leave your home if you are being abused. Your abuser may prevent you from leaving the house or may demand to know where you are at all times. Identify places where you can go, such as a friend’s house or a local “safe space.”There may be a neighborhood “safe house” or safe shelter in your area. These are usually maintained by nonprofit organizations and will help you coordinate with legal protection and counseling.A domestic violence hotline, such as the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-7233), can help you find one near you.
 Retaliation can be extremely dangerous. In many cases of domestic violence, female partners are not as large or strong as male partners. You may only make your situation worse if you attempt to retaliate.


This is especially true for men, who may face the possibility of being arrested for battery if they strike a woman., Hospitals can help you document your injuries and physical abuse. Nonprofit agencies usually can work with hospitals to provide services to victims of domestic violence while they’re in the hospital. Call 911 or ask a friend to drive you.


Domestic violence can cause serious injury. If you experience dizziness, nausea, blurred vision, or headache, you may have a head trauma. You should seek immediate medical attention if you are pregnant and were hit or kicked in your abdomen.
 The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a PDF form to help you plan strategies to increase your safety. Print it out and keep it in a safe place where your partner cannot find it.


You may wish to leave a copy with a trusted friend or counselor, too. That way they will know what your plans are.
Use a public library computer to print out the form if your partner monitors your computer use.

