 If you are worried about your job or your performance, you may feel overwhelmed and anxious. While some things are within your control, other things are not. Take a step back and assess the situation before reacting.Are you concerned about the future of your job? What things are within your control, and what things are not? Focus on what you can control, rather than worrying about the things you can't. For example, think about a recent change in upper management. While this may change things about work, focus on what you can do to make the company and your work stronger.
Are you stressed about how others view your work? Are you fearful that you'll not meet expectations? Think about if it is pressure that you've put on yourself. For example, you think that taking a 45-min lunch looks bad if you see other co-workers working through their lunch. Think about what is company policy. If you're allowed an hour-long lunch each day, avoid feeling anxious about this right.
Look at what has worked in the past. Identify projects, people, or situations that help to ease your worry at work. Make sure to talk with trusted co-workers about any concerns you have about your job. Other people can be more objective about your situation.;
, Feelings of sadness, anxiety, or anger may be triggered when a difficult situation triggers negative thoughts. You may feel out of control emotionally when those negative thoughts become intrusive and persistent.Identify when negative thoughts occur. For example, after giving a presentation at work, you notice that more people are engaged in listening to your co-worker's presentation than yours. You then have a negative thought to yourself, "I'll never be as good at presentation as my co-worker."
The negative thought triggers negative feelings. In this example, you may feel sad, depressed, and rejected.
Learn to replace and challenge these negative thoughts with more positive thoughts. Instead say to yourself, "I'm glad that I have this presentation. I'm happy with the effort I made. Next time, I'll find more activities to engage the audience." Instead of being self-deprecating, you can focus on how to improve and make things better.
 If you see something or someone that causes you frustration and stress, focus on what you can do to make it better. Turn your emotions into motivation for change. See each hurdle as an opportunity for growth.Avoid taking the situation too seriously. Whether small issues or big problems, focus your energy on how to be resilient in this instance, and not feel let down.
For example, let's say that another co-worker gets a promotion instead of you. Think about what you can do in the future in order to get that next promotion.
Every success comes with mistakes. Life is a process of learning. Avoid being too hard on yourself, and gain some perspective on the good things you have in life.

