 A big aspect of emo hair is bangs. Many emo kids have side bangs that are usually swept to one side, slightly covering one part of the face. Bangs are a fairly easy, non-extreme way to obtain emo hair.If you already have bangs, simply let them grow out until they can be swept to the side.
If you don't have bangs, let your hair grow out slightly if necessary. If you have long hair already, you do not need to let it grow. You can have a hairstylist or a friend cut long bangs into your hair, which you can push to one side in an emo style.;
, Emo hair is known for being long and straight. A non-extreme way to adopt the emo style is simply straightening your hair each morning before you go out. You can do so using a flat iron, which you can purchase at most supermarkets or beauty salons. If your hair is on the shorter side, it can still be flattened. In fact, flattening shorter hair can add a bit of length, giving you a more emo look.Choose the correct size flat iron. If your hair is shorter, you can go with a smaller iron. Longer hair requires a bigger flat iron.Heat the iron before use. If your hair is damaged or thin, use a lower heat setting. If your hair is thick, use a higher setting. If your flat iron only has two settings, high and low, start out using a low setting. If your hair does not respond to this, turn to the higher setting.
Clip your hair into sections. Three to four sections is usually enough. With shorter hair, you may be able to get by with only two sections. Slowly run the flat iron over your hair, working your way from the root to the tip. Only go over each section of hair once to avoid damage.
Make sure to straighten your bangs as well. Long, straight bangs are an essential aspect of emo hair.
 If you're going for an emo hairstyle, you can add some styling products. A non-extreme emo hairstyle usually involves straight hair and long bangs, so you do not need a lot of product to maintain this look. A light application of a few styling products, however, can help keep your hair looking straight and emo throughout the day.You can use a light texturizing spray made from natural ingredients to help your hair look smooth and clean. Emo hair is often glossy, so a light spray can help. Texturizing sprays made out of natural ingredients, such as sea salt and lavender, can be particularly helpful for emo hair.
Use a small amount of hairspray to keep your hair in place. Spritz some hairspray over your bangs to make sure they stay straight and to the side throughout the day.
 Emo hair is known for being asymmetric. Oftentimes, a large amount of hair will fall on one side of the face. This is often achieved by having your hair layered by a stylist at a salon.However, if you want a less extreme way to get your hair asymmetric, simply change how you're parting your hair.You can achieve fake layers by combing all your hair over to one side. Half the strands will be pulled over your head, making them look shorter. This can help you encapsulate the emo look without having to see a hairstylist.
You can also experiment with parting your hair very far to one side. You can push excess hair partially over your face. A major aspect of the emo hairstyle is having some hair covering the face.
 If you have shorter hair, you can make it look emo by simply tussling it a little. Making your hair look a little messy can contribute to the asymmetrical appearance of emo hair. You can tussle your hair and push it slightly to one side, creating a somewhat spiked and sloppy look. To get your hair to stay this way throughout the day, use a small bit of hairspray.