 Anxiety is often associated with feelings of fear and worry. These feelings of fear and worry can lead to different behaviors. Alongside fear and worry, some other emotional symptoms include:Feeling irritable and restless
Feeling tense, jumpy
Feeling apprehensive or dreading
Expecting the worst to happen
Loss of concentration, mind going “blank”;
, Along with emotional symptoms, anxiety often involves some physical symptoms. Many people with anxiety disorder experience certain physical symptoms on a daily or almost daily basis. These symptoms may include:Racing heart
Sweaty hands
Stomach upset, nausea
Frequent urination or diarrhea
Tense muscles
Headaches
Shortness of breath
Twitches or tremors

, Anxiety can make you behave in different ways. You might avoid certain situations due to the anxiety they can bring.This can include work, home, school, or social situations. This kind of avoidance can get in the way of living a normal life.


You may find yourself purposefully avoiding social situations, such as parties or outings with your friends.
 Having an anxiety disorder means that the symptoms of anxiety may affect your life in negative ways and decrease your functioning. This can include problems at work, school, home, or in social situations that result from anxiety. For example, you might lose so many points from missing class due to your anxiety that you end up failing a class.


You may also notice that you cannot control your fears or worry and that they get in the way of living a normal life.For example, you may find it hard to sleep or focus on an important task because you are so worried about an upcoming test.
 Ask your friends and family members whether they notice any signs or symptoms of anxiety. Sometimes other people can give you accurate feedback on your behavior and explain the situations in which they notice your anxiety. Ask people close to you who observe your behavior regularly. Family members can answer honestly and respond to symptoms you’ve shown since you were a child.


This kind of feedback can be helpful if you lack awareness to when you feel anxiety or what situations bring on your anxiety.
 People with anxiety disorder have ongoing symptoms. To be diagnosed with anxiety disorder, your symptoms must have been present for more than six months and they must have occurred on most days during this time period., Make an appointment with a psychologist or therapist to discuss a diagnosis of anxiety. Certain medical professionals are qualified to diagnose anxiety, such as psychiatrists, psychologists and some physicians who are well-trained in mental health diagnosis. Try asking your general practitioner for a referral to someone who can give you a diagnosis. You may be given a psychological evaluation, which can include answering questions about your symptoms, thoughts, behaviors, moods, and feelings and filling out a questionnaire.Once you have a diagnosis, this can be a huge relief. You now have the awareness to bring healing and improved health to your life.
 You may want to rule out certain diagnoses or medication interactions, which is why it can be helpful to meet your general practitioner. Talk about your symptoms with your physician. You may be given a physical exam or have some lab tests taken.Be sure to discuss any medications you use, in addition to any supplements, vitamins, or herbs you take.
Discuss any substances you’ve used recently and regular alcohol consumption or tobacco use, as well as caffeine consumption.
 If you do have an anxiety diagnosis, it’s best to start treatment right away. The faster you address your anxiety disorder, the better you can begin to feel. Many people choose to attend therapy as a primary way of addressing symptoms. Cognitive-behavior therapy is a technique that helps you think and act differently by challenging irrational beliefs that have a basis in fear and negative thought patterns and replacing them with more positive thoughts.Your therapist may teach you certain relaxation methods which can help calm anxiety, such as deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation. Practice relaxation and calming activities regularly to buffer stress and anxiety.
 Everybody has worries from time to time. Generalized anxiety disorder affects you long-term and anxiety is experienced in various situations and not around one specific event. You might worry about many things, and spend much of your day worrying. Despite efforts to stop, you cannot seem to get your mind off of your worries. With GAD, worry and anxiety are part of every day and can cause physical and emotional symptoms on a regular basis.Your worrying may distract you from things you need to do, or you may constantly feel like something bad will inevitably happen. You may not know why you feel so worried.For more information, check out How to Reduce Generalized Anxiety Disorder.
 It’s normal to feel nervous before a date or presentation. However, some people have such intense fears around social events that it causes harm to their lives. If you have social anxiety disorder, you may tend to have intense fears about talking to people, being in large groups, or giving speeches or presentations. Social anxiety can occur when meeting new people, speaking up in a group, or feeling like the center of attention. You may feel like all eyes are on you or that people are waiting for you to make a mistake to judge you or your performance.Activities such as talking on the telephone or eating and drinking in public may fill you with fear.You may tend to avoid social situations, such as parties and gatherings to the point that it disrupts life.
Some symptoms of social anxiety include intense fear prior to social situations, turning red or feeling nauseous around other people, feeling dizzy, and trembling or shaking.
If you’d like to know more, read How to Recognize Social Anxiety Disorder.
 Panic disorder is when you experience a surge of worry accompanied by startling physical symptoms. Some people report feeling like they are having a heart attack, despite being in good health.You may start to breathe shallowly, sweat, feel like you are choking, feel dizzy, or fear you are losing control or going crazy.You may begin to fear having panic attacks and even the thought of having a panic attack brings intense worry. You may change your behavior in order to avoid feeling a panic attack again.


Panic attacks tend to peak at 10 minutes and rarely last more than 30 minutes.
To learn more about panic attacks, check out How to Manage Anxiety and Panic Disorder.
 If you have OCD, you may experience obsessions (“Did I leave the door unlocked? Are my hands clean enough?”) and compulsions (“I better check and re-check the locks. I need to wash my hands again in order to feel clean.”) Obsessions are repeated thoughts that cause anxiety. The compulsions are performed in order to reduce the anxiety. Obsessive thoughts can include violent or “bad” thoughts, such as wanting to kill yourself or someone else, despite being a calm and harmonious person. These thoughts can lead to intense distress and anxiety, yet those with OCD cannot stop thinking them.Once the compulsion is completed, the person experiences some feeling of relief, yet does not experience pleasure from the compulsion. Often the thoughts and compulsions begin again, which can feel frustrating and like the person is trapped.


If you have OCD, you likely spend an hour or more engaged in compulsions each day. OCD majorly impacts your life and day-to-day functioning.
For more information, check out How to Know if You Have OCD.
 Phobias are over-exaggerated fears that do not present an immediate threat in reality. Some people have intense fears around snakes or spiders or hurricanes, despite living in an area with few threats. If you have a phobia, you may go to extreme measures to avoid contact with the phobia. This kind of behavior only perpetuates the fear and can increase it.While it’s normal to have a fear of heights, if you have a phobia, you likely will refuse to do activities that may feel threatening, even if it’s only a perceived threat.
If you’d like to know more, read How to Overcome Phobia.
 PTSD occurs after experiencing a traumatic or stressful event. It’s normal to experience distress during and after a trauma, yet some people carry on this feeling of distress long after the event has occurred. You may experience flashbacks or dreams of the event, scary thoughts, or avoid certain places, people, or objects. To be diagnosed with PTSD, you must have symptoms for one month or more that include re-experiencing the trauma, avoiding triggers, having altered thoughts or feelings related to the trauma, and heightened reactivity.For example, if you have PTSD after a car crash, you may avoid driving in a car or being near cars due to the intense fear they bring about.
Learn more about PTSD by checking out How to Tell if You Have PTSD.

