 Stir the sugar water often to keep the sugar from scorching. This will make your simple syrup. You are boiling the water and sugar, because sugar does not mix well into cold water.If you already have your lemonade, click here to learn how to put the drink together.;
, This will take about 4 to 5 lemons. Rinse the lemons well, then cut them in half. Squeeze them using a lemon juicer, and discard the pulp and seeds.
 Make sure that the pitcher is large enough to hold 6 cups (1.4 liters) of liquid.
 Give the water a gentle stir to help mix in the lemon juice.
 How much you use is up to you. Some people like their lemonade very sweet, while others prefer something more tart. You likely won't use all of the sugar-water.If you have any of the sugar-water left over, store it in the fridge, and use it to sweeten your drinks and desserts within a few days.
 The sugar-water will likely still be very hot and will make your lemonade warm. You will need to wait for the lemonade to reach room temperature before you move on. If you are in a hurry, add 2 to 3 handfuls of ice into the pitcher.
 Set a large pot on the stove, and fill it with 6 cups (1.4 liters) of water. Turn the heat to high, and wait for the water to boil.


If you already have your iced tea, click here to learn how to put the drink together.
 If you don't like black tea, you can make a less traditional Arnold Palmer, and another type of tea (such as green or mint) instead.
 Place a lid on the pot, and leave it some place where it won't get disturbed.
 Don't leave the tea bags in the water for longer than 5 minutes, or the tea will turn bitter., Don't use the same pitcher as the tea; you will be pouring the drinks separately. If you are in a hurry, you can add 2 to 3 handfuls of ice. Don't add any more, or you will dilute the flavor too much.
 The Arnold Palmer is typically served in a Collin's glass, but any type of tall glass will do.
 For a colder drink, fill it 2/3 of the way with ice.
 For a traditional Arnold Palmer, fill it only ¼ of the way with lemonade. For a sweeter Arnold Palmer, fill it ½ of the way with lemonade.Arnold Palmer has been said to prefer his drink to be 70 percent iced tea, and 30 percent lemonade., Do not stir the two liquids together. The layering is part of the presentation. Who ever is drinking the Arnold Palmer can do the stirring him or herself, if they so desire.
 For a more girlish drink, use a maraschino cherry instead.
