 Until your Shih Tzu is fully potty trained, you should leave her in a crate when you're not able to supervise her. When you're out at work or school, or when you're sleeping, keep your Shih Tzu in a crate.


Choose a crate big enough for your Shih Tzu to comfortably stand and turn around in. You can make your Shih Tzu's crate more comfortable by putting toys, bedding, and water in the crate.
Crate training plays on a dog's natural instincts. In the wild, dogs sleep in dens. Your dog may actually enjoy being in her crate. Keep the crate out and open during the day, allowing your dog to go in and out of the crate as she chooses. This will make your dog more willing to enter the crate when you need to put her away.The crate is a tool for potty training, but it should not be used as a form of punishment. A dog is unlikely to soil her crate as she sees it as part of her home and territory. Therefore, you can use the crate to keep your dog from eliminating in the house.;
, If you keep your Shih Tzu on a regular feeding schedule, she's more likely to use the bathroom at regular times. Try to feed your Shih Tzu around the same times each day. Your Shih Tzu will usually need to go out about half an hour after feeding.


While a schedule is important, you should not withhold water from your dog to prevent her from urinating overnight. Limiting your dog's access to water can be unhealthy; dogs should be provided with fresh water at all times., When first potty training your Shih Tzu, it's best to take her out when it looks like she's about to use the bathroom. This will teach her to associate going outside with relieving herself. If you see your Shih Tzu squatting or sniffing, take her outside before she eliminates in the house.If you're potty training a puppy, keep in mind young dogs need to go out more often. Your Shih Tzu will need to use the bathroom about every 2 hours when she's young. Be vigilant and keep a close eye on your Shih Tzu when she's a puppy.Puppies, much like babies, have little control over accidents. Therefore, vigilance is important. Accidents are inevitable with young dogs, but you can lessen their frequency by taking the dog out every couple of hours., Having a fixed walking schedule can help train your Shih Tzu to eliminate outside. Your Shih Tzu will learn when she can be expected to be let out. This may make it easier for her to wait instead of eliminating inside.As stated, with a young dog you'll have to schedule a walk every two hours. Once you start to notice you're Shih Tzu eliminating less, you can space out the time between walks.You should always let your Shih Tzu out in the morning, shortly after feeding your dog. Make sure to let the dog out just before going to bed as well. This will lessen the likelihood of overnight accidents.
 If possible, designating a potty spot in your hard can help with training. Your Shih Tzu will recognize the smell of urine and feces, encouraging her to eliminate again. You can, for example, always have your Shih Tzu eliminate in the corner of your yard. This can help potty training go more smoothly.If you do not have a backyard, having a potty spot can be more difficult. However, you may find there's a particular patch of grass your Shih Tzu goes for on walks. You could try walking your Shih Tzu near this patch of grass to encourage elimination.
If you can't designate a potty spot, do not worry too much. While a designated potty spot can be helpful for a Shih Tzu, it is only one component of training. A regular feeding and walking schedule, as well as positive reinforcement, are also effective means of potty training a Shih Tzu.

