 The most popular name-brand petrolatum product is Vaseline, though off-brand products are often just as effective. Though there were concerns about the safety of some petrolatum products on the European market, those issues have been resolved, and petrolatum products score well in safety ratings. Petrolatum creates a protective seal over the skin that locks in moisture to prevent lips from drying out, reducing soreness., Dimethicone is a moisturizing agent that can treat peeling and irritation in dehydrated skin, and heal the issues that result in soreness.Be careful when using dimethicone products on your lips, though, as swallowing too much of it can be dangerous. Though it’s highly unlikely that would happen, frequent lip-lickers should take note.
 It may feel good to apply lip balms that feel cool to the touch, but these products often contribute to dryness and leave your lips even more sore. If a product lists eucalyptus, menthol, or camphor in its ingredients list, look for an alternative., This will allow the balm to moisturize your lips overnight and you will wake up with softer and less chapped lips. This is especially effective for frequent lipstick wearers, as the appearance of cracks and peeling skin through your lipstick will be less visible when you apply your lipstick in the morning.
 If your lips are sore on a regular basis despite regular use of lip balms, you may actually be suffering from an allergic reaction.It may be something you’re eating, like peanuts, or it may be a product you’re putting on your lips. Common allergens in lip products include beeswax, shea butter, castor oil, and soybean oil.If this is the case, switch from these plant-based moisturizers to a petroleum-based product.


You may need treatment with corticosteroid cream which can be applied with the fingers to the lips to relieve irritant or allergic contact dermatitis of the lips known as cheilitis.
 Keeping your body hydrated helps in virtually all of its functions and improves overall health. If your body is dehydrated, then its largest organ — the skin — will also be dry, and this can lead to lip soreness.The Institute of Medicine recommends that adult women drink at least nine cups of liquid per day, and that adult men drink at least 13 cups per day.This includes all liquids, including coffee, juices, and so on, and even includes the fluids contained in food.
 Taking steps to heal and hydrate your sore lips isn’t enough. You also have to make sure you’re avoiding behaviors that will prevent your lips from healing quickly. Common behaviors that contribute to lip soreness include peeling or biting on flaky skin and trying to exfoliate your lips while they’re sore., If your lips do not respond to the treatments listed above, there may be an underlying condition that needs to be treated. For example, swollen lips can be a symptom of Crohn’s disease, which inflames lymph ducts throughout the body.Consult a dermatologist, who can provide expert medical analysis of your condition.
 Don’t wait until your lips are swollen and sore to begin treating them. Even when your lips are healthy, take care of them with moisturizing, hydration-sealing lip balms and ointments to ensure you’ll never have sore lips again.
 You can buy lip exfoliants in most places where makeup is sold; they look like a tube of lipstick, but slough off the dead skin cells in the top layer of your lips. You can also use simple household products to exfoliate healthy lips, though. Simply mix some sugar and olive oil together, then rub the mixture lightly over your lips with your fingertips.


Do not scrub aggressively at your lips, as this can cause damage that will lead to soreness and inflammation.
Moisturize your lips with a hydrating lip balm immediately after exfoliating.
 Some people lick their lips frequently without even thinking about it. You might think it harmless — after all, shouldn’t it hydrate your lips from the outside in? In fact, the opposite is true: when the saliva evaporates it dries out your lips, and you’re also licking away the natural oils that keep your lips healthy.Make a concerted effort to stop your lip-licking habit.
 Lips have very little melanin (the pigment that protects against harmful UV rays) compared to the rest of the skin on your body. As such, your lips are in danger of sun damage every time you step outdoors, resulting in dryness, cracking, soreness, or — in severe cases — cancerous growth. Sun exposure can also result in an outbreak of cold sores. To avoid these and other issues, make sure to coat your lips in SPF products. Most sun-protecting lip products have a fairly low SPF of 15 — these are fine for regular, daily wear; however, if you’re going to spend the day at the beach or working outside, make sure to coat your lips in a product with a higher SPF, just as you would the rest of your skin.
 Ensure that your lips, teeth, gums, and mouth are healthy by following guidelines for good oral health. This includes brushing your teeth twice daily or after meals, using a fluoride toothpaste. Rinse your toothbrush after use and keep it somewhere it can air dry to prevent bacteria growth.Remember to floss and visit your dentist every six to 12 months for cleaning. Maintaining good dental hygiene can decrease your risk of infection and may prevent and/or heal your sore lips faster.

