 Spiritual enlightenment means to obtain a spiritual revelation or deep insight into the meaning and purpose of all things, to communicate with or understand the mind of God, or to achieve a fundamentally changed level of existence whereby one's self is experienced as a non-changing field of pure consciousness. Mysticism is the pursuit of communion with, identity with, or conscious awareness of an ultimate reality, divinity, spiritual truth, or God through direct experience, intuition, instinct or insight. , The center of a religion is enlightenment. Religion will lead to enlightenment. Moses was enlightened, as he saw a shining (burning) bush after many years of a secluded life in the desert. He saw the light of God in the bush. Jesus became enlightened, after John the Baptist gave him the Enlightenment energy (kundalini energy). After this Jesus meditated 40 days in the desert. Then the devil (his ego) left him and the angels ministered to him (he was able to help with the enlightenment energy his fellow human beings). Buddha got enlightenment after six years as a yogi under the Bodhi tree. Mara (the devil) disappeared and Buddha rested in happiness. , In Judaism, Christianity and Islam God is seen as an acting person. God is a supreme being, which can be addressed as a person and asked for help. Hinduism, Buddhism and Taoism (Chinese philosophy) prefer the abstract concept of God. God is a higher consciousness field (cosmos, unity, happiness).
 Moses has in contrast to Jesus, an abstract concept of God. In his central definition Moses describes God as: "I am." These words refer to God as a happy state of being which one experiences in the enlightenment. In the words "I am" the royal road to enlightenment is mentioned. Man must develop a cosmic consciousness. He loses the sense of his self (ego). He experiences himself as pure consciousness, as one with everything and can say only, "I am." He can not say: "I am the ... (name)." He identifies himself with everything. In yoga it is called Sat-Chid-Ananda, the compound from being, unity and bliss.
 There are millions of witnesses in the world for the fact of enlightenment. Million people in all cultures and at all times have attained enlightenment. They have all had the same experience, although they have used different words to describe God: "nature, universe, Tao, Brahman, Nirvana, Manitou, Allah, Yahweh". Modern science has studied many enlightened and confirmed their specific abilities. Everyone can check the proof.Thoroughly investigated by U.S. brain researchers several years ago was Matthieu Ricard. They found a particularly large inner happiness, serenity, inner peace and compassion. , If they do then how can they possibly think that such a perfectly run world can exist without another force managing it? One planet slightly sped up or slowed down could destroy the whole of mankind. Yet it hasn't happened.

