 Cervical cancer starts with the presence of HPV (human papillomavirus), which is the most common sexually transmitted infection.Virtually everyone has HPV at least once in their life, if not more; however, the infection most often shows no symptoms so most people are unaware of having it. HPV, over time, can lead to precancerous chances in the sensitive cells around the cervix. This eventually poses the risk of developing into cervical cancer.


Most people are able to clear the infection, which eliminates the risk of cervical cancer; however, if you aren't able to clear the infection then you are at risk for cervical cancer.
By getting regular screenings, you can catch any suspicious cells early and have them treated.
Regular screening is the most effective way to prevent cervical cancer.;
, Women should continue receiving Pap tests until the age 65, or until your doctor says otherwise. A Pap test entails your doctor insert a speculum (a metal or plastic device) into your vagina so that they can see the cervix. Your doctor will then take a sample of cells from the cervix for examination under the microscope.


A Pap test is usually performed annually for the first few years. After that, if you have clear results, your doctor may recommend you come back every three years if you are between the ages of 21 and 29. After age 30 it is every three years unless you also have a negative HPV testing, and then it is every five years.
If any cellular abnormalities are detected on your Pap test, your doctor will call you back in for a follow-up appointment. Results are normally reported back within a few weeks; however, don't panic if your doctor calls you back as there are several other reasons they may want to see you and it does not necessarily mean that you are at risk of cervical cancer.
Also, the benefit of receiving Pap tests is that, as long as you do them regularly, any suspicious lesions tend to be caught early enough to remove them before any further problems arise.
 Be sure to schedule your Pap test for a time when you will not have your period. If you do have your period, your doctor will be unable to properly perform the test as it will cloud the results.
 This is called "co-testing." The benefit of testing for HPV at the same time as analyzing the cells around your cervix is that, if both tests give you clear results, you can have even higher confidence of not being at risk for cervical cancer.


A negative HPV test and regular Pap will also decrease how often you get your paps, from every three years to every five years.
 Risk factors for cervical cancer include the following:


Multiple sexual partners
Unprotected sex (without condoms)
Smoking
HIV/AIDS (an illness that suppresses your immune system)
Long-term birth control use (greater than five years)
Any type of immune suppression, including immunosuppressive drugs

, These vaccines prevent the strains of HPV that are most likely to lead to cervical cancer and/or genital warts. Although the vaccines are not 100% effective, they greatly diminishes one's risk of contracting a strain of HPV that is a precursor for cervical cancer.


You are also eligible to get the vaccine even if you have already had an abnormal pap.
Note that having been vaccinated does not mean you no longer need Pap tests. Pap tests are still recommended in order to be sure that there are no suspicious cells or lesions around your cervix.
Also, if you are between the ages of 13 and 26 and have not yet received the vaccine, speak to your doctor. You are still eligible to receive it between these ages.
The sooner you can get vaccinated the better, as it is ideal to receive the vaccine prior to initiating sex, or at least with a history of as few sexual partners as possible. This is because HPV is a sexually transmitted infection that cannot be cured; it can only be prevented.
 If you smoke and are interested in quitting, speak to your doctor who can help you with strategies and support for quitting. The benefits from quitting smoking are numerous, including a reduced risk of cervical cancer.
 Also, be aware that multiple sexual partners is linked to a higher risk of cervical cancer, so be selective in who you choose to have sex with.
 This is because it is one of the few cancers that can be detected and treated early, at the "precancerous stage," before it develops into a full-blown cancer.


Therefore, with early diagnosis and treatment, virtually all cases of cervical cancer can be prevented before they become worrisome to your health.
 This may include a second Pap test shortly after the first one, to monitor any progression or changes to the cells. Alternatively, it may involve a procedure called a "colposcopy," which is essentially where doctors use a microscope-like instrument to visually examine your cervix at a high enough magnification to detect any precancerous or cancerous concerns.


Your doctor will apply acetic acid (a substance similar to vinegar) to any concerning areas during your colposcopy exam. This helps your doctor to see which areas have suspicious cells.If an area of concern is noted, your doctor will take a biopsy of the area.This will then be examined under the microscope.
If caught early enough, the suspicious lesion can often be removed without long-term consequences; however, if it is an invasive cancer, you will need to see an oncologist for direction regarding further treatments, such as surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy.
 Suspicious cells around the cervix, as well as cervical cancer itself, often have no associated symptoms. Only later-stage more advanced cervical cancer tends to present with symptoms, such as:


Abnormal bleeding or discharge from your vagina
Bleeding and/or abnormal pain with sexual intercourse
Note that presence of the above symptoms is a definite sign of concern and warrants prompt medical attention and evaluation.