 If your parents, siblings, children, or neighbors won't stop bugging you, the easiest way to nab some privacy is always to just say so. There's nothing rude about needing a little alone time, and as long as you say this as if it's normal, and not like you're irritated, most people will go along with it happily.


Stop what you're doing, look at the person who is bugging you and say, "I need a little bit of alone time, ok? I'll talk to you soon."
If you've got a guest who has overstayed their welcome, and you'd like to get them to leave, don't invent an elaborate excuse, just walk to the door and say, "Well, thanks for stopping by. Need some alone time now, if you don't mind. I'll see you soon."

, If you can't take the time to talk to someone, schedule it, or delay it for a time when you do have some free-time. In some cases, this is a much faster way to get out of a conversation and get someone to leave you alone. That way, you can decide when you want to socialize, and keep your alone time on your own terms.


Say, "Hey, I'm interested in what you're saying and would love to help out, but I need a little bit of time to decompress before I'll be any use. Can we talk about this in two hours?"
Don't be afraid to delay to tomorrow something that you don't have the time or energy for doing today. If you need alone time, you need alone time. Tell someone that you'll get back with them when you're ready.
If you want to be really devious, tell someone to call you in two hours, then leave the phone off the hook. Make up a story later.
 Many people will instinctively leave people alone who are reading, and you can use a book as a great solitude prop. If they don't get the hint, it's still easy to look up quickly and say, "Shh, I'm reading please."

, If people can't get a hold of you, they can't bug you. If you want people to stop bugging you online, shut off your smartphone, tablet, computer, and other electronic devices that may easily give others access to you, or keep your inbox full to have a ready-made excuse. Without this access to social media, texting, or phone calls right at your fingertips, others will have a tough time connecting with you, and will get the hint in the future as well.


If someone continually harasses you online, block them, document the harassment, and report their account. Change your privacy settings to the strictest, if possible.
 Some people won't take the hint, even if you make it explicit, and even if you're kind, and in some cases it is easiest and quickest to just make up a little white lie. Used correctly, it can work.


Make sure that your lies are solitary activities. Nobody will be able to verify or accompany you if your excuse is that you have to take a shower and catch up on your email.
Some people think elaborate excuses are kinder than the truth, but this can often have side-effects. If you say you've got to go to the store, your lingering neighbor might say, "Oh, I was just on my way there, let's go together!"

, If people really aren't taking the hint, go to your room, shut the door, play some music or put headphones on, and grab that solitude by the horns. Put a sign on the door that says, "I'm fine, just need alone time. I'll come out at 6."

