 This method uses the shard trader (also called the Diving Treasure Hunter) to exchange a blue shard for a water stone. To begin, you need a blue shard. These semi-rare items can be found in several places, including:Under rocks in various locations when using Dive to access underwater routes (e.g., Route 127, 128, etc.)
Randomly after defeating wild Clamperl;
, Once you have one blue shard, you can head to the Diving Treasure Hunter. His house is located on an island hut on Route 124 (near Mossdeep City.), He will offer to trade your blue shard for a Water Stone. Accept the trade and you will have a water stone!

, Another way to find a Water Stone doesn't use blue shards at all. Instead, this Water Stone is found within the wrecked ship known as the S.S. Cactus. The ship is located on Route 108 (in the bottom left corner of the world map.)You will need to have a Pokémon that knows the move Surf to get to the Abandoned Ship. You'll also need to know the move Dive to get the Water Stone — it's not underwater, but it's in part of the boat you can't access without going underwater., Once you arrive at the abandoned ship, use these directions to get through the maze-like interior of the ship:


Walk up the stairs and into the first door you see.
Head up, then turn right and go down the stairs in the top right.
Head straight down into the door directly below you.
Walk up to the pool of water.
 As noted above, you'll need a Pokémon with the moves Surf and Dive to get through this upcoming section. Use your Pokémon's Surf move at the edge of the pool of water to start swimming, then move down and use Dive to travel under the water to the next part of the ship.


Dive (HM08) can be found in Mossdeep City. You will need the Mind Badge in order to use it., Use these simple directions to get through the deep-water section of the boat:


Head to the left and go through the door in the top left of the hallway.
Move forward a few spaces into the room and re-surface.
 Once you hop out of the water, walk to the right and enter the third door. In this room, you should see two item balls: one in the top right and one on the left. The one on the left contains the Water Stone.

