 A cerebral aneurysm happens when an artery in the brain weakens and forms into a balloon before rupturing. They often form at forks or branches in arteries, the weakest sections of blood vessels.When the balloon ruptures, continuous bleeding in the brain will occur.
Blood is toxic to the brain, and when bleeding happens, it is often called hemorrhagic syndrome.
Most brain aneurysms take place in the subarachnoid space, which is the area between the brain and the skull bone.
 Cerebral and aortic aneurysms share several risk factors. Some of them cannot be controlled, such as inherited genetic conditions, but others can be reduced by smart lifestyle choices. Here are common risk factors for cerebral and aortic aneurysms:Smoking elevates your risk of both types of aneurysms.
Hypertension, or high blood pressure, damages blood vessels and the lining of the aorta.Aging increases your risk of cerebral aneurysms after age 50.The aorta becomes stiffer with age, and the prevalence of aneurysms increases as you get older.Inflammation can cause damage that leads to aneurysms. Conditions like vasculitis (an inflammation of the blood vessels) can damage and scar the aorta.Trauma, such as falls or motor vehicle accidents, can damage the aorta.Infections such as syphilis (an STI) can damage the lining of the aorta.Bacterial or fungal infections of the brain can damage blood vessels and increase the risk of aneurysm.Substance use or abuse, especially cocaine use and heavy alcohol consumption, cause hypertension that can lead to brain aneurysms.Gender plays a role in your risk for aneurysms. Men develop aortic aneurysms at a higher rate than women do, but women are at higher risk for developing brain aneurysms.Certain inherited conditions, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Marfan syndrome (both connective tissue disorders), can cause weakening of cerebral blood vessels and the aorta., Smoking is believed to contribute to the formation and rupture of brain aneurysms.Smoking is also the most significant risk factor for developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). 90% of individuals with aortic aneurysms have a history of smoking.The sooner you quit, the sooner you can begin to lower your risk., Hypertension, or high blood pressure, causes damage to cerebral blood vessels and the lining of the aorta, which can lead to the development of aneurysms.Losing weight if you are overweight or obese can reduce your blood pressure. Even losing 10 pounds (4.5 kg) makes a difference. Get regular exercise. Getting 30 minutes a day of moderate physical exercise can help lower your blood pressure.Limit alcohol. Do not drink more than 1-2 drinks per day (1 for most women, 2 for most men)., Keeping your blood vessels healthy can help prevent an aortic aneurysm.A healthy diet can also help lower the risk of rupturing an existing aneurysm.Eating a balanced diet with plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein will help prevent aneurysms from forming.Reduce your dietary sodium. Limiting sodium to less than 2,300mg a day (1,500mg a day for people with active high blood pressure diagnoses) will help control blood pressure.Reduce your cholesterol.Eating foods high in soluble fiber, especially oatmeal and oat bran, will help reduce “bad” cholesterol (LDL). Apples, pears, kidney beans, barley, and prunes also contain soluble fiber. Omega-3 fatty acids from fatty fish like sardines, tuna, salmon, or halibut will also help reduce your risk.Eat healthy fats.Be sure to avoid saturated fats and trans fats.Fats from fish, vegetable oils (e.g., olive oil), nuts, and seeds are high in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, which can lower your risk.Avocado is another good source of “good” fat and can help lower your cholesterol.