 It is important to properly care for your wood cutting board if you want it to last a long time. Keep a wood cutting board away from heat and too much or too little moisture, as this can cause warping and splitting. If you have to clean your cutting board, use a sponge rather than immersing it in soapy water. If you need to restore a board that is damaged, regularly apply an oil that is formulated for wooden cutting boards. Let it dry for a while after oiling.;
, You need not follow a recipe exactly. Adapt recipes to your tastes by adding or removing an ingredient, or even creating something from scratch. That is really a creative cook!Always use fresh seasonings and herbs in simple dishes. If the recipe is complicated and combines many different flavors, dried herbs are acceptable. However, fresh herbs are much better and will produce a stronger, fresher and overall better taste. Small herb gardens can be wonderful to make sure that fresh, natural herbs are always available.
 Guessing how long food will take on the grill is nearly impossible. It is always wise to utilize a good meat thermometer (a digital one is best to give you an exact reading) to ensure that the inner portions are cooked correctly. For meat that is more than an inch and a half thick, you might want to close the lid of the grill to decrease the cooking time.
 If you think you want to try cooking with skewers, there are a couple things you should know. Regarding metal skewers, square or twisted varieties are preferable to round ones, as the round ones do not hold food items as well as the other two types., When cooking with oil, add it not to the bottom but to the pan's sides. This will allow the oil to heat up as it works its way down to the center. This will help keep the foods flavor locked in and make for a tasty meal.
 When serving salads to guests, it is a good idea to leave the dressing on the side of the salad rather than on it. Let people add what they want to their salad. You should also provide a large variety of dressings to serve your guests.
 Rather, cut up the meat and store in in the freezer. You can keep it fresh for several weeks, so that you can use the turkey in sandwiches or salads.
 Quickly cooking vegetables allows them to retain much of their nutritional value. Vegetables that have been slow-cooked are not as nutritional or tasty as vegetables that are cooked in other ways. Speed cooking vegetables also retains the best texture and nutrition. The less time you take to cook them, the better your vegetables will be.
 Having a clean and organized kitchen is essential to cooking a great meal or dessert. An organized cooking station is a productive cooking station.
 If you just cook without a plan, you will waste lots of food, which is the same as wasting lots of money.As you season meat, you should try a cooking a little piece first. The meats like meatballs, meatloaf, and hamburgers need careful seasoning. Avoid cooking all of it after it's been seasoned. Instead, make a small piece in the shape of a patty and initially cook that first. After you do this you can either completely cook it or add more seasoning as you see fit.

