 Oftentimes people blame the pasta for their weight gain when in addition to watching the type of pasta you’re eating, you must also watch how large your portions are in order to control the amount of calories you’re consuming. Use websites with portion calculators or information such as hungry-girl.com to determine correct portion sizes. Each cup of pasta has approximately 200 calories, and most restaurants give you close to 4 cups of pasta.
When cooking a pasta dinner, remember that you are cooking for several people and your portion size should be just one serving. A single serving size should be approximately 1 cup.
Pasta actually doubles in size as it cooks.
 A good thing about making your own pasta dishes is making your own pasta sauce. By whipping up your own sauce, you can be choosy about the types of ingredients that go in as well as the amount of particular ingredients that you add. Light sauces instead of heavy sauces is a quick way to a healthier pasta dish. Try pasta primavera, meat-free sauces, pesto sauce or pasta with just oil and lemon.
Use things like avocados, basil, olives, capers, cilantro, mint, lemon, lime, yogurt, peas, bell peppers, pesto, and nuts to create healthy sauces. Use fresh tomatoes instead of canned, when creating a tomato-based marinara sauce.
Make creamy, cheese-based sauces with feta cheese, which is lower in fat and calories than most cheeses, Swiss that can come in many forms like low-fat and low-sodium, or cottage cheese that is high in protein and low in fat. You can also use low-fat cream cheese and low-fat sour cream for healthier alternatives.
 A quick and easy way to make noodle dishes healthier is to simply use better ingredients. Use olive oil rather than vegetable oil for healthy unsaturated fat. Use items besides heavy creams and sodium-filled chicken broth such as vegetables, citrus, and herbs to create sauces containing potassium, vitamins, folate, and protein,


Control the amount of sodium you add.
Be judicious when adding flavorful ingredients such as milk, tomatoes and wine.

