 Keep in mind Mormons are taught not to trust the accuracy of the Bible. They have been led to believe many truths have been removed from its pages, and other teachings have been altered or added. So take the time to show that the integrity of the Bible has been carefully preserved over the past centuries.Mormons use the King James Version of the Bible. So use another translation of the Bible and ask the Mormon to follow along in their version so they can note the similarities in the passages.;
, When discussing the Bible, avoid stating: “This is what the Bible says.” Instead, give the passage more weight by stating: “This is what God has testified about Himself.” Ask the Mormon to read the verse out loud and then ask: “What is God telling us about Himself in this verse?”Start the discussion with the book of Isaiah. Based on the credibility of the Dead Sea Scrolls, you can demonstrate that these passages are verified to be complete and unchanged. The Isaiah scroll is dated one hundred or more years BC and is essentially the same as the text we have in our Bibles today. So neither the Catholic Church nor the Jewish rabbis alternated the text. Isaiah is also quotes extensively in the Book of Mormon, so it's a good middle ground to begin the discussion.Focus on several verses that discuss the nature of God in ways that conflict with the Mormon doctrine. For example:Isa. 43:10, 11; 44:6, 8 – There is only one God
Neh. 9:5, 6; Ps. 90:2; Hab. 1:12 – God has existed eternally as God
Num. 23:19; Hos. 11:9; 1 Sam. 15:29 – God is not a man
Ps. 139:8-16 – God is Omnipresent

, Most Mormons don’t view themselves as being lost sinners in need to God’s forgiveness and grace. In fact, Mormons are taught to view themselves as gods in the making, and though they are aware of sin, they are expected to repent and forsake their sin, continually. They are driven by a quest to become perfect, even in the afterlife. But in the teachings of the Bible, man is hopelessly corrupt, steeped in sin and unable to deserve God’s grace and forgiveness. So the goal of attaining a sinless life is humanly impossible and can be very discouraging as you are almost doomed to fail.Help the Mormon to see and feel the weight of their repeated failure to live a perfect life and understand that human perfection is impossible for us in this life. This will show that Mormonism’s intent is to make its followers feel lost so they can then become saved.
Try to explain to the Mormon that he is headed for “outer darkness”, a term used by Mormons to describe hell, because he is not perfect and God requires perfection. Use Jesus’ words in Matthew 5:48: “Be ye therefore perfect, even as you Father which is in heaven is perfect.” This verse is also in the Book of Mormon, so the Mormon will be familiar with it. It is often used by Mormons to show Christians that works are necessary and faith alone is not enough to be worthy to live with the Heavenly Father someday.
Point out that “Be ye therefore perfect” is in the present tense and is not the same as becoming perfect. So, this indicates that it is not possible to become perfect before God. You can also use James 2:10 to show that according to the Bible, if you fail at any point in your life, you have broken the entire law. This is reminiscent of the Mormon scripture D&C 82:7, which states if you repent of a sin and commit it again later, all your previous sins will return. So, this indicates that most people are on the road to “outer darkness” because it cannot be escaped or denied.This also runs counter to the LDS teaching that the only beings that go to the “outer darkness” are Satan, his demons, and temple Mormons who once understood the Mormon gospel and then left the LDS Church.
 When Mormons seek to bring more believers to Mormonism, they will give people the Book of Mormon and ask them to read it and pray about it. Many Mormons will use a “testimony” or a spiritual experience that assured them the Book of Mormon is true and that Joseph Smith is the prophet of God. The Mormon may then ask you to pray about the Book of Mormon.You can respond to this by explaining why praying to determine if a book is true is not the way to determine truth. Use an example like praying to receive a testimony of the truthfulness of a New Age book to show how false this might be.
Unlike in Mormonism, Christians use the scriptures to derive a teaching and put the teaching into action. Christians don’t pray over the teaching to get a feeling of truthfulness.
 Rather than accuse or mock the LDS Church, simply bring up the issues surrounding the Church that have been well documented by the public, the media, and members who have left the Mormon Church.
 Devout Mormons believe that Moroni, an angel from ancient America, appeared to Joseph three times on the night of September 21, 1823. During these visits, Moroni revealed the story of the Book of Mormon and shared knowledge with Joseph that would help him locate and translate the messages on the gold plates.LDS faithful believe Joseph literally saw Moroni with his own eyes, heard him speak, and processed his revelations with an alert, conscious brain.
However, there have been concerns about the circumstances of Moroni’s visitation. On the night of Moroni’s appearances, Joseph lived with his siblings in his parent’s small house. He and his five brothers slept together in a tiny room that contained only two beds, so Joseph shared a bed with at least on brother. If the visitation by the brightly shining Moroni was the literal event as taught by the LDS Church, why did Joseph’s brothers not get woken up when Moroni appeared?

, Members of the LDS Church are taught that the Book of Mormon (BOM) is scripture and the true record of the inhabitants of the Americas from about 2200 BC to 420 AD. Although it’s main purpose is a religious text, it is interpreted as being an actual, historical record of the inhabitants of the ancient Americas.No archaeological, linguistic, DNA or other evidence of Hebrew culture in the Americas has ever been found to support the claims of the BOM. The BOM also contains numerous anachronisms like horse, elephants, wheat, barley, steel, silk, etc, that scientists agree did not exist in the Americas during BOM times.
 The LDS Church claims that the President of the Church speaks directly for God. But many prophecies made by the prophets of Mormonism did not occur or ended up being incorrect. For example:Joseph Smith prophesied that Christ would return in the 1800s if he lived to be 80, which did not occur. The Mormon Church also accepts many Biblical stories as true and real, rather than fables, such as Noah’s Ark, Adam and Eve, and the Tower of Babel, as well as people living to be 900 years old.
Many of the teachings of the prophet Brigham Young, often at the General Conference, are now denied by the LDS Church. So if prophecies can be false and the doctrines given by one prophet can be invalidated by another, how much authority do the LDS prophets have? How can a member of the LDS Church tell which prophecies are true and which are false?, Though the practice was officially banned by the church in 1890, it was practiced in earnest by the leading prophets of the Church, including Joseph Smith, who had 32 wives, and Brigham Young, who had 55 wives. Beyond being a belief of the Church, polygamy is considered immoral and illegal.According to the Church, the Book of Mormon teaches that monogamy is God’s standard for marriage unless He declares otherwise. The Lord sometimes authorizes plural marriage for the parents to have more children, such as with Abraham, Isaac, Moses, etc. So, the Lord revealed polygamy to Joseph Smith.
Polygamous marriages were conducted in secret by Joseph Smith as early as 1832. The church publicly lied many times about the polygamy of its members, and Joseph Smith eventually married 32 women, including seven girls under 18 years of age.
The church currently disavows any practice of polygamy, but the eternal doctrine of plural marriage is still in place. A man may be sealed to multiple, sequential wives, allowing him to have a polygamous family in the celestial kingdom.
The disturbing practice of polygamy still occurs in more fundamental Mormon groups and paints the early prophets of Mormonism in a very negative and troubling light.
 There is a growing number of personal accounts by people who left the Mormon Church and are trying to adapt to life as non-Mormons. It may be worthwhile to discuss these first person accounts with a Mormon to show how and why former Mormons decided to leave the LDS Church., Many Mormons who eventually leave the church do not embrace Christianity or other religions. In fact, many Mormons lose any faith in God they might have had. So if you are witnessing to a Mormon and make a breakthrough, be sure to present them with other spiritual options. #*Rather than try to force a new religion on the Mormon, reinforce that just because the Mormon idea of God and faith may be flawed, this does not mean all ideas of God and faith are flawed.


Keep in mind it takes time for a Mormon to come to terms with disturbing information and realizations about their beliefs. Some Mormons are aware of these issues but find ways to rationalize them. Other Mormons recognize the implications of these facts but stay in the religion for personal reasons, like a close connection to their Mormon family. Fear of going into the “outer darkness” by leaving the church or of losing close family and friends can all make it difficult for a Mormon to leave the Church. So be patient, generous, and open when witnessing a Mormon and give them the space to decide how they feel about the facts of their religion.
 According to the Book of Mormon, as taught by founder Joseph Smith, the Bible has many errors, changes, and omissions. So it must be supplemented and corrected by the Latter Day Saint scriptures. These scriptures include:The Book of Mormon.

The Doctrine & Covenants.

The Pearl of Great Price (including the Book of Abraham).
Joseph Smith’s revisions to the Bible.
The continuing revelation in the teachings of the living prophets of the LDS Church.
As stated in the Articles of Faith: “We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God.”
As stated in the Gospel Principles: “The Lord inspired the Prophet Joseph to restore truths to the Bible that had been lost or changed since the original words were written. These inspired corrections are called the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible.”

, In the Mormon doctrine, God the Father was once a man like us, a mortal being, and became God by going through a process that culminated in him becoming exalted to Godhood. He has a physical body and cannot in his own person be omnipresent, or every present. However, as God, he is omniscient (all knowing) and omnipotent (all powerful).As stated in the Gospel Principles: “Joseph Smith taught: ‘It is the first principle of the Gospel to know for a certainty the Character of God...He was once a man like us...God himself, the Father of us all, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ did.”

, Mormon doctrine rejects the classic Christian doctrine of the Holy Trinity (one God who exists as three inseparable yet distinct persons: the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit). Instead, the Mormon doctrine teaches that there are three separate personages who become Gods at different times and have separate bodies.As stated by founder Joseph Smith in Teachings of the Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith: “I have always always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods.”

, The Mormon doctrine affirms that Jesus Christ died on the cross and rose from the grave, which aligns with Christianity. But, it also teaches that all human beings, including those who reject Jesus Christ in this life, will be raised from the dead with immortal physical bodies. They will then live in one of three glorious kingdoms forever. This is known as general salvation and applies to all people regardless of what they believe or how they behave. Only those who knew and accepted the LDS religion as true and then deliberately rejected it will forfeit automatic salvation.As stated in True to the Faith: “Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, everyone will be redeemed from the effects of the Fall.”
But in the Mormon doctrine, there is a different between immortality, which almost everyone receives whether they are good or bad, and eternal life, which only good people who accept the LDS gospel and keep all of its requirements can obtain. Only those who accept the LDS faith and obey its requirements will be saved to “eternal life” in the presence of the Heavenly Father.
To qualify for the highest of the three eternal kingdoms, known as the “celestial kingdom”, a person must accept the “restored” gospel, fully repent of their signs, and obey all the LDS Church’s laws and commandments. One must also be married in a Mormon temple.
As stated in True to Faith: “Eternal life is to know Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and dwell with Them forever—to inherit a place in the highest degree of the celestial kingdom (see John 17:3; D&C 131:1–4; 132:21–24). To receive this great gift, we must do more than repent of our sins and be baptized and confirmed by appropriate priesthood authority. Men must receive the Melchizedek Priesthood, and all Church members must make and keep sacred covenants in the temple, including eternal marriage.”

, In the Mormon doctrine, faithful Mormons may become gods. So they can become all-powerful beings that make and rule their own worlds. This transformation is called exaltation. Only faithful Mormons who are married for eternity in the Mormon temple, fulfill all their covenants and live obediently, and faithfully, may achieve exaltation and reach the highest degree of the celestial kingdom.According to the Gospel Fundamentals: “To live in the highest part of the celestial kingdom is called exaltation or eternal life. To be able to live in this part of the celestial kingdom, people must have been married in the temple and must have kept the sacred promises they made in the temple. They will receive everything our Father in Heaven has and will become like Him. They will even be able to have spirit children and make new worlds for them to live on, and do all the things our Father in Heaven has done. People who are not married in the temple may live in other parts of the celestial kingdom, but they will not be exalted.”

, According to Mormon doctrine, Joseph Smith is the Prophet of the Restoration, who did more for mankind’s salvation than anyone besides Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith is considered the highly esteemed, honored, and praised man through whom God restored true Christianity to the earth.Keep in mind that though Mormons do not worship Joseph Smith, he is praised in LDS art and music, and has a place in the LDS religion comparable to that of Muhammad in Islam.
Joseph Smith also dictated or wrote nearly all of the LDS scriptures.
As stated in the Doctrine & Covenants: “Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it.”

, According to LDS doctrine, the Latter Day Saints Church is the only true church on earth today. Mormons often refer to the LDS movement as the Restoration, as they believe Christianity fell away between the second century and 1830, the year Joseph Smith organized the LDS Church.As stated in the Doctrine & Covenants: “And after having received the record of the Nephites, yea, even my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., might have power to translate through the mercy of God, by the power of God, the Book of Mormon. And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth.”

, The LDS Church officially retired the practice of polygamy, or having multiple wives, in 1890. Before then, polygamy was an established Mormon practice, and was practiced by the first prophet of the LDS Church, Joseph Smith. Smith had over thirty “wives” in addition to his legal wife Emma. However, Smith denied being a practicing polygamist as late as a month before he died.Though Mormons may have seen polygamy as an acceptable practice, outside of the faith, it was an illegal practice. Both bigamy and adultery were crimes under state laws where Joseph Smith engaged in the practice.
There is also evidence that after the Manifesto of 1890 banned polygamy from the Mormon faith, the practice did not stop. Only in 1904 did the LDS Church stop authorizing new plural marriages and began excommunicating members who did not comply.
 Groups like the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, which was headed by Warren Jeffs, and the Apostolic United Brethren, continue to practice polygamy long after the ban by the Mormon Church.Fundamentalist Mormon groups ascribe to many of the original practices advocated by Joseph Smith and are considered extremist groups by the LDS Mormon Church.