 If you're hanging out with other people and trying new things, you are almost guaranteed to have more fun. Finding good company to try new things with will make you have fun no matter what. Here are some great things to try:


Join a team sport. Whether you're joining a volleyball league or just playing badminton with two of your friends, you'll be set to have a great time.
Do a cultural activity. Go to the theatre, a museum, or a concert with your friends and see what a great time you have.
Throw a theme party. Throwing a theme party with your friends is a great way to have fun, whether it's a costume party or a murder mystery party.
Check out a new restaurant. Go to a completely new place for the food or for the happy hour specials, and indulge in the great conversations you'll be having with your friends.
Cook together. Invite over a few friends and create an elaborate meal, or have fun baking new kinds of desserts.
 Dancing with your friends is always a good time, no matter how silly or insecure you may feel. You can dance at a house party, at a club with a few close friends, or just dance in the middle of the street with your best friend if the mood strikes. Moving your body and even singing along to the lyrics of a silly song will definitely make you have more fun.


If you really like dancing, then taking a salsa, cardio hip hop, or another type of dance class will definitely make your life more fun.
 Part of having fun is hanging out with people who bring more fun and joy to your every day life. If you're hanging out with a Negative Nancy or a person who is always sad for no reason, then you'll never be able to have more fun with others. Here's how to hang out with people who will make your life more fun:


Hang out with people who are spontaneous and adventurous. These people are guaranteed to find fun in the most unlikely places.
Hang out with people who crack you up. If you're laughing, you'll be able to have fun no matter where you are.
Hang out with people who are positive. Positive people are excited about life and are guaranteed to have more fun than negative, whiny people.
 One of the best ways to have fun is simply to laugh more. Other people can help you do this, whether you laugh because of their corny jokes or because you find yourself in the middle of a ridiculous situation with your friends. Here's how to have more fun by laughing more:


Watch something funny with your friends. Go to the movies to see a comedy or even see a stand-up comedian, and you'll instantly have fun.
Play a silly board game. Board games are guaranteed to make you laugh when you're hanging out with others.
Play charades. This old school game is always a riot.
Don't be afraid to be silly or goofy. When you're hanging out with friends, you can sing into your hairbrush, dress up in the most ridiculous outfits, or dance like a fool. Let go of your inhibitions and you'll be having more fun in no time at all.
 Another way to have fun with others is to go on an adventure. This could mean taking a road trip just a few hours away, booking a vacation, or just going on an adventure to a local park or landmark that you've never seen.


A road trip is a guaranteed way to have fun. Bring on the candy, bad pop music mix, and a map, and you'll be having fun in no time.
Go to the beach or the woods. You'll be guaranteed to have fun outdoors if you're with a pack of friends who are up for anything.
Go on a fun vacation. Go to Vegas, Mexico, or just the next town over just because you feel like it, and enjoy the feeling of being a tourist and acting a little bit outrageous.

