 Visit the Bluestacks website, where the download should start automatically. A box asking if you would like to save the file or cancel the download will pop up. Select the "Save File" option and wait until the download finishes, which should take roughly one to five minutes, depending on the speed of your computer.

Once the download has finished, open Bluestacks and wait until it finishes initializing. Set up the required settings until Bluestacks is ready for use. Be sure your computer an handle the file size of the application, as it is 262 MB.
 In the search bar at the top of the home screen, type in "Instagram". Click on the Instagram icon to open it in Google Play. Then, select the green "Install" button and wait until installation is complete, then open the app., If you have an Instagram account, type in your login credentials and select the green "Sign In" button. If not, type in your needed information (username, password, email, etc.) for a Instagram account and register. Your feed should now open up, looking exactly like it does on the mobile app., Click the blue camera button at the bottom of the screen. A small menu will pop up, asking you if you'd like to retrieve the photos from your computer library or Bluestacks gallery. Choose one or the other, then click on the desired photo to post., Once you have selected your picture, the photo will be overlapped by a grid. The size of the grid is the maximum size your photo can be when uploaded. You can zoom in or out until your photo looks satisfactory. Once you have chosen what to crop out, click the white arrow on the upper right-hand corner of the screen to move on to the next page, where you can edit your photo if you'd like.

You may apply filters to give your photo a little flair. At the bottom of the screen will be multiple filters to choose from, each with a little preview of your photo. Above the filters are small white icons, each with different edit functions, such as saturation and brightness.
 Next to a small preview of your photo, you will have the option to write a caption and hashtags if you'd like. Beneath the caption box is an option to either tag people in your photo or add the photo to your photo map. You can tag people by searching their username and choosing where to tag them in the photo, and can add your location by searching for it and clicking on the desired place. Once you have done this, click the small blue check mark in the upper right hand corner of the window to share your photo.