 If the little critter is an unwanted guest in your house, knowing the room you see it in most often will help you catch it. Hopefully it’s the same room every time. As they’re creatures of habit, you could even get lucky enough to spot it in the same part of the room each time.


Scope out the room for the cracks/crevices it could be coming in and out of. Catching it could require closing those while it’s loose in the room.;
, Then you need to get yourself a bucket (or box) and a long stick – at least 3 feet long. Make sure the stick is not pointed.Use multiple buckets (or boxes). Set up a blanket or three to block the escape routes between your buckets. Increasing the odds can only help your cause.
Place the bucket(s) where you want the lizard to escape. Your best bet is to put them where the lizard has been previously escaping.
Draw or paint a crack on the bottom of the bucket. As lizards love to hide in cracks, if it thinks it sees one it will be more likely to head there. Use a Sharpie or paint if you choose to draw/paint one.
Be sure to dry the ink/paint. You want all chemical smells to dissipate as much as possible. You can even give it a light washing to help make it safer and less likely to cause the lizard to run away from it.
 If you scare it, the whole process can get infinitely harder.


Wear only socks. This way there’s no danger of a squeaky shoe, the click of a heel, etc.
 Now use your stick to gently guide it into the bucket.


Do not touch the lizard with your stick. You not only don’t want to hurt the little critter but it also won’t take much to get him running.
Adjust to your lizard’s behavior. If it’s still not moving after you spray it with cold water, you can also gently place a bucket over it. Use a Manila envelope and slide it gently under the bucket to seal it. Then slowly turn the bucket over, keeping the Manila envelope securely over the bucket’s opening.
Use your stick to tip the bucket upright. If your lizard runs quickly into a bucket, don’t waste time getting to the bucket to use your hand. This could be the difference between a captured lizard and a lizard once again on the loose.

