 If you’re not confident in your photography skills, or you just don’t want to deal with the headache of shooting your own Christmas card, look into professional services that can do the grunt work for you. Not only will they be able to frame and shoot a higher quality photo, but they’ll have expensive, professional grade software to edit and polish your photos once they’ve been taken.


Look for professional photographers online. Many of these independently operating pros might charge out of your price range, but you can usually browse their price packages on their websites.
Be sure not to automatically opt for the cheapest option: while chances are that the professional you hire will be competent, they might have a very different style than what you had envisioned.If you have a friend who recently got married or had another special event for which they hired a professional photographer, ask them who they hired and if they would so again.
 Before hiring a professional photographer, you should meet with them or speak on the phone in order to discuss your ideas for the shoot. If you have very specific ideas of what you want, be sure to let your photographer know so that they can advise you as to their feasibility. If you don’t have much direction, ask the photographer for any ideas they might have, or what their typical Christmas card concepts look like.


Also be sure to ask what kind of refund or re-shoot options they offer. Due to the highly digitized nature of contemporary photography, many photographers will offer free refunds or options to re-shoot your cards at a discounted rate if you’re unhappy with the results.
 Even though you’re using a professional, don’t assume everything will go smoothly. The weather might sour and cause problems with lighting, or you might hate the way your chosen outfits turned out on camera. Whatever the case, you can prevent a Christmas card disaster by planning early so that you have time to schedule another shoot.


If you’re trying to wrangle a large group of extended family and relatives, send out a 'Save the date' notice like you would for a wedding or big party.
 You’re not just paying your photographer for their fancy camera, software, and composition know-how: a big part of the service professional photographers offer is their experience. After all, chances are they’ve shot hundreds of families in many different environments and conditions, and this experience yields valuable insight and strategies for family photo shoots.Take advantage of this expertise by asking detailed questions about how you should prepare for the shoot.


Be specific! Ask what colors photograph well, what kind of makeup will look best in the lighting you’ll be using, and what setting and posing would be optimal for the number of people in your family.
 Not only does your photographer have experience with the technical aspects of composition and cameras, they’re also likely to be well-trained in the art of prompting and directing their subjects. They can put your family at ease, give helpful instructions as to where to look and how to stand, and adjust any buttons or lenses which may reflect and cause glares in the image., As soon as your photographer gives you your photos, browse through them and pick out your favorites. Just be sure to look attentively at all of the subjects in the photo rather than focusing just on yourself: the last thing you want your Christmas card to do is start a lasting family resentment over an unflattering angle or a poorly timed blink.


Many photographers these days use online photo galleries to let you look at the results of your photoshoot. You'll receive a password to access your photos and then you can browse to your heart's content before selecting your favorite.Once you’ve whittled down the photos and made a short-list of card-worthy candidates, gather your family together to get final approval on the photo. This will help you make sure that everyone is happy with the finished product and proud to have the image distributed to relatives and friends.

