 If you are trying to increase your odds of being successful at work, you need to learn how to work around the contexts that bring on anxiety. A big part of the stress brought on by social anxiety is related to unfamiliar situations or environments. Counteract the stress you feel in unfamiliar circumstances by getting a feel for the location beforehand.Simply arriving early to map out the entrance, exit, and restrooms could make all the difference in helping you feel more comfortable and less intimidated by the environment. For example, if you are scheduled to speak at a work conference on Saturday, attend the events on Friday to see what the environment and audience are like. You may even meet a few people who can be familiar faces to focus on during your talk.;
, Preparation is key to helping anyone feel more confident in the workplace. This is especially true for those suffering from social anxiety. While others may be able to wing their part of a presentation--or simply pull an all-nighter—you’ll likely perform better by giving yourself plenty of time to become familiar with the material you are presenting and the environment.


Stay late after work a few days, and practice presenting in the area where you’ll do the real thing. Even better—ask a coworker with whom you’re on friendly terms to sit in and give you constructive feedback.
Time management is essential when you’re trying to decrease anxiety at work.Leaving tasks to the last minute will only make you feel more self-conscious about your knowledge and abilities, making you appear incompetent to coworkers and superiors.
For tasks like cold-calling clients, create a script that you can practice ahead of time and then fall back on during phone calls to reduce anxiety.
 Have you been itching to talk to your boss about a promotion? You’ll make your best case if you are able to discuss the matter with composure. You can achieve this by planning ahead and scheduling a meeting rather than having the talk in an impromptu fashion. Drop by your boss’s office and ask if they can set aside a few minutes one day during the following week for a chat. When you do this, you have time to prepare your pitch and your boss has time to actually listen.Even when the discussion is happening on someone else’s terms, you can still use this tactic. If a coworker comes by your desk asking you to discuss your latest reports, explain how you’re swamped with paperwork and will chat with them at the end of the work day. Having even a few extra minutes to prepare can diminish the stress you feel.
You might say, "Hey, Bill, I know we need to discuss those reports, but now is not a good time for me. I'm busy putting the finishing touches on this proposal. Can we get together right before you leave today?"

, No matter how much you hate it, it’s unlikely you’ll be able to wiggle out of every workplace social affair. For those that you have to attend, do the prep work beforehand. This won’t make you feel any less awkward or nervous, but it will help you appear composed to any potential clients and your ever-observant supervisor.


Research the key players who’ll be in attendance and do a quick analysis of their names and any pertinent details that may be useful in conversation. Think about factors like alma maters, recent accomplishments, family, and personal interests. You can also watch the news or media reports the preceding week to stay current on local or national events. That way, when an awkward silence arises, you have a few conversation starters up your sleeve.For example, you might say something like “I hear you are quite the avid bird-watcher, Rick. Have you been out lately?” or “Mrs. Rhodes, my wife is an alumnus as Columbia as well. I wonder if you know her…”

, Just as it’s important to have strategies to help you perform better at work, it’s equally significant to have some techniques at hand to help you quell anxiety in the moment. Regardless of how prepared you are, you may still experience some stress when encountering novel circumstances. Incorporating a deep breathing practice can kick on your body’s natural stress response.Try the 4-7-8 approach.When you’re feeling stressed, inhale deeply from your nose for 4 counts. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale from your mouth slowly for 8 counts. Repeat this as needed whenever anxiety occurs.
 One of the primary contributors to debilitating anxiety is your thought process. Often your thoughts may be negative or irrational in nature, which lead to you feeling worse about yourself or a situation.A great way to counteract negative thinking is by developing a positive habit. Repeating positive affirmations related to stress-inducing events changes the narrative running through your head and helps ease stress in the process.


Instead of statements like “I am a loser” or “Everyone is staring at me,” try helpful statements. These might sound like “I am an asset to the company,” “I am the picture of calm, or “I am confident in social situations.”, Having a confidante at work who is accepting and supportive of your social anxiety can be a comfort. Call on this person to vent frustrations, practice different scenarios, or simply to have a laugh when you’re feeling overwhelmed.Say, "Hey, Julia, do you have a sec? I'm feeling pretty overwhelmed." Then, take the time to express your worries, or simply have a laugh.
 Select a grounding trinket to place in your hand during difficult interactions. Anxiety can override your typical common sense and leave you fearful of completely innocent situations. Another method to help you combat social anxiety at work is to select a small memento to keep with you that brings you a sense of calm.


This trinket can be anything: a button from your spouse’s shirt, an eye from your daughter’s old teddy bear, or special coin inherited from your father. Keep this memento in your pocket or at your desk to rub between your fingers. Doing this grounds you to the present moment and can bring on more peaceful feelings associated with the trinket’s history.
 Seek professional treatment for your social anxiety disorder. By far, cognitive-behavioral therapy has been shown to be one of the most effective treatments for your condition. In this type of therapy, you will work with your therapist to develop healthy ways to cope with anxiety, learn how to identify and challenge negative thought patterns, and gradually face situations that provoke anxiety.If your anxiety is debilitating and significantly impacts your ability to function at home, at work, and in your relationships, you may also need to see a doctor for medications to help you cope while you learn new skills in therapy.
 One of the many kinds of exercises you may complete in therapy is an exposure hierarchy. If you feel competent, you may be able to start this on your own. If not, you can work with your therapist to move through the exercise.


In your exposure hierarchy, you must write down a list of 10 situations that cause anxiety for you. You will rank them in order of severity on a 100-point scale (100 being most severe). Choose the lowest situation on your list and do it. Then, slowly move up the list.
For example, your lowest-ranking situation may be to say “Hi” to the receptionist at your job. The highest-ranking behavior might be to ask your boss for a raise. You will start with the lowest and complete it before moving to the next., Estimates show that about 7% of the population is affected by social anxiety disorder.Although you may feel like you are suffering in isolation, there are others out there who understand what you are experiencing.


Talk to your therapist or doctor about connecting you with a support group of others who have social anxiety. In the groups, you may develop a sense of family with others like you and learn more strategies on how to cope and succeed with this condition.

