 Sunlight that is too bright will wash everything out and summer certainly brings its fair share of light problems for the photographer, with its brilliantly sunny days. Midday sunlight will spoil your photos and is the time of day for enjoying your lunch or an indoor museum, rather than for taking photographs. If you have no choice, prefer photos (especially portraits) in the shade at this time of day or your subjects will end up with a lot of unflattering shadows on their faces. Otherwise, the best times for shooting are early morning or the late afternoon and into the evening, when the light is softer and creates shadows.


The time of day is dependent on the angle of the sun at your latitude. Depending on where you live, you may have to rise earlier than other places to capture fast moving early morning light and low angled light. The light appearing just after dawn carries many warm tones but indirectly lit subjects will appear blue because the light is weak.
Adding the right types of filter to a camera can help create better shots during harsh light.;
, Select a scene that you particularly like and try photographing it at different times of the day, both when there are shadows and when there is direct sunlight only. You'll be amazed at how differently the photos turn out and how the colors, shapes, and structural elements vary in strength dependent on the time of the day the shots are taken. Practicing with this a little will give you a good feel for the best light for different objects throughout the day.


Strong, direct light creates short shadows. These are best used for emphasizing large shapes. This is usually midday sun, so don't completely dismiss it but work with it for strong shapes and forms that will still appear majestic in spite of shadows. It's a good time for photographing anything with texture that needs to be made clear on vertical surfaces, such as tombstone carvings, and anything that has contours, such as landscape.
Diffuse sunlight will bring out the colors and shapes in objects such as flowerbeds more.
As the day grows older, the shadows begin to lengthen and you'll be able to best capture the shapes of your subjects but you'll find the contrast is less obvious than at midday.
Late afternoon photography tends to bring less wind and some excellent still shots of land and water can benefit from this.
 Summer and spring are a time of growth and much vibrant color. It is important that your shots reflect that, to give the viewer the best feel for the season possible. The best time for maximizing color is early in the morning or late in the afternoon. If the sun is too bright and washes everything out, use some type of filter on your camera, although it's best to avoid garden photography when the sun is too bright (midday) as it rarely turns out well.


Overcast early morning light can create evenly illuminated effects on your subject, making it ideal for clear photography.
 Using the flash will reduce shadows in the images.
 You and your photography subjects are out there doing something... not just sitting in the front yard. Let the pictures relate at least part of what is going on.


Follow people's movements. At the beginning of the day, you'll probably capture much activity. As the heat of the day wears on, people will retreat and relax or slacken their pace. As the heat of the day begins to dissipate in the late afternoon and evening, the pace will pick up again. Try to work with the natural flow of what your human subjects are doing normally and capture informal portraits, which reflect the ease and informality of summer.
For a garden scene, the story could focus on the abundance of annuals that are in flower, the blossoms, and the wildlife that is enjoying the warmth and easier living summer brings with it. A lot of color behind a garden border is best photographed from a distance; use a long lens to compress the various colors and fill the frame.
When taking photos of people lazing in the summer sun, find interesting angles and features in the photo. For example, someone lazing in a hammock could be asked to smile and lean out a bit, while the backdrop might show a bright green lawn and the foreground some beautiful flowers.
 Obviously, capturing your subjects while they're feeling happy and enjoying their summer activities as much as possible is the best time to take shots. However, maybe for some reason, it isn't the most fun they've ever had, but incite them to 'fake it till they make it'. A dour mood will reflect itself in the images and doesn't make for very pleasant memories!

