 Before you begin training, you need some items if you want to train as fast as possible in as little time as you can. First, you want to get 10 vitamins for all stats (or just the stats you need, if you've already picked your spread).


You can get these in Laverre City's Pokémon Center. They're a bit pricey, but use some Bargain O-Powers and you should be able to afford them. Next, you need the Power items. You can get these in the Battle Maison in Kiloude City for BP. You need 16 BP for each though, so prepare to do a LOT of battling to get these.
Optionally, you can only battle enough to get the items you need for a specific Pokémon. These items are not required, but are greatly recommended as they will increase the number of EVs given per Pokémon. These are:
Power Bracer (For Attack)
Power Anklet (for Speed)
Power Weight (for HP)
Power Lens (for Special Attack)
Power Belt (for Defense)
Power Band (for Special Defense);
, After getting the items you need, you'll want a level 50-100 Pokémon that has a move that can attack multiple Pokémon like Earthquake. You'll also need a Pokémon with the disease Pokerus, which can be received over Wonder Trade or in the wild. It's not absolutely necessary, but like the Power items, they make the process go much faster.


Once you've acquired these, put the carrier of Pokerus in front of your party and turn off the Exp. Share in your Key Items. Battle a few Pokémon until the Pokémon you want to train has the disease, and you can put the carrier away in the PC and turn the Exp. Share back on.
Last but not least, you should get a Pokémon that knows Sweet Scent so you can force horde encounters.
 A good tool for EV spreads for Gens I through V is Smogon, but if you're training a Pokémon new to X/Y, you'll have to either look up EV spreads online or use Pokémon Showdown, an online battling simulator. Just go to Teambuilder, click New Team, choose the OU format and click Add Pokémon.


Type in your Pokémon and its Ability and Nature. You can fill in the moves depending on what role you'd like it to play on your team. After you do this, click the box under Stats and there should be a long button on top, which recommends a spread based on the moves you chose.
This isn't perfect, but it's definitely a good start if you're not sure. If you know what EV spread you'd like, we can move on to deciding which Pokémon to fight against.
 Each Pokémon gives a pre-determined numbers of EVs in a stat. To find the one you want to train against, go to Nugget Bridge's article on EV Training Hotspots and scroll down to Hordes. Depending on what stats you're training in, it will give which Pokémon are the best for which stat and where to find them. After choosing, head off to the spot specified.

