 Some wigs are made from heat-resistant fibers. This means that the usual wig straightening methods will not work on them. You can, however, use a hair straightening on a heat-resistant wig. Do not use this method on any other synthetic hair wig. The heat will melt the fibers.


The wig will usually say on the packaging whether or not it is heat-resistant.
If you bought your wig online, the website will tell you if the fibers are heat-resistant. If the website does not say anything, the wig is most likely made from regular synthetic fibers that are not heat-resistant.
 Secure the wig hair with a clip. The hair that is attached to the hem of the wig should be the only part that is hanging loose. This is the first layer of hair that you will be straightening.


If you look closely at your wig, you may notice that the hair is sewn into the wig cap in rows. These are known as wefts. You will be using them as your guide.
 Select a 1 to 2 inch (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) wide section of hair. The best place to take the hair is from one of the temples. This way, you can work your way around the back of the wig and to the other side. Once you have your section, smooth out any tangles with a wide toothed comb. Always work from the ends first; never run a comb straight down from the roots to the ends.
 Fill a spray bottle with water, then damped the section with it.
 Try to get the temperature somewhere between 160°C and 180°C (320°F to 356°F). This will be the safest for your wig.


Some heat-resistant wigs can handle temperatures up to 410°F (210°C). Check the website where you bought the wig to find out what is the safest temperature for it., You may see some steam, which is normal. If necessary, go over the strand a few more times until it is as straight as you want it.
 Once they have cooled, you can run your comb through them and let them hang naturally from the wig.
 Check for any ripples, and smooth them out with the hair straightener.
 Once again, try to use the wig wefts as a guide. You can work with one to two wefts at a time.

