 Most people can fairly readily tell a forced smile from a real one, sometimes called the “Duchenne” smile after a pioneer in smile research. This is because the two use different muscles and different parts of the brain. But what exactly happens? What makes a real smile look “real”?During a genuine smile, there is voluntary and involuntary contraction of two muscles: the zygomatic major and the orbicularis oculi, which raise the corners of your mouth and the areas around your cheeks and eyes, respectively.
A forced smile only uses mouth muscles, however, because we cannot voluntarily contract the orbicularis oculi. This is why some people say a real smile uses the whole face, especially the eyes.
Real smiles engage separates part of the brain, as well. While a forced smile uses the motor cortex, the real deal engages the limbic system, or the brain’s emotional center.;
, Like the rest of your body, your facial muscles will get better at their job if you exercise them often. They can be strengthened and toned through use, making it easier for you to flash your smile. Facial exercises and smiling can also make you look healthier and younger.For a simple exercise, try a plain smile. Stretch the corners of your mouth laterally and hold for 10 seconds. Then, part your lips slightly and hold another 10 seconds. Repeat, even expanding your smile if you want.Try this exercise to erase fine lines around your mouth: pucker your lips and suck in your cheeks, then try to smile. Hold this pose until the muscles start to tire. Do it once a day.
Another exercise is the “silly rabbit.” For this one, smile as widely as possible without parting your lips. Then, try to wiggle your nose back and forth. This will engage the cheek muscles. Hold for 10 seconds and repeat., As said, a real smile does not just use the mouth and lips. It also engages the upper face, causing small crinkles around our eyes. In fact, this is probably the strongest give-away between a fake smile (using only the mouth and teeth) and a full, genuine one. A natural smile should light up your entire face.Remember to lift your cheek muscles when smiling. Your eye brows may also be engaged and slightly raised.
Try practicing in front of a mirror. As an added aid, cover your mouth so that only your eyes and eyebrows are visible. You should be able to “see” the smile only from your eyes.
If you worry about fine lines around your eyes, consider ways to reduce the wrinkles other than keeping a strictly neutral expression. Smoking, lack of sleep, and exposure to the sun are much bigger culprits than smiles. Cut them out of your routine. You shouldn’t have to sacrifice smiling., Flashing your smile in front of a mirror is a great way to practice. It will help you to discover what your natural smile looks and feels like, but also how to control it and use it to best advantage.


As children we’re often taught to say “cheese!” for photos. Actually, “cheese” isn’t great for a natural smile. Sounds that end with “ah” like mocha or yoga are much better at opening your mouth while slightly raising your cheekbones, looking more natural. Practice!Pay attention to angles. Your face and smile might look better at certain angles than others. Experiment in the mirror. Find your best side. Then, use that angle in real interactions.Some fashion models also use the following trick: touch your tongue to the roof of your mouth, just behind the front teeth. The movement should open your jaw very slightly and better define its lines when you smile., People smile because they’re happy. But did you know that smiling increases our happiness even more? This is because how we feel emotions isn’t just limited to our brain but is affected by our bodies, as well. Using the facial muscles reinforces and even increases happiness.Smiling should naturally make you want to smile more. This idea was actually first proposed by Charles Darwin, better known for his ideas on natural selection and evolution.Try smiling, even if it means that you are faking it. Just using those muscles can put you in a more smiley state of mind.
 Like using our own facial muscles, there are certain things we can see that will make us more apt to smile. One of these is other people smiling. Although the reasons are still unclear, smiling is “contagious.” Humans have a deep drive to smile whenever we see others doing so.To maximize this mood-builder, spend time with happy-go-lucky friends or family members. Got a funny aunt? Spend some time with her and let her mood rub off on you.
Strangers work, as well. We get the same mood-boosting effect even from people that we do not know and with whom we have no connection. Try visiting a happy place to benefit, like a park, a zoo, or the movies. Somewhere you’ll know you’ll find happy people., Another way to increase your mood – and your ability to smile – is to think of a particularly happy moment in your life or of a loved one. Choose someone or something that gives you a warm, radiant feeling. It could be a childhood memory, it could be your mom or your grandparents, or it could be your spouse. It works!Try to visualize the person or event. If talking to someone, pretend that the person is your smile-inducing loved one.
This technique can work even if you are speaking over the phone or writing an email. Somehow, we can tell from a person’s voice whether they are smiling even without seeing their face. The same might be true for emails, as well., Whether from shyness, embarrassment, or other feelings, some of us have a difficult time smiling. Men, for example, smile less than women because it is probably considered less socially OK for them.Don’t let these things get in the way.


Getting over your fear of smiling takes just a small change in thinking. It may take some practice, though. Consider working on your form.
If you are self-conscious for another reason like your teeth, for example, you can still take steps to improve your smile and to make you feel better about yourself.
 By studying yourself in the mirror, you should learn what sets your smile to best advantage. Experiment with angles but also with the wideness of your smile and accessories. You can also use tricks of light to improve your smile’s appearance.Smile according to your face shape. If you have a longer face, a more vertical smile (i.e. bigger part at the mouth) will suit you better. If you have a square face, aim for a wider, more vertical smile.
Do you have a full upper lip? Try showing off a bit of teeth when you smile. For thin upper lips, try smiling so that the bottom of your upper teeth touch your lower lip.
To make your teeth sparkle a bit more for a picture, wet them with a bit of water.
Adding some color can make your smile stand out even more. For example, red or pink lipstick can cause your teeth to look brighter, while coral or orange will make them appear somewhat yellowed.
 To get that perfect smile, and to banish any feelings of self-consciousness, make sure to practice good oral hygiene. Brush every day. Rinse with an antibacterial mouthwash. Also, visit your dentist at least once a year to keep your mouth healthy.Don’t forget about your gums. Gum health is an important part of a healthy smile. Make sure to floss at least once per day.
Consider carrying a small kit with you to work or when you go out, in your purse, backpack, or carry-all. You’ll be able to brush or just clean stray bits out of your teeth after a meal.
 You may have considered getting a Botox injection at some point to smooth over wrinkles. Of course, this sort of decision needs to be made with the help of a medical professional. However, you should know that Botox can freeze muscles in the face. This can weaken your ability to smile.Botox around the eyes can be as bad as those around the mouth, since the eyes play a big part in a genuine smile.
Some studies show that feeling of unhappiness and depression were 50% higher in people who used Botox. While the cause is not clear, this may have to do with how Botox interferes with expressing natural emotions., If minor imperfections in your smile make you self-conscious, you can try to fix these. Teeth are naturally some shade of grey or yellow and they darken with age. They can also be stained through heavy use of tobacco, coffee, or tea. Although teeth are not meant to be perfectly white, many people use whiteners to lighten the hue of their smile.


Surface whiteners are abrasives that help to get rid of stains. You can buy these products at your local pharmacy. Given that they contain many ingredients found in normal toothpaste, regular use should not cause tooth wear.Tooth bleaching is a more powerful form of whitening. You should talk to a dentist before doing this, particularly as some treatments do not work on all tooth discolorations. For example, bleaching might not work for patients with root canals, fillings, crowns, or extreme staining. Bleaching should only be done under a dentist’s supervision., Unfortunately, some people are unable to get good dental care or never learn proper oral hygiene. Having missing teeth, crooked teeth, or bad gums can be very embarrassing. The job of corrective dentistry is to fix these sorts of issues.


For more serious problems, you may want to consult with a dentist about taking reconstructive steps. The dentist should be able to help you personally or refer you to an oral surgeon.