 So if you want to spend no more than $20 a day on your Facebook ads, set your cap at $20 daily. Very important!

, Examples:


If you are selling beer in the state of Oregon, target your ads to show only to those people who live in Oregon, who also like beer (have beer as an interest in their profile.) Probably, you'd want to choose age over 21. You might even choose to show your ad to men only!
If you are promoting a band, you will find it very effective to promote to people who like your band, your band's genre of music, and similar bands to yours.
 (It's called CTR, or Click Through Rate.) If your ads are showing, but all of a sudden don't show any more, it is because your CTR was too low. Try swapping out the picture in your ad and trying it again.
 Its worth trying your ads with different pictures at any time.
 According to some sources, 60% of users accessing Facebook do so on their phones and tablets.In fact, Facebook's mobile ads earn more than 2.5 times than its desktop ads, and the market for mobile is growing: In the first quarter of 2013, mobile-ad sales rose close to 25% from the last quarter.What practical impact does this have? For one, it means no right-hand column, which is where ads are shown on desktop. In order to make the most out of your ads, edit them with this in mind.


Use Facebook's Power Editor in order to select ads that translate to mobile. You need to have Chrome downloaded in order to download and use Power Editor. In order to download Power Editor:

Open a Chrome browser
Navigate to the Ads Manager page on Facebook.
Go to the Power Editor tab on the left hand side
Install the Power Editor application
Once the app is launched, click "download" and follow the remaining instructions


In the Power Editor, pay attention to the ad placement. Some people suggest placing the ad on both desktop and mobile in the news feed in order to optimize click-through rate. You can try different combinations of placements and experiment with how it affects your bottom line.
 So you want to connect with more potential customers and grow your customer base? You can create relationships with new customers by listing an Offer, where you give away something free. Customers love free stuff, and enticing them to buy goods and services with free things is a great way to connect with new users and drive repeat business.


If you're trying to generate leads, set up a landing page with a space for name and email. When customers input their name and email, email them a redeemable code for or copy of your Offer. Customers get their free stuff, you get your lead.
 If you're able to build up a sizable corps of fans, target ads directly to them. Customers who are already a fan of your product or service can be cheaper to advertise to and have higher click-through rates. This translates to less money spent by you and better conversions.
 Facebook recently revised its image policy on ads, stipulating that text can't take up more than 20% of the total ad image. In other words, Facebook is trying to guide ad creators to make better use of images of ads. Make sure you follow suit when you create an ad.
 Facebook allows you to make ads that target non-fans in the hopes of generating more likes. These ads are perfect opportunities for videos. Well-done videos can communicate excitement, recognition, and — most importantly — trust, something you need in order to generate more fans.


When doing a video, keep it short and sweet, like picture ads, and know who your demographic is. At the end of the video, include a call to action. A good video can help build trust more than almost any other media or promotion; use them wisely!

