 One of the benefits of a new summer camp is that nobody knows you. They don't know about that time you fell flat on your face and on your tray in the cafeteria and reeked of hamburgers and mustard for the rest of the long, long day.;
, Pretend you're the most popular person in your school and everyone already loves you. Don't actually say it (i.e. don't lie). Just feel it. People will probably fall for it and be drawn to your creativity and self-assurance.
 There are hundreds of people at camp and each one can be a friend. Camp friends can last your whole lifetime, so there is no way to emphasize how special they can be.
 You will need clothes for hot, wet, and cold weather; swimsuits; sunscreen and bug spray; pajamas; a raincoat; toiletries; an iPod and other things to entertain you; a flashlight; and potentially more. It's always best to be prepared. Don't worry about over-packing, because you will probably not return home with all the things you came with anyway.
 Before you leave, check the camp website and see if there's any useful information on it. Find someone who's been there a while to show you around the camp so you don't get lost on your first day. The more you know, the less overwhelming and confusing the experience will be.


If you're shy, it would be a good idea to head to camp with someone you know, like an old friend or neighbor or even a sibling. If you are worried or think you may get homesick, it's best to have a familiar face you can turn to.
 Find camp veterans who can teach you the way camp works and what to expect next. Don't be afraid to ask questions and get used to how things run. Each camp is unique and understanding yours will make everything less awkward.
 If people know who you are, they will be drawn to you and you will get respect and a wide circle of friends. Even being known as "that kid with the earrings" gives others something that makes you seem more familiar and approachable.
 You may meet people at camp who you have more in common with than the people in your own school. Dont rush but, If you have a special guy or girl you want to ask out, dance with, etc. just ask! Camp is a great place to foster relationships in a close-knit environment. Remember this is totally optional, and if you don't want to do this, there is no pressure.
 Summer camp doesn't last forever (unfortunately), and if you manage to botch things up this summer, you can always go to a different summer camp next year! If you give camp a fair chance, it may very well end up as the best experience of your life and you can learn more from it than you ever imagined possible.

