 While it may seem superstitious to some, it's true that adorning yourself with lucky totems or keeping an eye out for lucky signs can help lots of people feel more lucky. You shouldn't stake all your good feelings on arbitrary symbols and signs, but it's perfectly healthy to feel fortunate on any day you're landed on by a ladybug, or any day that starts with a positive omen.
 Across cultures, insects and other animals are often thought of as being either unlucky, or lucky, depending on the situation. If you're out among the wildlife, keep an eye out for the following lucky insects or animals:


Crickets. Crickets are though to bring good luck from Europe to Asia, as well as the Native American tribes who thought of crickets as bringers of fortune. In some cultures, imitating the sound of a cricket is seen as unlucky.
Ladybugs. Some people think that a ladybug that lands on a recently-wedded woman will reveal the number of children she will have in its spots, or the number of dollars soon to be found. Also, ladybugs are thought to bring signs of good weather. Never kill a ladybug if it lands on you.
Dragonflies, scarabs, rabbits, eagles, tortoises, dolphins, frogs, bats and many other animals are also commonly thought of as being lucky. If you've got a favorite animal, carry a picture or a totem of that animal with you for luck., Aromatic and lovely, keeping plants in your house can be a wonderful way of livening up your space, as well as a symbol of wealth and prosperity in many cultures. Different plants are thought to have a variety of luck-bringing properties. Some common lucky house plants include:


Honeysuckle, lavender, and jasmine are some of the most aromatic plants you can grow, instantly bringing soothing scents into your space. Some people think that the presence of these plants can help to influence your dreams, easing you off to sleep and helping to ease you into a new day of luck and fortune.
Bamboo is one of the luckiest plants, thought to bring wealth, creativity, and health to the planters. Bamboo forests are considered mystical and sacred places in many cultures.
Basil, rosemary, and sage are all thought to be protective herbs to grow in your home, or around your home. Tenacious plants in many climates, these aromatic herbs are useful in cooking and were even commonly used in exorcisms., You don't have to go out looking for lucky charms–bring them with you! Having a lucky necklace, rabbit's foot charm, a special rock or other little trinket in your pocket can give you feelings of fortune that will help translate into positive actions and luck-making behaviors.


Alternatively, some people actually find good energy in "unlucky" objects and things. For instance, black cats or the number 13. If you find your black cat keychain gives you peace of mind, who cares what popular opinion says.
Superstitious beliefs may not suit your personal sensibilities. But it may be helpful to have a soothing object to remind you of a person, place, belief, or moment that centers you and remind you how fortunate you really are. This will also make you feel lucky without superstition.
 While it may sound silly, organizing your house according to the principles of design will help to channel your positive and lucky energy into good behaviors. If you feel good by creating a lucky and healthful space for yourself, you'll behave in ways that suit your best interests. At the least, a tidy house will make it easier to make your plans come to fruition.


De-clutter the entryway to your house. According to feng shui, the entrance to your house emphasizes flowing positive energy. So clean up around the front door. Maybe that will increase your luck, but at least it will make it more likely you will have luck finding your keys.
Some people think the color of your doors can help make your home lucky. According to the principles of feng shui, south-facing doors should be red or orange, while north-facing doors should be blue or black.
Arrange furniture to create circular spaces. Boxy organization can interrupt positive energy and luck in your home. Instead, look to create curved arrangements for your furniture, to create a more fluid living space.

