 Students should get at least nine hours of sleep each night. However, it's hard to maintain those good sleep habits. Set a bedtime routine, and go to bed at the same hour each night. Your mind will not be able to concentrate if it's not rested...it needs a break!;
, Although this may seem irrelevant to focusing during class, eating a nutritious meal in the morning gives you fresh energy for the day. Remember: a healthy breakfast does not just mean a big breakfast. Two simple slices of toast, fresh orange juice (with pulp, if possible) and a nice serving of hard boiled egg(s) is an example of a good breakfast. If you consume a meal such as this, you'll feel more energized and less groggy throughout the day- paying attention will be efficiently easier.
 This helps you focus because it's easier to look ahead than back.
 Although the urge to sit with your buddies may be awfully appealing, try your best to avoid the temptation. Chatting with friends is not going to give you the focus you need to stay on top of the class. This will not only get you trouble, but lower your concentration rate for the class altogether. If you feel the urge to speak with a fellow classmate, yet are seated in an assigned location, talk to your teacher about getting your seat moved (some will just say that you should control yourself). However, let the friend know (outside of class!) that this is not meant to insult them; you just need to focus.


If you do sit with friends, they might help wake you up if you find yourself looking somewhere else but don't let them distract you! If they talk, reply quickly to what they're saying and then remember to look back at the teacher and continue with your notes. Keep your ears open for things like "this is important" or "listen up" or phrases that might indicate that you need to know something.
 Some of us get distracted very easily- and that's perfectly OK. The problem evolves when distractions keep us from learning. Is that water bottle catching all your attention? Immediately remove it from your desk. How about that gum you're chewing? Throw it out and start taking notes. Eliminate these distractions (even if you don't want to) and you'll soon find your attention immediately going to the teacher each class.
 Your teacher is not just standing up there babbling- they're obviously trying to give you an acceptable education. Show them that they have your full attention, by looking them in the eye, and observing their movements. Try your best to look alert. If you feel your eyes averting to something else in the room, catch yourself and focus back on your teacher. This person should have your full attention at all times during class. Your eyes should not be drifting elsewhere.
 Most teachers tell you the subject of the class, in the beginning. If possible, write down this objective the minute you hear it. What is it that needs to be done today? What will you be learning about? How can you remain alert and focused during this time? Set goals for yourself, and remind yourself of the objective throughout class. This way, you know exactly what you have to do.
 By taking accurate notes, you'll be able to "get into" the lesson. Recognize key points as your teacher speaks, and listen for key phrases such as, "This is important," "This is the main idea," "This will be on the test," etc. This can help you listen more intently; you'll have something to do and focus on.


Objectives: If your teacher normally writes down the lesson's objective at the beginning of the class, keep it in your head and make sure you've achieved it by the end of the lesson.
Don't try to finish your old notes or homework in class. Do that later when you have free time or else you might miss key points.
 This is a wonderful way to become a more focused, successful student. When a teacher asks a question, offer to answer it. If she/he asks for an opinion, share your own. This shows that the teacher that you're listening intently during the class and that you know your stuff. This can also help you avoid those embarrassing moments, when you get called on and you happen to not be paying attention. Also, teachers will note to college officers that you are actively contributing in class.
 If you don't understand something, never be afraid to ask. This really shows your teacher that you want to be better, and can recognize the things you're having difficulty with. Chances are, someone else in the class has the same question (and was too afraid to ask!). They'll be relieved- and so will you. 

, When you walk into that classroom, put a smile on your face and some confidence in your pocket. Be the best that you can be at all times, and show your true potential!

, It is very refreshing and it can clear your mind between subjects, which could improve your productivity. But don't get too carried away with the music.
 Before you go to bed at night, be sure to use your childhood gift of imagination and think about where you see yourself in the future, and about how likely you will be able to achieve that dream without having sufficient focusing skills, if your dream isn't academic based like sports and music etc. You still need good focus skills to be a football player so don’t put it off your list! Don't get distracted at school. Be a smart person and do the right things.

