 You can make beautiful magnets out of clay and rubber stamps. Paper clay dries white, making it the perfect surface to paint on. It also dries lightweight, so it won't slide down the door of the fridge. Here's a list of what you will need: Air dry paper clay
Rolling pin
Cookie cutters or craft knife
Rubber stamps
Ink pad (optional)
Clear acrylic sealer
Round button magnet
Hot glue or industrial strength glue

, You don't want to make it too thin or too thick, or it may crack while it dries. Paper clay is great, because it dries very lightweight.
 You will be punching out shapes later. This is to give the shapes some texture and design. You can use ornate designs, such as damask and scrolls. You can also use pictures or symbols, such as a cat, dog, heart, or star.


If you want your design to be colored, then press your rubber stamp into a colored ink pad first. The color will transfer to the clay, along with your design.You can also use ornate buttons or brooches to stamp designs.
 You can make any shape you want, but simpler shapes (such as circles and squares) might show off your design better.
 Depending on how dry or humid it is, this can take several hours or overnight.
 If the cookie cutters didn't cut clean, you can smooth the edges down with some sandpaper.
 You can paint it using some watercolor paints or acrylic paints. Watercolor paints will give you a sheer finish, and acrylic paints will give you a more opaque finish. Allow the paint to dry before moving on.
 The clay will dry matte, but if you use a glossy sealer, you will get a glazed look. Seal the front first and let it dry before sealing the back. This will help your piece last longer. It will also prevent the magnet from peeling off.


You can spray it with a clear acrylic spray sealer. You can also apply some Mod Podge over it instead using a paintbrush or a foam brush.
 You can use hot glue or an industrial strength glue.
 Hot glue sets quickly, but industrial strength glues require several hours to dry and cure. Refer to the label on your glue as each brand is a little different.

