 The Quest Log is where you will find available quests; it is the exclamation point icon at the lower right of the screen. You can open it by clicking on the icon or by pressing “Q” on your keyboard.


It is advisable to open the Quest Log when you're in the City or Town to avoid being attacked by monsters.;
, To get in a dungeon, simply press the Dungeon tab found on your screen. This will open a window showing you the available dungeons for your level. Simply click on the dungeon you want to enter and then press “Start Dungeon,” or hit F8 on your keyboard.


This will automatically assign you to a party, but if you're already in a party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
 Some quests require dungeon runs to be completed under a certain difficulty. To change the dungeon difficulty, after opening the Dungeon Selection window and choosing a dungeon you want to enter, look at the menu to your right; here you can see the description of the dungeon and the dungeon difficulty.


You get to choose from Normal, Hard, and Very Hard; just click on the difficulty you want the dungeon to be.
Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 For Rena to become a Ranger, she must be level 15 or higher to have the Ranger quest available in the Quest Log.


If you’re already a Ranger, you can skip this entire part and proceed to Part 3: Taking the Trapping Ranger Quest.
 Open your Quest Log, which can be found at the bottom right of your screen. Look for the Ranger quest and click on it to accept it.
 After accepting the Ranger quest, head straight to Underground Waterway and kill 7 Mickey the Mice; this should be done under Very Hard mode; otherwise, killing Mickeys won't be counted.


This can be done in a party. If your party member killed a Mickey, that too will be counted.
 After completing your first quest, go to the next dungeon, which is the Suburbs of Wally's Castle. All you need to do is clear the dungeon in any level you desire.


There’s no need for you to have a higher dungeon run grade. As long as you have successfully finished the dungeon, this part of the quest will be completed.
 Look for Hoffman in Elder Village. He's the Village's Equipment NPC, which can be found at the top right of the map. Talk to him about the quest and he will give you the third test.
 After talking to Hoffman, head back to the Suburbs of Wally's Castle and clear the dungeon once again, but this time, under Hard mode.


You can invite your friends for a party raid or join randomly with other players.
After completing this quest, open your Quest Log to complete your Ranger chain quest and become a full-fledge Ranger.
 After becoming a Ranger, look for Echo in Elder Village and talk to her about the class advancement.


She will tell you about the monsters in Elder Village and the leader in the final dungeon causing havoc. It's your duty to put an end to this, and as a reward, you will become a Trapping Ranger.
In the option Echo provides, make sure you choose “Trapping Ranger.”

, The first part of your quest is to enter and complete the Suburbs of Wally's Castle under the Very Hard difficulty. Enter the dungeon while in a party to finish this part quickly and easily.


There is no time limit at this point and no grade requirement either.
Leaving the dungeon before you have completed the run won't be counted, so make sure you have cleared the level and killed the boss.
 After clearing the Suburbs of Wally's Castle, it will unlock the next dungeon: Wally's Castle. This is where you'll find Wally No.8, which drops the quest item needed to progress the story.


Enter Wally’s Castle under Very Hard mode, and make sure you're in a party or perhaps seek help from your friends with higher levels. Fortunately, there is no time limit or grade requirement, so take your time in finishing the dungeon.
It is best to enter every floor to find mini bosses as they drop valuable rare items that are useful in boosting up your damage and defense.
Take note that the drop rate of the quest item can be very low. Reruns is required until you obtain the item you need. After doing a couple of reruns and still there's no quest item drop, double-check if you have set the difficulty to Very Hard. Sometimes players forget to change the level.
 Once you have completed the quest, you can return to Echo to hand in the items, or simply open the Quest Log by pressing “Q” on your keyboard, click on the Class Advancement quest, and then click “Complete Quest.” This will automatically change your class to Trapping Ranger.


If for some reason your character didn't advance to Trapping Ranger after completing the Quest, simply log off then log in again. Sometimes the server is too busy to register the new update of your character class.
 Like other classes, Trapping Ranger will give you a new set of combo skills that can be used against enemies in PvP and dungeon. One new combo is the Jump Dash.


Run towards your opponent by pressing the arrow key in their direction, press Up to jump, and then tap Z twice on your keyboard; this will make Rena run, jump, and then slash while in mid-air using her new weapon: the dagger ( >> or <<, Up, Z, Z ).
This is useful for enemies who try to escape from you or charge at you while airborne. An easy yet very effective skill with countering attacks.
 Most Rena users enjoy using Dash as this class moves fast and is very flexible. A Trapping Ranger, however, can use her dagger after a dash towards her enemy. Not only does it cause the enemy to flinch, but it also inflicts huge physical damage.


To execute, press the arrow key toward your enemy twice, hit Z to kick the enemy, and then X to slash ( << or >>, Z, X ).
 With the use of flexibility and the dagger, Trapping Rangers can execute a simple tap combo, which causes great physical damage and ends with a stronger attack that will knock down the enemy.


Simply press Z five times, stunning the enemy and making them vulnerable to combos that will follow ( Z, Z, Z, Z, Z ).

