 Start experimenting with sports at an early age by enrolling your child through your local rec center or school. Or, you could sign your child up for lessons at a local sports facility. Swimming, dancing, and soccer are just a few examples of worthwhile sporting options. Being involved in sports will help your child to get at least 60 minutes of physical activity per day, the minimum suggested amount.Be prepared to go through a number of sports before you find the ones that your child will enjoy. This is a normal part of the process. Avoid pressuring your child to pursue a sport that they strongly dislike. Instead, look for alternative options.
Sports are also great for mental health. The pressure to focus employed by sports like martial arts is great for children struggling with control issues, like ADD., Head outside with your child and a jump rope or a bike for a few hours. Go on a nice long walk or hike with your kid. Play an extended game of tag followed by a park picnic. Soaking in the sunshine gets your child their daily dose of Vitamin D. This vitamin can then boost immunity and help prevent a variety of infections. Remember to apply sunscreen to your child before heading outdoors!Fresh air is also just healthy. It is good to take a break from the air inside your home as it could actually possess a variety of unhealthy pollutants.Always make sure to apply sunscreen before heading outside.
 Try to limit TV time to a maximum of two hours per day. You should also try to regulate the use of the computer, video games, and even their cell phone (if they have one) as well. Placing time and use limits on these devices will encourage your child to get out of doors and explore the world around them.Do not put a TV in your child’s bedroom. The use of technology can have a negative impact on sleep patterns. Instead, read a book to your child before bedtime or follow another relaxing routine., Spend time with your child researching healthy food options online. Look to see how particular foods translate into calories in and out of your body. Give your child the challenge of identifying the best possible food to eat before their sporting event. All children want to be strong and having them understand the impact of food is one way to get there.For example, before your child’s soccer game, ask them if them if a fast-food burger or a homemade sandwich would help them perform the best. Discuss the pros and cons of both options.
 Go on a hiking or camping trip. Try out kayaking lessons at the local lake. Contact your kid’s friends' parents and make a playdate for the local park. If you create definite plans, you are far more likely to get out of the house and explore the world.


Don’t forget to ask your child in advance what they would like to do over the weekend or breaks. They might have some great ideas or know about events that you are unaware of.

