 The digits in a phone number correspond to a certain location that the cellphone is registered in. By breaking down the phone number into four parts, you can narrow down the general location of the caller, such as their city or the part of a county they registered their phone in.



Decipher the "Country Code." This is the first series of numbers before the three-digit area code — for example, 1 (555) 444-3333. This number lets you know what country the person is calling from. If this part of the phone number doesn't show, then the call is coming from the same country that your phone number is from. A comprehensive list of country codes is available online.Decipher the "Area Code." This a three-digit series of numbers––for example, 1 (555) 444-3333). This will give you the most specific information on the location of a phone number. This will let you know the general location (county, city or part of a city) the phone number is registered in. A comprehensive list of area codes is available online.Decipher the "Prefix." This is the series of three-digits after the area code — for example, 1 (555) 444-3333. This number used to tell you what "switchboard" the phone number is sent to. This often will lead you to a specific company switchboard, cellphone provider switchboard or a "land line's" local switchboard. A comprehensive list of these numbers is not available online because the "switchboard" method is now outdated, and phone numbers can be carried over when you change providers.

Decipher the "Line Number." This is the last four digits in a phone number––for example, 1 (555) 444-3333. This lets you know what level on the switchboard you are calling. Again, this is outdated and a comprehensive list of these line numbers does not exist because it relies both on the area code and the prefix.;
, This method will usually yield the city, the provider, and whether the phone number is a land line or cellular line. Many phone number look up sites claim to be able to locate the address of the caller. Be aware that they will require you to join or pay for the information, and there is no guarantee that you will have access to that information once you do.



Find a "Phone Number Location Lookup" site. You can find dozens of these through Google that provide basic information without joining.

Type in the full 10 digit, or 9 digit phone number. You will need to include the area code to find out the city of the caller.
 This method is usually a hit or miss, but it can't hurt to try. This method relies on the idea that the phone number was put online by a company or person.



Google using the right format. Type in the phone number in this ten digit format: "X(XXX)XXX-XXXX".

Results will return. These results will often return in one of two ways:

If the number is an exact match to a number listed online, then it will pop up with the business or person's name on a website where they list their information.
If the number is not an exact match to a number listed online, then it will pop up with "Phone Number Results" where it will give you the general location you found in the earlier steps.
 If all else fails, you can call the number back for more information. Pay attention to the voice mail for a company or person's name. You can then, use that information to search online for more information on their location.