 Turn off your phone, computer, or any other device that may distract you from your cleaning. Don’t do a project like cooking at the same time that you are cleaning. You want cleaning to be your sole task, so eliminate anything else from the equation that may get in the way.Put all of your electronics in another room.
You can also give them to a friends and tell them to only give them back to you once your house is clean.
 Pick one task to begin with. It doesn’t have to be the biggest task. In fact, choosing something small might be a good way to start, because the sense of accomplishment you will have when you finish it will make you want to keep going.Don't think too hard about where you should begin. Just starting anywhere will give you the momentum to keep going.
 Carry a trash bag around with you as you are cleaning. Throw away or recycle things like empty boxes or items you don't use anymore. Getting rid of excess items in your home can de-clutter your house and make the rest of the cleaning process more manageable., Don’t start with dusting or any other task that has a small reward. If your bedroom is a mess for example, pick up all the clothes on the floor. This will make your room look a hundred times better. Doing tasks that make a big difference will make you want to keep cleaning., Crossing off what you have already done on your list will give you a huge sense of accomplishment. It also is a good way to show yourself that you are making progress, and that you can complete your goal if you keep going. , Take a picture before and after you have completed each task. This will show you the progress you have made and will make you feel great about the work that you’ve done., Taking breaks every thirty minutes or forty minutes may be necessary, but be careful to time these breaks. Give yourself ten or fifteen minutes, and then get back to work. Don't allow yourself to take breaks longer than fifteen minutes.


Consider setting an alarm your breaks to make sure you don't get caught up.

