 Intentional dieting has been linked with an increase in ghrelin and this causes an increase in appetite.To help prevent an increase in hunger from dieting, try to focus on eating healthy rather than cutting calories to an unhealthy level.


Steer clear of crash diets that require you to cut your calories down to 1,000 or less per day.
Avoid diets that require you to avoid all carbohydrates or restrict your eating in some other way that may lead to hunger.;
, Lean protein can stabilize hunger hormones and help to keep you feeling full for longer, so it is important to include this in your diet. Make sure that your diet provides you with 30% of your calories from lean protein sources.For example, if you eat 1,500 calories per day, then 450 of your calories should come from a protein source.
Some good lean protein sources include skinless chicken and turkey, skinless wild caught salmon, egg whites, and tofu.
 Eating more low-calorie foods will help to stabilize hunger hormones and prevent hunger. Include plenty of whole grains and vegetables in your diet to help keep you feeling full. About 50% of your calories should come from these complex carbohydrates.For example, if you consume 1,500 calories per day, then 750 of your calories should come from complex carbohydrates.
Include whole grains such as brown rice, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, and barley.
Include vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, eggplant, sweet potatoes, and corn.
Half of your dinner and lunch plate should be vegetables.
 Consuming lots of fructose has been linked with an increase in ghrelin as well as a decrease in insulin and leptin. This combination may trigger hunger and cause you to consume more calories throughout the day.To prevent these effects, try to stick to one serving of fruit per day and avoid other sources of fructose, such as fruit juice, snacks, and sodas.
Instead of sodas with sugar drink water or zero calorie beverages.
For example, you might have an apple for a snack, some strawberries mixed into a morning smoothie, or a cup of grapes with your lunch.
 Following a lower fat diet may also help to stabilize your hunger hormones and control hunger. Strive to get no more than 20% of your calories from fat.For example, if you consume 1,500 calories per day, then no more than 300 of those calories should come from fat.


Opt for low fat versions of dairy products, such as low fat cheese, yogurt, and milk. You can also opt for healthier fats, such as avocados, nuts, olives, and fatty fish.Learn how to cook using oil-free cooking methods, such as by sautéing onions in water and steaming your vegetables instead of cooking them in oil or butter.
You can determine the percentage of your calories that are from fat by multiplying the total number of calories you consume by 9. Then, divide the result by your total calories. For example, if you consumed 25 grams of fat in a day, then multiplying it by 9 would give you a result of 225. Dividing 225 by 1,500 gives you a result of 0.15, so your total calories from fat would be 15%. If this is more fat than you planned to consume, then you may decide to cut your fat intake down to 10% of total calories from fats.
 Eating foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids has been shown to promote satiety in dieters.This means that including some omega-3 rich foods in your diet may help you to feel full for longer. Some good sources of omega-3s include:


salmon
tuna
mackerel
walnuts
flaxseeds and flaxseed oil

