 If you are going to use more aggressive methods to clean your fixtures, then you will want to test your cleaning solution on a small, not noticeable spot. Place your solution on this spot with a cotton swab or cotton ball and then let it soak in for a few minutes. Wipe it off with a damp cloth and look to see if any discoloration has occurred.You can also read the care instructions that came with your fixtures. This will also tell you if using a particular type of cleaner or method will void your warranty. In addition, many fixture companies, such as Kohler, offer customer care numbers that you can call with any questions.If you notice any discoloration, keep applying water and drying until it disappears.
 It is possible that your fixture isn’t functioning as well due to calcium build-up at the nozzle. This is especially the case when dealing with shower and sink faucets. Before you perform a surface clean, get rid of this build-up by filling a plastic baggie with one part of water and one part of CLR cleaner. Attach the baggie to the faucet spout by using a rubber band. Let it sit for two hours and then remove and rinse off the excess.Some people like to use a Magic Eraser to remove the resulting grime from the spout, but a rag or paper towel works as well.
 Grab a lemon and slice it in half. Rub the inside of the lemon against your chrome fixture. The acid in the lemon should loosen any grime or dirt. When you are finished, rinse off any residue with warm water and dry the fixture with a microfiber cloth.This cleaning method can remove difficult spots, but it is also gentle so you can use it as often as necessary., If your fixture is covered in deep grime, you may need to apply a thicker and more powerful cleaner to break through it. Get a small bowl and mix together baking soda and water until you form a thick paste. Use a cloth to apply this paste all over the fixture. Rub it in and then rinse it off with water before drying., Get a bowl and add together one part warm water and one part vinegar. Dip a sponge into this solution and let it absorb until it gets damp. Then, wipe down the surface of your chrome fixtures. You can scrub with a bit more force on stubborn stained areas.Make sure to keep the vinegar-water mixture at a one-to-one ratio. Otherwise you risk diluting the vinegar to the point of losing its effectiveness.
 Make sure to avoid using any cleaning products with alcohol or ammonia on the ingredients list. These may eat through the finish of the crime and leave damage. Glass cleaners can also damage the outer chrome coating as well. When in doubt, carefully read the labels and any warnings on any commercial cleaners that you are considering using.