 Interruptions may create a need for closure in unrelated areas. This may account for why interruptions or distractions cause us to be preoccupied with something else, or to get off track.Put yourself in a comfortable, quiet area that can help you focus. This may be a library, coffee shop, your work desk, or your bedroom.
Play some music if that helps you concentrate.
Put your phone down or in another room while you work. Another option is to block social media sites form your computer, or set a time-limit you can spend on them. You can also disable your account on certain social media sites (i.e. Facebook) for a while and then regain it once your project is finished.
 If you get stuck, one of the best ways to move forward is to get assistance or guidance.


Get another perspective.
Ask someone to keep you company while you work on it.
Find someone that will work on it with you.
 Rewards, or positive reinforcements, help people stay on track and finish tasks.Reward yourself after completing a small section of the task. Perhaps allow yourself some time to watch television, eat a snack, or play a game.
Plan on rewarding yourself after your goal is finally completed. You could take yourself to dinner, go on a vacation, or plan a fun weekend.
If you find yourself distracted again, set boundaries - tell yourself that you are not allowed to do anything else until you get a portion of the task completed (not a large part but one that takes a few hours or so). Plan on a particular reward that you enjoy once that portion is finished.
 Using positive self-talk or affirmations can benefit your ability to be productive.Repeat several times throughout the day, "I will finish this."
Repeat, "I'll finish this for "
Leave it in a place that you frequently pass by as a reminder. You'll think, "Oh! I still have to finish that!".
 Research suggests that taking breaks can actually help you increase your ability to brainstorm and become more productive overall.Take a little break, stretch or move around, and come back to it once you're refreshed.
Take a few hours or a day off if you find yourself overly stressed out. New ideas may arise.

