 This effective therapy can help you overcome psychological difficulties or behaviors that are unhealthy by focusing on the thoughts that lead to them. A diary of emotions and thoughts are usually kept and discussed with a therapist who recommends ways to help control negative thoughts that are harming self-esteem or causing stress.


Deep breathing and mindfulness can help when negative thoughts creep up to sabotage you.
Another way to train your thoughts is to actually experience what you are afraid of, for example, and realize that all the things you feared might happen were mostly made up in your head and not based on real possibilities.
Positive repetitive statements can improve mood and help you achieve goals by training your brain to think a certain way. For example, instead of thinking, "I don't do anything right," use this statement to counter it: "I do a lot of things right, but I also have challenges to overcome. I will keep working on my challenges and learn from my mistakes, and I will come out stronger on the other side."

, The mind may sometimes rebel against direct instructions, so using open suggestions can make the unconscious brain more susceptible to believing an idea. You can offer yourself affirmations based on possibilities or make statements based on facts that are happening and follow those statements with suggestions. When the mind acknowledges that the initial statement is true, it tends to believe the statements that follow.


For example, you can tell yourself that, “I may start to experience a sense of happiness,” instead of, “I will be happy.”
After stating what is obviously happening, such as, “My eyes are closed,” you then bring in a suggestion like, “I am starting to feel calm.”

, Like our bodies, minds need to relax regularly. Meditation can help the body relax, reduce stress and encourage regeneration. The act of meditation positively modifies our responses to stress and encourages a healthy neurotransmitter balance in the brain. Taking a few minutes out of each day to meditate can be very beneficial to your self-healing journey.


Sit up straight, placing both feet flat on the floor. Close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Take a slow, deep breath through your nose and breathe out. Place a hand on your belly so you can feel your breath rise and fall.
Recite a positive phrase like, “I value myself,” or “I am happy." You can say it out loud or in your head.Try to sync your positive phrase with each breath. Ignore distracting thoughts, sounds, emotions and things going on in your environment by bringing your thoughts back to the phrase that you started with.
Meditation trains you to be able to put your attention where you want it when you want to. In time, this skill will allow you to move thoughts, emotions, and energy toward your goals, including self-healing.
 You may carry negative emotions around from past experiences that can impede healing. To help with this, you can try externalizing emotions and thoughts to find some sort of release. Write a letter to someone who has hurt you or to an impartial party, then destroy the letter. You can also talk to an empty chair and pretend like someone in particular is in the chair., Guided imagery helps lead thoughts and emotions to a relaxed, focused state of mind that encourages self-healing. A recording, instructor or scripts can offer you guided imagery to facilitate healing. For example, you imagine a safe, comfortable place, such as a place in a past memory, a magical forest or beside the sea, so you are able to relax., Our DNA is programmed to know what to do when we get ill or injured—think about how your body knows how to repair a cut without any conscious effort from you. Things can malfunction if your self-repair mechanisms don’t work right. You can help your body heal by keeping your body in a relaxation response as often as possible so it can focus on healing what needs repair and by believing it’s possible.If you still have trouble believing your mind can heal the body, think about “the placebo effect.” In 18-80% of patients in clinical trials treated with sugar pills, saline injections, or fake surgeries, symptoms somehow resolve—even though there was no “real” treatment. Consider the Spontaneous Remission Project, which includes over 3,500 case studies of spontaneous remission for the majority of health conditions that exist. Know that healing is possible.
 Cultivate an attitude of gratitude. Every day you are alive is cause to celebrate. Be thankful every time your needs are met; another person shows kindness; or you are able to learn, do, or participate in an enjoyable activity. This positive feeling of gratitude can encourage your self-healing process.
 This is imperative for self-healing because you must be able to care for yourself, be compassionate and value the body and mind that needs healing. Enjoy taking care of yourself instead of allowing self-healing to be another stressful experience. Know that you are worth it., Matter and energy are not separate but rather connected to all other matter and energy. People view the world as a bunch of independent and stable objects, but that’s not exactly true. Science revealed long ago that matter and energy are connected.What you see as a separate object (tree, person, animal) is really a pocket of reality where energy is denser, according to theories like quantum physics.

