 Should you suspect that you have entered a minefield or mined area, either because you see warning signs, you see a mine or potential mine, or because a detonation occurs, remain calm and carefully back out of danger by stepping in your footsteps. If possible, do not turn around.


Look behind you as you walk, and slowly place your feet exactly where they were before.

Continue until you are sure you are out of danger, such as when you reach a road or other frequently traveled area.
 If you have to move forward for some reason, or you can't see your tracks to backtrack, you'll need to probe the ground for mines and move forward little by little. Probe the ground very carefully with your hands or feet; you can also use a knife or another object to gently probe the area inch by inch.


Probe at an angle, rather than straight down, since mines are usually detonated from top-down pressure.

Once you've cleared a small area, move forward and continue probing. It's safest to move through the field very slowly and on your belly, rather than walking through.
 If you're not absolutely sure where you stepped before, and you don't feel comfortable probing, don't risk moving. Inches can be the difference between life and death. Call for help or have people nearby do so.


If you are alone and can use a cell phone, call for help.

Do not use two-way radios unless absolutely necessary. The signal from the radio may cause certain types of mines or UXO to accidentally detonate.

If you have no way of reaching anyone, wait. Do not try to "make a run for it" and do not attempt to probe your way out unless you know what you are doing.
 When exiting a minefield be alert for signs that a mine may detonate. Listen for unusual noises. You may notice a faint click if a pressure plate has been depressed or a tilt rod has been moved, or, more likely, you may hear the pop of the exploding cap. Pay attention to what you can feel, as well. If you are very alert and proceed slowly you may be able to feel the tension of a trip wire, for example.
 Soldiers call this "hitting the deck." If you notice any of the signs from the last step, or if someone nearby cries out a warning that they have detonated a mine, drop to the ground as quickly as possible. You may have as little as a second before the mine explodes, but if you use that second wisely you may be able to escape serious injury or death. Mines explode upward, and it's safest close to the ground.


If possible, fall backward in order to shield your upper body from shrapnel as much as possible. While it's certainly possible to fall onto another mine, the area right behind you is the safest place to fall, because you were just walking there.

Do not try to outrun the explosion; projectiles will fly out from the mine at thousands of feet per second, and the casualty radius - the distance from the mine in which you can expect to be injured - can be up to 100 feet or more.
 If you find a mine, help make sure that other people avoid it by marking it. Use internationally recognized symbols or signs if possible, or use the customary local warning. Make sure you are in safe territory before attempting to erect a warning. Note the location of the danger, and report it to police, the military, or local de-miners.

