 Give yourself plenty of time to prepare (you'll need at least an hour, depending on how fast you can get ready). By giving yourself enough time, you can do everything you want without rushing and messing up your hair, makeup, or outfit. Start early to avoid stress! Here are tasks you can do earlier in the day and not last minute.


Iron your clothes.
Choose the hairstyle you want to wear.
Be sure you have everything you want to bring with you ready.
 It is important to take a shower and brush your teeth so that you look and feel your best. Wash your body, face, hair, and shave if needed.You may want to do this a few hours before everything else, that way you'll give your hair time to air-dry.


Apply a moisturizer to you face and body so your skin looks great and feels hydrated.
Use deodorant; chances are you'll be sweating a bit.
If wearing perfume or cologne, make sure you don't over spray. Pump a couple of sprays in front of you and then gently step into the scent so that it covers your whole body lightly.
 Depending on the event, you may want a more styled look that requires products and a bit more time to complete. There are many great online tutorials that offer steps on how to create the hairstyle you want. Girls: Blow dry your hair and straighten it, curl it, braid it, or scrunch it. If you have naturally beautiful hair or you like your natural texture, wear it as is. If you want, accessorize with a cute headband or hair clip.

Guys: Brush your hair. If you'd like, apply a bit of gel in it so it stays nice, just make sure not to put on too much. If you want, throw a hat on as well.
 If you want, put on some makeup to polish your party look. What you wear is up to you. If the party is during the daytime and outside, a lighter makeup look will work best.For a simple look, try using some lipgloss and blush.
For a nighttime party, consider experimenting with eyeshadow, eyeliner, or mascara for a bolder look.
 Make sure you have everything needed for the night such as your wallet, keys, and cell phone. Also, remember that less is more. Having too much of something can be a bad thing including perfume, accessories, and items in your purse/bag.


It is always a smart idea for girls to take off one piece of jewelry before they leave, this prevents an overdone look.
If you are wearing lipstick, remember to bring the tube with you so you can reapply it later if needed.
 Remember that the best thing you can wear to a party is a smile and good attitude. Leave all of your troubles and concerns at home and simply try to enjoy yourself. People like to spend time with those who are smiling and happy, so try to bring the best version of yourself to the party.

