 Any kind of interior trim such as baseboard or crown molding is attached to studs. You can find where the studs are by looking for small dimples in the trim. These indentations are where the trim was nailed to the stud. The nail holes are filled with caulk and painted over after the trim is attached, but generally they remain visible if you look carefully enough., This requires you to knock lightly on the wall to see if you can hear whether a stud has been added. An area with no stud will produce a low, hollow sound. An area with a stud will produce a higher, more solid sound. Practice in areas where you know there are studs to train your ear.
 If there is a stud there, the pin will stop when it makes contact with the wood. If there is no stud, you will encounter little resistance and the pin will go all the way into the wall.If you don’t find a stud the first time you use a pin, try the wire test. Fashion a coat hanger or other piece of long, thin, rigid wire into a right angle. Insert the wire into the hole you’ve made in the wall and spin it until it makes contact with a stud.This way you won’t have to knock multiple holes in your wall.
 Most electrical boxes will be mounted on the edge of a stud. Turn off the power to that switch or outlet and remove the cover. You should then be able to see which side of the switch the stud is located on by looking for the mounting screws. If you can’t, use the knock or pin test to determine the placement of the stud.


Measure at least 3/4 inches (1.9 cm) away from the outlet or the electrical unit to find the center of the stud. Try the knock or pin test if you want to figure out the stud’s width. Remember that studs will normally be located at 16 inch (40.64 cm) intervals on either side of the outlet/switch.
 Because studs tend to be 16 inches (40.64 cm) apart, you can measure in from any corner to figure out where to find studs.


Remember that not all walls are divisible by 16 inches (40.64 cm) exactly, so there may be some studs that show up in a distance that is less than 16 inches from the previous or next stud.

