 Click Connections → Connect to open the Connect window. You can also press Ctrl+S to quickly open the window. This window will allow you to enter in the server information.


Alternatively, you can click TeamSpeak links on websites to automatically launch the TeamSpeak client and connect to the server.
 You will need to enter the channel address, which may be a name or it may be an IP address. Make sure to include the port of the server, denoted by a ":" followed by the port number. If the server requires a password, you will need to enter it into the "Server Password" field. You can choose different profiles for hotkeys and microphone capture, but you probably won't need to change these right now.


The nickname displayed will be your requested nickname. If that name is already taken by someone in the server, your name will be altered.
You can usually find the TeamSpeak server information on your group's website or forum. Ask another member if you can't find it.
 TeamSpeak will attempt to connect to the server, and you will see the main window start to fill with information. You can check the status of the connection in the status frame at the bottom of the window.
 On the left side of the window, you will see a list of channels on the server. Channels can be password protected, and you may need to be granted access by an admin. A list of users will be displayed beneath each channel.


Most larger gaming groups will have the server broken into channels for different games that the group plays, along with an Senior-only section if the group is particularly large. Server setups will vary wildly from group to group.
Double-click on a channel to join it. You will only be able to talk with users in the same channel as you.
 Besides being able to voice chat, there is a basic text chat for each channel. This can be accessed by clicking on the tab at the bottom of the window. Avoid putting important, time-sensitive information or commands in the text chat, as many players will not see it in-game.
 If you plan on connecting to the server you are using on a frequent basis, you can make connecting much easier by bookmarking it. This will allow you to connect in the future with a single click. If you are currently connected to a server, click Bookmarks → Add to Bookmarks to add the current server to your bookmark list.


If you want to add a server that you are not currently connected to, click Bookmarks → Manage Bookmarks to add a server manually.

