 If you're having trouble balancing, you can try widening your stance to hip-width apart. This can make it easier to stand and squat during chair pose, but you should continue working towards being able to stand with your feet together and your thighs pressed close.If you are pregnant, do not worry about trying to bring your feet together. Just keep a wide distance between your feet to ensure that you don't lose balance.
 If you're still having a hard time holding the pose and spreading your feet hasn't helped, try leaning against a wall. You'll still need to maintain the correct posture and muscle stretches, but it will be slightly easier without the need to hold your balance., Your arms play a vital role in chair pose. As such, you'll need to ensure that your shoulders are as flexible as possible. If you find that your shoulders are in pain during this pose, try adjusting your position until you can do a chair pose without any discomfort.Put your palms together in a prayer position and rest your thumbs near your sternum.
Press with firm pressure across the surface of both palms against one another and try to open up your collar bone area.
 This pose will help work your lower body, but you can modify the pose to further strengthen your thighs. You'll need a foam yoga block, but if you don't have a yoga block you can use an equivalent-sized pillow or even a thick book.Hold a foam yoga block between your thighs.
Squeeze your thighs together to hold the foam block (or its substitute) in place. Try to maintain this hold throughout the stretch until you come out of chair pose.
 If you're an advanced yoga practitioner or if you simply want a greater challenge, you can try to maintain the pose while shifting how your weight is distributed across your feet.This should not be attempted by beginners, though, as it may cause you to lose balance or strain a muscle.


Keep your knees bent.
Lift your weight onto the balls of your feet.
Stretch your arms straight forward.
Try to lower your rear as much as possible while keeping your back straight.

