 If this is a service that you tip regularly, you do not have to make a separate tip as a holiday gift. Instead, during the holiday season, increase the typical amount that you give.For example, you might tip your hairstylist every time you see them. So, instead of giving them a holiday tip, give them twice as much as you normally would at your December hair appointment.
 Different types of services might receive different amounts of tips. In general, you want to tip the equivalent cost of a single session or pay period. Some services might require a little more or less however.



Baby sitters: one or two nights pay.

Au pair or nanny: extra week’s pay.

Dog walkers: extra week’s pay.

Dog groomers, house or office cleaners, personal trainers, and hairstylists: cost of a single session.Doormen and building superintendents: $30-$100.If you attend a bar or restaurant regularly, you may want to tip your usual server a little extra than normal.
 If someone has provided you with truly exceptional work this year, you may want to exceed the normal amount. On the other hand, if someone’s work has been lackluster, you may want to consider lowering the tip amount.


Do not spend time worrying that if you do not tip well, you will not get good service the coming year. A tip is a way of saying "thank you," especially around the holidays. If you are receiving service that does not warrant a generous tip, you might consider shopping around anyway.
 Tipping rates can vary by community. This is because the cost of living is different in various regions. People living in cities usually tip more than those living in suburban or rural areas.There are also regional differences as well. Ask around to see what the typical tipping rate is.


If you have friends who use the same service, you can ask them, “I’m trying to figure out what is appropriate to tip our dog walker. Do you mind if I ask how much you usually tip for this service during the holidays?” Some people may be uncomfortable talking about money, so if your friend does not want to say, you can drop the subject.

