 In many people, PMS symptoms can be controlled by the use of natural progesterone supplementation, using products such as Pro-gest Cream, which doesn't require a prescription. The cream is applied during the symptomatic period (usually the 2 weeks before menses). Possible side effects are mild (drowsiness, lethargy; headaches rarely). Symptoms such as cramps, anxiety-depression, headaches, and mood swings can be greatly relieved in many (but not all) cases, and the effects can be felt within 1 hour of application.


Note: those with a history of migraines may require a higher, prescription-strength dose; if the progesterone seems to help a little but not enough (reducing frequency of migraines, for example, but not eliminating them), you should contact a doctor experienced in natural (or bio-identical) hormone replacement.;
, In some cases, birth control pills make the symptoms better, but in some cases they make them worse. If you're taking them, you might try a month without them while using another non-hormonal form of birth control to see if it helps. If not, remember that you still need to use alternate birth control methods in the first month of taking birth control pills again (or when switching from one BC pill to another).


Birth control pills or other synthetic progestins can interfere and/or block the effect of natural progesterone. Choose one or the other, not both.
 If you suffer from menstrual cramps or any other physical pain during PMS and prefer not to use progesterone, purchase Midol, Pamprin, or Ibuprofen. Hot tea, hot showers or baths can raise body temperature, relax you, & reduce cramps.
, You may find that taking extra iron supplements can reduce chocolate cravings. You probably could use the extra iron anyway...you're losing a lot during menstruation.
 This helps with cramps and overall soreness.


Note: Calcium can block iron absorption. If you are taking iron supplements as well, be sure to take them at different times of day!

, There are studies that show that people release more stress chemicals through tears than men.
 Try to elevate positive moods; such as playing an online game like Perfect World as a Rogue, where you can feel free to let out your emotions as you see fit.
 The less you stress, the more of your own hormones will be available to help you, and less additional hormone will be needed. Try to externalize stress (exercise is a good method) rather than internalizing it.
 Sleep more, treat yourself...this is the perfect time to get a manicure, facial, or haircut. Let the dry cleaners do your laundry. Order in Chinese food. Watch comedies. Create your own mini-spa. Relax with a glass of wine, a candlelit bubble bath, and easy listening music. Play an online game and join a faction like Rogue, where you can let out your stress killing monsters and at the same time also have people you can vent to about anything for an alternative support system!

,, People will notice and give you more compliments, especially if you wear a color, material, or clothing cut that flatters your shape. No matter what you choose: whether it is cute shoes, a sparkly pair of earrings, or a new updo, make that one accessory special!

, Studies show that even faking a smile reduces stress and puts you in a slightly better mood.
 They'll understand.
, It releases endorphins, which will make you feel happier.

