 Responsibility is not something that can be given to you by others. You must live responsibly if you expect any kind of freedom or independence. A big part of responsibility is earning the trust of others, so being honest and morally upstanding is important if you hope to be a responsible teenager/adult.Figure out what motivates your desire to be responsible. Is it your parents' respect and approval, your peers' respect, or your own desire to better yourself?
Motivation has to come from within you. As much as other people can inspire you to take action and live a more responsible life, you ultimately have to be self-motivated enough to create your own opportunities and pursue your own interests.
 Experts on adolescent development have found that having a good, positive role model from an early age can help teenagers be more responsible as adolescents and adults. Even if you go through a rebellious phase, you're less likely to make bad decisions if you have a strong role model in your life.For some people, parents are the ultimate role model. Others may choose to look outside the family circle for a positive role model.
Characteristics to look for in a good role model are strong work ethic, creativity, capacity for independent thinking, and strong sense of morality.Remember that even a role model makes mistakes. No one is perfect, so don't expect absolute perfection from your role model.
 As much as your parents and role models can try to influence you, you are ultimately the one responsible for your own actions. No one can control what you do or don't do, which means you are responsible for your successes and your failures.Take responsibility when you've done something wrong, and try to learn from that experience so you do not repeat your actions in the future.
Try to think about the repercussions of your actions before you make a decision to act in the first place. Thinking about the most likely outcome may help you avoid falling into bad behavior.
Always show respect and appreciation towards others. Making responsible choices includes learning to treat others with the kind of respect you expect for yourself.

