 It's difficult to pick one dress that will fit multiple body types. You may find one that fits several people well and not others. Keep that in mind as you look for a universally "good" dress.For instance, a dress with a well-defined waistline looks good on a person with an hourglass figure, while a pear-shaped person looks better in a dress with a fitted top and a slightly fuller skirt. People who are apple-shaped look best with something that draws the eye upward, while people who are larger up top need some volume around the hips for balance.;
, One way to make sure the bridesmaids' dresses are more versatile is to pick a classic, sophisticated style. That is, trends are fun, but they may be out of style in a year. If you pick something classic, that dress will be something the bridesmaids can wear for years.For instance, minimalist dresses with a few smart touches, like an interesting hem, stay in style.Alternatively, go for a slightly retro look, like a 1950s-style dress with a high waist, fitted top, and flared skirt.
This year's trendy pattern may seem like a good idea now, but you may look back on that floral print in 10 years and wonder what you were thinking. Solid colors always stay in style.
 When choosing a color, try to think about what will look the best on the most people. For instance, darker colors tend to be more flattering than lighter colors. Plus, a color like navy will make the dress more wearable later., You may have a certain style in mind, but after several bridesmaids try it on, you may realize it's not the right look for everyone. Don't be afraid to make a change and help your bridesmaids feel more comfortable.However, don't hold out for universal support. That is, bridesmaids hating their dresses is a cliche for a reason.
 If you are planning an outdoor summer wedding, you need to pick a fabric that won't be sweltering. Organza is a good choice, as it is light and airy, as is chiffon. These fabrics breathe, allowing your bridesmaids to be more comfortable., Even if you're having your wedding indoors, you'll likely want some outside pictures with your wedding party. Make sure to think about that when picking a fabric for your dresses. Heavier fabrics, such as silk or satin, are a better choice for winter.If you're not sure about the weather, think about adding in coordinated shawls or pashminas as part of the wedding party's outfit., While very formal dresses look pretty, think about your bridesmaids being in them for an extended period of time. If you're planning on having a huge dance party at the reception, you might want to pick something that's a little more easy-going, such as a cocktail dress., Make sure to pick a style of dress that's fun AND comfortable enough to get your bridesmaids through the reception, too. Of course, you can allow your bridesmaids to change, but if you want a cohesive look through the reception, you may need to pick a dress that will work in both the wedding and reception.


For instance, a Victorian-style dress with a big bustle may seem fun for a theme wedding, but are you going to make your bridesmaids wear that to the reception, too?
If you want to do a Victorian-themed wedding, maybe you could include Victorian styling in the design of the dress (such as a fitted jacket over a full skirt), while leaving out the bustle and the floor-length part of the equation.
 One way to let your bridesmaids have a say in their dresses is to pick a type of dress, then let your bridesmaids choose the neckline. Your wedding party will still look cohesive, as long as you have the same length and color of dresses.For instance, some bridesmaids may like a plunging v-neck, while others may prefer a more demure boat, jewel, or scoop neckline.
 Another option is to pick the color and a brand/designer, then let the bridesmaids choose the dress itself. That way, they can choose something that they feel comfortable in and find more flattering. Also, they'll be more likely to get more wear out of it.However, you may want to set a few parameters on design to make the look more cohesive. For instance, you may only want knee-length to floor-length dresses, and you can specify that.
You can also set the fabric. For instance, you may only want lightweight, summery fabrics, which narrows down the choices.
Nonetheless, if you stick to one designer, you should get a fairly cohesive set of dresses.
 Another way to create a cohesive look while letting the bridesmaids have some options is to go with a set of three colors. The colors can be complementary, or they can be the same color in different tones, such as light blue, royal blue, and navy.In this style, you can go for dresses that are all the same style for a more cohesive look, or be a little more free-flowing with dresses in different styles.

