 You can't have a store without items! You can hunt monsters for Hidden Potential items, do quests for items and money, buy scrolls from people, and if you had done The Fallen Woods Quest, you can buy All Cures, Icicles, Return to NLC Scrolls, and Diamond Arrows. Jane's quests can give you GFA scrolls 60% that you can sell for ten to fifteen million.
 If you are level thirty or higher, you can learn a professions and sell your creations.


With Herbalism, you can manufacture herb and flower oils to sell to lazy alchemists. You can also merchant Herb Roots and get free herbs when you collect one hundred Herb Roots. If you stumble upon a Golden Herb, harvest it! Rarely, Primal Essence, that can sell up to one hundred fifty million may drop.

Mining is one of the most popular professions. The most popular minerals are Gold, Bronze, Diamond, Garnet, Mithril, and Adamantium. You can trade in one hundred Ore fragments for seven random ores. Just like Golden Herb Roots, Primal Essence drops from Heart Stones.

Smithing lets you create weapons and armor for yourself and other people. Some of the most profitable items are androids (Female ones are more profitable, since a lot of players wants girls following them), throwing stars, and most of the level 120+ items.

Accessory Crafting lets you sell accessories. This is the most profitable professions, as you can make from one million (for an earring with 3% of any stat) to around two billion (for an earring or pendant with Legendary Potential that has 36% luck or all stats combined) Most players love to make Half Earrings for potential and sell them in the Free Market for up to seven hundred fifty million mesos, and drop or fuse the ones without potential.

Alchemy allows you to create potions. Try to sell pills, as you can carry more pills than potions. You can also set up fusers in Crafting Town. New alchemists would fuse sneakers from the Henesys Market to gain EXP and sell the ones with potential for a few million mesos.
 You can find new players selling their items for cheap prices. If there is a player who offers you an item for an expensive price, haggle with them. Say "Hi" when the trade window opens and say thanks when you finish trading. This will help you build your reputation as a merchant while getting the items you want. This also works with Gachapon winners too, however, you may annoy them.

