 The container should be small enough on the sides that your tortoise should be able to climb out of it. Add lukewarm water to it. Make sure the tortoise's head pokes above the water when he's in it, but it should be about chin deep., The tortoise will spend time in the water, using it to rehydrate his body. Tortoises use water to rehydrate their bodies. They absorb it through a vent in the tail know as the cloaca., The tortoise needs to soak for at least 20 minutes, but he will generally let you know when he's done by trying to climb out., Once the tortoise has soaked, you can take the water out. Discard the water in the toilet to avoid spreading any germs.You can also take the tortoise from his cage to put him in a basin and simply take him out when he's done.
 Use a towel to gently sponge him off. Start with the shell, gently rubbing the water off. Also, pat off the head, arms, and legs, being sure to get in all the cracks.
 How much water you need to provide depends on the type of tortoise, the time of year, and whether he's inside or outside. Inside, you may need to do it as often as once a week, especially if the humidity is low.Outside in the heat, the tortoise will need it twice a week, and you can let the water dry up in between.It's especially important to provide a bath when the tortoise is coming out of hibernation, as the tortoise will need to rehydrate.When the tortoise is hibernating and inside, you may only need to provide water about once a month., Allow the tortoise time to fill up its water reserves before you try to scrub it. Give it a 20-minute soak in clean water.Tortoises need soaking more often than they need baths. You shouldn't need to actually scrub your tortoise very often.
 Next, use an old, clean toothbrush to scrub the tortoise all over. Start with the shell, being sure to get in all the cracks. Move on to the legs, arms, and head. Be sure not to scrub too hard, especially on the places without scales., Use the water to wash off the dirt you've scrubbed clean. Gently pour it over the tortoise to get the grime off.


While you're washing, make sure to look for any injuries, nicks, or an unhealthy shell. If you notice any abnormalities, it may be time to take your pet to the vet for a check up., You don't want him to be wet when he goes back to his enclosure.
 Soaps, detergents, and shell cleaners are not good for tortoises. In fact, they can be harmful, even killing your pet. Stick with plain water to clean your tortoise.