 Uncertainty isn’t a pleasant emotion for most people. However, it’s important to learn to accept that uncertainty will occur at times in every person’s life. An inability to tolerate uncertainty can lead to constant fear or worry, or make you overly reliant on others. It can keep you from taking actions and doing things that you might find rewarding because you’re afraid of failure. Gradually practicing accepting uncertainty will help you build up a tolerance for it.


Keep a journal throughout the day. Write down whenever you feel anxious or uncertain. Note what was happening just before that feeling. How did you respond in the moment? What did it feel like?
Make a ranked list of your uncertainties. Most people have a list of things that worry them or make them uncomfortable. Try to rank these on a scale. For example, “going to a new restaurant” might be a 2, while “not making vacation plans in advance” might be a 9.
Start practicing in small, safe situations. Begin with baby steps by trying the lower-ranked items on your list. For example, you could go to your favorite restaurant but order something you’ve never tried before.
Write in your journal about these experiences. How did you feel? Did the situation turn out as you had hoped? If it didn’t -- and it won’t always work out, and that’s okay! -- how did you respond? Do you think you could respond differently in the future?

, It’s important to have a variety of self-soothing techniques on hand for when you’re feeling distressed. These soothing techniques may be different for each person, but they usually calm your senses in some way. Experiment with a few to learn what works best for you.Try listening to soothing music. The British Academy of Sound Therapy has used science to put together a playlist of the world’s most relaxing music, including artists like Marconi Union and Enya.
Do something calm and repetitive, like swimming, knitting, rocking in a chair or hammock, or even repeating a mantra.Engage your sense of touch by petting your dog or cat. In addition to giving you a way to focus your senses, studies have shown that regular interaction with a loved pet can reduce depression.Go for a quiet walk, focusing on the beauty of your surroundings.
Take a warm bath or hot shower. Physical warmth relaxes and soothes most people.Take yourself on a date. Go out for a nice dinner with tablecloths, candles, the works -- just for you. Order your favorite thing to eat and remind yourself that you’re worth pampering., Humans require affectionate touch to thrive.Positive touch releases oxytocin, a powerful hormone that boosts your mood, relieves stress, and makes you feel bonded to others.Here are a few techniques you can try to help you relax in an emotional moment.


Place your hand over your heart. Feel the warmth of your skin beneath your hand. Feel your heart beating. Feel the rising and falling of your chest as you breathe. Repeat some positive words to yourself as you notice these feelings, such as “I am worthy of love” or “I am good.”
Give yourself a hug. Cross your arms over your chest and place your hands on your upper arms. Give yourself a little squeeze. Notice the sensations in your body. Notice the warmth of your hands and the pressure of your arms. Repeat a positive phrase, such as “I love myself.”
Cup your face with your hands, like you would for a child or a loved one. Stroke your face with your fingers. Feel the warmth of your hands on your face. Repeat a few words of kindness to yourself, such as “I am beautiful. I am kind.”

, Look for ways to create a new meaning for your current experience.One way to create a new meaning is to reframe experiences.For example, you might feel frustrated that you are not appreciated at work, and that your boss overlooks your efforts. Trying to “ignore” this frustration is unhelpful. Instead, try reframing this experience as a learning experience in how to deal with unpleasant people -- a valuable life skill.If you have spiritual or religious traditions, these can also be helpful in finding meaning in your situation, even if it currently seems unpleasant.
 Meditation, and in particular mindfulness meditation, has been shown by many studies to relieve anxiety and depression. It can even improve your ability to deal with stress.Regular mindfulness meditation can also help you regulate your emotions.You can take a class, use an online guided meditation, or learn to do mindfulness meditation on your own.Find a comfortable, quiet place that is free of distractions. Sit in a straight-backed chair or sit upright on the floor. Avoid slouching, as this makes breathing difficult.Focus on a single element of your breathing. This could be the sound of your breathing, the expansion of your lungs as you fill them with air, or how it feels to take deep, cleansing breaths. Focus on this element for a few minutes as you take deep breaths.

Expand your focus to include the rest of your body. Notice what your other senses are experiencing. Try not to judge or focus too much on any one sensation.
Accept each thought and sensation as it appears. It can help to acknowledge each one to help you experience it without judgement: “I am having the thought that my nose itches. This is a thought.”
If you find your concentration waning, refocus your attention on your breathing.
The UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center has free downloadable MP3 meditations.So does BuddhaNet.There are also many apps available for your phone or tablet that offer guided mini-meditations.
 The core principle of mindfulness is accepting the experience of the present moment without resistance or judgment.Of course, that’s easier said than done, but you’ll find that as you practice mindfulness techniques, they will become new “habits” that your brain adopts.When you are experiencing an emotional experience, repeat some supportive phrases to yourself. You can do this out loud or in your head. Examples could include:

I will not always feel this way, and this feeling will pass
My thoughts and feelings are not facts
I do not have to act on my emotions
I am okay in this moment, even though this is uncomfortable
Emotions come and go, and I have been able to get through this in the past


Identify your emotion without labeling it as “good” or “bad.” For example, if you are feeling angry with yourself over something, take a moment to acknowledge this emotion to yourself: “I am having the thought that I’m angry with myself because I ate something unhealthy, even though I set a goal to eat more healthy foods. This is just one of the thoughts I will have today.”Voice acceptance of your emotion. Telling yourself that you accept whatever emotion you’re experiencing may help you believe it. Remind yourself that emotions are a natural part of human life. Accepting your emotions makes you more likely to be able to regulate them in the future.
 Sometimes, you can try your best to control your emotions and still feel overwhelmed by them. Difficulty regulating your emotions can sometimes be an indicator of a more serious problem, such as past abuse or trauma, or it can be the sign of a disorder such as depression. Working with a licensed mental health professional can help you discover unhelpful ways of thinking and responding to emotions, and learn new ways to process your feelings in a healthy, helpful way.


It’s a common myth that only “crazy” or “broken” people see therapists. These labels are damaging to people, and they also don’t represent the truth. Many people seek counseling, for a variety of reasons.Another myth is that you can get the help you need from talking to family or friends. While social support is incredibly important, sometimes, you may have issues that require a trained clinician. A trained counselor or therapist can give you advice based on scientific techniques and “outside” observations. S/he can also help you discover whether you may need treatment for disorders such as depression or anxiety.Some people believe the myth that you should just “suck it up” and deal with emotions on your own. This is a very damaging idea. Sometimes, disorders such as depression or panic attacks make it physically impossible for a person to deal with their emotions entirely on their own. Seeking counseling shows that you love and honor yourself enough to get the help that you need.There are usually multiple places to seek counseling in your community. You can talk to your doctor for a referral, contact a community mental health clinic, or even check with your local university to see if they run a low-cost public clinic.

