 Some dentist offices work specifically with people with disabilities. These offices have experience with disabled kids, and often know how to help the child stay as calm and happy as possible.

Mainstreaming isn't always the best option. A place for disabled kids is often better if it means that your child will be more comfortable.
Tell the office ahead of time that your child has special needs, and what to expect. You can also tell them about your child's special interests, so that the people there can talk to your child about those interests.;
, It's best if your child is rested and relaxed, to minimize stress. Pick a day when not much is going on. This will reduce the chance of meltdowns, tears, and stress.

Ideally, your child should have some free time before and after the appointment, to help them unwind.
 Dentists can be scary for autistic children, so it helps if the child knows exactly what is going to happen., The mouth is a sensitive part of the body, and for some autistic children, it is especially sensitive. Your child may be very worried. Validate their feelings and reassure them. Here are some things you could say:

"It's okay if you're scared. Many people don't like the dentist."
"You're allowed to be upset. It's not fun to have people poking your mouth. I know Dr. Anastazi, and she always tries to be as gentle as she can."
"I understand if you don't want to go. Dentists take good care of your teeth and make sure you stay healthy, so you need to go. But you're allowed to not like it."

, Watching a movie, visiting a favorite park, or even buying a small toy can be things that help cheer up your child. Select the activity ahead of time, and make it something you know your child will like.

Try telling your child about it, so they have something to look forward to. For example, if your child loves ribbons, say "After the dentist, we are going to the arts and crafts store, and you can pick out two ribbons to buy." Then, when the child is scared at the dentist, they can think about the ribbons they will get soon.
Choose a low-key activity if you think your child will be exhausted or overstimulated from the dentist trip.
Don't use food as a reward. Your child is supposed to avoid eating for a little while after the appointment.
 Your child is not supposed to eat for around 30 minutes after the appointment, and a hungry child is a child that cries and melts down more easily.

Make sure the child has enough time to eat and brush their teeth without being rushed.

