 Use the handle of a rattail comb to create a deep part on the left side of your head, going from your left temple down to your nape. Gather the hair from the outside (thinner area) of the part, and clip it out of the way. Repeat this step for the right side., Gather the hair from your hairline (between the two side parts) and split it into three sections. Cross the left section over the middle one, then cross the right section over the middle one., Gather some hair from the part, and add it to the left section. Cross it over the middle section, then repeat the process on the right side. Continue French braiding until you reach the crown of your head, just behind your ears.Keep the sections small and the stitches tight.
Smooth down any stray hairs. Try to be as neat as possible.
 Do a regular braid for this part, without gathering any extra hair into the left and right strands. Don't worry about making this perfect; you will be undoing this braid later., Lean forward so that all of your hair falls across your face. Gather the hair from your nape, right between the two side parts. Split it into three sections, then begin to French braid like before., Once again, keep the sections small and the stitches tight. Smooth down any stray hairs. You will have to feel your way for this, unless you can find someone to braid your hair for you., Add the top braid to the rest of the hair from the bottom braid. Unclip the hair from the left and right sides of your head, and add them to the ponytail as well. Use a brush or comb to smooth the hairs down and hide the parts., Once the ponytail is secure, you can remove the hair tie holding the regular braid from before. Use your fingers to unravel that braid so that your ponytail is nice and smooth., If you want to step things up a bit, take a thin section of hair from under the ponytail, then wrap it around the base of the tail to hide the hair tie. Secure the thin strand with a bobby pin.For more texture, braid the thin strand first.
 Secure the bun with bobby pins when you are done. If you want more texture, braid the ponytail first, then twist it into a bun. You can also use a bun maker by doing the following:


Slide your ponytail through a bun maker/hair doughnut. Nestle the bun maker over the hair tie.
Spread your hair over the bun maker so that you can't see it.
Wrap a hair tie around the base of the bun, cinching the hair under the bun maker.
Wrap and tuck the loose hairs around the base of the bun to hide them.
Secure everything with bobby pins.
 It would be a good idea to do this, even if you stuck with a simply ponytail. Remember to spray the bottom braid as well!