 Staying hydrated by drinking enough water each day can help keep stomach acid in your stomach, where it belongs.You may want to look into “alkaline water,” which may help reduce stomach acidity. Because you need some acidity to help you digest properly, talk with your doctor before trying alkaline water., If you have problems with stomach acid, you may need to reduce or even stop drinking alcohol. The biggest culprits are beverages with a low ethanol concentration (<5%), such as beer and wine.Fermented alcoholic beverages (beer, wine, champagne, sherry, etc.) are considered powerful stimulators of stomach acid production.No direct link has been discovered between alcohol and stomach ulcers, but people who have ulcers are also more likely to have cirrhosis of the liver, a condition often caused by heavy alcohol consumption.Alcoholic beverages produced by distillation, such as whiskey and gin, do not appear to stimulate stomach acid production.No matter what you choose to drink, drink only in moderation. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism recommends that you consume no more than four alcoholic drinks per day and no more than 14 per week if you are male. If you are female, consume no more than three alcoholic drinks per day and no more than 7 per week.A “standard” drink is any of the following: 12 ounces of regular beer (5% alcohol by volume, or ABV), 8-9 ounces of malt liquor or high-gravity beer (7% ABV), 5 ounces of regular wine (12% ABV), 3-4 ounces of fortified wine (17% ABV), 2-3 ounces of cordial or liqueur (24% ABV), 1.5 ounces of brandy or 80-proof spirits (40% ABV)., Caffeine appears to stimulate acid secretion in the stomach.Coffee, in particular, may cause heartburn because of caffeine and other substances coffee contains.Even uncaffeinated beverages, such as tea, can cause heartburn. For example, mint herbs such as peppermint or spearmint can provoke heartburn.If you can’t live without your coffee, choose an espresso, French roast, or other dark roast coffee. Not only do they contain less caffeine, they also contain the compound N-methylpyridine, which may actually block your stomach’s production of stomach acid., Eating within two to three hours of lying down or going to sleep can cause heartburn. It takes roughly two hours for your stomach to empty its contents into your intestines. Stay upright for two to three hours after eating to avoid heartburn.If your heartburn is worse at night, try elevating the head of your bed by four to six inches, or use a wedge-shaped pillow to help you sleep in a semi-elevated position., Eating large meals can put undue pressure on your stomach, which can cause acid reflux symptoms. Eat smaller meals throughout the day to avoid putting pressure on your stomach.Wearing loose clothing can also help you avoid putting excess pressure on your stomach., High-fat foods tend to decrease the pressure in your lower esophageal sphincter (LES), which could mean that stomach acid backs up through it into the esophagus. Go for lower fat foods and incorporate plenty of vegetables, fruits, and whole grains into your diet.


High-fat foods may also increase the amount of time it takes for your stomach to empty its contents into the intestines, putting you at increased risk of acid reflux symptoms.Chocolate not only contains a lot of fat, it also contains methylxanthine, which has been shown to relax your LES and cause heartburn in some people., Spicy foods, such as peppers, raw onions, and garlic, can cause your LES to relax, allowing stomach acids back up into the esophagus. If you suffer from frequent acid reflux symptoms, avoid spicy foods., Citrus fruits and tomatoes (yes, tomatoes are fruits!) are high in acid, which can worsen your heartburn symptoms.If you have frequent acid reflux symptoms, skipping these fruits may help.


Oranges, grapefruits, and orange juice are common triggers of heartburn symptoms.Tomato juice and tomatoes are also highly acidic and may trigger heartburn.
Pineapple juice is highly acidic and may cause heartburn., The calcium in milk can act as a temporary buffer for stomach acid. However, because it’s also a high-fat food, it may trigger your stomach to produce more acid, in the long run, so choose a low-fat version.Try drinking goat’s milk or skim cow’s milk. Both of these options are very low in fat., Chewing gum stimulates your body’s production of saliva, which acts as a natural acid buffer. Chewing gum when you feel heartburn coming on may help.Avoid mint gums. Mint, especially peppermint and spearmint, may actually trigger heartburn.