 If you have space, ensure that it is protected from severe wind, heat, chill and sun. Plants have varying needs which means that within a middle zone they will all grow well, but some will struggle and put out poor quality produce or will simply not grow in the more extreme environments.;
, Do not set pots or containers on cement patios if you live in a hot climate. This could make the plants too hot to grow properly.
 Warm climates are lucky as they get an extended growing season. Those with short summers should aim for maximum yield in the summer with the surplus being frozen or preserved for future use.
 Shallow rooted vegetables such as herbs, salad greens, tomatoes, beans and peas can do with low level of soils providing the nutrients are moisture are available. These plants are often grown hydroponically as they will flourish in the right conditions with minimal soil. But keep in mind that root vegetables such as carrots, beets and potatoes will require more space.


The simplest method is to calculate depth 1.5 to 2 times the likely depth of your vegetables, so if you select a carrot variety that typically has 20–25 centimeter (7.9–9.8 in) carrots, a 30–50 centimeter (11.8–19.7 in) depth is recommended
Popular plant containers have been grand & elaborate stone, wood or ceramic affairs, while success has been made with unsealed woven baskets (often sourced from charity stores) or food safe polystyrene boxes. Some people have gone even easier by growing directly in a compost or blended potting mix sack or using old cloth such as sacks or towels suspended like a hanging basket. Plastic containers are not always ideal as they tend not to last very long and can be quite expensive if you buy them new. Old wine barrels are very practical as they are deep and wide to host a range of plants, but you may need to travel a great distance and pay considerably for them, simply because they are popular. It is cheaper to manufacture your own tub and many hardware stores have DIY classes that you can take advantage of.
 The general rule is the better it is, the better the plant health and output you may expect. The recommendation for wet climates is to have a thin layer of gravel or something to allow drainage, topped with a mesh liner (such as old fly screen) and then the soil. The mesh prevents the soil from draining out and staining the floor or benchtop. For dry climates, it is highly advised to get a large plant saucer to hold water and invest in water retaining products such as clay, synthetic water crystals (which absorb and hold water to release it slowly) or good organic matter.


Some landscaping suppliers supply a black looking top dressing mulch that looks nice and rich but it is actually very weak as it is really just for cosmetic use to make your garden look attractive. Ask your supplier for a good vegetable raising soil to be sure you get a good product.
 Marigolds are a good all-rounder to keep most pests at bay, but some some plants naturally don't like each other for a variety of reasons. Tomatoes and potatoes should not be planted together due to similar nutrient needs and many plants dislike fennel. Some plants such as corn & tomatoes share a common pest so should not be planted together as they are a bigger "bait" for the pests. But some plants such as basil and tomato are good "partners" as they frequently grow better as a pair.
 After the first year, don't plant the same crop in that container, as the nutrient content is far lower. The option is traditional crop rotation so a high nutrient requiring plant (such as tomatoes) are then replaced with a low need plant, such as onions. It is also recommended to plant beans or peas or other green manures such as clover - all these are nitrogen fixtures and help to improve the soils.


Sometimes you can tip all the soils together however this does disrupt the soil ecologies and can improve some but worsen others at the same stroke. Without adding something such as compost, the mixed soil gradually gets weaker and worse each time for growing plants.
 You may plant a box of carrots for example, but if you sow the whole packet at once, you will have a glut of carrots. If you have no wish to preserve these, its recommended to plant the amount you would use in a week, then a week later repeat so you will get a staggered harvest.
 They can quickly build an excess of salts and other chemicals in the soil at the expense of the plants. Use a slow release type conservatively, opting for composted organic matter instead. The same applies to seaweed or fish emulsion tonics which have a high excess of salt - use them often, but in very weak concentrations.


The moment there is evidence of salt crystals forming, you should stop adding any fertilisers and soak the plant containers in a larger tub of water to try to extract the excess. It will weaken the soil overall, but it can be corrected with compost. The alternative is usually throwing the soil away.
 Follow the directions on the seed package.

Transplant vegetable plants that were begun indoors. You can get these plants from garden stores, or start them on your own during the late winter and early spring. Place the plant in the larger outdoor container and cover the roots with soil.
 Indoor plants have the highest risk of problems such as pest infestations, weak stems due to low air movement, low light, plants drying out or being too wet. In moderate climates its fine to put the plant outside every few days to sun harden and be exposed to fresh air. For less friendly climates, you have to be inventive by moving the plant around regularly to get better light exposure, using a small desk top fan to get air circulation and to daily check for moisture by sticking your finger in the soil. If it feels moist its fine, but if it feels wet or dry, reduce or add water as required.
 When the fruits and vegetables are ripe, use clean scissors or garden shears to remove them in order to reduce harming the plant.

