 Your main goal, of course, is to write a children's novel in a month. But you should also set minor goals to help you reach your deadline. Promise yourself to sit down and write at least 1 or 2 scenes each day. Stick to this goal throughout the month.;
, Most children's novels are for 8 to 11 year-olds. Stories for children this age should not be too complicated, yet not too simple.
 Establish a basic plot for your story, as well as characters. Be sure to include what genre the story is. Decide which force will eventually triumph: good or evil.


Create a conflict that your character will have to solve or an obstacle that they'll have to overcome.
The setting of the story should go along with the conflict and the plot. Otherwise, the story will go nowhere.
 The exposition of the story is the very beginning, where the setting, characters, and basic conflict are stated (probably the most classic start of an exposition is "Once upon a time..."). The initiating event is at the end of the exposition. It is an event that sets the plot into motion.
 The rising action of the story leads to the climax: the tipping point of the novel. (In an adventure story, it would be the journey to the faraway land.) Make sure you don't let your story drag on. Add little conflicts and obstacles the character must pass to reach their final destination.
 This should be the most exciting part of the story. Keep it short and sweet; you should need no more than 2 short chapters, or about 10 pages, to start and to finish the climax. (In an adventure story, this would be the epic good against evil battle.)

, This is part of the story should be shorter as well; at this point, you should be about three-quarters of the way through your novel, a minimum of 150 pages in.
 This part of your novel should include how the story ends. If your story has a moral, state it here. The resolution should wrap your story up.
 Make any edits or revisions needed.



Pages must have one inch margins on both sides, and the text must be double-spaced and in the Times New Roman font, which is a fixed-space font. Paragraphs must be indented 5 spaces, or a half inch from the left and are left justified.
 On the front cover of the manuscript (before you send it), write the title and your name in the top left corner, as well as your address, email address, and the approximate number of words in the story.

