 Different article directories have word count minimums or limits. Commission articles in 1 of the following ways:


Assign articles to yourself or high-ranking people at your company. Keep in mind that every article should be original, but based on research or experience in the industry. A title like CEO, CFO, or Executive Director looks great in the author box on an article directory site.
Contract with SEO writers to write your articles for you. You may have talented SEO writers in your marketing department, or you may need to outsource. Experienced SEO writers understand the quality writing and they can use keywords that refer to your company's services in a way that will help the article to rank highly on a search engine.
Get an expert from the field to write an article. For example, if you are trying to promote a gym, ask your advanced yoga instructor to write an article about using yoga for stress relief. The yoga instructor will add to a portfolio, because they will be published online, but the company link will also appear, so the company will benefit.
 Nothing should go online without some strict editing and proofing. Make sure the editor takes note of the following guidelines for article directory writing:


Create a short, but catchy title. This will appear on search engines and draw readers in. For example, instead of writing "How to create a yoga routine that relieves daily stress," you might write "A Stress Relief Yoga Guide."
Make sure the article does not directly sell your products or services. Article directories are valuable because they identify you as a credible company and link to your website. All mentioning of products should be indirect. For example, it is a great idea to explain the value of using a service, but you don't want to name your particular brand.
Use keywords that are associated with your site near the start of the article. The first few sentences help to set up search engine ranking, so make sure at least a portion of the keywords that people use to find your website, are included at the beginning.
Use bullet points, small paragraphs, subheadings and pictures. This improves the readability of the article; however, it is often regulated by the article directory itself, so be sure to consider this when you do your directory research.

