 Go to the Facebook home page at www.facebook.com to log into your Facebook account and create your business page. To create and launch a Facebook business page, you must have a personal account on Facebook. Click on the “Sign in” button to log into your Facebook account using your registered email address and password.;
, Facebook allows you to create a business page for your customers to continue an active relationship, providing regular updates and offers. Go to this link https://www.facebook.com/pages/create to create a business page directly.


Click on one of the categorized boxes to choose the type of business page you want.






Type your business page name, business phone number, website address, and email address in the required fields.






Add information in the “About,” “Long description,” and “Products” fields about your business background, mission, products, services, customers, offers, features, opportunities, and awards.






Upload a logo for your business on your page profile photo and set a cover photo advertising your products or services.






Invite your friends and customers regularly on your business page to get your customers engaged.
 You can reach millions of people by using the paid feature of Facebook page. Click on the “Promote your page” tab at the top left corner of your page wall.
 Click on the “Activity” tab on the top left corner of your page to check notifications, messages, and scheduled posts of your page. You need to check it to ensure the regular updates of your business page.


Click on the “Insights” tab on the top left corner to review your page and post likes, visits, visitor engagement, and other essential data. It will show you the performance of your business marketing and its ups or downs.
 Doing this will help to strengthen your business marketing rapidly. Go to your business page and click on the “Offer, Event+” link on the top of the status field. Click on “Offer” from the drop down menu.


Set up your offer page. Type the “Title” and “Description” of your offer in the required fields by clicking on the boxes. Upload an image to represent your offer, then select the “Expiration date” of your offer from the drop-down calendar menu, and put the “Claims Limit” for your offer.






Remember, your offer must be available for a limited time, and the title and description part of your offer must contain a fixed off percentage of the total purchase.
 Head to https://www.facebook.com and sign in using your email address and password on the fields provided. Click “Sign in” to continue.
 Click on the link below the “Group” tab to set up your business community.


With a business community, you can directly interact with your customers and discuss the interests and inquiries of your customers regarding your business.
 Type your group name, which should be related to your business, and select the “Public” radio button to choose the privacy of your business group. Hit the “Create” button at the bottom of the pop-up window. Now, choose an icon from the icon list and click on “OK.”.


Click on “Add a description” on your group page to write the purpose and function of the group. This part should focus on your business products or services and the discussion proposal to your targeted customers.
Upload a cover photo by clicking on “Add a cover photo.” The photo should represent your business.
Add members from your friends list and customers list to make your group active. Click and type the name of the users in the “Add people to group” box on the right side of your group page.
 Post different questions and surveys related to your business products or services. Encourage your group members to put their feedback regarding your business.


You can discover the needs and interests of your customers from such discussion, which is the strongest strategy to improve your marketing policy.
 Go to your group page and click on the “Event” tab under the cover image. Click the “Create an event” button to announce an event related to your business.


Type your event name, details, place, and date in the required fields. You must also set the privacy of your group.
By creating a business event and inviting your audience, you can grow your business relationship with your customers and engage them in your marketing.
 You can access this section here: https://www.facebook.com/ads/create. This is where you create an ad for your business and use it to drive more customers to your business world.


You can create and launch ads to visit your business page, website, or events, and get new customers engaged. It is a paid feature of Facebook to advertise your business before your targeted audience.
 Enter the URL of your targeted place in the required field on right side to advertise your business.


If you want to create an ad for any existing business page on Facebook, select the page from the drop-down menu on right side.
 You must select a purpose of your ad, and then upload professional images for your ad cover to attract your targeted audiences or customers.


You can upload up to six images for an ad.
Type your business ad text below the menu “Text and Links” to offer your customers a product or service.
In the Ad Setting, you need to add your targeted customers or audience’s location, age, gender, language, interests, and connection types. Scroll down your ad setup page and select your preferences under the “Audience” menu.
On “Account and Campaign” menu, you have to select your country, payment method, ad budget, and schedule. Click on the option and select your preference from the drop-down menu.
 You have to set up your payment method before making your ad live on Facebook. You can pay via any debit or credit card, or PayPal account for the ad.
 Go to the home page of Facebook at www.facebook.com and click on the your profile name at the top of the page. You should update your profile information so that people can build a trust with your business through your web presence.


People like to be introduced with a person first, not a business. They build a bond of trust through your active social media presence.
 You should post different engaging photos and videos on your timeline, to promote your business. Be absolutely certain to create an honest and accurate personality among the audience of Facebook.


Your personal presence makes people interested to discover more about your business and services.

