 Forget a pleasant evening at a French restaurant you have been to fifteen times. Try going on exciting and fresh dates, such as paintball or white water rafting. Science shows that couples who engage in exciting dates were more satisfied than those engaging in pleasant and routine dates.Go on dates that allow you to participate as a couple such as dancing, kayaking, or building a fort.
 On a first date, you make a significant effort to impress. If you strive to look your best and be on your best behavior each time you go on a date with your partner, you will both feel happier and more satisfied., Leave your home for two days a month and visit a place you have never gone with your partner. You can plan the getaway or make it spontaneous. Throw a dart at a map and go to wherever it lands. If money or children make travelling difficult, try spending time in a different part of your house you often neglect.


Try to just change your setting as much as possible. By being with your partner in a different environment, you may see them in a different light.
Going on trips can also test your relationship by revealing your compatibility, showing how you manage each other when you are together 24/7., Taking time for yourself in a relationship is a healthy step because it promotes independence and adds mystery into your lives. If you love going to art museums but your partner does not, going on your own can encourage self-love, which will be carried into your relationship.Have a “girl’s or boy’s night” and hang out with your own group of friends. You can talk about things you wouldn’t necessarily discuss with your partner, and you will be reminded of yourself as an individual, instead of yourself in a partnership.
 Everybody loves to get gifts! It doesn’t have to be a birthday or Christmas to present your partner with a gift. If you are at the store and see something that reminds of you your partner, purchase it, wrap it up, and give it to them that evening at dinner. Your partner will be surprised by the unforeseen gift and appreciate your kindness and generosity.Give gifts in moderation. Do not buy every item that reminds you of your partner.
Purchase gifts that are fiscally responsible. Buying your partner a red Mercedes is not practical and could get you into financial trouble.

