 This will go a long way in avoiding stress by making sure you don’t miss a deadline or forget an exam. Use a simple calendar app such as Google Calendar to lay out your schedule for the entire exam time. You can schedule and color code specific times to study for each exam. Be sure to give yourself enough time for other activities like chores and sleeping. A better organized schedule will make you feel in control of your time and decrease stress from having to remember everything in your head.


When creating your calendar, schedule your most important tasks first - for example, things that cannot be moved or rescheduled, like the your exam times.
Schedule your study time as well, and specify which exam you are going to be studying for.
Give yourself plenty of break time, as well as time for de-stressing activities.;
, A good night’s rest is important for your mental and physical stamina. Sleeping well will give your a solid start to a new day and go a long way towards decreasing your stress levels. Take a few steps to ensure you get all your zzz’s.


Stay consistent in your sleep schedule. Go to sleep and rise at roughly the same time everyday.
Do not go to bed hungry or stuffed. The discomfort may keep you up.
Do not use electronic devices before bed. The artificial light can mess with your body’s internal clock., It’s important to eat a well balanced diet to maintain a good energy level. Be sure to consume plenty of fruit and vegetables and have a good balance between starchy foods such as rice and pasta and protein rich foods such as meat, beans, and fish.Moderate your caffeine intake. Overdoing it on caffeine can lead to a loss of focus, jitteriness, and an upset stomach.
Drink lots of water to stay hydrated.
Skip the high fat, high sugar content foods. While these options may give you a short energy boost, they don’t contain the necessary nutrients to keep you going for longer.
 If you are living in a college dorm, and your building doesn’t have much in the way of kitchen accommodations, see if you can arrange to use an off campus friend’s kitchen. Even if you’re not great at cooking, this can be a fun way to relax and socialize, and at the end you’ll have food either way.


You can also host a bake-a-thon. Get your closest friends together and bake away - the delicious treats will help you and your friends de-stress before your next exam.
 Colleges will often organize events meant to de stress students during finals time. They can vary from handing out free coffee and donuts before early morning exams, to providing counseling, to setting up petting zoos or bringing dogs to campus for students to pet and play with. Inquire with your student services department to find out what options your university offers.If you are in high school, try reaching out to your guidance counselor. They are there to listen to students' problems and offer advice. Alternatively, you might want to volunteer somewhere that makes you feel relaxed, like an animal shelter.

