 A “529 Plan” gets its name from section 529 of the U.S. Tax Code, which establishes such plans and the tax benefits connected to them. A 529 Plan allows you to invest money, and the income from the investments will grow tax-free. In addition to saving on federal taxes, there may be benefits on state taxes as well, depending on the state where you live.For more detailed information on establishing a 529 account, check out Choose a 529 Account.
529 Plans exist as either “Direct Sold” savings programs, which you buy directly from a plan manager, or as “Broker Sold” plans, which you arrange through a financial adviser. You may need to pay professional fees for a broker sold plan, but you get the benefit of the financial adviser’s experience.
To review the plans that are available, you can visit www.SavingforCollege.gov, which provides a list of all the plans available, state by state. You can review the plans, get details on the investment possibilities, and even enroll right there online., Prepaid tuition plans are sponsored by the government of individual states. To set up a prepaid tuition plan, you will contact your state’s prepaid tuition program and select a contract. A contract allows you to make periodic payments toward the future estimated tuition costs. The contract sets tuition at today’s current rates, for future attendance. As you make periodic contractual payments, the money is set aside in the form of credits, which you will then use when you attend college.To find the prepaid tuition plans available in your state, just search online for “prepaid tuition plan” and the name of your state. You will find the state office that manages the plans, along with information about how to enroll and begin investing.
The money that you invest in a prepaid tuition plan is generally fully refundable if it is not ultimately used to attend college. However, you should check with the plan manager for specific details and possible fees., Buying federal savings bonds from the U.S. Treasury allows you to make an investment in college that will enjoy some tax benefits, while encouraging you to save money. You can purchase education savings bonds online at www.treasurydirect.gov, in amounts ranging from $25 to $10,000. The maximum purchase is $10,000 per year. The interest that you earn on federal savings bonds can then be excluded from your taxable income when you cash in the bonds to attend college.To purchase bonds, visit www.treasurydirect.gov and open a personal account by using the link “Open an Account” in the top right. You will need to provide some confidential identifying information. From there, you will be able to make investments, purchase bonds, and manage your account.
For more information on the tax benefits of savings bonds, see the IRS Publication 970, “Tax Benefits for Education,” available at www.irs.gov.
For specific help regarding the tax benefits of savings bonds, you should speak with an accountant, tax lawyer or other tax professional.
 A Coverdell Educational Savings Account (ESA) is a way to invest money, through a broker or financial adviser, that provides great flexibility and tax advantages. Contributions are not tax-deductible, but the investment earnings are tax-deferred, and withdrawals that are used for education costs are tax-free. To establish a Coverdell ESA, contact a brokerage firm, mutual fund company, or other financial investment institution.