 Creating a visual display of your goals and positioning it where you can look at it throughout the day is a big motivator. If you don’t keep your goals in front of your eyes, it’s easy to forget them or justify procrastinating.


Get creative with your board. You can make a basic 2D collage with magazine photo cutouts, or you can give the board dimension by adding small toy versions of your favorite healthy things—soccer or basketballs, pompoms, even play food like your little brother or sister has in their play kitchen.
Write your #1 goal in large letters in the center, something like, “To be fast enough to score a goal.” Make sure that your goal is not a number on the scale or a clothing size. Your goal should be about how you want to feel or what you want to be able to do when you are fit.
Post a picture of yourself when you were fit and happy, or when you were accomplishing a big physical feat like scoring a goal or winning a race.;
, You can create a virtual inspiration board by “pinning” inspiring images, websites, and articles that you find on the internet. This way, you can easily flip to the board on your smartphone and scroll through it to get fitness ideas or get excited about exercising.Include images of your favorite strong women, like Serena Williams or Carly Lloyd.
Include quotes like, "No one can make you feel inferior without your consent," by Eleanor Roosevelt.
 You can also draw your goals in a journal or diary (or paste magazine clippings on the pages). This journal can become a mobile inspiration board that you can open instantly no matter where you are. If you like to draw, this creative journal can be a great way to combine fitness with your other interests.


Share your goals with your parents as well. You do not have to share your journal with them, or tell them every single detail. Just make sure to clue them in on what you are working on so that they can encourage you and help you to make sure your goals are realistic.
 Find articles about girls just like you who had to overcome obstacles in order to get fit. You can find stories like this in teen magazines, young adult books (both fiction and nonfiction), or in blog posts on the internet. Just use a search engine to get started online, or visit a local library and search their catalog to check out a book or magazine.


Look up the stories of young women like Stephanie Jallen, who skis with only one leg, or Sarah Storey, who is a bicycling champion with a malformed left hand.
 Watching videos about how other people have transformed their bodies may also help to motivate you. You can search for things like “transformation story” or “weight loss journey” to find these types of videos.
 Reading articles about getting fit may also help to motivate you. Check out online fitness magazines, like Shape. Even without a subscription, you can read articles about exercise, fitness, and nutrition. Learn as much as you can about how to eat properly and exercise to get fit and stay motivated.

