 To be an effective online teacher, you should consider taking an online teaching course, in addition to ensuring you have taken a regular teacher training program and are certified to teach in your state or area. Teaching online can be very different than teaching in a classroom, as you do not have the advantage of face to face interaction with your students and it may be difficult to create a connection with students online. You can better prepare for the challenges of teaching online by taking a class or program on how to teach students in an online class.The university where you completed your bachelor’s degree may offer a class in online teaching or you may consider enrolling in a teaching online program through another university or college.;
, It can be difficult to develop a sense of community and connection with other educators, especially if you are working from home and do not have to go into a school setting every day. It can also be hard to network and meet potential job contacts if you work from home and are not exposed to a professional environment on a daily basis. You can expand your contacts in education by joining an online teaching association in your area. Associations like The World Association for Online Education (WAOE) can connect you to other online teachers and refer you to potential employers.Some online teaching associations may also offer access to online forums where you can chat with other online educators on a daily basis, ask questions about teaching online, and get references for open positions at online teaching programs.
 The beauty of online teaching is you do not need to focus your job search in one geographical area or an area close to where you live, as you will be working from your home office throughout the day. Instead, you can search online teaching programs at online universities for open positions that are applicable to your content area speciality.You can also look at universities and colleges who offer online courses in subject matter that relates to your content area, as you can then apply to teach the specific online class.
 Make sure your CV and cover letter are customized to the positions you are applying for, as this will show the employer that you took the time to read and understand the skills required for the position. Customizing your resume and cover letter will also improve your chances of getting hired.


If you are applying for a position teaching an online class in urban planning, for example, you may note on your resume that you have a bachelor’s degree in urban planning and have completed a practicum in a secondary level urban planning and design class as part of your bachelor’s degree.
You may also want to include sample lesson plans as part of your job application to show that you can create effective lesson plans for a course. Make sure the lesson plans contain interactive activities and focus on keeping online students engaged in the online course.

