 While you don't want to open your first few dates with "do you want to get married," you should find someone who is comfortable with commitment. Signs to look for include:


A willingness to talk about the future.
Emotional and social maturity, the ability to have a discussion or argument calmly.
Prior serious relationships.;
, Make him dinner. Go to movies. Have a picnic in a park. Take the time to get to know each other and develop a solid relationship built on love and trust. Don't rush him with hints about wanting a happy marriage with him until you've been dating for awhile. People change, especially after the wonder and joy of a brand new relationship wear off. You want to see this side of them before you commit "until death do you part."


Relationship expert John Molloy, the author of the book, Why Men Marry Some Women and Not Others, says that women who rush a man with hints about marriage too early in the relationship (first 6-8 months) will likely scare him off., Men aren't usually ready to pop the question, at minimum, until age 26 if they are college graduates.If you are looking for a proposal earlier than this, you may need to spend some more time dating before someone pops the question.


Men getting graduate or professional degrees after college usually marry 2-3 years later.
Men who did not go to college generally marry 2-3 years earlier.
After age 33, most men become less likely to marry., Moving in together is a great step towards marriage, because you get to see how you function during mundane, day-to-day life. After 6-8 months or more, try getting a place together and make sure your relationship stays strong. Rushing into marriage before you know you can live together can lead to awkward and unfortunate surprises later on.
 Having the blessing of your family and peers leads to longer marriage satisfaction and lower divorce rates. If you want to hide him from your parents or your friends hate him, there is likely something holding you two back from being truly happy.Ask for opinions about you as a couple from trusted sources. Do they think you seem happy? Could they see you two together for a long time?

, You can't want a wedding ring because you feel pressured or "you've been dating long enough." You have to want this person as your partner for the rest of you life. Imagine your life in the future and make sure you see this person in it.

