 No amount of reading will fully prepare you. You have plenty of time to buy gear and improve your technique, but the world's nicest pair of running shoes will take you nowhere if you don't start running.


You can run almost anywhere: down the sidewalk, through the park, around the track at a local school. Stay out of the street, when possible. You will be moving more quickly than the average pedestrian, and cars may not notice you so easily.
If you have a gym membership, consider running on the treadmill. This controlled environment may feel more comfortable at first.
The motion of running may feel uncomfortable at first. This is normal. You are putting tension on muscles that you don't normally use, and the practice of running itself will make these muscles stronger.
 When you're just starting out, you don't need a pair of fancy running shoes. Old sneakers will do. If you decide to make a serious practice of running, then you may want to consider buying running shoes.


Run in simple, comfortable clothes: gym shorts, a t-shirt, and a sports bra if necessary. Don't wear anything too heavy or constricting.
Wear socks. Your feet will sweat when you put them to work, and socks will keep your feet from chafing against your shoes.
Running barefoot can reduce the risk of injury to your foot, but only if you are running on a forgiving surface.If you live near the beach or a grassy area, consider running barefoot--but look out for broken glass and other sharp objects!

, Again: practice dynamic stretching during your warm-up, and save the static stretches for afterward.


Take 5-10 minutes before and after to loosen up your muscles. This will dramatically reduce the risk of cramps.
Dynamic stretches (i.e. lunges, deadlifts, squats) focus on movement; you are priming yourself for intense cardiovascular activity.
Static stretches (i.e. the butterfly stretch and some yoga poses) involve focusing on each muscle in turn and holding poses; you are loosening up muscles that have become tight through physical strain.
 If you are running at night, keep to well-lit areas. Do not stop for long, if you can avoid it, whether you are stopping to talk with a stranger or to tie your shoes. Tell a roommate or a family member where you will be running, and tell them when to expect you back.


If you are running during the day, look out for cars, bicyclists, and other pedestrians. Be constantly aware of your surroundings, and be prepared to change course at any time. You cannot always count on cars to stop for you.
Make yourself visible. If you will be running in an urban area amid a lot of car traffic, wear bright colors. This will help cars, buses, and bicyclists notice you when you cross busy streets.

