 This is a great way to keep your hands busy while your mind focuses on what the teacher or professor is saying. You can also do this at work, when you're thinking about what project you should work on next, or if you're just trying to look busy for the boss.If you're subtle about it you can even have doodling contests with your friend or coworker. Try to out-do one another with fantastic drawings, or add on to one another's drawings, to create something really wild.
 You want to challenge yourself at work or in class and if you're getting bored, you probably aren't being challenged enough. Try to come up with a project that would be challenging and interesting and propose it to your boss or teacher., When you have some free time at work or at school, it's a great time to do a little, subtle organizing. Sometimes this can even help you to find your productivity again. Clean-up your work area, or school binder. Make sure that everything is in its proper place and can be easily found.
 Clean the screen, clean between the keys. If it used to be white, do your best to carefully restore your computer to its former clean condition.


Organize your computer desktop so you can find things. Put pictures in the labelled picture folders and make sure all your documents are in properly labelled folders.
 If you have some time and you're bored, you can make use of it by meditating. This can help calm your mind and get yourself focused for the work ahead of you. It's a great re-energizing tactic.


Sit quietly at your desk and close your eyes (or pretend like you're working). Take deep breaths in and out and pay attention to your breathing. If you feel thoughts come into your head, acknowledge them and let them go.
 Reading is fun and you could pick up a book, a magazine, or a newspaper. Reading something helps pass the time by giving you something to keep your brain interested. Some free time is a great time to try something new.


You can usually hide a book beneath some textbook in your class or beneath your desk at work. It makes it look like you're really studying or paying attention to the material, while actually doing something a lot more fun.
Read a mystery and try to guess the solution before the detective, or try some fantasy or science fiction. Look into something nonfiction or spiritual, philosophical, paranormal, or even holy topics like Bible, or the Quran.
Check out what books you can get from the library and pick them up on your way to or from your work or class. Some libraries even have online databases where you can check out a book without having to leave your house or work!

, Having some free time is a great moment to learn something new and interesting. Then you can impress your friends and family. Learn how to do magic, discover how to breathe fire, or how to make chainmail!

, If you have your computer in front of you, you can use it to go online and surf the internet. Just make sure that you won't be caught by your boss or your teacher. You can use this time to amuse yourself or to learn something new.


Go on something like Craigslist or Ebay and find the weirdest thing you possibly can. Post it to your twitter, Facebook, or Tumblr account.
Go on Instagram, Facebook, or Vine. Upload photos, share stories, check out other people's posts and photos.

Watch random YouTube videos. Pick comedy ones if you want a lift, choose viral ones for entertainment and to stay trendy.

Use Pinterest. Choose a topic you like and make a board for it, add pictures you like. Or look at other people's pictures.
 Sometimes the best way to amuse yourself when you're bored is to enter into conversation with someone else. Pick someone you don't know that much about and ask them about themselves (where they are from? where they went to school? favorite thing to do outside of work?). You might even make a new friend.

