 This is simple once you know how, but it can take a while to get the knack. The psi ball is created by moving psi energy into a desired location in the form of a small sphere. For some, the standard psi ball is a little bigger than a baseball, and smaller than a softball. However, they can be made quite large - to fit around the body in the case of a shield, or even bigger than that.
 You can use one hand or two, you can hold them vertically or horizontally. Just do what feels right. Make sure you don't get your hands in a position so that it makes you tired and makes you get all shaky because of strain. Some people find it a bit harder to feel the psi if the fingers are touching.
 Visualize psi in your solar plexus. The solar plexus is the point where your lower ribs meet in the middle; place your hand on your stomach and your pinky touching the top of your belly button. This is the area you are going to want to use. There are many impressions of what psi looks like, such as water, fire, light... Choose the one that seems right to you. Imagine it in your sternum moving around slowly, and attempt to feel your solar plexus while visualizing this. There is a major chakra located here.
 Visualize it slowly moving up, going up your chest and over to your shoulders. Try to feel it while doing so. Have it go down to your arms, and to your hands, have it pool there for a little. Bring it back up, and then back to your sternum. Do this a few times, until you start to get the hang of it.
 Pull psi from your solar plexus. When you get to your hands, instead of letting it pool, have it flow out of your palms and shape into a hollow sphere. This sphere is what you are going to use as a shell.
 This means projecting your intentions into the psi ball, to control its behaviour. Basic programming should be to maintain the psi on the inside, and to keep it in one location instead of having if fly every which direction. After you have successfully created a shell, you will want to fill it in; allow the psi to flow into the shell. Your psi ball is ready.
 Move it just like you moved the psi from your solar plexus. This time it won't be in your body, though. This can take practice; you will get better.
 There are many ways to make psi balls, some people have much better success with doing it a certain way. The principles of it are the same; locate your "energy" source, move the psi, then put the psi into an area and use what "energy" you have to create the psi ball.
 Create the psi ball the size of a beach ball, then when you feel you're ready compress it down into a smaller, denser ball. A lot of people seem to have good results with this.

