 It is imperative that your measurements be as close to accurate as possible. Macarons are a very fiddly dessert that require a lot of precision. You may find it easier to measure your ingredients by weight (digitally if possible), instead of with cups (as is standard in North America). For this recipe, you will need a measuring tool that can calculate grams.

Macarons utilize egg whites, which can be one of the most difficult ingredients to master and use both safely and effectively. Separating egg whites is quite difficult. It is very important that none of the egg yolk is mixed in with the whites; otherwise, the meringue will not whip and the cookie shell will not properly form. Specific tools made to separate egg yolks and whites are often readily available. If it is not possible for you to obtain a specific separating utensil, then read How to separate an egg for instructions on how to properly procure the egg whites from your eggs.;
, Line a large baking sheet or tray with greaseproof paper or parchment (baking) paper. If the baking sheets are small, you may need to line two., Pulse until you have created a very fine dust. Sieve through the mixture to remove any large chunks, discarding any remains that haven't passed through the sieve, before returning the mixture back into the food processor., Pour into the food processor, along with the mixture. Blend the mixture and the measured egg whites to create a paste., Heat the mixture until the sugar has dissolved and it forms a syrupy consistency., Whisk until they appear light and fluffy and form soft peaks. Then, whisk in the red food colouring with the mixer, and gradually mix in the syrup in small increments. Continue whisking until the mixture has stiffened and appears shiny. Then transfer it to a clean mixing bowl., It is essential that you fold and not stir it!, Pipe circles around 4cm in diameter onto the baking trays (previously lined with baking paper). Then, lift the baking tray off the surface and knock the bottom against the counter or surface, controlling your motions carefully to prevent it from spilling. (This flattens the macaroons and removes air bubbles from the meringue)., Bake for about 12-15 minutes, or until the shells are firm. Leave the oven door slightly ajar. After removing the baked macarons from the oven, allow them to cool on wire baking racks. Once cooled, they can be filled with the strawberry buttercream (see next)., These are outlined above., Use the back of the spoon to push the strawberry pieces through into a mixing bowl., Using a whisk attachment, whisk in the icing sugar and strawberry purée until fully blended., To make each macaron, pipe the buttercream onto the flat surface of a macaron half and sandwich it shut with the flat surface of another macaron half. Continue until all are made., The macarons can be served after making or stored chilled in an airtight container for two to three days. They are best consumed within 12 to 24 hours.