 These devices can range in price from $10 to $100 or more. A tuner and metronome combination is a great investment for a new musician. Steer clear of tuners that are crafted specifically for guitars or other instruments. Instead, look for chromatic tuners that can be used to tune any instrument.Start by using a tuner to understand what your trumpet should sound like, when perfectly in tune. As you practice, start learning to adjust your pitch to that of other musicians as this is more important than being the only player in a band “correctly” in tune.;
, Before you get started tuning, you’ll need to make a short list of notes that require the use of the third valve slide for tuning. Essentially, any note played using the third valve may need to be tuned with the third valve slide. The low D and low G played with the 1st and 3rd valves almost always need to be played using the third valve slide to tune. Low C# and low F# played with the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd valves may also need to be tuned with the third valve slide.


D and C# should almost always be played using the third valve slide to keep the trumpet in tune. They should receive the majority of attention, when you’re first learning to use the slide for tuning.
In many cases the low F# and low G are so low they do not need to be tuned using the third valve slide., Once you have a tuner, the first step is to ensure your trumpet’s tone is on pitch using the main tuning slide. The tuning note for trumpets is the C on the scale. It’s recommended that players slur up to the C by playing the first four notes of a G major scale, G, A, B, C. Once the C is reached, the player is truly playing to the pitch of the instrument and not trying to hold the note in tune., If your instrument is sharp, pull the tuning slide out. It it is flat, push the tuning slide in. Continue this process until you can play the C in tune three times in a row. For best results, play a few other notes to see if they're in tune. If not, go back to the C, and make sure you're holding this note in tune. If your C is in tune, but other notes are not, you may have a concern with your instrument. Take it in to a repair shop to be examined., Once your trumpet is in tune overall, it’s time to play your C, G, F#, and C# to see if they are in tune. Start by playing and holding each note in turn to determine whether the note plays in tune already or, if you will need to use the third valve slide to keep the note in tune. Play and hold each note three or four times, and note whether the sharpness or flatness fluctuates without adjusting the third valve slide., Play each note that is not on pitch in your initial test again. This time, repeat the note with the third valve slide extended. Move the slide back and forth until your note is in tune. Repeat this process for each note. Then, start over again playing each note until you extend the third valve slide to the right location to tune your note at least three times in a row.


Over time, your embouchure will go through changes and this will affect your tuning, so you’ll need to repeat this process every few weeks.