 Plastic “speed” ropes are more durable than cotton ropes and whip around faster, which will create a more intense workout. They’re also good for doing advanced jump rope moves, like the single leg jump or the alternate foot jump., It’s important to use a rope that fits your height. To measure the rope:









Stand in the middle of the rope. The handles should extend to your armpits.
If the handles go past your armpits, cut and adjust the length as necessary.
 This will help to gradually prepare your lower body for the impact of jumping.Don’t jump on hard surfaces like concrete, as this can put stress on your knees and lead to injury., Master the form of the basic jump before you try any variations or tricks.








Hold the rope with your hands at hip height and keep your elbows slightly bent. Make sure your upper arms are close to your sides. Roll your shoulders back and down and keep your chest out.
Jump one to two inches off the floor, giving the rope just enough space to slip under your feet. Land on the balls of your feet.
Keep your elbows close to your sides as you turn the rope. The movement should come from your wrists and forearms, not from your shoulders. Make turns that are no bigger than two inches, as any bigger will cause you to jump too high.Make your jumps small and consistent. Do 10-15 jumps to warm up and get the feel for the basic jump.
If you get tired before you finish 15 jumps, drop the rope but keep your arms and legs going. You can work up to using the rope full-time.
 Once you feel comfortable with the basic jump, practice jumping rope once a day. Keep track of how many jumps you can do in 15-20 minutes.








Don’t sacrifice form for speed. Make sure you keep your elbows in as you turn and you do not jump higher than one to two inches off the ground., This will help you lose weight and get better at jumping rope. Try a 15 minute circuit, once a day, to burn fat and tone your body. You will need a jump rope, a timer, and an exercise mat.Jump rope for 1 minute, with both feet together.
Do 20 lunges, 10 per side.
Jump rope for 1 minute.
Do 10 pushups.
Jump rope for 1 minute with both feet together.
Do a 30-second plank.
Jump rope for 1 minute. Rest for 10 seconds.
Repeat this circuit one more time, with a one minute rest between each circuit.

