 You can play online or at your favorite casino. Find machines with good payouts. For example, the payout for a Full House can vary from one to five credits.This information is listed on the payout table. You can reach the payout table from the main menu of the video poker console.


Search around for good machines. If you settle for a machine with a low payout, you’ll lose your money more quickly.;
, There are many different kinds of poker games to choose from when playing video poker. However, the most popular game is called “Jacks or Better.” This particular game is good for beginners as it offers a high payout with relatively low risk.


If you can’t find a machine that says “Jacks or Better” in the title, look for a Game King machine. These machines usually offer “Jacks or Better” payout options.
 Insert coins, dollar bills, credit cards, or casino club membership cards. This money will be applied towards your credit on the machine. You will use this credit to bet. When you’re finished gambling, your remaining credit will be returned to you as your winnings.
 You don’t have to bet all of your money at once. Instead, press the buttons found at the bottom of the screen to add money to your bet. To bet the maximum amount of money possible, press the “Max Bet” button. The more money you bet, the higher the payout will be if you win.Bet the maximum amount of money whenever possible. You’ll have a much higher chance of making your money back., The machine will deal you five cards. Click on a card to keep it. Click card again to unselect it. If you don’t have any pairs or winning combinations, you can unselect all of the cards to discard all of them. You can press “deal” twice for each hand.


Pressing “deal” will discard all of the unselected cards and give you new ones. If you’re lucky, these new cards will form winning combinations with your old cards.
Keep in mind that unless “Auto Hold” is enabled, the machine won’t automatically hold a winning hand for you.Therefore, be sure you’ve examined your hand well before pressing “deal.”

, If you have a winning hand, the machine will usually flash “winner” across the screen and give you money. Your payout will be highlighted on the payouts section. The money will go towards your credits. When you’re done, you can collect your winnings all at once.


If you used coins, you will either collect coins from the machine or a slip of paper with your credit amount written on it.
If you use a slot machine club card, you will receive credit on your card.

