 If you are hugging someone in a platonic way, you don't need to worry about being "too forward" or holding back. The goal here is to show someone how much you appreciate them – so make it a good hug. Wait for the right moment, then wrap your arms around the person and hold them close.


Most people appreciate a good hug. If you are genuine and comforting in your hugs, people will notice. Don't be afraid to share your love!
This is especially important if you're hugging to comfort someone. The warmer you come across, the more loved your hugging partner will feel.
 This means that you shouldn't take a platonic hug too far. Don't squeeze so tight that the person is in pain or can't breathe. Don't touch any private parts or sensitive areas unless your hugging partner has given you permission. Don't put your face too close to theirs, or breathe heavily in their ear, or step on their toes. Use your best judgment, and lighten up your approach if the person seems uncomfortable with the situation.
 You don't need to think too much about it – the purpose of hugging family is to show a simple, platonic love, even if you don't terribly like the person. You don't need to hug them tightly, although solid hugs (both in firmness and duration) tend to show more affection. Stroke your hands quickly across the top of the other person's back, and smile when you let go.


Hugging female relatives should be mostly the same. Hug your mom like you'd hug your grandmother like you'd hug your sister. Hugging male relatives can depend on the context and the relative; some men may prefer a handshake, if you're a male.
Understand how people hug in your family. Some families are big on hugging, while others tend to keep physical contact at a minimum. Watch how your other family members act with one another, then play to this hugging pattern to make sure that your relatives feel comfortable.
 If you're just giving a quick, playful hug, you can let go after a few seconds. If the moment calls for a long hug, however, you don't need to feel self-conscious. Much like staring into someone's eyes, a long hug can be a powerful and intimate experience – and it can be a great way to connect with someone. You may find that past a certain threshold, you can let yourself slip into the hug and simply enjoy the sensation of being held., The depth and duration of the hug depend on the context: how close you are with this person, why you are hugging them, and how comfortable everyone is at the moment. You may also find that there are different expectations from a hug depending on whether your hugging partner identifies as male or female. The important thing is that you are warm and genuine; your hug should show your friend how much you appreciate him or her.


Girls: Close your eyes and think about how much you appreciate your friend. Hold as tight as you like, but be careful not to squish your friend. Avoid patting your hugging partner on the shoulders: some girls may think that you don't like them if you pat them on the back without getting deep into a hug.
Guys: Embrace each other firmly, and slap each other on the upper back or shoulders. If you're having an emotional moment, hold the hug for a brief moment and do not clap each others backs. Be careful who you hug: some guys are very uncomfortable with male-on-male hugs, but others have no such qualms.

