 In the United States, you must have a prescription from a doctor to buy a doppler fetal heart monitor. Ask your doctor if this device is right for you. You may even ask them to demonstrate how to use it.While there are no known problems with using doppler devices at home, it is best to have these tests done by a medical professional. Even with a device, you may not be able to recognize problems with the baby’s heartbeat without medical training.While a doctor may be able to detect the heart rate as early as ten weeks, at-home doppler devices may not work until five months., Lift up your shirt to reveal your bare belly. Squeeze ultrasound gel onto your stomach along your pubic bone or lower abdomen. Use the wand of the doppler device (called a transducer probe) to spread the gel over your skin.Ultrasound gel often comes with the device, although you may be able to purchase it separately.
 You can guide the transducer probe around your pubic bone area. If you’re having difficulty finding the fetus, hold the wand at different angles. The fetus' heartbeat will sound like a strong, consistent pulse.Do not use the device for longer than ten minutes at a time. If you cannot find the heartbeat in that time, try again in a few days.
It may be difficult to find the heartbeat using at-home devices. Visit a doctor for an external examination if you are concerned.
 Once you locate the heartbeat, the heart rate will appear on the electronic monitor of the device. The baby’s heart rate should be between 110 and 160 beats per minute (bpm). The heart rate can vary between 5 and 25 beats from minute to minute.If the fetus’ heart rate is between 160 and 180 bpm, they may have fetal tachycardia. Visit a doctor.If the heart rate is between 60 and 100 bpm, you may have actually picked up on your own heart rate instead of the fetus’.The fetal heart rate is not an accurate measure of health. Complications can still happen, even if the heartbeat is normal. Do not delay getting medical attention if you suspect something is wrong., If you are concerned that there is a problem, visit a doctor immediately. The doctor can perform more tests to determine if there is an issue.If you have any abdominal pain, bleeding, dizziness, cramping, or discharge, see a doctor immediately, even if the fetus’ heart rate is normal.
If you notice any change in the baby’s heart rate or if you notice an irregular pulse, call your doctor.

