 It doesn’t matter what color (red, yellow, white, etc.) or type of onion you purchase. All of them will be relatively effective. However, yellow onions will be the most effective for deodorizing your litter box, as they produce the most potent smell.Red onions are often the most expensive, so buying a yellow or white onion may be preferable.;
, Use a sharp knife to slice the onion down the middle to make two halves. If you wish, you may remove the outer layers of skin to avoid it flaking off and creating a mess. The onion skin plays no role in reducing litter-box odor, so can be discarded without consequence.


If you are using a large onion, you may decide to cut the onion into quarters. This will allow you to put onion sections in more places around the room.
 Place the onion sections in the room soon after you cut the onion. The onion will most effectively dispel unpleasant odors soon after you cut it.


Although it will be simplest to place the onion on the floor, you can experiment with different techniques. For example, try hanging the onion from the ceiling by passing a needle and thread through the onion and hanging it from a plant hanger.
The potent smell of the onion will counteract the urine smell. The onion fumes, which also make your eyes sting and water, will neutralize the smell of the room.While a cut onion will counteract the smells of cat litter, it can remove unpleasant odors throughout your home as well. For example, a sliced onion left out in your basement will remove any musty odors., Although the onion smell may initially be pungent in the room you have placed the onion halves, it will fade with time. Eventually the onions will dry out and lose their aroma.


Don’t worry about scaring your cat off with the aroma of onions. It’s unlikely that cats will find the onion smell unpleasant, as humans sometimes do.
 This indicates that your cut onions are no longer effective and need to be replaced. Experiment with how long the cut onions will last. You may be able to leave a single onion out for a week or longer.


Repeat this process with fresh onions. If you have the time and budget, you could try using different types of onions simultaneously.
 Onions are poisonous to cats. If your cat takes a small nibble from one of the onion halves in the litter-box room, she should be fine—but eating more than that can cause digestive health problems.Any of the Allium species of plants (which includes both onions and garlic) are toxic to cats.Allium species damage cats’ red blood cells, and diminish the amount of oxygen that these cells can carry.In severe cases, this anemia can lead to death.
 Rather than placing the halves in obvious locations that are easy for your cat to reach, look around the room and see where you could hide the onion. Be careful though—it can be difficult to hide things from cats, since they are curious and notorious climbers. Consider if you can:


Hide the onion behind a tall bookshelf,
Hide the onion beneath a tall sofa,
Hide the onion on a high shelf that your cat cannot jump up to.
 Because the smell of the onion needs to waft into the room, you can cover the onion as long as you do not put it under an airtight object.


This cover should prevent your cat from eating the onion. If your cat is persistent, use a heavy object to weight down the colander.
 If you suspect your cat has eaten a substantial portion of the onion, call your vet immediately. If you have reason for concern, look for symptoms caused by onion ingestion:Lethargy and weakness,
Poor muscle coordination and excessive salivation,
Vomiting or diarrhea.
 A standard rule of thumb is to have as many litter boxes as cats, plus one more.This way, you cat won’t have to travel far to find a litter box, and can take its pick between multiple boxes.


If you have 1 cat, you need 2 litter boxes. If you have 4 cats, you need 5 litter boxes.
Keep at least one litter box on every floor of your house.
 While your impulse may be to keep the litter box as much out of the way as possible, if you put it in an inconvenient location, your cat may not be able to find the box or may dislike the location.Follow these general rules when placing the litter box:


Keep it away from loud appliances, which may scare your cat.
Keep it far from your cat’s food and water bowls, for hygiene purposes.
If the litter box is in a room with a closed door, prop the door open or add a cat entrance.
 This is a general rule of thumb, although it can vary, depending on how many cats use the litter box.If you have several cats using the same litter box, you may need to change the litter once a day.


If your cat scratches the floor next to the litter box, this is his way of telling you that the litter needs to be changed. Cats don’t like to use a dirty litter box, and may start going to the bathroom around the house if the litter is dirty.

