 Fixies are fixed gear bikes that have become popularized by hipsters. You can custom build your own or buy them online or at speciality bike shops. Remember that they aren’t like other bikes as they only have one gear and no breaks.
 Hipsters prefer brands like Dunhill and Parliaments. Clove cigarettes are good alternatives. Try to avoid menthol cigarettes.
 When it comes to technology, hipsters are synonymous with using Apple products. Whether it is using an iPhone, iPad, or Macbook, try to use Apple products.
 Cross body bags or satchels are a great accessory to carry your money, phone, and other odds and ends. You can purchase them online, speciality stores, or at your local thrift store for a more vintage or thrifty look.
 Only listen to artists from independent record labels. Try to focus on obscure bands or bands that are not in the mainstream. Go to a lot of shows and listen to podcasts.


Go to music festivals in the summer and even start your own music blog.
 Tomographic aesthete photography is popular with hipsters but generally, photography is a popular creative outlet for them. Enjoy dark rooms and developing film. Learn how to create a sepia tone and scan negatives.


Instagram is a great social media channel to express yourself with photography. You may also use Tumblr or WordPress to start your own blog to showcase your work

, Documentaries and foreign films are very popular with hipsters. Learn about film theory and aesthetics. You may also make your own short film or a documentary about a social issue.


Black and white classic films should inspire you. Using fisheye lenses and experimenting with different filming techniques should also interest you.
 Enjoy letterpress and learn about bowls, counters, serifs, or ligatures. The art and aesthetic of print is very popular with hipsters so try to take an interest in

, If you have the time and space, opt for a rescue dog over purchasing one from a store or private breeder. You may also look to rescue cats or any other animal you think you can handle.
 Homeopathy is popular among some hipsters. Keep an open mind and learn as much as you can about alternative healing practices. Make sure you learn enough information to make an informed decision about your health.

