 As an RN, you can work in the surgical area after graduating and getting your nursing license; however, specialization and certification in surgical nursing, also known as perioperative nursing, will enable you to work in specialized roles and earn more money. Most specialized educational programs, however, require a minimum amount of clinical experience as an RN before you can enroll in the program. These requirements vary upon the area in which you live. On average, the required length of time is one to two years.Most programs also require that 2,000 hours, or one year, of this time be served in an acute care setting. This is to give you an idea of the amount of stress that may be involved in being a surgical nurse.
 Additional training to become a surgical nurse typically involves a two-year program in which you focus solely on the skills and professional knowledge necessary to work within the operating room. Upon completion of this program, you will have a recognized specialty in surgery-related care.Alternatively, you can also pursue a Master's Degree. A Master’s program can take between 18 months and three years depending upon if you had prior experience and are enrolled full-time or part-time. Master's programs blend theory, research, and practice and allow the surgical nurse to take a certification examination.
 In order to obtain specialized roles in the operating room and receive a higher pay scale, surgical nurses are often required to pass a certification examination. An initial certification, the CNOR is offered by the Competency and Credentialing Institute for perioperative RNs. This certification documents the validity of a nurse’s standard of practice in caring for patients before, during and after surgery. Requirement include:An unrestricted RN license
Current full or part-time employment in perioperative nursing, education, administration or research
Completed two years and 2,400 hours of experience in perioperative nursing with at least 1,200 hours in the operating room.
Re-certification is required every five years.
 Inside the operating room, surgical nurses play one of four different roles. Each role requires specialized knowledge and abilities which the nurse brings to the team of professionals. Note that in some cases additional education and certification may be desirable, such as for a Registered Nurse First Assistant.Scrub Nurse. An RN who is sterile and may prepare the operating room prior to surgery, assess the patients when they arrive, and help prepare the patient for the surgical procedure. Scrub nurses will pass instruments to the surgeon during the procedure and help monitor the patient.

Circulating Nurses. An RN who ensures that all paperwork is completed, documents the surgical procedure, replenishes surgical supplies, verifies instrument count after the procedure is completed, and completes the charting of the surgery.

Registered Nurse First Assistant. An RN who directly assists during the operation. The exact responsibilities will vary with the type of surgery and the surgeon’s preference. Generally, the role includes controlling bleeding, suturing the incision, and intervening during complications. Prior to surgery these nurses will provide pre-operative instructions, answer questions, and following surgery, will assess patients for recovery and provide discharge instructions.

PACU (Post Anesthesia Care Unit) Nurse. An RN who cares for patients after surgical procedures and anesthesia.
 After your initial certification, you can also specialize in specific types of surgical fields, such as Certified Plastic Surgical Nurse, Adult Cardiac Surgery Subspecialty Certification, Certified Bariatric Nurse as well as Registered Nurse First Assistant, mentioned above. These specializations typically require a valid RN license, several years of experience in the field, additional educational training, and certification.The specific requirements of each specialization may vary, so it's best you consult a trusted resource, such as the Association of Perioperative Registered Nurses, which provides a number of resources on nursing education and clinical practice, and has local chapters located throughout the United States.

