 Most Epson printers operate similarly with multiple ink cartridges for every color. Open up the printer lid, not just the top lid where the scanner is.
Make sure that your printer is plugged in and turned on. To change your cartridges, your printer must be powered on.
To access the ink carriage, start at the home screen on your printer. Push the right arrow button until you see the “Setup” option. Press “Ok”. Then press the right arrow until you get to the “Maintenance” option. Press “OK”. Press on your right arrow again and scroll through your options until you see the one for “Ink Carriage Replacement”.
The ink cartridges will slide to the right side of your open tray. This is the replacement position.
In some Epson printers, there will be an ink button identified by a small ink drop icon. Press the ink button to move the ink cartridge into the replacement position. You will then see an ink light begin to flash for the corresponding ink cartridge that needs to be removed. , If there are already ink cartridges in your printer, you will have to remove these old ones.


Pinch the sides of the cartridge you need to replace. Then lift the cartridge out of the printer.
 Take the new cartridge from its packaging and remove the protective tape.


Before removing the cartridge from the packaging, shake it a few times to help prime the ink. Don’t shake the cartridge once it’s out of the packaging as it can leak.
Remove the protective tab on the ink cartridge. This is a plastic film that covers the part of your cartridge that dispels the ink.
There may also be a piece of plastic over the ink nozzle, do not remove this tape or plastic.
Be careful not to break the hooks on the side of the cartridges. There will also be a plastic label on the side of the cartridge. Do not remove this label as it will cause ink to leak and the cartridge to malfunction.
Be careful not to touch the green IC area of the cartridge or the ink nozzles. touching this area can cause clogs, ink failure, or a disconnection if your fingerprints smudge the area. Do not shake your cartridges either.
 Gently slide the new cartridge into the ink slot. The tab goes toward the back.


Insert your cartridge into the slot with the ink nozzles facing away from you.
The color cartridge(s) go on the left side. The black cartridge on the right side. Make sure you hear a click to ensure the cartridge is locked into place.
If your Epson printer has an ink button, press it again to allow the printer to charge the ink delivery system. When this is finished, the print head will automatically return to the home position.
 Press the start button if your printer has one. This will charge the ink.


Once the door is closed properly you will hear the cartridges slide back into place.
If prompted, click “OK to proceed”.
Finished.

