 If your friend cannot hear you at all, it’s possible that the wrong microphone is selected in your Skype settings.Windows: Click “Tools” and then “Options,” then click “Audio settings” on the left. Select the correct microphone from the “Microphone” dropdown, and place a check next to “Automatically adjust microphone settings.” Click “Save.”
Mac: Click “Preferences” in the Skype menu (at the top of the screen) and make sure the right microphone is selected in the “Microphone” dropdown. Place a check next to “Automatically adjust microphone settings” before exiting this screen.
 If your microphone is muted in Skype, the mute icon (a microphone) will appear with a line through it. If there’s a line through the microphone, tap the icon to turn off mute.
 If you’re using a mobile device and unable to unmute your call, you may have to allow Skype access to the microphone.


iOS: Click “Privacy” in the Settings app and select “Microphone,” then flip the switch next to “Skype” to the On position.Android: Open the Settings app and select “Apps,” then choose Skype from the list. Tap “Permissions,” then make sure the switch next to “Microphone” is flipped to the On position.
 Skype’s “Echo” service allows you to make a test call to test your microphone for trouble.


Find “Echo/Sound Test Service” in your contacts list (or search for “echo123” in the search field) and click (or tap) to open its profile.
Click or tap “Call” to play on Echo’s profile. When Echo answers the call, you should hear a prompt asking you to record a message. Say “This is a test” and wait to hear your message read back to you.
If your microphone is working properly, you’ll hear the message you just recorded. Your friend should troubleshoot their end of the call.
 If you’re using a computer, make sure your microphone is not muted and that the volume is turned up.
 If your friend still can’t hear you, they are likely experiencing their own audio issues. Ask them to troubleshoot potential audio issues on their end.

