 So you are looking to move on. However, you need to know what you are moving on to. You need to know that quitting your current job is a prudent move by looking into other available positions. Do an internet search or look through the local want ads to determine if there is a demand for someone with your particular abilities and skill set.Try looking at job websites like Monster.com, Indeed.com, or Simplyhired.com to see what sorts of alternative employment you can find. These sites offer a wide variety of jobs that are searchable by job type, pay grade, and state, city or region.Be sure to account for current living arrangements. If you are unable to move to a different area of the country, your job opportunities may be much more limited than someone who can pick up and move at any time.Be sure that you consider bonuses, insurance packages and other supplemental benefits when comparing your current position to potential employment opportunities.;
, Try applying to a few jobs that you feel might be a good fit for you. You will need to gauge how marketable or desirable you are to potential employers in order to leverage the best contract you can from the available job pool.Be sure to update your resume, including any and all accomplishments from your current job.
It is also wise to put together a template for a cover letter. Cover letters will have to change slightly for different positions or job postings. It can be helpful to highlight the areas that will be subject to change on your template.
 If there are other people who rely on you, or other people who have a vested interest in your income (wives, husbands, children, etc.), you need to discuss the possibility of quitting your current job and taking up a new position with them.This is a particularly important step if you are planning to move to a new location for a new job.
You may also wish to speak with someone who has experience changing jobs or careers to get some further insight on the process. A parent or older colleague whom you trust could be a good choice.Make sure you keep any and all plans for leaving your current job among people you trust. It is not wise to discuss your future job plans with co-workers until after you have informed your current employer about ending your tenure with the company. , Leaving your old job for your new one may not be “free”. Many people incur costs as a result of switching jobs. First, you may be left without an income for a short period of time. Secondly, you may need to purchase a new wardrobe or, if necessary for your job, equipment or tools. You will need to plan for issues like this in advance.If you plan on being unemployed between your two jobs, make sure you have enough money in your savings account to cover this period of unemployment.If you live paycheck to paycheck, you may need to secure a loan to get you through a period of temporary unemployment., If you plan on going into business for yourself, build a foundation for that business while you are still employed and earning a regular paycheck. If you are moving to another place of employment, make sure you have a solid offer in hand before turning in a resignation letter to your current employer.Never leave your current position based on a theoretical or verbal offer. You never know what can happen and you don’t want to be left jobless.
Be clear with potential employers about your current position and responsibilities. You will want to leave enough time between quitting your old job and starting your new one to tie up any loose ends with your old position. Future employers should appreciate that you are considerate enough to make sure you leave your old job on good terms.
 The first person at your workplace to find out about your plans to leave should be your boss, manager, or supervisor. This individual is in the best position to fill your position and will need to know you are leaving as soon as possible so that he can make other plans. Also, this is presumably the person who hired you (or at least didn’t fire you) and signed your paychecks. Letting him know first is simply a common courtesy.
Most jobs require you to give them two weeks notice before quitting your position, although some companies prefer that you give them thirty days notice.
 Check with your employer to see if a change of status, such as a significant pay raise, increased benefits, bonuses, or other perks are in your future at your present job. Quitting before these events occur may effectively cost you money. However, your boss may be so desperate to keep you that he will offer these perks to you immediately when you inform him you are quitting.


Don’t change your plans for empty promises. If your current employer has offered promises of a raise or a bonus before, but failed to follow through on them, then there is no reason to think this situation will be different. Any and all offers made by your present employer in an attempt to keep you on should be put into writing. This will help you hold him to it.
 Your boss may express any one of a number of emotions when you tell him you are leaving. Some bosses take employees quitting personally and become visibly angry when it happens. It is important that you stand your ground and commit to quitting while still showing the proper level of respect and courtesy, even if your boss gets mad.Remember, your boss is still your boss, at least for the next few weeks. Don’t take your quitting as an opportunity to turn the tables on him and chew him out, belittle him, call him an idiot, etc. None of these things are “graceful” and you will be burning a bridge with someone from whom you might still need a letter of recommendation or reference., Communicate your plans with your fellow employees so they can be prepared to take up the slack when you leave. Depending on the type of work you are doing, up to thirty days notice may make their efforts to replace you easier.Make sure you tell your closest colleagues or work friends first, so they don’t hear it from someone else and feel slighted.You are not obligated to inform everyone in the workplace that you are quitting. However, it is a courtesy that needs to be extended to the people who will need to pick up your slack once you are gone., You will want to inform the human resources department at your current employer about your plans to change jobs or quit. They will likely need to make some adjustments to your files and prepare for a new employee to fill your position, so they could use a head’s up.Be sure your correct mailing address is on file, so your tax information can be sent to you next year.
 It is critical that you don’t “slack off” or neglect your work while you are finishing up your tenure with a company. Also, don’t continuously talk about how much better your new job will be or talk to co-workers about how happy you are to be leaving your current position.Everybody else is staying in their position. Constantly talking about getting out of a company only makes you seem like a jerk to everyone who is staying.
Your work performance in the last two weeks of your job are as important as the first two weeks. Don’t forget, you are being constantly evaluated and a decrease in performance near the end of your term with the company may be reflected in reference letters down the line.Be polite and respectful to all your coworkers and supervisors during the period before you quit., If you are dealing with issues or customers that will require further attention, either complete these tasks yourself or make sure someone else will do it when you are gone., Leave your desk and files in perfect order. Don’t assume your replacement will understand your methods of file storage and organization. Label everything clearly so it is easy to find once you are gone.Don't hide important documents in a childish attempt at revenge.
Don’t take or steal anything that the company provided you, like staplers, computers, etc.
 Make duplicate copies of all records and contact information related to your position so the person who replaces you will be able to adjust to their situation more easily.It is also important that you organize everything you were working on in an easily searchable way. It can also be helpful to draw up an inventory of your files and work materials for your replacement.
It is often beneficial to have a “handing over notes” meeting between you and your replacement. Some companies require this, while others do not. This meeting will allow you to explain your job, duties, associated files, etc. to your replacement face-to-face.While it is rarely required, it would be a nice gesture to leave your contact information for your replacement so that he can contact you if he has questions, comments or concerns about the position., Look into your employer furnished insurance and retirement plans. You will want to make sure these benefits are not lost upon termination of your employment.You will want to be sure your 401K can be rolled over to your new job.
 Talk to your employer about any resume information or references they would be willing to share about you to prospective employers. This is why it is important to end your tenure with your current company on a high note.You need to get this reference now, even if you have other employment lined up. Once you are gone, your accomplishments and years of service will be quickly forgotten.
 Most jobs these days have exit interviews designed to identify your impressions of the company, its operations, your position and the management. Be honest and open when conducting this interview. Your answers to their questions can help the business improve.In order to quit “graciously”, don’t use this exit interview to air grievances or hurl personal attacks at coworkers or employees you don’t like. Stick to discussing areas that you think the company could use improvement in or highlight the areas in which you feel the company excels.

