 If you're logged into Facebook, doing so will open your News Feed.

If you aren't logged into Facebook, enter your email address (or phone number) into the top-right corner of the screen and click Log In.
 It's in the top-right corner of the Facebook window., This option is toward the bottom of the drop-down menu., It's on the left side of the Facebook window., Edit is on the right side of the window. You'll see "Who can see your future posts?" near the top of the Privacy page., It should say something like "Friends" or "Public" in the box., Doing so will restrict your future posts to your viewing only.

If you want some people to be able to see your posts, consider clicking Friends or Friends except acquaintances (which may be in the More options section here) instead.
 It's in the top-right corner of the "Who can see my stuff?" section., You'll find this option toward the bottom of the "Who can see my stuff?" section on the right side of the page., This button, located at the bottom of the "Who can see my stuff?" tab, will restrict all past posts to Friends only., It's at the bottom of the pop-up window., It's at the bottom of the pop-up window. Doing so will return you to the Privacy page., option. You'll find the "Who can send you friend requests?" section about halfway down the Privacy page., It should be below the "Who can send you friend requests?" heading., Doing so will reduce the people who can request you as a friend (and, therefore, see you in the "Suggested Friends" menu) to people who are friends of your current Facebook friends., It's in the top-right corner of the "Who can contact me?" section., This full option reads "Who can look you up using the email address you provided?" and is located beneath the "Who can look me up?" heading., It should say "Everyone" or "Friends of Friends" here., Doing so will ensure that only your Facebook friends can look you up by email address on Facebook.

You can repeat this process for the phone number option below "Who can look you up using the email address you provided?" as well.
 This is the "Do you want search engines outside of Facebook to link to your profile?" option., Doing so will ensure that people won't be able to look you up in Google, Bing, or any other search service outside of Facebook's search., It's at the top of the Facebook page., You'll find this option below and to the right of your profile picture., It's in the top right corner of the list of friends., It will say something like "Public" or "Friends"., Doing so will ensure that only you can see the people in your friend list., This box will also say something like "Public" or "Friends".,, It's at the bottom of the "Edit Privacy" window. Now your friends list, account details, and old posts are restricted to private viewing, which makes your Facebook account about as private as it can be.