 Your stool may change color and become very pale if you have jaundice. This change occurs because when you have jaundice, there may be a duct blockage causing reduced bilirubin in your stool, leaving most of it to be excreted in your urine.Most bilirubin is normally excreted in your stool.
Your stool may even be grey if you have severe obstruction.your stool may have blood in it or be black if you are having bleeding complications from liver disease.
 Bilirubin is also normally excreted in your urine, though less than is normally in your stool. When you have jaundice, however, your urine becomes darker because of the higher levels of bilirubin being excreted by this means.You may also notice that you end up peeing less each time you go to the bathroom. Be sure to track how frequently you go, whether you pee a lot or a little each time, and what color your urine is so you can tell your doctor.
Urine changes may occur before skin colouration changes so remember to tell your doctor when you first started noticing your urine getting darker.
Newborn baby urine should be clear. If your baby has jaundice, you can expect his urine to be darker yellow., If you have jaundice, your liver and spleen may become enlarged, which in turn can cause your abdomen to become distended.In addition, liver disease may cause fluid to build up in your abdomen.


A swollen abdomen is usually a later sign of an illness that also causes jaundice, and is not caused by the jaundice itself.You may also experience abdominal pain because the underlying illness could cause your liver to become infected or inflamed.
 An illness that causes jaundice might also cause you to have swollen ankles, feet and legs.The liver helps in the excretion of bilirubin in urine and, when its function is interfered with, or if there is excess pressure in the circulation associated with the liver, fluid accumulates in different parts of the body, causing swelling.
 Jaundice can cause you to have a fever of 38C (100.4F) and higher.The reason for the fever may be due to an underlying liver infection (such as hepatitis) or bile duct obstruction., Your baby may have other symptoms such as a shrill, high-pitched cry, being inconsolable, refusing to feed, and being floppy or difficult to wake.If you are discharged from hospital with baby less than 72 hours after birth, you may want to book a follow-up appointment to see your doctor in the next two days to check for infant jaundice.
Severe infant jaundice left untreated can cause permanent brain damage., The most accurate way to tell if you or your baby has jaundice is to have your blood tested for elevated bilirubin levels.If the bilirubin is elevated, your doctor may perform other tests to determine the cause of the jaundice, look for any complications, and to look at how well the liver is functioning.


Babies may also have a skin test called a transcutaneous bilirubin test. A special probe is placed up against baby’s skin and measures the reflection of a special light shining through or being absorbed. This allows the doctor to calculate the amount of bilirubin present.
 Symptoms may include weight loss, nausea and vomiting, or vomiting blood.

