 When you're sad, avoid isolating yourself. Make sure to connect with your friends and family regularly. That doesn't mean you need to host big parties, but rather be with people who are supportive and caring, even in smaller ways.When you're feeling sad, reach out to a friend or family member by phone. Choose people who you think will be good listeners and provide reassurance.
Ask friends to hang out after work or on the weekends. Invite a small group or just one good friend to do something fun.
Visit with relatives more. There may be other family members who are going through a hard time too. Reach out to them.;
, Spending time with people who have common interests can help you feel less sad or alone. Think about the things that interest you personally. There may be clubs, social groups, or sports leagues available that you can join for free or low cost.Check out Meetup.com for groups and activities. There is often a diverse collection of activities available, and new people to meet.
Identify clubs that may relate to your interests or background. Search online or check out community centers in your area. There may be runner's clubs or mom's clubs out there.
 There are many people who feel socially isolated or wish they could be connected more to others in their community. Consider meeting up with a neighbor or reaching out to community centers about activities in your area.Meet up with an elderly neighbor who may also be feeling isolated or sad. Offer to help them or invite them over for dinner.
Connect with your local place of worship. Churches and synagogues, for example, are places where people can feel safe to express their joy and their sadness. There may be a bible study group or another group that appeals to you.
Go to your neighborhood community center or a YMCA for information about programs and activities. There are often many activities for people of all ages--kids, teens, adults, and older adults.
 Volunteering can be socially empowering and personally enriching. There are many organizations and non-profits that need volunteers. Identify places that may interest you, and connect with a volunteer coordinator for more information about how to help.When you decide you'd like to volunteer, don't over commit yourself. Start with possibly helping out a few hours after work or school, or for part of a weekend.
Some volunteer opportunities request regular volunteers, while others just to need volunteers during the holidays or for occasional events throughout the year.
Consider choosing activities where you can directly connect with others such as after-school tutoring programs, volunteering at a hospital or retirement facility, or delivering meals through Meals on Wheels.

