 As difficult and painful as it may be, especially early on, talk to your ex often about what is going on with your child.Any major events or life changes should be discussed regularly, but so too should more day-to-day happenings. This might include:


Problems (or major successes) in school
Disciplinary problems
Weekend plans
Any issues that you, as parents need to make a decision about , However you may feel about your ex, the regular conversations you need to have with him or her will be easier if you can find ways to communicate in a civil and adult way.If there's a problem in the child's life that you think the other parent is responsible for, try to avoid accusations. Instead, discuss the problem.
For example, you might say: "I notice the kids always challenge me about bedtimes after returning to your house. Any ideas about how we can handle this?" Even if you think the other parent may be failing to enforce the agreed upon bedtime, don't make this accusation.
If disagreements become common and you believe the other parent isn't living up to his or her end of the agreement, keep records of the content of your conversations, in case they are needed in court.
 Inevitably, conflicts will arise about parenting. If you and your ex we perfectly harmonious, you probably wouldn't have broken up. Choose what you think is really worth having contentious discussion about, and try to let things go that aren't that important.For example, if the other parent wants to change you children's school, or is feeding them food that they are allergic to, these might be issues worth having a fight over.
On the the other hand, if your ex lets your teen-aged children listen to music you don't approve of, think about whether you think that's really harming them before starting a fight. It may be best to save your energy and preserve goodwill rather than fighting about minor issues.
When you do have to have heated or contentious discussions about parenting, don't ever do it in front of your children. This can cause them unnecessary stress and emotional harm., While consistency is important, so too is some degree of flexibility.Be aware that life circumstances may require some changes to the custody plan to be made "on the fly." Things happen that are not anticipated and therefore not in the agreement.


Be fair and realistic about your own life and commitments, as well as your ex's. If you can have reasonable conversations about how to handle unforeseen changes, your shared custody arrangement is much more likely to survive and succeed.
For example, you or your ex may suddenly need to go out of town to deal with a personal or work related issue during a time you were supposed to care for your children. Try to be flexible and reasonably accommodating to such circumstances.

