 Many family members and friends want to help and be supportive when you have an invisible illness. If they are unsure how to help, tell them. Let them know what you need from them and how they can be supportive.Help your family members and friends understand they should drop all assumptions about your invisible illness. This can lead to condescending comments and a lack of understanding. Encourage your family and friends to approach you with an open mind.
You may tell them how to compliment you without trivializing your illness. For example, they may say, “You look great today. I’m sorry you don’t feel well,” or, “I’m sorry you don’t feel as good as you look.” Let them know that they can compliment you by saying, “Your hair looks nice,” or, “I like that outfit.” They don’t always have to mention your illness.
 Though your friends and family may mean well, they may not know how to talk about the subject, how to treat you, or what to say. This may lead to them saying or doing something that hurts you. Point out to your loved ones how things they say are offensive and hurtful.For example, tell your loved ones not to say things like, “But you don’t look sick,” “It’s all in your head,” “It could be worse,” or “Wouldn’t you feel better if you got out more/did more/were more active?” All of these things can be very hurtful.
Help them realize that trying to tell you how to “cure” yourself or “treat” your condition belittles your condition. Say to them, “I am aware of treatment and management options for my condition. My doctor and I work very closely together. I can explain my management plan to you if you would like.”
For example, people often think depression can be "cured" by getting out or thinking positively. They may think you can cure your CFS with more sleep or that IBS is in your head. These assumptions can be very hurtful.
 Many people only believe illness is something they can see. This means they might not know or understand your condition. To help yourself cope, first educate yourself about your disease. This can help you understand more about your condition and help you know how it affects your body even though it’s invisible.You should also help educate those around you about your illness. Give your condition a name for people so they associate the way you feel with a name, even if it’s chronic pain.
Explain the symptoms to your family and friends. Since there are no visible symptoms, help them understand what is going on inside your body.
Tell your family and friends about treatment options and management strategies.

