 Choose a location, and either an amount of time you want to spend reading or a number of pages you hope to finish. Don’t try to read the rest of the book in one go. Provide yourself a mental map of what your brain is seeking to accomplish – in terms of the literal tangible task at hand. This will keep you from being overwhelmed by how much you have left to read.


Keep reading at the end of your reading session if you feel like it.
If you fail to make the time to read the book, you won’t ever finish it!
Assign yourself one or two chapters a day. Complete them, and the reading will feel lighter and more rewarding.;
, Find somewhere quiet, well-lit, and with fresh air. Avoid anywhere that makes you feel restless. Don’t think that locking yourself in the library will automatically make you productive; some of us are better able to focus when leaning against a tree in the park. If you are indoors, find somewhere clean and organized.


Avoid distractions. Don’t read within sight of a television or computer. Turn your phone off, if possible.
 Have both blank paper and a writing utensil to take down notes, realizations, or points of inspiration. Have water and a healthy snack. Nuts are a great option, as is fruit. Natural sugars, such as those you can get from an apple or orange, will give you a short-term boost in mental ability, including memory., Coffee and tea can work wonders on your ability to focus. Don’t overdo it, as too much caffeine can make you uncomfortable and distracted.Different types of coffee and methods of preparation offer different amounts of caffeine.The same is true of tea, which comes in a greater variety of flavors and is a healthier option.Be conscious of caffeine’s other effects on your body, including those with potential health ramifications. Do not drink more than 400mg of caffeine per day., Mark your place clearly. Struggling to find where you left off can lead to starting your reading session in a distractedly frustrated mindset. Easily finding your spot makes it easier to pick up the book and get right into a productive reading session.


Use something you feel positively about – especially a photo or written quote that motivates you.
 If you’re reading a story, pretend you are the protagonist. Change it up and pretend you’re the antagonist. You can even pretend you’re a minor (or made-up) character observing the scenario from within the story. Relate to what is happening to the characters, however you are able to do so.
 If you’re reading more technical material, pause when you’re not understanding something. Re-read a paragraph you didn’t fully understand. Comprehending more the second time will re-invigorate both your enjoyment of the text and your motivation to continue reading.


Look up words and concepts you don’t recognize. New tendrils of thought and knowledge will increase your attachment to the text you’re reading.
Appreciate that you’re learning from the book, and take pride in doing so.
 Ask friends if they have read the book. If they have, ask them about the book, the story, the plot, the concepts considered, etc. Knowing that someone else has read or is reading the same book makes the act of reading feel more communal, and this can motivate you to continue reading.
 Read a different account of the same issue, a different perspective, or a different story set in the same time period or context. Comparing and contrasting what these other texts say with what you’ve already read can renew your interest in the book you want to get through. Don’t read too much of another book, only enough to add to your understanding or interest in the book you want to get through.
 If you’ve commit to reading a book, don’t let what might just be a boring patch throw you off course. Remind yourself that a less interesting part may be setting the tone for something important or interesting later on.
 Ask yourself: “Why am I reading this?” An important distinction here is whether your reading out of obligation or for pleasure. These different situations dictate entirely different types of reading. In the context of obligation, remind yourself of the reasons why you must read the book. This alone will increase your focus and willingness to continue reading.


Determine whether you truly want or need to finish it. If this is obligatory reading, could you read a summary instead, or just read certain parts?
If you are reading for pleasure, but are no longer enjoying the book, re-evaluate your desire to continue. Recognize that people quite frequently don’t finish books.If you don’t want to finish it, don’t!

, If you’re committed to reading a dry or technical book, conceptualize the broader picture. What is the book about? Is there something at a later stage of the book that is of interest to you? Make yourself aware of what the book has to offer. This will compel you to keep reading.


Use SparkNotes or CliffsNotes. These websites or publications can provide key information about a book, and can potentially offer the information you’re looking for. Do not depend on these summaries to offer the same depth or insight offered by the book itself. Use this step only when you are willing to make do with a partial understanding of the book’s content.
 Consider the words of author David Foster Wallace, who often write about the mundane and boring aspects of human life: “Bliss—a-second-by-second joy and gratitude at the gift of being alive, conscious—lies on the other side of crushing, crushing boredom.”Wallace’s editor spoke of how the author sought to explore boredom, not only because it is a inevitable aspect of reality, but because it can lead to joy.A moment of increased awareness or discovery may be on the very next page!

