 After each stretching session, you should spend some time actually practicing the splits. First, get yourself into position:









If you're doing a right or left split, kneel down on the ground and extend your preferred leg out in front of you, with the weight on the heel. Keep your back knee bent so the shin is resting on the ground.
If you're doing a center split, stand up straight and slide your feet out into a wide-legged stance, with your toes and knees facing up at the sky.
 When you're ready, start to slowly and and carefully lower yourself down into your chosen splits position.









Use your hands to support your weight as you lower yourself down. If you're doing a right or left splits, place a hand on the ground on either side of your front leg.
If you're doing a center splits, place your hands on the ground directly in front of you, less than a shoulder width apart.
With most of your weight supported by your hands, spread your legs further and further apart by allowing your feet to slide along the floor. Keep going until your legs are at a 180 degree angle. Congratulations, you're doing a split!

, If you're having trouble getting all the way down, take a deep breath and make a conscious effort to relax all of your muscles.









Studies have shown that relaxation techniques can make a significant difference to a person's flexibility levels, especially if they are incorporated into a regular stretching routine.In addition, letting go of tension in your muscles can decrease your chances of injuring yourself when stretching.
 Once you've accomplished the split position, try to hold it for 30 seconds. It should feel like a deep stretch, it shouldn't be painful. If holding the stretch does feel painful, come out of it immediately and continue with your stretching routine over the next couple of days until you can hold the splits without feeling any pain.
 You may be perfectly happy once you achieve your splits and have no desire to go any further. However, if you want to keep going, it's possible to do an "over-split" (where your legs are split at a wider than 180-degree angle).









This is a pretty extreme stretch so make sure you don't push yourself too far too soon. You should be 100% comfortable with the normal splits before you attempt an over-split.
You can train for an over-split by putting a pillow under your front foot (or under both feet if you're doing a center split) once you're in the split position. Over time, you can gradually add more pillows to increase the stretch.

