 Review your records to see if you could have made a mistake. If the entry is correct, it will not be removed from your report.;
, Nothing stays on your credit report forever except information used to identify you. If the item is soon to be removed from your report, it may not be worth going through the dispute process.Bankruptcies must be removed after 10 years
Lawsuits and judgments must be removed after seven years or the expiration of the statute of limitations (whichever is shorter)
Paid tax liens must be removed after seven years
Most criminal records except convictions must be removed after seven years. Convictions can remain forever.
Delinquent accounts must be removed after seven years
Accounts that were charged off or sent to collections must be removed after seven years plus 180 days from the date of the delinquency
Overdue child support must be removed after seven years
Some student loans can be reported until they are paid in full

, You can add a statement to your credit report that explains any adverse information, even if the information is true. This would be something such as explaining why certain payments were late, based on an unexpected life event. Be careful about making these statements. If the adverse item is removed before your statement is, you could be telling potential creditors about that information when it is otherwise no longer available to them. Account specific statements will be removed at the same time the account to which they relate is removed.
General statements (those discussing multiple accounts or a time period that could include multiple accounts) remain on your report for two years, regardless of whether the accounts in question were removed prior to that.
 You need to review a current copy of your credit report from all three major credit reporting agencies. You can get a copy of your credit report free once a year or within six months of being turned down for credit or having interest rates rise because of some that is on your credit report. To do this:Navigate to https://www.annualcreditreport.com/index.action.
Click “Request Your Free Credit Report”.
Answer the questions to prove your identity. These questions could go back for an unlimited number of years and include things such as old street numbers on which you lived, cars you have financed in the past, prior employment, and other similar items.
Choose the report you desire (Equifax, Experian, or Transunion)
The software will provide you with a 10-digit confirmation number. Make a note of that for use in filing your dispute.
Save your credit report for future reference. How you will do this will depend on your computer and software.
Read your credit report looking for accounts you do not recognize or information that you do not believe to be accurate.
Repeat these steps for each of the other two credit reports.
 If you believe there is something inaccurate on your credit report, you can dispute it online Navigate to the appropriate page and follow the prompts. You will need to provide the confirmation number you got when accessing your credit report, identify the disputed item on your report, and describe what is inaccurate about it. Start the process by navigating to: https://www.ai.equifax.com/CreditInvestigation/home.action for Equifax

https://dispute.transunion.com/dp/dispute/landingPage.jsp for Transunion

http://www.experian.com/disputes/main.html.
 The credit reporting agency will investigate your dispute. They will contact the vendor who placed in the information on your report. They should provide you with an update as soon as there is information to provide. If you have not heard from them in 30 days, you should review the status by navigating to:https://www.ai.equifax.com/CreditInvestigation/home.action for Equifax

https://dispute.transunion.com/dp/dispute/landingPage.jsp. for Transunion

http://www.experian.com/disputes/main.html.
 See if you can work out the issue with the reporter. Contact the business that made the report and see if there is a misunderstanding or a recordkeeping error that caused the erroneous report. If you can agree on the accurate information, the reporter can remove the erroneous information, replacing it with accurate information, if appropriate.
 If you have documentation that supports your position, such as a cancelled check proving payment, submit that to the credit agency. Frequently, you can submit it with your initial dispute. If you don’t submit it at that time, you can submit it at:



https://www.experian.com/consumer/upload// for Experian.
Transunion will contact you after you file your initial report to give you information on how to submit documentation.Equifax provides an opportunity for you to submit documents with your initial report and will contact you if they would like more., It is highly unlikely that an item that has been reviewed and determined to be valid by the credit bureaus will be deemed invalid by the courts. However, if you have solid proof that it is invalid and you meet the other elements, you could potentially sue the reporter for defamation. Defamation laws vary by state, but they generally require:A defamatory statement was made
That statement was false
That statement was published to at least one other person
The reporter did not have a privilege to make that defamatory statement (such as a former employer responding to a reference)
The reporter should have known the statement was false
That you were damaged in some way by the false, defamatory statement.

