 You may need to make a special trip to the grocery store to purchase some of what you'll need, but most of these items should be available at your local grocery. These bars are a healthy snack you can enjoy on the go, and this recipe should make 16 bars total. You'll need:


Almond butter (1 cup)
Almonds (whole, ¾ cup)
Apple sauce (unsweetened, ¼ cup)
Blueberries (dried, heaping ½ cup)
Flaxseed (ground, 1/3 cup)
Honey (1/3 cup OR maple syrup)
Knife (for cutting into bars)
Mixing bowl (large size)
Pan (8" by 8" (20.3 by 20.3 cm) baking sheet)
Parchment paper (or wax paper)
Pepitas (1/3 cup)
Pistachios (½ cup)
Rolled oats (1½ cups)
Spoon (for mixing)
Sunflower seeds (¼ cup)
Walnuts (1/3 cup), Clean and clear an area of your counter. Take your baking pan and use your parchment paper or wax paper to line it. The paper should overhang the edges of the pan a little bit. Then lay out your mixing bowl and ingredients on the counter as well.


You may need to crease your paper to make it fit to the inner contours of your baking pan.
 Start by adding your rolled oats, almonds, dried blueberries, pistachios, ground flaxseed, walnuts, pepitas, and sunflower seeds to your mixing bowl. Use a spoon to mix all ingredients thoroughly. Then:


Drizzle your honey or maple syrup and apple sauce to the mixture. Use your spoon to stir it well, until it is well mixed.
Add your almond butter to the bowl last. Using your spoon again, mix the contents of your bowl until the almond butter is evenly distributed., Take your bowl and position it above your parchment paper lined pan. Use your spoon or a spatula to push the batter from the bowl into the pan. Then, use a spoon, your hands, or a mini-roller to spread the batter evenly to even thickness in the pan.
 Take your pan and put it in the freezer for a full hour. The cold of your freezer will cause the batter to firm up and become solid. After an hour has passed, remove your bars from the freezer and return them to the counter.


You may want to set a timer so you don't forget about your bars in the freezer. Leaving them in for too long could cause them to become so hard they are difficult to cut.
Because this recipe uses natural ingredients, you may notice the bars are a little more crumbly than store bought brands. This is completely normal., First, clean your counter well or lay down a clean cutting board or cutting mat. Peel the batter you've spread in the pan from the parchment paper so that it is one, flat slab of batter. Lay the batter slab on your counter or cutting board/mat, then:


Take your knife and use it to cut eight long bars from the batter slab. Cut these in half, and you'll have 16 blueberry snack bars total.
Store your blueberry snack bars in a sealed airtight container in the freezer. The bars should last up to three weeks.