 Changing your life for the better can be challenging. It is important to take care of yourself and make sure you don’t burn out and give up as you embark on the journey of changing your life for the better. Honor yourself because you are brave just for entertaining the idea of change, especially since it is never easy. Learning about yourself and finding your ability to be courageous, responsible, and empowered can be daunting. Being honest about your personality, not only how you perceive yourself but how you think others perceive you, can be emotionally wearing. Making choices about what you want to change in your life can be scary and change itself is exhausting.


Be proud of yourself for even attempting to change your life for the better. Life is hard, and becoming proactive in who you are and what you are capable of takes strength.
 If you are feeling overwhelmed by all the changes you are making, take a break. Watch a movie or a TV show, read a book, or play a game with a friend. Go for a night out with your friends to unwind and relax. Talk to a friend that always makes you laugh. Take a hot bath or shower to relieve some of your tension.


If you want, talk about the changes you feel in yourself with your friends and let them give you advice or support., There are points in the day where everything may seem too much. When this happens, remember to breathe. Take ten minutes out of your day to sit with your hands on your belly and just breathe all the tension and changes out. Remember that changing your life does not mean being perfect. Every day is a journey, and even the days that make you feel stuck and frustrated are still a part of the striving towards a better life., As you progress through your life changes, take time to reward yourself. Eat some of your favorite candy, go out or cook yourself a nice meal, or buy a new shirt, video game, or other prize you've been eyeing. Try to remember that you are on a journey and that you are amazing for continuing on the path. Reward yourself for embarking on the challenging voyage to changing your life for the better.


If you are also stressed, treat yourself to a massage or ask someone you love to give you a massage.

