 http://uk.mobile.de is a great resource. It's got a lot of dealers listed and much of the info can be seen in English. Choose the ones you want to have a look at, and try contacting the dealers to determine whether they speak your language or can answer any questions immediately.;
, Whenever you're ready, take a trip to Germany to check out the cars. Pick a dealer who can offer you a guarantee, will arrange the transit plates, who speaks English and who you think is being honest with you.
 You should be able to pay the deposit with a credit card, and wire the rest from your bank once you get home. Also, shop around for insurance - Direct Line (and probably others) can insure the car based on the Chassis number (make sure you get that before you leave). Also get them to post you a green card for the trip back from Germany, and remember to take it with you when you leave. Alternatively, you can usually arrange temporary insurance with the dealer, but it will be 3rd party only.
 Sign about 30 pieces of paper, all in German, get the keys and a pile of paper including the Fahrzeugbrief, which is your ownership document. Make sure all the bits that you paid for are in the car. Drive like the clappers back to England.
 This is the fun bit. Different steps may apply for RHD vehicles, vehicles that are less than 3 years old (and so don't require an MOT) or older than 10 (and so require SVA rather than Type approval), or vehicle from outside the EC. New vehicles are definitely different.
 The form you want is a V55/5.
 They will, in turn, ask you for a letter containing your chassis number and a cheque for £60 or so, and will send one through in the post 10 days or so later (they have to send to Germany to get it). This is to get the vehicle "Type approved", which means the model you have is in general approved for use in the UK. The certificate is in German and has info about the length, weight, emission levels etc. of the car.
 You need to modify the headlights to point the other way (on a Porsche 996 they can be adjusted and don't need replacing). You also need the fog light on the other side, which is, at least on the 1998 model, not as simple as moving the bulb over. Get the receipt showing you had the work done. You also need to put the speedo into MPH, although with a digital speedo this is easily done. Total cost will vary.
 Ask them for a Mutual Recognition Certificate. This lot want £65 or so, but a week later will send you back your original documents and your all important certificate.
 Most of the info you need is on the Certificate of Conformity, but it's in German. You can use Google translation tool, which copes fairly well even with phrases like "Unladen rear axle load". Some fields you can safely skip (max permissible trailer weight was left blank) and some you might be able to skip (a 1998 model doesn't need it's CO2 emissions checked, and it seems there's no engine number on a 996). If in doubt, call the DVLA and ask them.
 At the end it says "Did you pay VAT?". Tick no and leave the rest, which according to a nice chap at customs, you only need to complete if you are a VAT registered entity.
, A week or so later you should receive your papers back in the post, including your tax disc and a piece of paper you need to get a license plate made up. The V5 will follow a few weeks later from head office. Then you just need to get a plate made up and you're away.

