 Knowing how raspberries grow and produce fruit may help you yield a more plentiful crop each year. For most varieties, the canes tend to produce on an every-other-year schedule. In its first year, the cane will focus on growing. The second year is when the mature cane yields fruit. So, if your version of pruning is to mow everything down to a few inches off the ground every fall, you could be hurting, not helping, your berry production. After the cane produces fruit, the cane dies. The plant produces a new cane for every cane that dies.;
, To help make sure you get a good crop of raspberries, inspect the patch in the spring--late March or early April--for most areas. Since all cane in the patch compete for food and light, thinning out raspberry patches by removing the dead and weak canes will allow the other canes to grow strong and give them enough space to produce a bountiful crop.
 Prune any canes that are dead or damaged to the ground. Some canes will have tips that deaden over the winter. Trim these canes back to the green growth. Do not worry about cutting out too many. Raspberries flourish when the canes are about 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart.
 When the fruit crop is done, pull out your trimmers and head to the raspberry patch. Cut out the canes that have just finished producing. Leave the other canes, especially for everbearing varieties that will produce fruit on those canes in the fall.
 Do not leave the pruned canes in the raspberry patch as this could encourage disease. Instead, take the waste canes to the trash, burn pile or compost pile.
 Red raspberries need different pruning care and attention than black or yellow raspberries. You will also need to consider if the variety of red raspberry you have is a spring bearer or an ever bearer, which produces 2 crops per year: one in the spring and one in the fall.
 Aside from an obvious unkempt appearance, there are a few other ways to tell if you need to alter your raspberry pruning technique. If your canes produce no or very little fruit or if the berry size of your crop is small, you need to thin more canes out of the patch. Further pruning is also necessary if you have a hard time harvesting your berries. Your patch needs more attention too, if it seems to be plagued by disease.

