 If the Chromebook is managed by an enterprise account, such as in a school or workplace setting, you won't be able to reset the device unless you have administrator access. If you are the administrator, you can use this method to reset the device. If your Chromebook is for personal use, see the next section.;
, Make sure that the power adapter isn't plugged in.
 Take the battery out of the back of the laptop, and leave it out for at least five seconds. After five seconds have passed, put the battery back in., The Refresh button looks like an arrow in a circle. Press and hold these three buttons until the "!" page appears.
 Press this on the screen that reads "Chrome OS is missing or damaged". Press ↵ Enter to confirm. This will restart the Chromebook and allow access Developer Mode.


If "Forced re-enrollment" is enabled (which it is by default on newer versions of ChromeOS), you'll see a notice that you won't be able to enter Developer Mode. This process will still wipe the device, and you'll be forced to enroll the device before you can use it.
 Do this on the screen that reads "OS verification is OFF". This will boot the Chromebook into Developer Mode, which will take about 15-20 minutes to complete.
 After the wipe process is complete, you'll be prompted to reboot the Chromebook and enter Verified Mode. Press Space and then ↵ Enter to wipe the data.
 Before any user signs in, including an administrator, you will need to enroll the computer. Press Ctrl+Alt+E at the Google sign-in screen. This will open the Enterprise sign-in page.


If you log in with a regular user account before enrolling, you won't be able to enforce any of your group rules on that Chromebook, and will need to restart the process. If forced re-enrollment is enabled, you'll have to log into the enterprise account before you can sign in as a user.
 If you're planning on selling or donating some of your Chromebooks, make sure that you have deprovisioned them through the administrator dashboard. This will allow other people to sign into the Chromebook without having to enroll through your enterprise.Log into your dashboard and select your Device List. Check the boxes next to the Chromebooks that you want to deprovision, click the "More Actions" button, and select "Deprovision".

