 In most traditional graduation ceremonies, all students begin with their tassel on the right side of the cap.After the student receives a diploma, he or she moves the tassel onto the left side.


Many schools ask the students to move the tassels in unison, so everyone shares in the moment. In other ceremonies, each student moves his own tassel after accepting the diploma. Ask a teacher if you are not sure which tradition your school follows.;
, The tassel tradition began in universities, and has not spread to all high schools. Ask the front desk for commencement information, or find the person arranging the ceremony and ask about tassels. Your school may have its own tradition, or may not have guidelines at all.
 Most schools photograph the student at the moment he or she accepts the diploma. For the best photograph, keep the tassel on the opposite side of the photographer. This prevents the tassel obscuring your face., Although this tradition is more common in universities, some high schools may allow special tassels. These might signify membership in an honors society, valedictorian status, or other achievements. If your school allows these, and you are eligible for more than one tassel, just choose one.Unless specifically told that you can pick your own tassel, stick with the default recommended by the school.
 Honor cords are common at high schools to show special achievements. If your school has given you permission to wear an honor cord, drape this around your neck, with the two sides hanging evenly in front of your shoulders. Leave this in place for the entire ceremony.
 Adjust the cap so the mortarboard lies flat. This ensures a more even appearance and prevents the tassel from sliding.
 Traditionally, men remove their caps during the national anthem and/or the school song. Women may remove the cap or leave it on.After the song is finished, replace the cap, making sure the tassel is in the same position it was before.
 At most high schools, you may be asked to wear dark clothing under your gown, and to avoid casual clothing such as jeans and sweatshirts.For exact requirements, ask a teacher or staff member.


Some high schools will allow you to decorate the top of your mortarboard. Make sure you stay within the provided guidelines, or the school may remove the cap.

