 Lemonade stands are popular in the summer, and can make you a nice amount of money. Get some friends together and make lemonade to sell in your neighborhood.There are a lot of factors that make a lemonade stand successful, the first being location. You want to put your lemonade stand somewhere where there isn’t a lot of competition and that’s in a busy, visible part of the neighborhood, like a street corner.
Make your stand look as inviting as possible. If you are feeling really creative, build and old-fashioned stand and decorate it with ribbons and a banner with your “company’s” name on it.
Keep track of what you spent on ingredients, and charge enough so that you can make a profit. Just don’t charge too much.
Make a menu with your offerings, and consider offering more than just lemonade. Maybe you have cookies or brownies, or other flavors of lemonade. Create a website to advertise your business. Just make sure to get your parents permission first. Try using Wix.com to create it.
Assign different tasks to everyone. Make signs and have some kids go around the neighborhood posting them up or standing at the ends of the block advertising. Have someone making your goods so you don’t run out.;
, Like having a lemonade stand, you can apply the same idea to sell refreshments out at community events. Get a cooler and sell your goods or even bottled water at parks on hot days.


If you have a sibling that has a baseball or soccer game, you can go to the game and offer refreshments to the players and parents there.
Make signs for your sale, and set up a little area with a table and cooler.
Sell water and juice to make extra money.
Keep your prices reasonable.
 Gather up some friends and make something; beaded jewelry, boondoggles, etc. Sell at car boot sales, market stalls, yard sales and even online, with your parent's help and permission.
 Just ask your parents first to make sure that it’s ok.



Decide on a date and make some flyers to advertise. Pop the flyers in your neighbor's mailboxes and ask each member of the washing group to get their families to come along too.
Choose a suitable car washing spot, such as at a house with a good length of driveway.
Get buckets, water, wash cloths, sponges, etc. Wash cars on the day and collect the money.
Only do this for local people you know, and have an adult there to supervise.
Always ask before putting car washing products other than water on anyone's car.
 Offering up your services to mow lawns and shovel snow is another great way to get some extra money easily. Treat it like a business, and come up with a name for your services.Post flyers around the neighborhood advertising your services and a way to contact you. Ask your next door neighbors directly as well.
It’s best if you can provide your own equipment, though you may find certain clients who already have equipment you can use.
Offer a fair price that’s related to the size of the lawn or driveway, and how long it takes you to mow or shovel.
For mowing lawns, set up a consistent day and time every week when you will come and mow the lawn. For shoveling, be able to get the job done in a timely manner.

