 You can do this after signing up for the game and downloading the client from Blizzard website. The tutorial explains the mechanics of the game, and you will have your first battle under the tutorial.


Hearthstone battle is a one-versus-one match between two opponents, a turn-based style with players taking turns to play cards from their hand casting powerful spells, equipping your hero with weapons, or summoning powerful minions to do battle on your behalf.;
, After completing the tutorial, you get to play against human players or one with an AI computer, depending on your preference.


Each player is represented by their chosen hero, an important character from the Warcraft lore.
Each hero represents a particular class, determining the special cards and unique hero power.
Each hero in the battlefield holds 30 Health. If that number is reduced to zero, the hero is destroyed and that concludes the game.
 This can be found in the main menu.
 You will be able to start customizing your own deck.
 Then name the deck by clicking the default name and typing in the name you want. Press Enter if you're done.


All cards are drawn by the player during a game.
A pre-made basic deck for each class is made available to the player once that hero has been unlocked, but players are free to create their own custom decks with which to do battle. This is useful for players who wish to create a strategy of their own.
Keep in mind that in standard play, you only get to put 2 of the same card in each deck and only 1 of each legendary card.
In the arena, however, players can pick up the same card unlimited times.
You can have up to 9 custom decks at any time, and you can also name them.
There are many types of decks—control decks, aggro decks, and mid-game decks. Although many decks combine elements of each of these styles, the selection of class allows for additional customization, with certain classes having a natural synergy with certain types of deck.
 To add cards in your deck, simply choose any card you wanted in the list on the left side of the screen and then click it.
 This option is located in the bottom right of your screen.
 Creating an aggro deck is suited for players who takes an aggressive approach in dealing damage to the opponent as quickly as possible, generally through the summoning of a large number of low-value minions.


Aggro decks are often weak against an area of effect spells, such as Arcane Explosion and Whirlwind. These can single-handedly wipe out a board full of low-health minions, making them one of the best counters to an early aggro deck.
The use of low-cost minions allows aggro decks to put several into play very early in the game, allowing them to take control of the board and put pressure on the opponent to defend themselves. This is effective with a hero that possesses skills that can summon minions like Paladin or Shaman.
A deck full of minions that summons another minion when put into play is another strategy for aggro deck. If you're aiming for this build, focus on low mana cost, minion summoning, and cards with attack buff.
 Druid class has the worst starting deck of all the classes, and players who try out this class may be discouraged by the starter build. However, the druid class can be great if you have unlocked the important card between level 2 and level 10.


This guide works for other magic users as well, such as Mages.
The magic deck is considered as mid-game deck, and as the name implies, this build works effectively in the middle of the game, with enough mana and magic cards in hand.
Magic decks work well if you have a mix of minions and spells. Going too spell-heavy or too minion-heavy may actually hurt you.
Cards like Swipe and Starfire benefit greatly for spell-power buffs, allowing you to hit harder than you would.
Minions such as Dalaran Mage with their +1 spell damage buff can combo well with Mage and Druid decks.
If you want to try this deck, build it with + 1 spell damage and cards with magic cast and area damage.
Cards that inflict 1 damage to all summoned enemies in the play is useful for this deck, especially against aggro decks. Added with spell damage, the 1 damage will increase depending on how many minions with +1 spell damage buff are in play.
 If you don't have good premium cards, creating a beginner deck will be useful until you reach beyond level 10. The beginner deck is consist of Murloc cards in par with aggro deck that ends game with its quantity.


Be reminded that Murloc has low HP, but the low mana requirement makes this card effective in the early part of the game.
 During the tutorial, you're automatically given your very first hero, Jaina Proudmoore, which represents the Mage class. This hero possesses magic attack Fireblast, which can be used against any target and can bypass units with taunt.


This hero power can be used strategically to remove Divine Shield from an enemy or to hit one of your minions with Enrage to make them stronger. Despite of being a magic attack, Fireblast is not affected by spell damage.



Malfurion Stormrage represents the Druid class in Hearthstone. This too focuses on magic attacks.

Druids have the ability to shapeshift, a buff that gives + attack for one turn and + 1 armor that stacks and remain throughout the game.


Rexxar represents the Hunter class. Hunters possess the hero power Steady Shot, which deals 2 damage directly to the enemy hero. While it is very effective for bypassing enemy minions, the Hunter cannot use Steady Shot on any other target.

Steady Shot is a reliable source of damage, and works with an aggressive approach to build pressure on the opponent.


Uther the Lightbringer, or Sir Uther Lightbringer, represents the Paladin class.

Paladins have a unique ability, Reinforce, that summons a 1/1 Silver Hand recruit. This can be used together with cards that work well with more minions on the field like Raid Leader and Frostwolf Warlord.


Anduin Wrynn represents the Priest class.

Priests are masters of healing and can heal themselves and their minions using their hero power. Priest deck card consist of minions that can heal and even buff.


Valeera Sanguinar represents the Rogue class. Rogues are backstabbing assassins known for their stealth, speed, and deadly efficiency.

Rogues possess the hero power Dagger Master. Rogues can equip 1/2 dagger, which enable them to attack either a minion or hero.


Thrall represents the Shaman.

Shamans possess the hero skill Totemic Call, which can summon a random totem. Totems are helpful for survival or for aggressive play. Every time you use the shaman hero power, it will randomly summon a healing totem, which heals all damaged friendly minions for 1 health at the end of your turn.
Stone Claw totem is a summon with 0/2 with taunt. Searing totem is a minion that has 1/1, similar to silver hand recruit from Paladin's Hero Power. Wrath of Air totem is a summon with 0/2 + 1 spell power.


Gul'dan represents the Warlock class.

This character has two hero powers, Inferno and Life Tap. Inferno summons a 6/6 Infernal while Life Tap draws a card, and in return, you will receive 2 damage.


Garrosh Hellscream represents the Warrior class. His hero power is Armor Up, which gives 2 Armor and can be used in every turn for 2 mana. It stacks and is useful for survival.

The premier mechanic of the Warrior class is Enrage, which gives an attack buff to a creature when it takes damage, like Amani Berserker and Grommash Hellscream.
 When you start a new account, doing Practice mode can help get new heroes and gain exp to get the basic cards in your hero's class. Playing in practice mode will help you to learn the basics of the game, or you can put your new deck to the test before playing in the Play mode.


There is also something called Adventure mode. Adventure mode is where you battle other heroes from different classes that are not possible to earn for your own heroes. You can gain more exp, and other rewards from beating these heroes.
 You can play against other real players of similar skill in random matches. Players can choose to play Casual Friendly or take part in ranked play, earning ranks and special rewards.


In Casual mode, you can play against a random play to gain exp, cards, or just for fun. These games can be useful for upgrading your hero more.
In Ranked mode, gain stars to move up ranks. Once you reach at least rank 20, at the end of the month, you will get some rewards, like card packs, one kind of card, or coins.
 Play with players forging a new deck from random selection of cards before using it to do battle in series of games. Doing well in Arena can grant substantial rewards, but each admission costs gold. If you lose 4 times, you will have to get admission with some gold.
 Players can also choose to challenge players on their friends list. To do this, simply click your friend's name in the list and then choose Duel. Challenging friends can be just for fun, or to gain exp for your hero.
 Each week, there is a new twist to the Tavern Brawl. For example, there can be a tavern brawl that gives you more mana to use, or there can be a tavern brawl where your deck is only one type of card and some spells. These twists can help you win, and give you a card pack if you win at least one game. You can also brawl your friends as well., Quests are special objectives players can complete to earn gold and, occasionally, special cards. You get new daily quests each day, up to a maximum of three.


Quests are the main way for players to earn gold.
If you don't like the idea to do a 40 gold quest, just exchange it for another one! You can only do this once per day.
 If you have poor Internet connection, which can lead to disconnection, during a game of Hearthstone, the system will give you 60 seconds to re-log into the game, in which case you will immediately be returned to the game you're playing.


The game will not be paused during disconnections, meaning that returning players may find their turn has expired or the state of the battle has progressed.
Reconnect feature is currently enable in the Americas region, but not in other regions.

