 Keep track of bird sightings in your garden or orchard, either with a formal count or by intuition. Once the number of birds starts to grow, and the fruit shows the first hint of color, it's time to protect the trees.These scare tactics are very effective, but only last a few weeks.Starting too early may leave your trees vulnerable later, once the birds are used to your tactics.;
, Pick exactly one of these proven ideas, or another bright object:


Aluminum pie tins
Scrunched up sheets of tin foil, coiled into a spring shape
Old CDs or DVDs
Strips of white cloth
Mylar streamers
"Scare eye" balloons

, Tie a string about 6 inches (15.2 cm) long to each object.


If using CDs/DVDs, slip a second CD onto the string to sit on top of the first one.This will sit at an angle, reflecting light upward.
 Tie the shiny objects onto the trees. Space them about 5 feet (1.5 m) apart, or just enough to be visible from every angle. Five or six should work for a small tree, but a large tree may need many more.
 Once birds learn that the objects are harmless, they'll start to eat your cherries again. The repellent tends to work longer for tart cherries or yellow cherries — sometimes a full season, if you're lucky. Birds will spend more effort for sweet red cherries.To protect them, change the repellent every week or two.For instance, put up CDs. When bird activity increases, replace them with foil springs. Replace again with aluminum pie tins, then return to CDs.
 Commercial orchards often add scary noisemakers as well. This is more effective than visual repellents alone, but birds still get used to them. When birds start to approach again, replace either the visual repellent or the noisemaker.


If you only have a couple trees, just hang aluminum cans or other clusters of noisy objects. Anything louder may not be worth the annoyance in a home garden.
The cheapest commercial devices are handheld noisemakers that fire a small, loud explosive. These require frequent patrols.
To save labor, buy a stationary gas cannon or electric distress signal. Place these above the canopy, one for every 5 acres (2000 square meters).