 If everyone agreed on everything, life will become mundane and monotonous. Respect the decisions and values of the older generation. They simply have a different view on life that may not be in keeping with up to date technology and modern times. They have raised you, so give them some credit for the way you turned out. Try to meet them halfway by blending your own ideals with those of theirs. You may come up with a spectacular solution that you never thought of before.;
, Very often we tend to give very little credit to the vast experience and the wisdom of our elderly parents.Marginalization makes the parent feel hopeless and unwanted which in turn leaves them with no choice but to become rebellious and look to others for comfort, usefulness and belonging.
 As our parents age, the memory capacity tends to weaken. Very often they will forget to remember completing little chores or taking a proper message for you by telephone. Please be patient as you would, when dealing with a child. The natural course of time is having an effect on their memories and this is seldom due to carelessness or sloppiness. Avoid becoming agitated or passing hurtful and sarcastic comments.
 Be supportive when they complain about minor aches and pains. Avoid adopting the attitude of neglect or simply ignoring every little complaint you are faced with. Drive them to the local clinic, hospital or even a private doctor if the need arises. You may save them from further harm to their health and their general well being. This also proves to them that you care and parents take great comfort in knowing that their child or children care for them.
 The cycle of life continues as does everything else. You will not want to be treated badly by your own kids , so refrain from doing the same to your parents.
 One can understand that aging parents can be difficult , sometimes even completely unreasonable. Listen with attention and find the humor in this to help you relax and calm or smooth the situation over. Always remember that you are what you are because of them due to the proper care and nourishment they afforded you with. The buck does not stop here. It is the duty of every child to act with responsibility to aging and elderly parents.
 In the middle of being busy with your own life and family, try including your parents into this daily routine. Other issues such as medication times need to be scheduled into your other activities to cater for the needs of ailing parents. Where possible use hired help if necessary. Incorporate the help and input from other siblings or family members.
 A comfort dwells when parents know that their children are there for them when or if the need arises. The smiles and happiness reciprocates leaving you feeling fulfilled and content.

