 In a polite, formal tone, state your purpose concisely. It is courteous to briefly inform the reader of the general purpose of your letter, follow with a detailed explanation, then finish with a summary or final plea.Be wary of what you write, however. The Queen is a constitutional monarch, so letters to her asking for personal or political support of any kind are ill-advised.A proper tone: "I wish to inform you of an important occurrence I believe deserves your attention."
An improper tone: "I demand that my local football association get recognition!"

, You may want to write your entire letter and really review how it's structured, analyze its flow, and determine if it conveys the true intention. Once complete, try reading any unclear portion of the practice letter out loud to see if it sounds correct to you.


Try sharing your practice letter with a friend or family member. Another set of eyes may find a mistake or provide a better way of presenting your idea.
A potential start: I wish to inform you of an important occurrence I believe deserves your attention. An amazing service to our nation has taken place recently, and I believe Your Majesty will bestow recognition upon the very deserving citizen.
 Legibility can go a long way towards recognizing the letters and words, which makes the sounds and meaning easier to comprehend.Additionally, The Queen is more likely to want to read your letter if the penmanship is crisp. Really put an effort into your penmanship so it appears that you put care into the letter. Follow a few common practices below:


Don't use an extravagant or difficult to read font. Avoid overly narrow fonts.
Black or blue ink is preferable. Lighter colors may be difficult to read.
Use standard punctuation, grammar, and capitalization. Steer clear of practices specific to the web (e.g. All caps for yelling, internet acronyms like "LOL", and emoticons).
 You need to be positive there are no typos, grammar mistakes, or stylistic issues. Be sure to take time after your initial writing to do the proofreading, because you may miss issues since the original content is fresh in your mind. Read a single line at a time. Try obscuring the following line so your eyes can really focus on potential errors. You can check for errors by reading your letter from the end to the beginning, one word at a time.


If typing rather than hand writing, use spell/grammar check.

