 Search engines frown on sites or blogs with broken links. There are a number of broken link checkers that are free to use and direct to the specific broken link. Often, affiliate links are terminated if the product is no longer available. Besides the loss of potential revenue, broken links do not add to a good experience for the human visitor. Fix every single one of them.;
, Matt Cutts, Google's Chief Engineer explained in November 2013, that while the 100 links per page limit no longer exists, Google will still monitor the number of links on a site and if there are too many links on a single page, they may consider it spamming and take action.Cutts also shared that a Page Rank is split into the number of links on a page. Cutts has previously shared that more than 100 links per page may be confusing for the human visitor. If you're after the best possible user experience, it will be wise to check the numbers of links per page.
 There may be links to the same page on the navigation bar, on Left or Right hand funnel links, as well as same links through the content or repeated again in "Related Articles". Too many links to the same pages can be viewed by search engines as spamming.
 In the days prior to Penguin, the Google Algorithm that penalizes bad or poor link behavior, it was considered good practice to create as many links as possible back linking to a site or blog. Webmasters indulged in directories, thin comments on numbers of blogs and forums, article marketing, and the worst offenders were link farms.


In the post-Penguin update, these practices are certain guarantees for being given penalties. If these sorts of back links still exist on your site, remove them. To find what sort of sites link back to your site, go to your Google Webmaster Tools account; on the left hand nav bar click on "Search Traffic", then click on "Links To Your Site". Under the five listed links, see "More". Click to have all the links listed.
Alternatively find back links using free tools such as Open Site Explorer.
For each one of the links listed, check its current pedigree to determine if it in the sort of neighbourhood you want your site to be associated with. The effect of the Penguin Algorithm is that sites that link to you, and are now badly penalized, can also bring down your own site's reputation.
 Traffic is on the increase and it does not appear to have been affected by Penalty Algorithms. This information was sourced from SEMrush, which provides free site analysis.
See the sharp decline in traffic for this site. This is the sort of site that should be distanced from. Contact the webmaster to request that all links to your site be removed. Contact can either be made using the contact details provided on the website, or if there isn't any, use the information available in Whois.com.
 Check weekly to monitor that the links have been removed and if not, follow up.
 Do this as a last resort. You may have to share with Google the spreadsheet evidencing requests for deletion of unwanted links and the lack of subsequent action from the contentious websites.


While Alexa ranking is often viewed as to a guide for reputation, the ranking is not entirely accurate as Alexa captures only those who have their tool installed. For audit purposes, relying on the Alexa ranking of sites being checked is not appropriate.
 Be sure you know exactly who you're linking to and who is linking to you.

