 Consider getting treatment from a mental health professional as well as taking the steps suggested in this article. Some of the therapies that have proven successful in treating phobias include cognitive behavioural therapy and Virtual Reality Exposure therapy; some people also respond to a combination of therapy and anti-depressant or anti-anxiety medications.Apart from the professional help though, it's really a case of facing your fear, which the rest of this article is aimed at helping you with.;
, Knowledge is the best way to put your fears behind you. Most of the time when a bovine comes up to you they're curious about you, or they think they're going to get some treats from you (like a handful of grass, for instance).


When a bovine is snorting, growling, or pawing the ground or throwing its head at you, or even giving you that look that looks like they're glaring at you, then move away from the fence and avoid eye contact. In the animal world, when you maintain eye contact with another animal that is visibly challenging you, that's deemed a threat. If you do not move away or make a threatening gesture towards that animal, this will often lead to an attack.
The ones to be most concerned about are: Cows that are protecting their calves or bulls that are growling at you. Head tossing, pawing, showing their sides, growling, etc., are all warning signs that if you don't get out of their way or away from their space, they will charge. If an animal is not showing any these signs, then it's best to not worry about being attacked. Often even thinking negative thoughts will lead to negative behaviour from an animal.
 So, you might envision the following hierarchy of gradual situations:


Ringing up a farmer or rancher and asking him/her to visit their farm
Arriving at the farm where you see cattle out in the corrals or pastures
Walking into a barn where there are cattle in stalls, or out to the pasture where cattle are grazing.
Watching him/her feed and interact with, as well as talk to you about their animals.
Watching the cattle being moved from the barn to the field, or from one pasture to another.
Walking up to the fence where the cattle are grazing
Calling out to the cattle while holding out some treats through the fence
Watching the cattle come over to you
Allowing the cattle to take the feed from your outstretched hand
Patting or petting a cow that the farmer reassures you is fine with human contact.


Remember, this is just an envisioning exercise, but it allows you to gradually work through the various levels of fear, especially in conjunction with thinking of a relaxing or peaceful image, then the anxious image, and so on, per each visualization until you feel comfortable with all of them.
 Nothing works better than facing your fears. Doing so makes you a stronger and more confident person! Call a local farm or ranch and let the owner know what you're hoping to achieve; be polite and explain yourself clearly so that you don't leave the farmer wondering what the issue is. Make arrangements to go to the farm or ranch and spend some time around cattle. Be sure to ask the producer if they can spare some moments to be with you while you observe their cattle; they may be able to talk you through and teach you some bovine behavior to help ease your nerves.


The farm or ranch visit should be at least 40 minutes in duration.Even longer would be better.
If you can't make it to a farm or ranch, wait for a local animal show or agricultural fair to come near you, and visit the cattle in their stalls or pens as they wait to be showed.
 There are two factors to remaining calm. The first is that all phobia therapy teaches you to relax and breathe. Using both relaxation and breathing techniques will allow you to relax more effectively and breathe at will.Secondly, animals are much more sensitive to your energy than you think! You need to be calm and relaxed when working with and being around animals.


If you are nervous, tense, excited, anxious, angry, frustrated, frightened, depressed, etc., then they will mirror your behaviour. An animal will always tell you what you are feeling by the behaviour they exhibit because they live in the present, never the past nor the future.

Humans are the only animals that are able to live in the future or the past. Most phobias are enhanced by a person worrying about what is going to happen in the future, thus causing tension, anxiety and fear. If you learn to not anticipate what is going to happen in the future nor think negative thoughts, things will work out better than you initially expected.

Thus, the key to being relaxed is to never anticipate the bad things. Always think happy thoughts, or just don't think at all and just live in the now.
 As already noted, breathing properly is an important part of controlling a phobia. If you are starting to feel tense or nervous or anxious, take a deep breath and let it out. Stop for a moment and let yourself calm down.


Practice deep breathing techniques to help you to stay calm.
 You've done the learning about cattle behavior, and now is the perfect opportunity to put your knowledge to the test. Are they just standing there staring at you, or are they milling about? Is there just one at the fence line acting aggressively (see above for indicators), or are there several that are not threatening you and merely following you as you walk along the fence?


If you see a herd of cattle standing at the fence staring at you and starting to follow you when you walk away, these animals are not acting dangerous. They just want some handouts from you!

Such a herd will also be swinging their heads back at the flies or to lick themselves, switching their tails nonchalantly, scratching themselves on a fence post, or, if they're relaxed enough, even start chewing their cud. After 15 to 20 minutes, if you haven't given them anything of interest, they will start to wander off and continue what they were doing.


If you only have one animal (like the herd bull or a single cow) that's acting like he or she is agitated about your presence, then simply ignore them and move further away from the fence. Once you have moved a safe distance away (both to you and to them), then they will turn away and go back to where they were "stationed."

Remember, you have a higher chance of getting hurt by such an animal if you are in the same pasture or corral as them. If you stay on the opposite side of the fence from the threatening bovine and practice avoidance techniques, then they will eventually leave you be.
 a treat of some hand-picked grass growing on the other side of the fence. Chances are you won't get one eating from your hand right away, but if you're patient enough, you might. But if not, just drop the grass on the ground where they can see it and move away a little to let them eat.


The way you hold out your hand with grass in it is not like you would with a horse. Cattle grab grass with their tongues, not their lips, so if you hold your hand out with your fist enclosed over the part of the grass with lots of stems, you both enable the animal to get the grass from your hand and from not being bitten. Just remember to let go as soon as you think the bovine has a grip on it.
 Scratch them under the chin or jaw, on the cheek or even on the neck. Even under the ear or behind the poll is a good place to touch them. If they shy away at your hand reaching out to them or jump at your touch, you can either stop doing it, or try again. If the same thing happens on your second attempt, then stop.
 Maybe you'll want to come back and try it again! If you do, repeat with the same herd or with a different herd until you have no fear (but hopefully a lot of respect) of cattle.

