 The first step in facing your fear of ghosts is to find out where your fear is coming from. Fear can be a helpful feeling as it often alerts us to danger; but other times, fear becomes an automatic response to fear of the unknown.This feeling can make situations appear worse than they really are. So ask yourself if there is really a ghost or if you are just afraid of the unknown.


Ask yourself, “What am I actually afraid of?” Pick apart your fear by determining if you are actually in danger, or if your fear of the unknown is getting the better of you.;
, What we create in our mind has the ability to create silly fears.Even if you’ve never experienced a ghostly encounter, your mind has a way of pulling together all of the worst images possible make you afraid. Realize that you (and not the ghost) are the one doing all the scaring. By recognizing the power of your imagination, you can control your thoughts and get a handle on your fears.


Calm an overactive imagination by watching less television. TV plays a major part in what we think about on a daily basis. By limiting the amount of movies and TV watched, you can stop buying into the false sense of reality created by media.Try meditation to learn to calm an active mind. By concentrating on different thoughts, objects, or chants, you can learn how to focus your mind and block out unwanted thoughts., Popular belief says that ghosts have no power in this world and therefore cannot cause any physical harm to humans (after all, they are only spirits). It is believed that ghosts are either spirits who are passing by (and have no interest in you) or spirits of loved ones (who wouldn’t want to hurt you anyway). So rest assured that ghosts can’t do much harm aside from making your heart beat faster.


There has been no proof that ghosts have ever caused any person physical harm. Most accounts are more legend than fact., The movie industry has made millions of dollars by using peoples’ fears to create an exaggerated view of the spiritual world.Though the spiritual world isn’t as terrifying and dangerous as depicted in film, it can play to the fears of those who are unfamiliar with spirits and ghosts. Avoid watching these exaggerated realities and instead try to connect to the spiritual world in a more natural and positive way.


Remember that people encounter ghosts every day. They’re not bloody or gory and many times their voices sound just like that of a human.