 In general, bleach should only be used for white pieces of clothing. Though it's great for brightening your whites, bleach can lead to laundry disasters when used with certain types of colored clothing. Bleach can strip the dye straight out of colored clothing, leaving you with pale, faded results. Worse still, if undiluted bleach is spilled directly onto colored clothing, it can result in splotchy, uneven faded patches in the spots where the bleach hits the shirt. For these reasons, you'll want to keep most colored clothing far away from bleach.


To be clear, there are actually two different kinds of bleach that are commonly available: chlorine bleach, which is suitable only for whites for the reasons listed above, and oxygen bleach, which is usually marketed as a cleaning product with "Oxi" in the name (e.g., Oxiclean, etc.). In some situations, you can use oxygen bleach for treating stains on colored clothing.However, since chlorine bleach is usually what most people think of when they hear the word "bleach", we've focused on this in the safety disclaimer above.
 While chlorine bleach usually isn't recommended for cleaning colored clothing, oxygen bleach can usually be safely used in small quantities for "colorfast" clothing — that is, clothes with colors that won't run. Sometimes, this information will be contained on the garment's care label. If it isn't, you can test a garment's colorfastness by using the quick test below:









Mix 1 tablespoon of oxygen bleach in 1 cup of water. Dip a cotton ball or swab in the mixture and transfer just a drop or so to one of the garment's inside seams (or some other part of the garment that isn't likely to be seen). Wait for about 10 minutes, then check to see if the colors have faded. If they have, don't use the bleach to clean the garment.
 Bleach is a powerful cleaning tool — though it can get your whites looking brand-new, it can damage weaker fabrics. In general, you won't want to use bleach on any sort of garment made from the materials listed above for this reason. Bleach can sometimes ruin or seriously discolor garments made from these fabrics. If you're washing white versions of these fabrics (i.e., white wool, white mohair, and so on), you'll usually be directed to use hydrogen peroxide or another mild bleaching agent rather than bleach.When in doubt, consult a garment's care label. The list above isn't exhaustive, so, if you're ever not 100% sure whether or not you should use bleach to wash a garment, give the label a quick check.
 As noted above, you'll never, ever, ever want to mix bleach and ammonia for any cleaning job. These two common cleaning materials can be very harmful when combined, forming dangerous chloramine gases that can injure (or, if you're continuously exposed to them, even kill you). Chloramine gases are not something you want in your home, so keep ammonia far away from your bleach. Below are just some of the effects of exposure to chloramine gas:Coughing
Chest pain
Pneumonia
Mouth, eye, and throat irritation
Nausea
Shortness of breath

