 You may recognize certain basic words in Old English, but a written passage may be impossible to comprehend for a Modern English speaker. Just because Old English is an early version of our modern language doesn’t mean you’ll necessary grasp it quickly, and understanding this can help the ways in which you approach learning it.Learn that the some of the biggest differences come in phonology—Old English is very guttural, much more complex grammar based on proto-Germanic languages, and the largely Germanic vocabulary. Modern English is a much more Latin-based language as a result of the Norman invasion in 1066., Old English will be a foreign language to Modern English speakers. You can adopt many of the strategies commonly used for learning foreign languages to studying Old English.Be prepared to learn everything from the start, including the writing system, grammar, and vocabulary.
Realize that if you speak German, one of the Scandinavian languages, or any of their dialects, that you may be able to recognize more of the Old English vocabulary and grammatical structures., Learning any new language is a difficult task, and one that requires constant practice. Do not be frustrated by these inevitable challenges, and instead stay focused on your goal.


Recognize that mastering another language usually takes 5-7 years depending on a variety of factors including your abilities and how much you practice.Because there are fewer people who understand and speak Old English, this may not give you the chance to practice it very often and may prolong the process of acquiring it.
Remember to keep practicing reading texts and speaking whenever you get a chance. This can help you master Old English more quickly.
 Whether you are studying Old English for a school requirement or simply out of curiosity, find ways to make the learning process fun and enjoyable. Studies have shown that you are more likely to excel at learning if you enjoy it.Take the process as an opportunity to learn something that other people can’t understand. For example, if you and a friend can both speak some Old English, it can help you have “secret” conversations.
Immerse yourself in the history of early England to help you visualize what texts like Beowulf might have looked like.
Ask a friend to quiz your knowledge. This can help you learn and be fun for both of you as she laughs at how strange the words sound.

