 An easy way to meet other dogs in your neighborhood is to make sure you are out and about with your dog on a daily basis. If possible, try to keep a regular walking schedule so your new dog will become familiar with the canines and humans it sees out on its daily walk. Walking your dog regularly means you will run into more opportunities for your dog to socialize with its neighbors., When you are out and about in the neighborhood, it is important that you always have your dog on a leash. In most places and situations, the law requires you to keep your dog leashed. Having your dog on a leash means you can maintain control if you run into another dog. Keeping your dog on a leash will also prevent your pup from running away should he feel threatened by the presence of another dog., Before you allow your dog to meet another dog, you should first make sure that dog does not have a history of aggression. Try asking the owner if their dog likes meeting other dogs. If the answer is yes, then ask if their dog has any aggression issues. It is better to ask these questions up front than to learn the answers the hard way.Before you approach the other dog owner, try saying, “Hello! It looks like my dog might like to say hello to your dog. Is your dog aggressive?”

, You should never allow your dog to greet a dog without first asking the owner for permission. The world is full of friendly dogs, but it is also filled with dogs that can be aggressive and antisocial. For this reason, it’s important that you get permission from the owner before allowing your dog to greet someone else’s dog.Try asking, “Is it okay if my dog says hello to your dog? My dog is friendly.”

, It is best that you keep meetings with other dogs brief while you are out walking your dog in the neighborhood. Once you have acquired permission from the other owner, allow the dogs to sniff each other for a few moments. If your dog behaves well and refrains from lunging at the other dog or barking, praise your dog and then lead your dog away.