 If your energy levels do not improve, then make an appointment with your family physician and get your blood sugar levels checked. Diabetes is characterized by chronic high blood glucose due to lack of insulin or insulin resistance.Your body needs insulin to get glucose into cells so energy molecules (ATP) can be made.


A common symptom of diabetes is daytime fatigue that is not alleviated by sleeping, exercise or eating nutritious meals.
Dehydration from excessive urination is also common with diabetes, which contributes to tiredness too, as noted above.
Other symptoms of diabetes include weight loss, confusion (brain fog), blurred vision, and a sweet-smelling breath odor.
 Another common cause of tiredness and fatigue is hormonal imbalance. Glands in your body produce hormones, many of which impact metabolism, energy production and mood. Your doctor can send you for blood tests that measure hormones and other compounds made by these glands.


Hypothyroidism (an underactive thyroid) is a common cause of chronic fatigue, especially in women.Adrenal fatigue can be caused by chronic stress, heavy caffeine consumption and/or over-medication. The most common symptoms of adrenal fatigue are fatigue, lack of energy, nervousness and sleep disturbance.Menopause commonly leads to lack of energy, hot flashes, insomnia and emotional problems.It's brought on by a natural decline in female reproductive hormones (estrogen and progesterone), but certain diseases and conditions can trigger it prematurely.
 A major symptom of anemia is feeling fatigued or weak. Anemia occurs when your body doesn't have enough healthy blood cells to function properly.Anemia may be caused by an iron deficiency, vitamin deficiency, a chronic disease (such as Chron's disease or rheumatoid arthritis), or many other factors, so it is important to see your doctor if you are experiencing ongoing fatigue., If you are constantly tired but testing determines that you are otherwise healthy, you may want to look at your emotional health. Both depression and anxiety can cause tiredness.Some signs and symptoms of depression include: feeling hopeless, empty, or worthless; difficulty concentrating; loss of interest in activities you once enjoyed; negative thoughts you can't control; turning to alcohol or drugs or other risky behavior.Some signs and symptoms of anxiety include: constantly feeling worried, tense, or on edge; avoiding everyday situations and activities that might cause you to feel anxious (such as socializing); you have irrational but uncontrollable fears; you have a sense of doom, or like something bad is always about to happen.If you think you may be suffering from depression and/or anxiety, talk to your doctor about a referral to a therapist that can help you overcome these issues, or a psychiatrist who can evaluate your health and possibly prescribe an antidepressant or anti-anxiety medication.
 If you're overweight or obese, then losing weight might make the most positive impact on your day-to-day energy levels. Losing weight can improve your physical health, energy levels, mobility, mood, and self-confidence.A weight-loss clinic may help motivate you and teach you how to alter your diet by eating more fresh fruits and veggies, lean meats and whole grains, while cutting back on empty sugar calories.


Combining dietary changes with an increase in exercise can speed up the weight loss process.
The key to losing weight is reducing your daily calories (no more than 2,500 if you're male, 2,000 if female) while adding some fat-burning cardiovascular exercise on a regular basis (even just a 30-minute walk every day).
Losing weight also reduces your risk of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease, which also contribute to feeling tired and fatigued.

