 Instead of a tour bus or car, sightsee in a more physical way. Check out the sights on foot, or rent a bicycle to get around.Walking around a city on foot lets you get a more personal, up close view of the city. You’re able to interact with the people and the community instead of looking at it from a vehicle.
Some cities offer bicycle tours. You can check into finding one of those, or you can rent bicycles and make your own bicycle tour.;
, When you’re planning your vacation, consider skipping cities and instead go for an outdoor destination. National parks are great areas for an active, fun vacation, complete with lodging with amenities. You can also try resorts, like ski resorts, or island destinations with swimming, kayaking, and mountain climbing.Look for destinations that offer physical activities, like a river rafting trip, a hike through the jungle, a walk to the tallest mountain in the state, riding horses on a ranch, or surfing on the beach.
Look for places to hike. Not all hikes have to be super strenuous to the top of a 10,000 foot mountain. Most national and state parks, and many national forests, nature preserves, and resorts, offer all kinds of hiking for you to enjoy.
If you’re feeling particularly adventurous, consider camping outdoors.
 If you’re going to a beach destination, fun activities for the whole family are kayaking and bicycling. Most beach towns have multiple places for you to rent these things.If you’re driving and are able, you can take your own bicycles or kayaks with you.
If you don’t want to think about working out at a gym during your vacationing, doing fun activities like kayaking and bicycling will get you active without making it feel like exercise.
 While you may want to use your vacation for relaxing, that doesn’t mean you can’t relax and stay active. You don’t have to run a marathon every day, just include physical activity into your daily routine.Instead of sitting on the beach all day, go for a walk along the beach. Walk through a local park or around the city.

