 Were those sparkly stilettos or that plasma TV really worth the number of hours you had to spend in a cubicle, or getting yelled at by your boss, or dealing with impossible clients, in order to pay for that purchase? What in your spending diary would you happily give up if it meant spending 8 hours a day doing something you actually enjoy doing? For example, you might not splurge on take-out and beer four times a week if you weren't so depressed and/or frustrated about your job.;
, If you can't find the motivation to pursue your passion part-time, you'll never be able to push yourself and make it work full-time. Prove to yourself that this is really what you want to do, and test the waters without quitting your day job. Whether it means volunteering, getting a part-time job, taking an art course, or just locking yourself in your room with a guitar, a pencil, and a piece of paper, get down to business.


Take the leap once you're more confident about the likelihood of success. When the income you're bringing in from your passionate endeavors can reliably cover your living expenses, make the switch. Write that glorious resignation letter and become one of those people who wakes up and actually looks forward to going to work!

, Show people your work. Talk about it every chance you get. Ask for feedback. Start a website. Use social networking to promote what you do. Most importantly, learn not to take criticism personally. When you're passionate about something and others aren't so enthused, it's easy to feel like they've just told you your child is ugly. Remember that if you want to do what you love for a living, you have to offer the world something they want. That's the deal. Keep up your end of the bargain.


Have courage. Doing what you love is often a balance between producing what you know your clients want and being bold. With focus and determination, you can take some risks in trying out new ideas and approaches that are untested––just be sure to keep the things that you know do work running as well.
 While you may have hated math in high school, tracking the flow of cash through your life might be the only way you can avoid selling your soul at a job you hate. Learn the difference between what you need (a roof over your head and the lights on) over what you want (this season's fashion trends) and apply this to all spending decisions. And while treats are not out of the question, they are not a regular indulgence when you're sticking to a budget (but that only makes them all the more special when you do treat yourself).


Draw up a weekly budget. Stay within the limits you've set yourself, as well as setting aside an amount for saving each week.
Keep a spending diary––record each and every one of your purchases in a single notebook. You might be surprised at some of the frivolous purchases or at discovering where you could be cutting costs.
Build your emergency fund. This is for unexpected things that happen in life, like the car ceasing to work or your computer dying. This must be earmarked for a specific purpose and cannot be dipped into for indulgences. It's a safety net both in reality and psychologically, that lets you have more wiggle room with your low pay.
 In terms of your time off your passion, avoid activities that suck up money. There are plenty of free or cheap ways to enjoy yourself in your downtime and in many cases, these will probably enhance your creativity and enthusiasm for what you're doing. Make a list of the things you love to do that don't cost much, such as hiking, visiting the park, going to galleries, checking out the museums in your area, people-watching, having a long, slow coffee in a vibrant coffeehouse, reading books that take you out of your comfort zone, sitting on the beach, etc. And if you love to shop, try to shop as a way of gaining ideas rather than goods; turn yearning into learning by soaking up ideas for your next project from shop window inspirations, watching people's approaches to shopping to inspire your next novel or finding fascinating objects to snap for your photo collection.
 There will be times when you feel some annoyance or disappointment that you can't have what some people do or that your status doesn't seem as "important" as someone with a high level title––it's only natural. And when this does happen, apart from not comparing yourself to others, look for all the good you have in your life as a result of your choice. Think of the non-monetary gains such as time, living up to your principles, having fun and giving the world your authentic self. If you're good at what you're doing, proud of it and enjoying it, you're living the way many people more cashed-up than you can only dream of.


Dreams matter but always be conscious that the dream must be broken into manageable actions that cross into reality and get achieved. Use the "dream" part of your dream job to stay enthused and motivated; the "job" part is all about the doing.
Have a purpose larger than yourself. If you aim to make a meaningful contribution to the world and stay focused on helping others through your talents, whatever they may be, you'll make a positive dent on the universe. To do this, develop a vision that is something others can understand and that causes you to inspire others when you discuss it. The vision will help you through the leanest of times, as well as convincing others of the worthiness of what you're doing.

