 Sometimes all you need is a little motivation to help you feel a little more energized. Put on some of your favorite upbeat music. A faster beat can help you feel a little more energetic.


If you're able, listen to your music a little loudly. This can help jolt you out of your midday fog. If you're not able, try listening to the music throughout headphones so you don't bother your co-workers.
Also try singing or humming along to the song. This can help force your brain to concentrate and focus instead of zoning out.;
, A small afternoon snack can provide your body with a little boost of nutrition and energy. Just make sure you pick the right type of snack to keep your energy boosted the rest of the day.


Choose protein and complex carbs for your snacks. Protein can help boost energy and keep you satisfied. Complex carbs are higher in fiber and help prevent a rapid spike in your blood sugar.Together they make the perfect afternoon snack combination.
Try snacks like: carrots and hummus, a low-fat greek yogurt, a piece of fruit and a cheese stick or even a small bowl of oatmeal.
Try a piece of dark chocolate, which contains caffeine and can improve focus. Look for chocolate that has at least 60% cacao.Avoid high-sugar snacks like candies, sweetened beverages or desserts. These cause your blood sugar to rise rapidly and then crash causing additional fatigue.Also skip foods that are higher in fat. Too much fat can cause you to feel sluggish and tired since it takes a long time to digest., Small amounts of caffeine can help you beat afternoon fatigue as well. Caffeine is a stimulant that can help you feel more awake and focused.Brew a cup of coffee or tea to help you wake up. Be mindful of the sweetener you use — too much sugar can cause a crash later on. Use very minimal sugar, a natural calorie-free sugar or none at all.
Keep caffeine intake moderate. Too much can be irritating long-term. However, most studies show that two to three cups of coffee throughout the day is safe for most healthy adults.Note that caffeine can also have the opposite effect - especially on those who already drink somewhat large quantities of it. If you're already a caffeine junky, lay off of it for a few weeks to see if it helps with your fatigue., Wash the day's stress from your mind by splashing cold water onto your face and neck. Some studies have shown that the cold water can help you wake up and feel more focused.When you're starting to feel a little sleepy, take a walk break to the bathroom and turn the faucet on cold. Splash yourself for a few minutes until you feel a little more alert.
This same study also showed that a cold shower in the morning, although uncomfortable at first, can help you wake up and de-stress more than a typical warm shower.
 It only takes a few seconds, and the sensation of a stretch can be surprisingly revitalizing. Stretch a little to wake up, de-stress and relax.It's easy to get stiff at work — especially if you're sitting at a desk all day. You might feel hunched over from staring at your screen, or your neck feels strained for leaning forward all day. Get up and stretch to help your body relax.
Some stretches to try include: neck rolls, reaching up towards the sky and arching backwards, touching your toes, side stretches and seated twists.
 Break from work for a moment and spend it laughing with friends, going out to grab a coffee or talking about weekend plans.


Socializing is a great way to feel refreshed, even for just a moment. It takes your mind off stress, and laughing picks up your mood.Ask your friends or co-workers if they'd be interested in taking a regular 3 or 4 pm coffee break. You can get up, move and socialize (all of which can help you feel a little more awake and refreshed).
You can even ask your co-workers to join you on a daily 10 minute yoga break, stretch break or afternoon walk. You're probably not the only one feeling a little sleepy in the afternoons.
 Multiple studies have shown that going for a quick walk can help wake you up and give you a burst of energy to get through your afternoon.Try to go for at least 10 minutes. However, moving around for about 30 minutes will be even better for you.Get outside if you can. The fresh air will give you a great boost of energy and motivation. A brisk walk will get your heart pumping and your body and mind will no longer feel sluggish.Consider attending a gym in the mornings to give you more energy throughout the day. A cardio workout or a calming yoga session will help build your stamina and endurance, while relieving stress.
 If you have the opportunity to sneak away right after lunch for a little shut-eye (possibly finding a conference room that is not in use, going to your car, or closing your door if you're in an office), a 15 to 20 minute nap may be enough to re-energize you for the rest of the day, improving alertness and motor skills.Longer naps, between 30 and 60 minutes, can improve your decision-making skills and memory.
To get the most benefit from a mid-day nap, try to be consistent about the timing. Aim for a nap between 1 and 3pm. Use a sleep mask to block out any light and, if possible, wrap yourself in a warm blanket or your jacket., Many studies have shown that regular and consistent physical activity is the best way to fight fatigue and increase your energy.Health professionals think that regular exercise helps increase the release of energy-promoting neurotransmitters like serotonin and dopamine which helps you beat the fatigue.In addition, health professionals recommend doing at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity each day.In addition to aerobic activity, also include a day or two of strength training to balance out your workouts., A well-balanced diet is very important for general health, but may also determine how you feel throughout the day.


A balanced diet is a way of eating in which you consume foods from every food group each day. In addition, you should eat a wide variety of foods throughout the day.
To help prevent fatigue you should make sure that all your meals are balanced as well.
For example, big carbohydrate-rich meals (like a pancake breakfast or spaghetti for lunch), can leave you feeling tired and sluggish.Include a source of lean protein, fruits or vegetables and a high fiber carbohydrate to help balance your energy levels., Sometimes, eating more often can help you balance out your body's blood sugar and energy levels throughout the day.Try eating four to six smaller meals daily. These little meals can help provide your body with some nutrition and a small boost of energy throughout the day.


Many people typically go for the three meals a day approach. But if you need a snack during the day or have frequent afternoon slumps, try eating more often.
 In addition to eating multiple smaller meals throughout the day, make sure that your lunch-time meal is also small. This may help with your afternoon energy levels.


Studies have shown that circadian rhythms are significantly different for those people who ate large meals at lunch. These changes resulted in a more sluggish, tired feeling in the afternoons. This is most likely from drops in blood sugar.To minimize these effects, stick to smaller portions at lunch time. Stop eating when you're satisfied and not full. Once you're full, you've probably eaten too much and are at risk for some sleepiness later on.
If you have a smaller lunch and feel hungry in the afternoon, have an energy boosting snack to help decrease your hunger and provide a boost.
 Being dehydrated is one of the top causes of afternoon fatigue and grogginess.Stay hydrated to avoid the afternoon slump.


When your body is hydrated it is more energized. Drink fluids all day long to help prevent fatigue in the afternoons.
Aim for eight to 13 glasses of clear, no-calorie fluids to help keep you hydrated. Try: water, flavored water and decaf coffee and teas.Also monitor the amount of caffeine you drink. Although it can provide a little boost in energy, large quantities of caffeine can exacerbate dehydration.
 Obviously how much sleep you get each night will also play a significant role in how energized you feel the next day.Aim to get enough sleep every night to prevent fatigue during the day.


Most health experts will recommend getting about seven to nine hours of sleep each night for adults.
Try going to bed earlier or waking up later to help you get in a little more sleep time.
If you have chronic sleep problems, it's important to see your doctor for help. He or she may be able to help you find a medication to help you get to sleep and stay asleep.
 Some studies link stress to more than half of the reasons why people experience afternoon fatigue.Since stress seems to play a big role in your energy levels, manage it as best you can.


Talk about your stress. This can help you "vent" and relieve some of the tension. Consider talking to friends, family or a therapist for help.
Also try some stress-reducing activities like: meditating, walking, listening to music or reading a good book.
 If you're experiencing afternoon fatigue often, severe fatigue, or you're unsure of what's causing fatigue, it might be a good idea to talk to your doctor.


In rare cases, there are some health conditions that can cause fatigue. Many of these should be managed by your doctor.
Talk to your doctor about how long you've been feeling fatigued, how often it happens and the severity. This will help him or her better manage your condition.
In addition, many chronic diseases like diabetes, obesity or sleep apnea can cause fatigue and should be closely monitored by your physician.

