 Properly dried firewood is easier to light, burns cleaner, and gives off more heat. There are two kinds of wet wood: green wood and seasoned wood that has gotten wet. Avoid covering both kinds with a tarp. The more air exposure wood has, the faster it will dry. Covering wood with a tarp may prolong the time it takes to dry and could cause mold to grow."Green wood" means it has been freshly cut and still has green sap in it. This wood can take from several months to a year to dry. For the best and quickest results, cut the wood and store it where it will be protected from wetness.
"Seasoned wood" means the green sap in the wood has already dried. If this kind of wood has gotten wet again, simply stack it in a place protected from moisture until it dries again.
 For green wood, you should wait a few months before testing the wood, but wood that's already seasoned may dry out in a few days to a week, depending on conditions. Check the dryness of your wood with a firewood moisture meter or by knocking together two pieces of wood. Dry wood knocked together will make a high pitched, cleaner sound; wet wood will produce a dull thud., Cement walls, metal T-posts, stacked cinder blocks, and similar stationary objects can be used to support the ends of your woodpile. This will prevent wood from rolling down the sides and becoming a tripping hazard.


T-posts are relatively inexpensive and can easily be moved around, should you need to relocate your woodpile. Buy these at your local hardware store., You can create a stable barrier on either end of your woodpile with an alternating crosswise pattern of stacked logs. Lay your first row of logs normally with front to back orientation with regard to the woodpile. Do this on a ground covering or 2x4 planks so the logs don't directly touch the ground. Then:


At both ends, lay logs crosswise. These logs should occupy the entire front to back length of the logs on both ends. Generally, this pattern results in three logs oriented front to back, and three logs oriented left to right, though this number may vary.
 The wood between your crosswise alternating stacks at both ends of the woodpile should be oriented front to back. As you add rows of front to back logs added between your bookends, add more rows of crosswise alternating logs at both ends.


Do this until you are out of wood, or until your pile has become 4 ft (1.2 m) in height. At that point, start a new pile., If you are using posts or crosswise stacked bookends to keep your firewood in place, avoid stacking the pile over 4 ft (1.2 m). This will cause the wood to become unstable, and could result in it falling and doing harm or damage.


In some cases, like with a specially designed woodshed, you may be able to pile wood higher than 4 ft (1.2 m) safely. However, for freestanding woodpiles or those that are supported only at the ends, avoid exceeding 4 ft (1.2 m).