 People—especially women—tend to laugh more when they are attracted to someone.This doesn't mean that your crush wants to jump your bones just because she laughed at your joke – but you might notice when it's happening a lot.;
, Make a point of looking over at this person at spontaneous moments. If you catch him/her often staring at you, or even simply stealing glances – there is a good chance that he/she is interested. Both men and women tend to stare intensely for 2-3 seconds at people to whom they're attracted, then lower their eyes and quickly look away.This person may be trying to subtly flirt with you: looking over frequently in the hopes of catching your eye. Two can play at this game!
If your eyes meet, you can react in two ways: look away quickly, to play the coy role, or smile warmly to acknowledge the person.
 If someone cocks his or her head to the side, it usually means that he/she is interested in what you have to say. Note that this does not necessarily mean that the person is attracted to you. Attention and attraction do, however, often come hand in hand – and if a person is already listening, you might have a better chance of wooing them with your words.
 Subtle (or not-so-subtle) physical contact is a classic way of showing attraction.See if he/she seems to find excuses to brush your hand or your shoulder, or even just to get close to you. Perhaps he likes to jokingly tickle you; perhaps she hugs you for just a little bit longer than her other friends. If someone seems to be touching you a lot, there's a good chance that he/she is attracted to you.Try touching back. If you like the way that it feels—if it feels electric, real, and right—don't be afraid to reciprocate. This can be a great way to signal that you are attracted, too., Even if the person isn't actually touching you, you might notice him/her trying to spend time with you. Perhaps he volunteers to work an event with you, or to be your lab partner; perhaps she shows up at every show that your band plays; perhaps he messages you online just to ask "what's up?" If someone is actively trying to place him/herself within the sphere of your awareness, there's a good chance that it's because he/she is attracted to you.
"We tend to imitate or "mirror" the poses and expressions of people to whom we're attracted. This can take the form of someone subconsciously shifting her legs to sit how you are sitting; slowing her walking speed to match your pace; smiling when you smile, or looking where you look. Most people aren't aware of this impulse when they're acting on it – but you might be able to use this knowledge to speculate on whether someone is attracted to you.