 Whatever has happened before, it's over now. Accept the lessons you've learned, and try to move on. Remember: if you think about it every day, you're still allowing it to control you.


Seek professional help, if necessary. A counselor or therapist can help you overcome self-confidence issues and be your best self.
 Even if you're feeling really down about yourself, act confident. You don't have to pretend to be something you're not, but don't announce to the world you're upset. Stay calm and collected. You will be respected if you show your feelings, but in a confident way.
 You are a beautiful individual with your own personality and talents. Only by appreciating your potential will you be able to nurture your gifts and offer something to the world.
 Don't do anything you might regret later or you’ll lose your self-respect. Not only that, but secrets have a way of getting out -- and when they do, people’s negative judgments of you might poison your own sense of self. Be honest and ethical and, most importantly, have a little backbone!


Stand up for what’s right. If someone puts you down, be your own knight in shining armor; no one has a right to treat you with disrespect. Do the same if someone else is being abused. Don’t be afraid to stand up -- even if it means standing alone; remember, it only takes one person to make a huge difference.
Respect yourself and your body. Think twice about drinking liquor, smoking cigarettes, and eating bad food. Illegal drugs should be avoided. And be careful if/when you engage in sexual activity.
 Write in it as often as you can and you’ll soon discover that it’s worth the time: it’ll not only give you a chance to reflect on your relationships and experiences, but also help you consider who you are and who you want to be. While you’re at it, keep a record of the good things in your life. You may be surprised how blessed you really are.


If you think it's nerdy or uncool, don't worry; it can be private and no one needs to know you keep it.
 Ride the momentum of all this soul-searching into a better future. Start with one or two goals (ex. lose 10 pounds, make the volleyball team, make the 'A' honour roll, save money and buy new clothes, etc.) and, once you’ve made headway on them, set a few more. Make a habit of knowing what you want and getting it.


It may help to make a new sheet of paper for each goal and write why you want to do it, how you'll make this happen, and when you’ll have it done by.

