 These are pretty reasonable in price now. You can get something that will do a great job for under $100.00 at most any retail store. Follow the instructions and install the accompanying software on your computer and physically connect (or wirelessly) your scanner to your computer.;
, This can be A) very daunting, and B) extremely intimidating. Take a shot at it, one (1) album or group of photos at a time. (Make sure you come up with a way to identify each album or group of photos as complete once scanned. This is simple you can attached a label to the album, or group, or put them in a completed location, several options, use your imagination).
 This is another external cost that is minimal when it comes to the loss of your photos. You can get a very large external hard drive for well under $100.00 at any electronics retailer or online. Depending on the # of photos you have, you may benefit from dedicating an external hard drive to photo storage.
 Within this program you will be able to adjust the settings and tell the scanner and computer where to store your scanned photos. If you are following my steps above, you would browse and find your external hard drive, and place it as the default save location for your scans.
 You have to find a happy medium; you may choose to scan at a lower DPI (300 - 400) because when printing, this allows for very nice prints without eating up massive amounts of storage.
 This can be done by browsing your computer and verifying that your photos are where you expect them to be.
 Once you have a group of photos digitized, you can go into the folder with the photos and name them individually as you wish, by right clicking on the photo and either changing the name (PC), or going to Get Info (MAC) and changing the name.
 The hard part is over, now you can rest assured that you have multiple copies of your photos spread across multiple locations, so as to avert disasters in one location by creating multiple copies and placing in various locations.

