 Don’t get so caught up in wanting to win this fight that you forget what is best for your child. Consider the child’s age and temperament when deciding on what discipline style would work best. Head to the library or seek out some research-based information or help concerning age-appropriate disciplinary techniques from a mental health professional to determine what expectations are realistic.


For example, you may think that using a time out is the most effective type of discipline style. However, your child may scream and cry the entire time which makes them even more upset and ill-behaved. This could be because they are too young for a time out approach.
Ask yourself if the time out is actually working, or if you are just holding onto the method because you want to prove you are right. It may be time to consider a different tactic., One of the most effective methods of parenting is maintaining a united front. Showing your kids that you cannot agree on this matter can make them feel uneasy and that their family may not be as strong as they thought it was. It may also give them an opportunity to take advantage of this weakness between you and your spouse.


For example, your older child may figure out that you can’t decide what punishment works best on them. As a result, they test you with bad behavior. They may think that because you can’t agree on what to do, that you may not do anything. Simply end the argument and wait until the kids are gone before finishing it., Your spouse may deliver a punishment in the heat of the moment without discussing it with you first. Although you may be upset, avoid telling your spouse what a bad idea that was in front of the kids. Not only will it likely start an argument while the kids are watching, but it shows them that you aren’t on solid ground, which can be frightening for them.


Instead, talk to your spouse about it afterwards. Simply say you wish they would have consulted you before they doled out the punishment.Try to find some empathy for your spouse, as parenting is a full-time, ever-changing job and mistakes are going to be made when anyone is thinking on their feet that much. You will want them to extend you the same courtesy.

