 Symptoms usually develop gradually over years — it is a progressive disease, so signs and symptoms will worsen over time and new symptoms may arise. The symptoms frequently start on one side of the body.


The three main symptoms of Parkinson's are:Tremors. People often have uncontrollable shaking that starts in their fingers or hands. It usually appears when the hand is relaxed.
Moving slowly. People with Parkinson's may move slowly without realizing it. This is also called bradykinesia. They may also shuffle.
Muscle stiffness. Stiff muscles may make it hard to move and be painful.;
, Additional symptoms may actually be due to other problems or conditions, but can be made worse by Parkinson's. People with Parkinson's may develop symptoms out of order, experience differing levels of severity, and are unlikely to experience all or even most of these symptoms. Other symptoms include:Postural problems. Many people adopt a stooped posture.
Not making normal unconscious movements. This can include blinking, making facial expressions, or swinging your arms when you walk.
Speech problems. Parkinson’s patients often have a quiet, whispery voice, speak in monotones, or slur their words.
Difficulty writing
Nerve pain. Some people have sensations of burning, coldness, or numbness.
Anosmia. People may have a reduced ability to smell.
Frequent urination or difficulty controlling the need to urinate
Inability to have or keep an erection in men or difficulty becoming aroused, or having an orgasm for women
Constipation
Sweating
Drooling
Difficulty swallowing
Dizziness
Psychological changes including depression, anxiety, insomnia, dementia, personality changes, visual hallucinations, or delusions.
 Your doctor will examine you, watch you move, and ask about your medical history and family’s medical history. There are several things the doctor may do:Observe whether you have a normal range of facial expressions
Look for tremors
Ask you to get out of a chair
Blood tests or imaging tests such as an MRI, SPECT, or PET scan to rule out other conditions such as a stroke or hydrocephalus
Prescribe levodopa medication and observe whether your symptoms improve
Refer you to a movement specialist

, Depending on your symptoms, medical history, and how much the disease has progressed, your physician may prescribe you a variety of medications. Commonly prescribed medications include:Levodopa. This medication is generally very effective, particularly in the early stages. It is converted to dopamine in the brain. Side effects may include nausea and dizziness. As the disease progresses, this medication may become less effective. This is taken as a pill or a liquid. It may be combined with carbidopa or benserazide. The dosage may need to be increased over time.

Dopamine agonists. These medications act like dopamine in the brain. They are less effective than medications which are converted to dopamine, but they may be effective longer. These can be taken in different forms including as a patch (Neupro) or an injectable medication (Apokyn). Side effects can include hallucinations, tiredness, compulsive eating, gambling, and hypersexuality.

MAO-B inhibitors. These medications prevent your body from breaking down dopamine. Common ones include selegiline (Eldepryl, Zelapar) and rasagiline (Azilect). They can cause interactions when taken with antidepressants, carbidopa-levodopa, or other MAO-B inhibitors. Side effects include nausea, abdominal discomfort, and headaches.

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors. The medication that is most often prescribed is entacapone (Comtan). It prevents the body from breaking down dopamine and is used to make levodopa more effective. Side effects can include involuntary movements or diarrhea.

Anticholinergics. These medications can control tremors, but they can cause intolerable side effects such as memory problems, confusion, hallucinations, constipation, and difficulty urinating. A common one is benztropine (Cogentin).

Amantadine. This medication can help with early Parkinson’s or to reduce involuntary movements that may occur due to carbidopa-levodopa. Side effects can include purple blotches on the skin, swelling in the ankles, and hallucinations.
 During this procedure, electrodes are put into your brain. These electrodes receive electrical signals from a device put into your chest. This can provide long-term benefits, but it won’t prevent the disease from continuing. You would still likely need medications.The electrodes are inserted using an MRI and neurophysiological mapping. You then receive a controller that allows you to turn the device on and off. The battery in the device needs to be changed after three to five years, but this can be done with local anesthesia.
Deep brain stimulation can improve an erratic response to levodopa medications, reduce involuntary movements, lessen rigidity, and help a tremor.
Infections, strokes, and brain hemorrhages are potential side effects.
 Several alternative medicines and natural supplements have been studied, but they have not been found to be effective. If you are considering these, or any other herbal remedy, over-the-counter medication, or supplement, discuss it with your doctor before taking it. Some may interact with other medications. In addition, the dosages in supplements are not regulated like in medications. The following substances have not been found to be effective treatments:Coenzyme Q10. This medication was not more effective than a placebo.

Vitamin E. Vitamin E has not been shown to slow the progression of Parkinson’s.

Creatine. This substance is currently being studied.

