 Stand with your feet hip-width apart. Take a deep breath. Pick up your right foot, bend it and place it against your left thigh in a slow and steady motion. Allow your body to transfer your weight to your right leg. Put your hands together in a prayer pose and raise them together as high as they will go. Hold the pose from 30 seconds to a minute.Do not lock your left knee. Keep it straight or gently crooked.
If you cannot place your right foot on your thigh, place it under the knee. Do not place it on the knee, because that will cause too much pressure on the joint.
Repeat on the opposite side.;
, This pose focuses on your legs. Place your feet apart, with your right leg in front of you and your left leg behind you.Turn your left foot to a 45 degree angle so that your toes are pointing outward. Your right knee should be directly over your right ankle. Bring your arms above your head until they are about shoulder-width apart, as you inhale. Exhale as you press into your feet. Keep breathing and hold the pose for 3 to 6 breaths. Exhale and lower your hands to release.Do not do this pose if you have hip, knee, back, or shoulder problems.
Repeat on the opposite side.
 This pose will strengthen your back muscles and tone your glutes.Lay on your stomach on your yoga mat. Your feet should lie flat at hip-width. Place your hands below your shoulders and keep your elbows close to the sides of your body. Take a breath as you gently lift your chest up, keeping your lower ribs on the ground. Draw your shoulders back, straighten your arms, and lift your chest off the floor. If possible, lift until your arms are straight. Press your thighs into the floor as you lift your chest.Straighten your arms as much as you can. You should not strain yourself at all.
If you are a beginner or experience neck pain, look straight ahead instead of looking upwards.
Do not tuck your toes while you are in this position.
Allow your back to arch and your stomach, pelvis and shoulders to stretch.
 This pose will help build muscle in your legs and feet. Spread your feet 3.5 or 4 feet apart with your left foot pointed forward and your right food and knee pointed outward. As you inhale, raise your arms to shoulder height. The exhale as you lean to the right, extend your body over your right leg, and place your right hand on the floor.Hold the position for 5 to 10 breaths.
Your arms should be in a straight line throughout this pose. Your body should be bent sideways with your chest and pelvis wide open.
Repeat the same motion on the other side of our body.
Do not do this pose of you have a migraine, low blood pressure, diarrhea, or neck and back injuries.Keep your eyes open during this exercise to help you maintain your balance and keep your chest

, This pose focuses on your arm and back muscles. Lie flat on your back and inhale. As you exhale, raise both of your legs straight up while keeping them together. Your weight should be balanced on your head, neck, shoulders, and upper arms. You can support your hips with your hands or leave your hands on the floor. Breath as you hold this position.Exhale, bend your knees, and slowly roll your torso back onto the floor to come down from this position.If you are a beginner, try to hold this position for 30 seconds. Gradually increase by 5 to 10 seconds everyday until you van hold the position for 3 minutes., The plank engages your arms, shoulders and abdominal muscles.Get on all fours to begin this pose. Tuck your toes, step back with your feet, and make a straight line with your body. Keep your spine straight and body parallel to the ground. Your butt and hips should not be sticking up in the air or sagging to close to the floor. Tighten your abs and hold the pose for 5 breaths. Never lock your elbows during this pose. Keep your elbows slightly bent.
You can modify this position by keeping your knees on the ground. This is helpful if your abdominal muscles are not very strong yet, or you have some lower back issues.
You should not do this pose if you have carpal tunnel syndrome or osteoporosis.Your hips should not be any higher than your shoulders.
For an added challenge, raise 1 leg straight up a few inches. Hold for 30 seconds and then switch legs.

