 Avoid using soaps with heavy perfumes, or gels or antiseptics, which may throw off the balance of healthy bacteria and irritate the sensitive skin around your vagina.The actual vagina (the inner canal) is "self-cleaning" and doesn't require washing; soap is likely to irritate the vagina if you try to use it on the vagina itself. You don't need to wash the vagina, just the area around the vagina (the vulva), using a plain, unperfumed soap, using the steps that follow.;
, Use your fingers to pull your labia away from your clitoris. Gently wipe the skin on both sides of your clitoris with the washcloth.
 Also, clean around your bikini line.
 The perineum is the area between your vagina and your anus.
 Keep your washcloth from touching your vaginal area after you've washed your anus. Doing this will ensure that you don't drag rectal germs toward your vaginal area. These germs can cause you to get urinary tract infections., If you have sex, you may want to wash it a second time to feel fresh and clean, although washing after sex will not prevent pregnancy on its own., Thick pubic hair can cause you to sweat down below, which may make you have some issues with odor. However keep in mind that pubic hair removal naturally irritates and inflames the hair follicles left behind, leaving microscopic open wounds. Rather than suffering a comparison to a bristle brush, frequent hair removal is necessary to stay smooth, causing regular irritation of the shaved or waxed area. When that irritation is combined with the warm moist environment of the genitals, it becomes a happy culture medium for some of the nastiest of bacterial pathogens, namely Group A Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus and its recently mutated cousin methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). There is an increase in staph boils and abscesses, necessitating incisions to drain the infection, resulting in scarring that can be significant. It is not at all unusual to find pustules and other hair-follicle inflammation papules on shaved genitals. Pubic hair is there for a reason, and while you should feel free to remove it if you wish, it may not be the best choice for hygiene.


For a middle ground, try simply trimming your pubic hair, but be careful with scissors around your labia.
 Change your pad or your tampon frequently, according to the directions on the package. If you're worried about how you smell when you're having your period, you can wash your vagina 2 or 3 times a day.
 Breathable fabric helps to prevent vaginal odor.
 If you like the way they make you feel, you can graduate to reusable cotton menstrual pads or menstrual cups.


Keep in mind that, while they do stop extra discharge, they also increase vaginal sweating, stifle vaginal breathing and increase the vagina's temperature. This can culminate into a hot bed for fungus's and unhelpful bacteria.
 So are you worried that your partner won't like your scent? Take a shower or a steamy bath before you have sex. Let your partner wash your vagina for you. Who knows? It might lead to all kinds of fun.

