 Computer games have been shown to be great way to encourage higher-level thinking.While these virtual activities can help your child get some valuable practice in math, though, they’re not always the best option. Before popping your child in front of the computer, think about whether this is the best use of their time.


For example, time spent watching television should be minimized, so feel free to switch on a computer game when your child would be doing this otherwise.
In contrast, if other classmates, friends, or siblings are around, you should opt for some interactive math games rather than virtual ones. These kinds of games establish, develop, and expand your child’s interpersonal skill set, something which is essential to later-in-life abilities such as teamwork, self-esteem, and problem solving., Before you pick an appropriate computer game for your child, make sure you know what concepts and skills they need to practice. This will ensure that you're not forging ahead of their class and causing confusion or lagging behind with long-familiar concepts.


Even if you’re already aware what your child is learning in class from homework assignments, ask their teacher if there are any problem areas or error-prone concepts which your child should work on.
 Once you know what your child is learning in school, you can pick a computer game. Free websites such as education.com, funbrain.com, and pbskids.org/games/math/ provide access to multiple, easy-to-use math games, as well as instructions for you and your child to read. You can also find several consumer review and parenting sites which offer reviews and rankings of educational math games available for purchase.


In general, you want to purchase a game with kid-friendly Entertainment Software Rating Board ratings and that you can return if you or your child find it unsatisfactory., You might think that mobile apps are primarily designed for adult lifestyles and needs, but you’d be way wrong! There are an increasing number of mobile apps made to help children use and improve their math skills. These options offer the added bonus of allowing your child to play math games even when you’re on the go or only have a few minutes to spare between other activities.


For example, the app Bedtime Math presents your child with a math problem to solve every morning and night, encouraging them to incorporate math and critical thinking into their daily life. The app Attributes, in contrast, develops children’s problem-solving skills through puzzles and other graphics., While interactive media is the best virtual way for children to learn and practice math, sometimes this just isn’t an option. Perhaps your home PC isn’t available for your child to use, or they’re too tired or fussy to use the computer. In these cases, you can switch on an educational program which features mathematical concepts to optimize their passive media consumption.


You may remember programs such as Donald Duck in Mathmagic Land from your own childhood, but don’t limit yourself to these classic cartoons! There are many contemporary series such as Odd Squad that feature math and problem-solving, so check out sites like concommonsensemedia.org for parent- and kid-friendly options., If your child is using your device in order to play math games or watch educational programs, you want to make sure that they can't access your other, adult apps and programs. Even if your child has their own tablet, phone, or laptop so that only kid-friendly apps and programs are installed on it, they could potentially access harmful or problematic information through the internet.On video game consoles, you can set parental controls in the Settings part of the menu. On a laptop or tablet with internet browsers, you should adjust parental controls on both the device itself, as well as in each browser.

