 Of course,the odd treats are fine, but you just have to make sure that you eat more of the good (healthy) stuff more than the bad (junk) food. Make sure you're getting all the vitamins, magnesium and fiber. You need to be eating at least 5 fruits or vegetables a day. Think that would be complicated to do? It's not! Simply include 2 pieces in your lunch everyday, whip up a smoothie at home, make a fruit salad (at least 2 portions in every medium serving), and you can easily eat vegetables with your dinner.;
,, Water can improve your skin's condition, keep you from having less headaches, and can be a good refresher.
 Many people go off exercise, simply because they don't think they enjoy any sport or activity and are made to do it at school. But there is something for everyone, so experiment! Try your best in P.E. lessons and try to exercise 3 times a week, half an hour each time. Being fit and active has its advantages too, such as the chance to live longer, have a good, strong body, and avoid illnesses. Some fun sports are gym, swimming, jogging and football.
 It is essential for a healthy body and mind, and starving yourself of this special rest will leave you tired, worn out, unhappy and with tired looking eyes. Get at least 8 hours sleep a night, and relax 1 hour before, so it is easy to drift off afterwards. Have a hot drink, comfortable sheets and pajamas, a calming light on and relax. Have a shower or bath first too, if you like. Getting a good night's sleep means you'll feel more wide awake, able to concentrate better, and you won't accidentally sleep in on school days.
 If you are having a bath, pour in a small amount of bath foam/milk or bath sugar/crystals and swirl. Scrub gently with an all over exfoliator to get rid of dead skin cells and get in. Shampoo and condition your hair and rinse to leave it silky soft. Use a body wash to cleanse and wash your face then wash off. When you get out, towel off and slather on a rich body lotion, cream or butter to leave skin smooth and hydrated. Do this when having a simple shower so you can look forward to it every night! Pampering often refreshes, softens, smooths and can improve your skin. A lovely, relaxing thing to do.
 Clean your teeth twice a day for fresh breath, brush your hair for no knots, take off your make up at the end of the day and keep clean!

, Wear what YOU want to wear,not what the magazines are telling you too. Make sure that whatever you wear if 100% comfortable and makes you feel good. Skinny/wide-legged/boot-cut jeans, T shirts, hoodies, dresses, sweaters, trainers, pumps and Ugg boots are all great. Wear what you do with confidence and why not accessorize too? Add a cool bracelet or bangle, your face necklace or pendant or a pretty ring to add extra fun to outfits.
 Eye-catching or natural, the choice is yours and different looks suit different occasions. Good eyeshadow colours are light or dark brown,silver, metallic, greens, blues and light pinks. Lip glosses that are clear or light pink look nice,and balms look after the lips. Line the outer areas of your eyes with liner for bigger looking eyes and apply one coat of mascara for longer lashes, or just curl them.
 Get it trimmed every 8-9 weeks to keep ends from splitting and choose to have it short, medium or long. Wear it up for school in a ponytail, part tied up and part down or in plaits. Have a fringe if you want one and liven up your style with brightly colored hairbands,head bands or clips with pretty patterns. Look after it and don't overload it with too many products.
 It's not nerdy or geeky to want to do well in life or try your best,it means that you'll have a better chance of getting the job you want, expanding your knowledge and achieving. Do all your homework and have it in on time, be organized and have everything you need, listen carefully in class and try as best as you possibly can. You will be rewarded, plus being a hardworking student will earn respect from your teachers.
 Know who your true friends are and don't let the girls which upset you bother you all the time. Simply spend time with others mates instead and stick up for yourself. Arrange sleepovers and stuff to have fun with them. Be friends with anyone you want and think has the main qualities any mate should have.
 Walk tall with confidence and pride and don't slouch so much when sitting down. Also, a smile is nice to see!

, Reading, writing, listening to music, pampering, watching TV and films are fun activities. Listen to your fave artists and see if you can find some new songwriters too,if you feel like it. Know which things you're interested in and enjoy them!

, Use happy,positive words instead! If you have a boyfriend, love and appreciate him.
 It's good to be different and be yourself. Life is brilliant, and you can make it special.

