 If you are planning on making this a large event, you can invite the children to a hat making workshop before the parade.;
, The first task is to rent a venue; a village hall is the ideal place.
 If this is an event for a school then maybe you can ask some of the teachers to help. If not, then you can ask parents.
 If you're going to be doing craft, then you'll need materials. Buy some colourful card and paper, some glue, glitter, scissors and some pens. If you have a fairly large budget, then maybe you can even buy decorations do make the venue look festive.
 Be sure to send out letters to all the children's parents and maybe make some posters and flyers to advertise the event. This can be done in tandem with advertising for the actual parade, as described below.
 If you want to, you can organise more activities for the children, like Easter cake or biscuit decorating and Easter egg hunts.
 The festivities can start on a smaller scale, at home. You can print simple hat or crown templates onto card and give them out to the children for them to decorate at home and bring to the parade.
 Decide who to invite - whether your friends, or the friends of your children, or a range of local children or students. Particularly if this is a public or school event, send a letter to the parents with a permission slip for the parade, explaining everything about the event.


In your invitations and flyers, make it clear - if using this method - that people will need to come with hats already made or decorated.
 To add a little more excitement to the event, you can make it a competition for the best decorated hat. Provide a prize!

, This could be at a park, a town square, the high street, or anywhere else of your choosing. For public locations, you may need to obtain permits and ensure that certain safety requirements are met. Do your research with the local government, or the owner of the property you're using, so that you're not caught unprepared.
 Decide who to invite - whether your friends, or the friends of your children, or a wide range of local children or students. Make sure you have enough room for your invitees.


You can mail or give invitations to specific children, or advertise more widely with flyers and mailers. However, just make sure that you're prepared for people to attend (even without RSVP-ing). Don't invite the whole town if you can only accommodate 5 children, and on the other hand don't rent out a huge venue if you're only expecting a couple of attendees. Plan according to your audience.
 Maybe a local samba band to march in the parade and provide music.
 To give your location some extra festivity, you can add some lanterns, fairy lights, or handmade decorations made by the children.
 If you want the parade to have a little extra magic, you can get the children to make Easter flags to carry, maybe in the shape of animals like rabbits or chicks.

