 Although you should encourage students to openly ask questions, you should also evaluate which questions are appropriate to answer and which are just asked to produce a reaction rather than to enhance learning. Tell your students:


"If I don't answer a question, it's not because it's a bad question. It might be that I feel it isn't an interest to all students."
"If you ask a question and I don't answer it, ask me again after class in private."

, Even if you don't answer a question or come across an opinion or question you can't respond to, you can validate the student's comment. Some helpful ways to respond to students' comments is to:



Give affirmation: "Thanks for asking", "That is a great question!", or "Please tell me more about what you'd like to know."

Ask for clarification positively: "Sounds like you have a real concern. Can you please tell me more about what's on your mind?" or "That sounds like an important question. Could you explain it to me a bit more?"

Address feelings: Some questions may be loaded with feelings such as embarrassment or disgust. Try prefacing your answer by saying, "We are all embarrassed sometimes, but it's important to discuss it".

Normalize the question: "Many people ask that question!" or "That's something a lot of people have wondered about" but never use the word "normal". Normal is not a proper term to use as it has a heavy social meaning to it rather than a medical meaning. In one setting or culture, something "normal" might be "abnormal" in another.
 If there is a question you don't know the answer to, let your students know. At the same time, validate their questions or concerns to let them know you understand them and will be working hard to answer their question eventually.


If a question makes you uncomfortable, let your students know. You might not be able to control your reaction or feelings toward a question and letting your students know how you feel about a question can help clarify why you can't answer a question. Try saying, "I'm a bit uncomfortable with this question" and follow up with validation.
 Students might ask questions about their own personal behaviours that you may or may not want to discuss with the class. You might be asked questions like, "Is it normal to...?" or "Did you... when you were growing up?" These questions might be religious or culturally loaded and may question morals rather than the facts you are teaching. Deal with these questions by:


Reinforcing the ground rules. If you choose not to answer personal behaviour questions, tell students, "We won't be discussing personal behaviour questions during this class."
Referring students to other resources. Other sexual health care professionals, parents, guardians, or religious organizations may be better equipped at answering questions about morals surrounding sexual health.
Speak to them privately about their concern. A question about a personal behaviour might be better understood in context. You might find out a student's family is religious after they ask you if abortions are okay. You might then refer them to the appropriate person to speak to about such an issue.
 Some students may ask questions to shock others into a reaction. They might have a real concern but are too embarrassed to address it seriously, or they feel the need to divert attention away from the topic being discussed. Never assume these questions are silly or tell students that their question is silly. Instead, remind students of your ground rules and try to guide this question into a teachable topic.


Reword any slang vocabulary to diffuse the question. A student might ask, "Why do balls hurt when they're hit?" You could respond by saying, "First, the proper term for balls is testicles. Testicles are very sensitive and do hurt when they're hit" and proceed to answer their question.
Students may also criticize certain topics and say statements like, "Guys only want sex from girls!" You can respond by addressing the underlying concern in a question or statement. In this example, you can respond by saying, "It seems like you are concerned about respect in relationships."

