 When you get a fever, it is often accompanied by generalized muscle aches and pains.To cure these muscle aches, you must also get rid of the fever. It is also important to note that a fever is your body’s response to infection and other systematic disorders such as autoimmune diseases, cancers, etc. To fight an infection, your immune system goes into high gear to fight off bacteria, viruses, or other invaders.


To reduce a fever, you can take ibuprofen or acetaminophen, based on your age and body weight. However, to cure the muscle aches you must address the source of the infection and therefore the reason for the fever. This may require a visit to your doctor.
 Some medications can cause generalized feelings of achiness over the body as part of the medication’s side effects. These are usually very severe whole-body aches, and can be accompanied by other serious problems, such as liver failure. These medications include ACE inhibitors used to reduce blood pressure and statin drugs used to reduce cholesterol levels.To cure muscle aches caused by a medication, you should speak with your doctor about switching to a different medication.
 Some underlying medical conditions will cause muscle aches, including fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, lupus, and lyme disease.See your doctor to determine if an underlying condition may be causing your muscle aches.


To cure the muscle aches from these conditions you must first treat the underlying medical condition. Without specifically addressing the treatment for the medical condition you cannot effect a change in the muscle pain.
 Electrolyte imbalances can trigger muscle cramps and twitching, which can lead to micro-tears in the muscle, the resulting symptoms include muscle aches and pains.Electrolyte imbalances can result from dehydration and may also be the result of taking electrolyte supplements.Drink when you are thirsty, and if you are doing strenuous activity causing you to sweat, you need to stop at least once every 45 min to get water.
Pay attention to the color of your urine. Your urine should be light yellow in color. If it is darker than this, then that is a sign that you are becoming dehydrated. If your urine is clear, then you are over hydrated.
Electrolyte-rich sports drinks can be good after profuse amounts of sweating or other fluid loss such as diarrhea or vomiting, but they do contain a lot of sugar and therefore their consumption should be moderated in everyday situations.
 Although muscle aches are normally something you can deal with at home, sometimes muscle aches require immediate medical attention.Call your doctor right away if:


Your pain lasts more than 3 months without any apparent cause.
You were injured and have recovered but the muscle aches and pains remain.
You are feeling down and blue, sad or depressed, because of the chronic aches and pains you are experiencing, as this may be a sign of depression.
You can’t sleep because of the pain.
If you have pain in your legs that resolves when you stop exercising.If you have muscle aches and pains after starting a new medication, especially statins, you must call your physician.

