 "Recliner tension" refers to how easily the backrest of the recliner leans backward. Sit in the recliner and lean back against the backrest. If it's too difficult to lean back, you'll need to decrease the recliner tension. It can also be a good idea to decrease the tension if you have a petite build since reclining the chair will then require less strength.
If the recliner leans too far back for comfort, or if it leans back too easily, you may need to increase the recliner tension. This is usually a good idea for heavier individuals, taller individuals, and people needing firmer back support.;
, Make sure the back is in the upright position and the footrest is closed, and carefully tilt the entire recliner forward, to expose the underside of the chair.


Rest the recliner on the front of the armrests and the top of its back. You may need both hands to adjust the tension, and the process will be difficult to complete if you attempt to hold the chair the entire time.
 Recliners with adjustable recliner tension should have a pair of thumb wheels or wing nuts beneath the seat. If no mechanism is present, you may not be able to adjust the tension.Look for a thumb wheel or wing nut on the right and left of the underside of the chair. Each one should be positioned at the end of a bolt, and tension springs should be connected to the same bolt from the other side.
The exact placement of the mechanism may vary by manufacturer and model, but in most cases, the mechanism can be found beneath the seat and toward the back of the recliner. In some instances, the mechanism might be positioned more toward the bottom center.
 Turn the thumb wheels or wing nuts clockwise to increase the reclining tension. Turn them counterclockwise to decrease the tension.Both wing nuts and thumb wheels should be adjusted in the same way when you're dealing with recliner tension, so the basic instructions should remain the same.
Try turning the mechanism with your fingers. If it feels too tight, you may need to use sturdy pliers instead.
Work in small increments. Only turn each wheel or nut by a quarter turn each time, and repeat each adjustment on both sides of the chair to keep the tension even throughout.
 Return the recliner to its upright position. Sit in the chair and check the recliner tension by extending the leg rest out and leaning back in the chair.


If the recliner tension feels comfortable enough, you can end the process here and relax in your newly adjusted chair.
If the recliner tension still feels too loose or too stiff, further adjustments will be needed.
 Continue adjusting the recliner’s tension as needed by following the same steps. Close the footrest, tilt the chair forward, and rotate the adjustment mechanism in the proper direction.


Only adjust the tension by one-quarter turns each time. It might seem tempting to make larger adjustments, but doing so will usually cause you to overcompensate and may adjust the tension too far in the other direction.
Never loosen or tighten the adjustment mechanism all the way. Doing so can cause permanent damage to the tension spring.
The tension spring should be unable to move on the bolt after your adjustments. If it does move around, it is too loose, and you should turn the mechanism at least one clockwise half-turn.
Similarly, if the spring becomes completely compressed and too tight, turn the mechanism at least one counterclockwise half-turn to remedy the problem.

