 Put this directly onto the pulley and shaft area to loosen any corrosion that will make the pulley hard to move.Those that come in spray bottles are handy and will still be effective for getting into and breaking up rust on metal.;
, This holds the pulley in place and can be undone with a tool such as a crank remover or wrench. If the threads are damaged, more tools and methods will have to be utilized, such as pliers., If there is any rust or dirt on the shaft, lightly sand or brush it. The hub of the pulley usually is fit well to the shaft, so the debris can prevent a loosened pulley from sliding off.
 Do whatever you can to stop the pulley from turning, then use a tool such as a socket or ring spanner on the nut until the pulley can be removed., Place a pry bar or a large screwdriver behind the pulley, if there is a surface behind it to use as leverage. If not, you can try striking the back of the pulley with a hammer while applying pressure with the pry bar or screwdriver.Use a soft-faced hammer to avoid damaging the components. If you use a normal hammer, hold a wood block against the fastener and shaft.
Tap the pulley shaft with the hammer. Don’t use too much pressure. For steel hammers, insulate the shaft, nut, and bolt before striking.
 On the now freed pulley, look for a semicircular piece inset into the shaft. This is the Woodruff key. Grip the sides of the key with pliers and remove it. If pliers don’t work, try to wedge it out with a small screwdriver. These keys are delicate, so force can easily damage them, but keys are easily and cheaply ordered in hardware and auto part stores or online and replaced. Remove any shredded key bits in the machine so they don’t cause damage later.You can try tapping a nail on one end of the key, drilling into the center of the key and removing it with a nail, or even heating the key up with a blowtorch and letting it cool repeatedly to loosen it.
Remember that damaging the key is a far better alternative than damaging the shaft or other part around the key.

