 DCM affects young to middle aged dogs. It is now known that early treatment with a drug called pimobendan before symptoms develop can protect the heart in dogs that have DCM. Therefore it's important to screen your Doberman for the condition even if they show no signs.


Pimobendan is proven to increase survival times by improving the ability of the heart to contract.Pimobendan needs to be given on an empty stomach, an hour before food. Two doses, 12 hours apart are given on a daily basis.;
, Treatment helps improve the way the heart works, usually through the administration of drugs. Drugs work in a number of ways, including improving the strength of contraction of the heart muscle. A family of drugs, called ACE inhibitors, are often given to dogs with heart failure. Basically, these medicines dilate the blood vessels in the dog's body to remove resistance to blood flow.Discuss these as an option with your veterinarian.


Less resistance means the heart has less work to do to push blood around the body.
 Some medicines slow a racing heart or control an irregular heart beat if present. These can be very important for decreasing the chances of sudden death, due to overexertion. Like the other medicines used to control a doberman's heart issues, talk to your veterinarian about the best treatment for your specific dog.


Even with these medications, it is sensible not to over exert a Doberman with DCM, especially if it is showing clinical signs of the illness. Extreme exertion could overload the heart and cause sudden death.
 For example, diuretics may be given as your dog deteriorates to help to shift the accumulation of fluid in the lungs and belly. This will help the dog to breath.The dog will drink more and urinate more while on diuretics. Even while it drinks more fluid, this will have the effect of shifting fluid out of body compartments.
 Unfortunately, once dogs start to show signs of heart disease, their life is often limited to months, rather than years.Give your dog good end of life care by feeding it foods it loves, showering it with affection, and easing its suffering when necessary.

