 In a medium saucepan, stir 2 cups (400 g) of sugar into 2 cups (473 ml) of water. Heat the mixture on the stovetop, stirring occasionally to dissolve the sugar. Remove from heat once it begins to simmer, before it reaches a full boil.White granulated sugar is fine, but if you’d prefer a hint of molasses, use raw cane sugar or natural brown sugar instead.
If your syrup reaches a boil, it’s not the end of the world. You’ll just have to wait a few extra minutes before moving on to the next step.
If, however, it's boiled so long that it has begun to reduce in volume, measure how much liquid is left and add the difference.;
, After you remove your syrup from the burner, give it a few minutes to cool down a little. While it sits, pour 2 cups (200 g) of cranberries into a medium glass bowl. Once the water has cooled off a little, pour it into the bowl. Seal the bowl with a lid, foil, or plastic wrap. Then place it in the refrigerator to chill overnight.You want to let the water cool off before pouring to avoid bursting the cranberries.
To eliminate this risk entirely, wait until the water cools off to room temperature.
 After your berries have chilled overnight, pour them into a strainer and let any excess moisture drain. Then dry your glass bowl with a towel or paper towels. Add a spoonful of sugar, then about a small portion of your berries. Toss them with a couple spoons or by covering the bowl with its lid and shaking it to coat the berries with sugar, which will stick to the glaze.

Once they are more or less evenly coated, transfer to them to a baking sheet. Then repeat until you have coated all your berries.
Working in small portions will help coat each berry more evenly. It will also prevent the sugar from clumping up due to too much moisture.
 Once you have coated all your berries, give the sugar a few hours to dry to the berries. Then give them a look-over. If there are any bare spots, or if you just prefer a sweeter treat, toss them again with more sugar.By now the glaze should be well on its way to dry, so it should only take another hour for the added sugar to dry to your berries.

