 Surprise your teacher by spending time after school with your classmates decorating her classroom door. Break out the colored paper, the colored markers, the glitter, and other fun decorations. You may want to spell out your teacher’s name on the door and draw a class mascot, like your class pet or another animal you know your teacher would like.Be sure to keep the decorations age appropriate and non-offensive, as the door will be exposed to the rest of the school and be seen as representative of your teacher’s class.
 Give your teacher a break by pitching in on classroom chores like photocopying classroom materials, feeding the class pet, cleaning up after class, or assisting with lunchtime duties. Show your teacher she can lean on her students to support her and give her a hand.You may also want to take it on yourself to organize a cleaning schedule with the other students and surprising your teacher with the schedule. You can do this for the feeding schedule for the class pet. Taking the lead on classroom duties can help to reduce your teacher’s stress level and brighten her day.
 Make your teacher's day by volunteering to go first for a presentation to the class, as this will save her the headache of having to force students to go first. This small act in class can show your teacher that you are engaged in the class material and energized about the assignment.
 Show your teacher that you have been paying attention to the class topic by bringing in text or video that relates to the topic to share with the class. If you are learning about creative writing in class, for example, you may bring in fliers that promote a poetry reading nearby to share with everyone or you may bring in a published poem that you like. Talk to your teacher before you share the material with the class, as she will likely be thrilled that you are engaged enough to bring in supporting material.
 Though this may seem like a small thing you can do, speaking up and talking during class discussions can often make it easier for your teacher to do her job. If there is a lull in conversation during class or if no one seems to want to answer the teacher’s question, raise your hand and participate.


Do this even if you are not absolutely certain you know the answer or have the right solution to the teacher’s question. Participating verbally in discussions will show your teacher you are engaged and make her feel as though she is reaching at least one student in the room.

