 Most of the time your teachers will give you a list of supplies needed at the start of the year, but bring a few things like a pencil and some paper for the first day if you're not sure exactly what to bring. Also, a binder with a pocket is awesome.;
, If your teacher wants you to have a section for each part of class, make sure that you have the space for the separate things.Tip: Buy a folder that has many pockets and have 1-2 sections of it for each subject.
 If you want to, bring a portable pencil sharpener, but that may not be necessary as most teachers generally have pencil sharpers available for you to use. You could also get a pencil sharpener for your house, but bring 3-5 pencils to class. Also, make sure you have a spare pen if you run out of ink. If you have a locker, get a pencil holder to put in your locker. Put extra pencils/pens in there so that if you need an extra and you don't have one, it's in your locker.
 What if you have no homework except for a few worksheets? Why bring all of them home? Try combining a few subjects into one larger binder, by using dividers.
 Your teachers may want you to get big binders, but others might not care. Find what suits you and use it for whatever classes you have a choice in.
 Often homerooms will set aside a homework or study hall time, and you can clean out your binder during this time. Recycle anything you have tested on or covered already. Often (especially in middle school) the topics in a class will last only a week or two. Unless the teacher specifies to keep a worksheet, copy the information into your notebook and then recycle the worksheet. This way, if you happen to drop a notebook, papers don't fly all over.
 Make sure to keep the current week intact. If you rip out the old pages and keep papers in a folder instead of your planner, the load will not be as heavy.
 Organizing and getting your papers neat CAN be fun. If you have a HUGE binder, take everything out, organize it, put it back in, and look at what you did! You could make it half as big as it was before! That's also better for you, because it's half as heavy!

