 While becoming less common for a variety of reasons, the tradition of a bride taking her new husband’s last name is still the expectation for many after marriage. This (or any other) type of name change after marriage is not automatic, however, and requires some relatively simple but necessary actions on your part.


Likewise, divorce does not automatically revert a changed last name to the pre-marriage last name in Delaware. Again, a simple but necessary process must be taken.
 An official, certified copy of your marriage license is sufficient cause in Delaware to undergo a name change. No separate decrees or court orders are required.


You are required to file for a marriage license together in person, with valid government-issued photo ID. Both parties must be 18 or have state family court authorization. The license is valid for 30 days and must be issued at least 24 hours before the marriage ceremony. The license costs $50, plus a $20 recording fee (in New Castle County, for example. Fees may vary.)Until quite recently in many states, only brides could take on the husband’s last name (or a hyphenated combination of both last names) using the marriage certificate as the only legal authorization. However, due to various legal challenges and especially the growing legalization of same-sex marriage (valid in Delaware since July 2013), such policies are in flux.
The rapid changes happening regarding marriage make it difficult to determine the precise, current policies in Delaware. However, at least according to the Social Security Administration, a certified Delaware marriage license is sufficient for either spouse to change his/her name to a) the other spouse’s last name, or b) a hyphenated combination of both.Unlike some other states, it does not appear that a marriage license alone can be used to change a last name to one that is not a) or b) above. See Method One of this article for that process.
 In Delaware as in most states, the easiest way to change your name due to divorce is to make it a part of the divorce decree itself. When done this way, no separate legal actions or fees are necessary.


Divorce in Delaware requires, among other particulars discussed in official packets available online,a separation period of at least six months (barring claims of misconduct); the filing of a Petition for Divorce (the listed filing fee is $150);and a hearing before a judge when the divorce is contested (or upon request).
On general divorce decree forms that are valid in most if not all U.S. states, there is normally a section (at number nine on the example cited here) that authorizes a name change as part of the decree.This process, however, entitles you only to revert to your maiden name or another former legal name. Otherwise, you will have to undertake a separate legal process, as described in Method One of this article.
 One of these documents, along with proof of your previous legal name, should be all that is required to change your name on your Social Security card, Delaware driver’s license / ID card, and other such changes.


See Method Three in this article for useful information on making these changes.

