 As with all medical fields, you will have to provide a medical history review before you begin your eye exam highlighted with questions about any vision problems that you have.Several factors determine the frequency of eye exams such as age, health, and risk of eye problems. If you fear any problems with your eyes get them checked immediately to prevent any further damage.If you have children under the age of three, your pediatrician will exam for the common problems of lazy eye and crossed eyes. Children should get their first comprehensive exam at six months, then again at three years of age or as recommended.
If your child has no eye issues and there is no preexisting history, then have their eyes checked thoroughly by the first grade. If your child’s vision remains healthy get an eye exam once every two years.
Adults in their twenties and thirties with no eye problems should get an eye exam every two years. Have your eyes check more frequently if you wear glasses, have a risk of eye diseases such as diabetes, or have a family history of eye problems.;
, Visual acuity determines if you need prescription eyewear. You will have to identify letters of the alphabet on the Snellen chart or a screen located at twenty feet in front of you to determine if you need glasses or not (hence the assessment of 20/20 vision — you can see perfectly with both eyes at a distance of twenty feet).The familiar chart has lines running horizontal with letters of the alphabet. As you move down the chart the letters get smaller.
Each eye is tested separately. 20/20 vision does not mean you have perfect eyesight, only that you can see acutely from a distance of twenty feet.
If you are unable to clearly see objects close to you it is called hyperopia or farsightedness. The opposite, myopia or nearsightedness means you cannot clearly see objects far away.
 The optometrist may dilate your pupils in order to screen for glaucoma, macular degeneration and other diseases of the retina. Glaucoma is difficult to detect so you should always get your intraocular pressure (Tonometry), or the fluid pressure inside your eyes, examined at the optometrist’s office.After receiving eyedrops, your doctor might perform an applanation tonometry test to measure the amount of force needed to briefly flatten a portion of your cornea.
Or, a non-contact tonometry test could be given. The optometrist will puff air into your eye to measure pressure.
In either case, if your eye pressure is higher than average or your optic nerve does not appear normal, your optometrist might need to perform a pachymetry test that uses sound waves to measure the thickness of your cornea.
 Numerous other minor tests might be given to check the overall health of your eyes if some problem was detected during the other routine tests.An eye muscle test will examine the muscles that control eye movement. Here, the doctor will look for poor eye control or coordination. Typically a pen or small light is used and your eyes must follow the motion of the moving object.
A refraction assessment uses light waves that should bend as they pass through your cornea and lens. If the rays do not focus neatly on the backside of your eye, you might have a “refractive error” that will require corrective glasses or lenses.
Checking your peripheral field of vision is conducted by looking forward without moving your eyes and determining how far to each side you can detect movement. This will determine your overall field of vision. You often take this test for your driver’s license.
Retinal examinations evaluate the functionality of your retina, optic disk, and underlying layer of blood vessels.
 After all of the testing, you will sit down with your doctor to get the results and have an opportunity to ask questions about your eye health.If you need corrective lenses, this would be the time to ask your optometrist about the benefits of purchasing Transitions lenses.
 Of all five senses, eyesight is the sense that you depend upon the most. Despite this, few people insure their eyes or get eye exams, almost taking their sight for granted.One of the greatest adversaries to your eyes is the sun. With dangerous UV rays, glare, and carcinomas, the sun damages the eyes considerably over time.
Carcinomas of the eyelids, like squamous and basal cell, spread rapidly and are typically found in people who have a history of sun exposure. Melanomas are linked to intense, intermittent sun exposure and if not treated promptly can prove lethal.
Transitions lenses adapt to the sun’s brightness and protect the eyes from potentially fatal damage by darkening the lenses of your glasses.
 Constant adjustment to changing light can cause eyestrain and fatigue. Your lenses have to filter all the sunlight that comes into contact with your eyes making them work hard and wears them down quickly.Although eyestrain by itself does not have long-term consequences, it can severely aggravate your eyes making you tired and reducing your ability to concentrate.
Transitions lenses protect your eyes allowing them to stay relaxed and comfortable throughout the day.
 Glare and squinting are related but glare is far more dangerous, especially if you are driving or walking along a road. Glare, caused by excessive sunlight, forces you to either squint or look away because it is blinding. Without proper protection, this distraction can cause a serious accident.Good vision is important to safe driving. Driving without protection against glare — from the road, snow, or other cars — is a treacherous proposition. Make sure you use the sun visor, keep your windshield clean, rest your eyes from squinting, and look into Transitions Drivewear sunglasses, which cuts glare considerably.
Drivewear lenses rapidly adapt to glare while you are driving your car making them the perfect answer for driving safely. Most windshields are treated with UV protection, so most normal Transitions lenses may be less effective behind the wheel (as they respond to UV light, which will already be filtered by the windshield). Drivewear, however, uses ambient light and will get darker depending on light conditions., The earlier you begin to protect your eyes against the sun the better. In other words, it is never too early to protect your vision. Children are even more susceptible to the harmful effect of UV radiation than adults. Children under the age of ten have a greater chance of getting photokeratitis, which is sunburn of the eye, and UV-related retina problems because their eyes are not as efficient at filtering UV rays as adults' eyes.Without proper eye protection, your child could suffer red eyes due to sunburn, non-stop tearing, burning or itchy eyes, or severe eye pain and spasms.
Transitions eyewear blocks 100% of UV radiation, providing safety for your children’s eyes.
 Transitions lenses are made for nearly all types of glasses (prescription and nonprescription) and brand names. There are different types of lenses for age, sports, and lifestyle. They can be worn everyday inside or out.Transitions lenses are designed to fit a wide range of frames, styles, sizes, and prescriptions. You can use them in Bell, Callaway, Nike, and Oakley sunglasses if you prefer designer brand names.
Whether you work inside or outside, Transitions lenses can go from dark to darker depending on the amount of sunlight and are available in helmet shields, which can go from clear to dark depending on the intensity of the UV light.
Transitions lenses utilize photochromic technology to shield your eyes from the sun and are available for all ages.
 These lenses are best used if you move regularly from indoors to outdoors and need your prescription glasses to quickly transition from light to dark or the opposite.Best suited for outdoor comfort with full clarity indoors.
Good for reducing glare, eye fatigue, and eyestrain, helping your eyes to relax and provide effortless clear vision.
 These lenses provide darker everyday adaptive lenses while maintaining a comfortable dark shade indoors. Since these lenses provide superior darkness, they are best for outdoor activities. They will tint behind a windshield.Best suited for prescription lenses that provide comfort for people who are sensitive to light and enjoy outdoor activities.
These lenses respond well to light behind windshields while driving.
If you work or live in an environment with harsh lighting, the light indoor tint will provide protection as well.
 These lenses will darken and polarize immediately upon UV light exposure by adapting to changing light. Water, glass, and glare will appear more transparent providing both eye and health safety, even in the most intense sunlight.These lenses can start out completely clear and non-polarized indoors and transition to polarized, dark lenses once outside.
The polarized effect in these lenses allow for crisper vision and enhanced contrast and sharpness.
If the majority of your time is spent outdoors, then these lenses will provide the most protection.
 These are effective in blocking glare in any outdoor condition or situation. They have a unique ability to adapt to the ideal shade of darkness in response to daylight conditions, even behind the windshield of your car.It is recommended by the manufacturer that because of this innovative technology, these lenses should only be worn during daylight hours and taken off at night for your own safety.

