 Meanwhile, lightly grease two to four ramekins with nonstick cooking spray, oil, or butter.Use four 4 oz to 6 oz (60 to 125 ml) oven-safe ramekins if you wish to serve one egg per person.
Use two 10 oz (315 ml) oven-safe ramekins if you wish to serve two eggs per person. Both round and oval ramekins work equally well.
 Evenly divide the tomato sauce into each of the prepared ramekins. Ideally, you should use about 1/4 cup (60 ml) of sauce per egg.Tomato sauces are the most common sauce type paired with baked eggs, but you can experiment with different options. Unseasoned sauce will create the most mild flavor, but marinara will give the dish more dimension without distracting from the taste of the eggs. You can try spicy tomato sauces, heavily seasoned tomato sauces, or homemade tomato sauces, as well.
 Carefully break the eggs over the sauce and into the ramekins. Vary the number of eggs based on the size and number of dishes.


To reduce the risk of breaking any yolks, use cold eggs. You should also break the eggs within 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of the dish to minimize the amount of drop force the yolks will need to endure.
Inspect the eggs for shell fragments and remove any you find. If you're concerned about shells, you can break the eggs into a separate dish first, inspect them for fragments, and slide them into the ramekins afterward.
 Carefully pour about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of milk on top of each egg. Only top the eggs with milk; do not stir the milk into them.


The milk adds an extra layer of defense against the drying heat of the oven. The cheese used in this recipe will provide a similar effect, though, so you may omit the milk if desired.
Note that you should be able to use any type of milk, half-and-half, or light cream.
 Sprinkle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of Parmesan cheese over each dish. Follow with salt and pepper, to taste, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of chopped fresh cilantro per dish.


If desired, you could use other types of shredded cheese (e.g., mozzarella, Romano, Italian cheese mixes) or other herbs (e.g., basil, parsley). You may also choose to omit these additions completely.
 Place the eggs on the middle rack of the preheated oven, and bake them until the egg whites are solid and cooked through.


If the eggs do not appear to be cooking evenly, rotate the ramekins halfway through the baking process.
While the egg whites must be cooked through, the egg yolks should be thick yet still soft. If you prefer firmer yolks, however, you can bake the eggs a few minutes longer.
 Remove the eggs from the oven and allow them to set for another 2 to 3 minutes. Enjoy them while they're still hot, and consider serving them with freshly toasted bread.

