 That is the most important thing you can do to have a good year socially. You are probably thinking Oh, I've heard this hundreds of times... but it doesn't mean you won't do it! Many kids get in huge trouble when they don't act like themselves. Sometimes people think that they can just pretend to be someone they're not; the thing is if you have ever tried that, you will know that if someone finds out that you aren't who you say you are, everyone soon knows, and it's very embarrassing!;
, In that close group of friends, you know you will be able to share everything with them. You will know that a silly little fight won't ruin your friendship. Hang with each other through thick and thin. If you need to take a break from them (because of a fight, or you just need some chill time), you have other friends who you can be with. However, this does not mean you have to limit your social life to those people. Keep a few close friends, but have many friends. You may need them later in life.
 Too many kids always get too involved with friends at school, and forget the reason why they are at school, to learn! They get in big fights and they start to just think of school as a place for them to mingle.
 If you try too hard to be popular, all of the preppy snobs will just laugh at you, and you might have a tough year.
 Take a deep breath and stride into school confidently. Be who you are. Smile, joke, play, and laugh. More often than not that's what people want. You will be liked.
 Be crazy and weird! You only have one life to live. Make the most of every moment you have and be adventurous, happy, and be that person that everyone wants to be around because they're so much fun! Be inspired! Never let a guy/girl get between you and your best friends. The relationship probably won't last forever, and while it's great right now, it won't be when you break up. Seventh grade is hard! Always remember to take a deep breath, and relax often. Just remember to try not and do things you'll regret later on.

