 There are a wide variety of different emergency contraceptive pills that contain levonorgestrel (the hormone that can prevent pregnancy) available at pharmacies and drug stores. Some are available over-the-counter to anyone, regardless of age or gender, but others require a prescription in some cases.There are one-pill and two-pill options available, both of which are equally effective. The one-pill option is available to anyone without a prescription, while the two-pill option requires a prescription for patients under 17 and requires a photo ID.
If you need a prescription, visit your doctor's office, a walk-in clinic, an urgent care center, or a women's health clinic as soon as possible to get one. Although it may be uncomfortable, consider talking to your parents and getting their help.;
, If you do not need a prescription, simply visit your local pharmacy to purchase emergency contraception (also called "the morning after pill"). Go as soon as you can after unprotected sex. While the morning after pill can be taken up to 72 hours after unprotected sex, it is more effective the sooner you take it.Some stores keep the pills in locked boxes or behind the counter, so you may have to ask an employee for help.
It's a good idea to call your local pharmacy to find out if they stock emergency contraceptives, as not all of them do.
Depending on what brand of pill you buy and where you buy it, you should expect to spend between $35 and $50 at a drug store. If you cannot afford this, you may be able to get the same pill for cheaper at a health clinic like Planned Parenthood.
Your insurance may cover this form of emergency contraceptives, but probably only if you have a prescription from your doctor.
 Over-the-counter pills are available under many different brand names, some of which are one-step pills and some of which are two-step pills. While they are all equally effective, it is important to read the instructions carefully to understand when you should take each pill.If you use a one-step pill, you should take it as soon as possible. While it can be taken up to 72 hours after unprotected sex, the earlier you take it, the more effective it will be at preventing pregnancy.
If you use a two-step pill, take the first pill as soon as possible, and then take the second pill after the indicated amount of time (typically 12 hours later). If necessary, set an alarm on your phone to remind yourself to take the second pill, as it is very important that you take it on time.
Swallow the pills with water just as you would any other pill.
 While levonorgestrel pills are typically highly effective, they are not the best choice for everyone. They are known to be less effective for women who have a body mass index over 25.If your BMI is 30 or higher, this method of emergency contraception may not work for you at all, so it's best to find an alternative method.
 While there are many different kinds of levonorgestrel pills available, there is only one pill that contains ulipristal acetate. It goes by the brand name ella, and you will need a prescription from a doctor to get it.While ella is not as easy to get as over-the-counter emergency contraceptives, it does have some benefits over the other type of pill. It is the most effective morning after pill available, and it can be taken up to 120 hours after unprotected sex, while levonorgestrel pills can only be taken up to 72 hours after.
You can see any doctor for a prescription for ella. If you do not want to go to your primary care physician or gynecologist, you can go to a walk-in clinic, an urgent care center, or a women's health clinic, such as Planned Parenthood.
 ella is a single-dose pill that can be taken up to five days after unprotected sex. It is no less effective if you take it on day five than if you take it on day one, but you should see your doctor and fill your prescription as soon as possible, just in case your pharmacy doesn't have it in stock.Just like levonorgestrel pills, ella is a small pill that should be taken with water.
 While ella is the most effective morning after pill available, it is not right for everyone. You should not take it if you have used other forms of hormonal birth control within the last five days, including birth control pills, patches, or rings, as it will not be as effective. It is also not as effective for women who have a BMI over 35.


If you have taken hormonal birth control in the last five days, you can still take levonorgestrel pills.
If your BMI is between 25 and 35, ella is a better choice than levonorgestrel pills.
You should also avoid using ella if you are breast feeding, unless you are able to pump and dispose of your breast milk for several days.
 After taking ella, it is important that you use a backup birth control method, such as a condom, for at least 14 days. If you are taking are taking a hormonal contraception, you can not restart their contraception for five days after taking ulipristal acetate.You should also avoid using other emergency contraceptives shortly after you use ella. If you have already taken ella and you need to take the morning after pill a second time during the same monthly cycle, be sure to take ella again.
 The most effective way to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex is to get a copper IUD inserted. This is a small metal device that your doctor will implant in your uterus to prevent pregnancy.There is a small risk of infection or perforation of the uterus, as well as expulsion of the IUD.
Having an IUD inserted can cost up to $900, but it is covered by most insurance policies.You can make an appointment with your regular gynecologist to have an IUD inserted, or you can go to a women's health clinic, such as Planned Parenthood.
 While copper IUDs are generally safe birth control methods, they are not recommended for everyone. Individuals who have unexplained vaginal bleeding, thrombo-cytopenia, endometrial or cervical cancer, or pelvic inflammatory disease should not use an IUD.Some people have side effects after having an IUD inserted, including cramping, back aches, heavier periods, and spotting between periods. These are usually mild., One of the greatest benefits of the emergency IUD is that it can be left in place for up to ten years. It will continue to provide safe and effective birth control without any further steps.If you do not wish to leave the IUD in place, you can have it removed after your next period or anytime thereafter.

