 In the upper right hand corner, type your name, the date, the assignment name, the class, and your educator's last name. Give each element its own line.
 Once you choose your essay title, write it at the top of the page. Choose a big font size––you can even make it bold and underlined. It helps if you choose a fancy big font. If your title is long, break it in the middle so it takes up two lines instead of one. However, be careful, because if it is too large it will be obvious that you are trying to make the essay seem larger.
 Every time you have to hit the return key, hit it twice. Since it is likely that your paper is spaced, you'll be getting two extra lines––two less lines that you have to write! This can be done after the heading, after the title, and between each paragraph.
 Your educator will most likely make you use the Times New Roman font at 12pt. If you're only turning in a hard copy, make it 12.5 (or 12.3) pt instead. Of course, overriding their preference is at great risk to your results. Also, do a find/replace (COMMAND+F) and replace all periods and commas with a 14 pt font. It's not noticeable while reading, but it does make the paper appear longer.


If you're allowed to use it, use Lucida Sans Typewriter. This is a big font at 12pt. If you need a simpler font, use Arial, Euphemia UCAS or Courier New, which are almost as large. Try not to use "light fonts" , such as Gill Sans light, as they will make your essay shorter.
 In Word 2007 and 2010, select all the text in your paper, then click Home → Paragraph → and find the little icon that looks like it's stretching out the text. You can customize line spacing to be anything you want. 2.25 doesn't look obviously different from 2.0.
 Change the margins of the paper just enough so that it's not too obvious. The margin at the bottom of the page is usually easiest to manipulate.
 This one is a little less common, so it works well. Click on Format → Font, go to Character Spacing, and choose expanded spacing. This makes the spacing in between letters a little larger and is not very noticeable.
 Bolding takes up more space. After you type up your paper make some of it bold. Only highlight some of the text, such as a specific point and don't make it too obvious.


Be careful here, as some educators do not want anything in the paper underlined or bolded.
 These can move your bottom margins up, which means less on a page, so you have to write less.


Add info like the page number and your name at the bottom, which adds functionality and you can bring the bottom margin up to put less on a page. Do not have the words right at the bottom, have a line or two after them to give some space and give you a reason to move the margin up.
Make sure not to have your name twice on the first page.

