 You don't have to corner her at her locker or follow her home from school. If you see her talking with a group, join the group. If she looks bored or is sitting by herself, go over and chat. She'll think you're friendly and nice.;
, Rush to her aid if she drops her books in the hall. Retrieve her pencil sharpener if it rolls off her desk. Lend her pencils, help her with her home work, offer her your snacks. Just don't become her slave!

, Flirting includes: smiling at her, brief eye contact, laughing at her jokes, etc. It does not include: staring for minutes on end, pick up lines, or wrapping your arms around her. If you do this, she's bound to think you're creepy and desperate.
 Compliment her sweater or drawing for art class. If you are both talking in the same group, focus your attention on her. Walk her to her locker. Show that you care about her and are interested in her. Try not to talk to other girls besides her so she knows you only have eyes for her.
 They are usually very keen on helping out you out. They might have useful information you can use to win her over, like her favorite foods, movies, what she likes in a guy, (heck, you might even find out she has a crush on you!) and if she happens to already have a boyfriend!

, Don't change yourself for a girl, ever. After all, you want her to fall in love with you not some made up personality. If she really is the girl for you, she'll like you for exactly what you are!

, Shower. Comb that hair. Roll on the antiperspirant. Wear clean, well fitting clothes. No girl wants to date some smelly guy who has his pants around his knees. Also, don't overdo it on the Axe. A little is fine. A lot will make her eyes water and her stomach turn.
 Now that you know a bit more about each other and she's aware you like her, confirm it officially. Take a deep breath and walk up to her when she is alone, not surrounded by friends. Chat for a bit and then bring up the next school dance, or ask what she's doing this Friday. If she declines full on and tells you she just wants to be friends, smile and agree its for the best. If she says she's busy, and seems like she means she is busy, not just avoiding dating you, than tell her to tell you the next time she's available. In the meantime, continue being her friend. You never know what might happen next.

