 Make sure to apply an ice pack to the injury as quickly as you can. Do this by covering your skin with a towel and then placing a bag of ice on the injured area. Keep the ice on the injured area for 10 to 30 minutes every 1 to 2 hours. Continue to apply ice to the area for 2 to 3 days., After icing the area, you should compress the injury. Use some sort of elastic bandage to apply pressure to the area. Compressing the injury will help stabilize it and limit swelling.Make sure whatever compression device you use does not limit blood flow to the limb.
 If you do need to get around, you should use crutches or similar devices to aid in movement. Crutches will take pressure off the injured limb and enable the healing process to continue without further stressing the ligament.Your doctor may recommend a knee walker or some other device instead of crutches.
 Braces used in conjunction with crutches or knee walkers. They are intended to stabilize the injured limb and to prevent further damage. Without a brace, you may not be able to walk, and if you do, you could wind up worsening your condition.


Knee braces are one of the most common types of braces. They are commonly used to treat ACL problems.
Braces are only effective for some people with ligament damage., Raise the strained ligament above your heart as often and as long as possible. This will reduce swelling. An ankle, knee, or foot can be propped up on pillows or a chair. If your wrist is injured, use books or a pillow to keep it elevated as you work., Perhaps the most important element of healing a ligament is time. Unfortunately, it may take a very long time for a ligament to completely heal. This, though, depends on the level of injury.


A grade 1 ligament injury may only take a couple days to heal.
A grade 2 ligament injury may require you to use crutches or a brace for several days. In addition, you may need to withdraw from sports or exercise for up to two months
A grade 3 ligament injury could require a brace or cast for over a month and could take weeks or months to health completely., Anti-inflammatory medication will limit pain and decrease swelling. Just make sure to follow the products’ directions and consult a doctor if you have any side effects.


Avoid medicines like NSAIDS if you suspect there is bone damage., There are several vitamins that you will need for your ligaments to heal in a timely fashion. As a result, make sure you are getting enough vitamins and nutrients daily. The best way to get these is to have a diet with plenty of fruits, vegetables, flax seeds, and fish. You can also take a supplement. Make sure to get enough:


Vitamin C
Vitamin A
Omega-3 fatty acids
Zinc
Antioxidants
Protein