 Before teaching a new skill, one must make sure that everyone involved stays safe. Never turn your back on a beginner. Be cognizant of the dangers involved in swimming, which include drowning, equipment malfunctions, or slipping. Be up-to-date in your understanding of CPR and first aid. Though lifeguard certifications can last multiple years, consider attending first-aid seminars on a regular basis.Prioritize general safety over the teaching of skills.


Consider having a lifeguard or water watcher present as you teach. That way, you will be able to more completely focus on teaching individual students while someone else keeps watch over the entire pool.
All the steps in this guide should be followed alongside proper teaching and safety protocols, which are learned through certified programs.;
, Children often need extra encouragement and welcoming when they enter strange environments or learn something new.Warmly welcome every student. Get to know them as individuals, including knowing their names, how they like to be approached and taught, and what their strengths and weaknesses are. Developing an intuition about the needs of every student takes time, but a warm and approachable attitude can jump-start the bonding process.


It is often a good idea to include parents in this process; not only can they let you know ahead of time what a child struggles with, but being on good terms with parents can lead to their children trusting you more.
 Children often learn quickly and easily in structured environments that provide consistent feedback based on performance.Develop lesson plans for each swimming session, keeping in mind what the class might focus on based on how they are doing. Consider consulting an experienced teacher or mentor when developing lesson plans, especially if you are having trouble tutoring individual children and their needs.


Your lesson plan should be flexible, easily alterable, and feature age-appropriate skills and challenges.
 The backbone of your approach and presence should be positive. Every class should include attainable but challenging goals, praise, and positive feedback. More than that, class should be fun. It is all right to loosen up class plans every now and then if students are engaged and playing. Learning can still happen (and often does happen) through play.