 HIIT workouts can be beneficial to the mother and baby. However, you should make sure that you are monitoring your workouts so that you don’t overexert yourself. On a scale from one to 10, try to hit around a seven.This means you can exercise at a moderately hard level. You should be breathless but able to still talk and not completely out of breath. You shouldn’t be sweating profusely, but you should be breathing more than normal with an increased heart rate.
Make sure to gauge the intensity on how you feel while pregnant, not how you felt before pregnancy.
 One risk of high intensity workouts while pregnant is dehydration. HIIT workouts are fast and intense, which increases your need for proper hydration. Dehydration can cause problems when you are pregnant.To make sure you are safe, drink plenty of water when doing HIIT workouts. Increase the amount of water you drink on days you workout. If you normally drink eight to nine cups, increase that.
 Body temperature can affect your baby, so you want to make sure you don’t get too hot during your workout. When doing HIIT workouts, avoid hot gyms or exercising outside in hot or humid weather. Workout inside with cool temperatures. Use fans if you need to.Keep your body temperature under 100 degrees Fahrenheit. You should take your temperature vaginally or rectally right before or right after a workout.
Make sure to wear light, breathable clothing.
 High-intensity workouts need to be accommodated for you when you are pregnant for many reasons. Your center of gravity is altered, which can lead to balance problems, and your joints are looser, which can lead to sprains. While you can safely do HIIT workouts, consider working with an instructor who can help you modify your workouts appropriately.Proper form should also be emphasized when you are pregnant. Bad form can put pressure on your body, lead to abdominal trauma, or cause a fall.
 Being aware of your body and knowing when you should stop the workout or alter your workouts is pivotal when you are pregnant. If you experience any of the following symptoms, go see your doctor immediately:Dizziness
Abdominal pain
Back pain
Vaginal bleeding
Excessive shortness of breath
Chest pain
Contractions

, Pregnant women can usually safely do the same type of exercise during their pregnancy as they did before. However, you should discuss your fitness plans with your doctor to make sure there are no complications that your fitness routine would affect.If you want to start exercising, always talk to your doctor first. Your doctor can instruct you on the best types of workouts, which probably will not be HIIT workouts since you didn’t do them before.

