 You will need at least two or three basketball shorts for practicing.


The main colors you would want to buy are white, black, and blue. They should fit loose, but a nice fit on the waistline.






Basketball shorts should be no shorter than 1 inch (2.5 cm) above your knee. About halfway down your knee is a great length.






Another item that you will need are t- shirts. They should be loose fitting. You really don't have any rules for this one. Just that you have at least one white one. But, you should have many colors than that, too.






In basketball, you will probably be falling on your knees a lot. To keep your knees from getting injured, buy some knee pads. Any color is fine.






To play basketball, you will definitely need basketball sneakers. High tops are the best choice because they protect your ankles more.






Finally, you need a basketball. For this, any color or size will do.






Sport Bras are the choice if you are playing basketball. You can get all of this at Model's, Dick's, or Sports Authority.





;
, At least three times a week run around your neighborhood. It will get you used to running in a game.


Go in your driveway and practice your ball handling.






Dribble the ball a little and try bouncing the ball between your legs.






This can help you dribble in a game and will be easier for you to at least get half court.






Go to a local basketball court and practice shooting. Do it so much that your hands are tired.






Also, play basketball in your free time with boys. They are usually rougher than girls.
If you play with the boys often, you can play against the girls great!

, Make sure you don't eat only sugary foods. It will put weight on you and slow you down. Eat all your vegetables, fruits, grains, dairy, and proteins.
 If you watch other people play, you can learn from them and learn not to make some of their mistakes.
 If you have a bad one and are always mean to people, chances are the coach will not like you if you are like that. So, have a cheerful attitude and be ready to learn.
 Coaches reflect on who you are as a student and on who you are as an athlete. This does not mean you have to be a nerd, just do your best in school and carry that out to basketball (or any sport). If you are struggling in school make sure you discuss this with teachers, principals, guidance counselors, parents and especially coaches. If you miss any work or lessons, make sure to consult with your teacher until you fully understand what and how to do something.
 Yes basketball may seem very important to you, but don't isolate yourself from your family and friends. Be sure to have extra time on your hands maybe get out of the house to hang out with friends and families and especially have time to study or do homework. Not everything should revolve around basketball.





