 No matter where they are, scene queens think that they are the center of attention. It's all about them, all the time.;
, Its important to know who you are and know what you want. Remember whenever you get nervous, everyone is human just like you.
 Nobody wants to interact with someone who puts them down, or acts like a jerk. But don't let people walk all over you, either. You need to know just the right balance. A very important thing to remember is not to say anything that could make anybody nervous or embarrassed because we have all had those moments. Know that there's a fine line between confidence and arrogance.
 An example of what not to say is, "Oh, I'm beautiful and I do this and they do that, so they are rubbish." They are just being different. Scene kids are very different so this is important. Don't be mean to other people.
 It is expensive becoming a scene queen and you will need money to buy 'scene' clothing, accessories and makeup. Remember though, scene is very poorly defined and virtually anything can be deemed scene, if you have the confidence to carry it off. Scene is what you say it is.
 If you're ugly on the inside, you're ugly on the outside. Take multivitamins, drink plenty of water, exercise daily, do yoga, eat those vegetables and try not to take in so much meats and fats, especially sugar.
 Shower at least once a day. Exfoliate your skin, you'll feel better and your skin will glow.
 Soak yourself in rose petals or bath salts, anything that smells good.
 This should be done before using any makeup at all. Treat your skin with the right products depending on the type of skin you have.
 Scene queens are known for their perfect, detailed makeup, so be sure to be good at putting it on. Use good brand such as MAC, Urban Decay, Clinique, Chanel, and so on. You want to use these high quality brands because you want your makeup staying perfect all day (and night!) long, not to smudge and look sloppy.



If you wear fake eyelashes make sure they look right on you. If not, use protein and lengthening mascara.
Eyebrows can be thin and jet black or whatever color you have. Lips look good moisturized and with shimmer gloss. It makes them look bigger.
 Whether it be thin eyeliner with blue mascara and neon green eyeshadow or thick black eyeliner with purple mascara and black eyeshadow with tons of concealer, it's your own thing. Something that you design.
, Scene queens are supposed to be different and unique, and they must stand out in a crowd; having radical hair can do wonders.
 Dye your hair a bright color, such as purple or pink, then add tons of crazy extensions. Dye your hair a different colour every couple of weeks, and if you like the original dye job, then add some touch-ups every month. Creating or avidly using new dye techniques can rocket you up the scene charts. Try video's on YouTube.
 It's advisable to do small bits yourself but leave the big parts to the stylist. AS long as you think you look good then that's all that counts.
 If you have damaged hair, get it treated and take care of it. A good way to help dry brittle hair is maxx moisture. Take multivitamins with biotin, MSM, horsetail, b12, folic acid, copper, magnesium, and then the vitamin should already have a lot major nutrients. Drinking tons of water can hydrate your hair follicles and help your hair stay healthy. Get your hair trimmed depending on the growth rate of it, e.g. if your hair grows about 3 inches (7.6 cm) a month, get it trimmed by 1 inch (2.5 cm).


If you're getting your hair colored, do not start out with bleach blonde hair because it'll be hard to get colors to stay when you dye your hair. Some good colors are jet black or stiletto black on top with light colors underneath. It doesn't really matter how you style your hair but the main traits of so called "scene hair" are a long fringe across the face, choppy crown, and long silky under layer.
 Online clothing stores, such as New York Couture, Glamour Kills, Drop Dead Clothing, Criminal Damage, Attitude, TokiDoki and Bleeding Star are very popular among scene royalty.
 The clothing is about being different and about being comfortable with what you wear. This is important.
 Check out Lexi Lush! She's super original!! Wear plenty of animal print and bold colors. Shirt styles can be blouses, band t-shirts, halter tanks, tank tops, really anything but it has to be fitted to your body to look good. Buy any skinny jeans that you can get your hands on. Print, characterized, rainbow, frogs, stars, ripped, long, short. Skinny jeans! These are what you will wear every day. It is important to have as many as you can! If you get ripped jeans get some awesome tights to peak out under them. Zebra or leopard print are good, especially colorful ones.
 Being random is key and is especially with scene queens. Scene queens are glamorous and tend to wear more characters. Also things like the McDonald's logo are awesome and look very cute. Anything you can think of: gloomy bear, hello kitty, Pokémon, superman, batman, barbie, TMNT, anything anime. Just be different.
 Wear bows, ribbons, headbands. It really is about being different. Skinny headbands are good and huge bows are a must. Wear as many bracelets as you can.
 Constantly update on your life to keep people interested. Blog daily, be active, take pictures, etc. Accept friend requests of people you know.
 Examples of such sites are Facebook, Buzznet, Stickam, and TheSceneKidz.ning.com because it will only increase your popularity. Update and blog to let people what you're doing. Audrey Kitching goes on Myspace daily and updates. Add pictures to your main profile, blog, send messages, anything that means you're busy on a social networking site. Don't talk about it too much either.



Ask a friend to think of a few words to describe you that start with the same letter as your name. Then get a piece of paper and write it r scene at the front of your name, then at the end. Pick one you prefer and voila! You have your scene Myspace stage name that's gonna make you into a scene queen.
Use a dictionary and find words that start with the same letter as your name. Then pick one you like and do the same. Just make sure that your totally happy and comfortable with your name.
 For example, don't make your name 'hello-kitty-helena" as hello kitty is already a registered name. Also put the trademark or copyright symbol at the end of your name. Then look to where it has it then simply copy it and paste it on your Myspace name. Think of names how Brookelle Bones did. Or use your first and middle name like Hanna Beth.
 Get Kik for when your followers want to get to know you. It's always good to know your fans.
 Audrey became famous because she dated Brendon Urie; Jac Vanek got famous by dating Ryan Ross and being a self-proclaimed photographer; Zui Suicide got famous by doing Trashy Life with Audrey Kitching; Kiki Kannibal became famous because she started coon tails (stripes in your hair) and because of the jewelry she makes. Aliza Xternal got famous by dating Andy Sixx from Black Veil Brides.
 This is about being different. Think up creative ideas that are oh so scene. Be a little crazy. Do something that no other scene queen has done before. As long as you think it looks good, it doesn't matter.
 Post pictures about it on Myspace, write a blog about it, and how you came up with it. This could send you high on the Myspace charts!

, Sexy Scene Queens are nice to everyone. Remember some people won't like that you are 'sexy' or that you identify or label yourself scene. Be nice to these people too, they can't help it that scenes aren't all the same.


Not everyone will like you and some may call you a poser.
 It's best to use the lingo when talking to friends, and not when talking to your mother. It is simple, just add words into your vocabulary, such as "rad" and "stellar."

, Its all about using words from the 70's. It is also a new scene fashion to say yer like a pirate. The best way to find more words is to search scene vocab on urban vocab. This will come up with a load of words that you write into your own scene vocab. Just don't overdo it as you will get called a huge poser and only say words that you want to. If you hate all of the scene lingo then don't use it. All of this is basically up to you.
 You want to look like a real model, and if you do good on the shoots, you might actually become one. Becoming a model in a big plus in the scene queen world. (If this isn't possible check out How to Take Good Scene Pictures)

, But ask if you can do your own hair and makeup unless you know that the hair and makeup artist is a scene queen. Either this or you get a makeup or hair artist who already IS scene and knows how you like your makeup to come and do it. You'll end up with amazing professional pics on a real backdrop and it doesn't cost that much. You'll have a great time and everyone will love an excuse to dress up! Plus it will be a great thing to write about Myspace!

, Many scene queens become famous by starting new trends. Kiki Kannibal gained tons of popularity by starting the trend of putting stripes in your hair(coon stripes, or tracks), and Dakota Rose made putting leopard spots in your hair the new "it" thing to do.
 If it is good enough, other people will copy you and you will be known as a trend setter, and make you recognizable enough to be considered a scene queen. The more original the trend, the bigger its bound to be.
 This will get you more hits and you could end up being really famous.
 The point of joining all of those websites is to share professional selfies, remember, to take a professional selfie, you have to be a very proficient photographer. It's okay to just do your best with the selfies, remember you are trying to be a sexy scene queen.


Download a photo editor app, a good site to use is PicMonkey.
Only post the pictures you think are cute.
You can even get a friend to take your picture, sexy scene queens do this to get a better angle.
 Don't just sit at home on your computer all day sending out friend requests. Go to concerts and clubs, and be sure to attend big festivals and tours near you.
 Go wherever you can. There should not be one Saturday where you are sat in. Save time for your parents as well though but make sure you get out there. See the world, explore, go to shows, go to pups/clubs/bars just get out!

, You want people to got on your Myspace profile, take one look at your blog names saying all the exiting places you've been and for them to say " WOW!"

,


The most popular place to hang out is at the mall. If you don't live near a mall, hang out at another sexy scene sort of location such as a local park or pick a friends house.
You also should go to concerts when you can. Sexy Scene girls and queens go to concerts to keep up with recent music.
 Every Scene queen needs a scene king.


Don't like him because he is the only scene guy at your school.
 No scene queen is complete without a hot scene boyfriend. Have him with you at all times and brag about your new scenery. But remember, boys have feelings, they're not just an accessory. Treat them with respect. Don't go out with the first guy you see. Meet guys at shows, clubs, or even at school. The ultimate scene queen thing to do is to date someone famous in a big band.

