 Eject the magazine and remove any cartridges that are still inside.


Hold the gun in your dominant hand and point it in a safe direction.
Use your non-dominant hand to press the magazine catch/release latch at the side of the gun.
Slide the magazine off with your non-dominant hand or carefully tilt the muzzle of the gun upward until the magazine drops out with the support of gravity.
 Grab the slide with your non-dominant hand and glide it completely to the rear of the gun. Release the slide and allow it to move forward on its own.


Repeat the step two or three times.
During the last time, pull the slide to the rear and hold it in place. Use the thumb of your dominant hand to push on the slide catch before letting go of the slide.
The slide should be locked open and to the rear.
Look into the ejection port and down into the magazine well. Make sure that there is no ammo or debris in the magazine well or the chamber. Sweep away any obstructions with one finger.
Push the slide forward to close the breech face again.
 Slide the dowel rod into the muzzle. Continue sliding it into the barrel until it comes to a stop at the breech face.


Always use a dowel rod with a diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the barrel. Do not force the dowel rod into the barrel.
Note that the breech face is where the cartridge meets the chamber.
The chamber of the gun is included in the barrel measurement, which makes this measurement a little different from that of a revolver. You need to make sure that the dowel rod can reach into both the barrel and the chamber, stopping at the point where the cartridge head seats, where you will normally see the firing pin., Draw a line on the dowel rod where it first emerges from the muzzle of the gun.


Make the mark as close to the barrel as possible. Use a pencil, pen, or marker to draw it.
It might be easiest to do this with the gun lying flat on your work surface.
 Gently remove the dowel from the barrel by sliding it back out through the muzzle.


Set the gun aside in a safe spot.
Lay the dowel rod down on a flat working surface.
 Measure the distance between the mark you just drew and the end of the dowel rod you just removed from the barrel of the gun. You can use either a measuring stick or measuring tape to do so.


The distance between the two points equals the length of the gun barrel.

