 It is essential that the viewer empathizes with the protagonist. You can achieve this by creating opposition, creating obstacles for the hero. Romance and showing the hero going out of his way to help someone are also very effective.
 What is it that you know about your character? What do they like? Hate? What do they look like, smell like, what clothes do they wear, how do they style their hair, what does their voice sound like? The best way to organize these character traits is to write down a list of as many as you possibly can.


Is there someone you can cast who looks in general like the character you want them to portray? (Actor/actress personalities can be extremely different. Contrast is okay, but they should know how to execute the emotions you want them to easily. Find the absolute best setting tells a lot about a character.
 Each actor should have the entire film script before you film, giving them time to both memorize and 'get into character'. Plus, as a director or casting artist, you should know things about characters that aren't necessarily incorporated in the film, such as their heritage, families, previous boyfriends/girlfriends and personal experiences. Sit down with your actors and tell them these things so that they can grasp the technique of embodying your character as well as they can.
 They should always be focusing on the most vital part of the shot, but it's very good development if an actor or actress is deep in emotion during the scene to always get a good look at his or her face. Remember that it's okay to cut the scene and tell your actors to change something or do something else, or that during editing you can always look at camera angles and focus on different points in the shot.
 Ask them what they know about the characters once it is over. The more detail the give you, the better. Also, ask them questions that can't be answered just by watching the film, such as "How many ex-boyfriends do you think she has?" Or "What do you think his mother was like?" To see if they understood underlying emotions in the script and acting.

