 When you bring your new puppy home, it is important to have accurate expectations about what it will be like to have a dog. At first, your puppy will make messes, break things and go where it should not. It will not immediately become a well-behaved and trained dog. You have to accept that your puppy will misbehave until you train it. If you understand this from the outset, you will be better able to take your puppy’s accidents in stride and keep from getting irritated.Think of your puppy like a baby that is growing and learning. It may not be there now but, if you train it properly, your puppy will become better behaved and make fewer messes over time.
 One simple step to keep from getting frustrated during your puppy’s first few months is to make sure you have everything you need ahead of time. Have your dog’s food, bedding, toys, leash, and all training materials available. This will make things less of a headache while you are training your puppy. Your frustration is going to increase if you need something and it is not around.Consult with your veterinarian about what you are going to need. They should be able to give you a list of the essentials.
 People tend to get the most frustrated with a puppy when they chew on things, have accidents and get into things that they should not. However, this is normal puppy behavior. You need to make sure that your home is puppy-proof before it comes home. Put up gates to areas your puppy should not go, pick up any chewable things that you do not want to be destroyed, and put away any delicate or fragile things that can be knocked over or stained.While you house train your puppy, consider keeping them in a room where it will be easy to clean up their messes. A room with tile, like a kitchen or bathroom, would be ideal.
 Different breeds of dogs have different behavioral traits and temperaments. Be sure to understand what kind of tendencies your puppy will exhibit. That way you know what to expect and can prepare accordingly. Frustrations will arise when your puppy’s bad behavior surprises you. Working with your dog’s natural tendencies, instead of against them, will make your life much easier.If your puppy is a more high-energy breed, expect it to be more rambunctious and destructive. You will likely want to exercise it frequently to help curb its energetic nature.
If you are unsure about your dog’s temperament, consult your veterinarian.

