 Someone with stage 1 hypothermia will be conscious and shivering. If the victim is uninjured enough to be standing, have them move around to keep as warm as possible. Insulate their body with more clothes or thermal wraps (you should pack these when adventuring in cold climates), and shield them from the wind. Give them warm fluids to drink, if you have any.The goal is not to actively re-warm them at this time, but to prevent any further drop in core body temperature., In stage 2 hypothermia, the victim will be partly conscious (i.e. half awake, unconscious but able to be aroused, or in and out of consciousness) and will probably not be shivering. Insulate their body as much as possible and apply any heat packs or warming mechanisms you have to them, especially around their core.Administer oxygen, if you have it, and get them to a hospital with an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) as soon as possible., For stage 3 hypothermia, in which the patient is unconscious, do everything as in stage 2 hypothermia. Additionally, continually monitor their airway, breathing, and circulation. At this temperature, a victim can develop an irregular heartbeat or their heart can stop beating at any time.If possible, provide warmed, humidified oxygen., In stage 4 hypothermia, the victim is unconscious and has no vital signs – they aren’t breathing and/or they don’t have a pulse. Most likely, you will not have a defibrillating device with you, in which case provide CPR for as long as you can, giving good rescue breaths. If you do have a defibrillating device, check the person’s ECG. If they are in ventricular fibrillation (V Fib), give them up to 3 shocks to try to restore a regular heartbeat.If you are a medical professional and you are able to establish an IV line, infuse fluids warmed to 42°-44°C (108°-111°F). The standard is 0.9% NaCl or 5% glucose.
 Post-rescue collapse can occur if you successfully rescue a patient with hypothermia but then they suffer a life-threatening issue once they start to re-warm. Do what you can to prevent post-rescue collapse by handling the victim in the following ways during your rescue attempt:Handle the victim as gently as possible and keep jostling them to a minimum. Avoid unnecessary movement of their trunk and large joints like hips, knees, and shoulders.When the heart gets very cold, rough handling can induce a deadly arrhythmia.
Keep hypothermic patients horizontal. Standing them upright can cause a serious drop in blood pressure.
Remove the victim’s wet clothes and wrap them in a water-resistant and windproof outer shell that has heating pads, when possible.
Administer oxygen if you have it available, or as soon as possible.

