 In some cases it’s not possible to avoid doing something boring. For instance, you may have to go to class or clean up. In these situations, the best way to tackle boredom, whether you have ADHD or not, is to step away from what you are doing for a few moments. A brief break can give you the opportunity to release some of your energy as well as find a new, more interesting approach to your activity.


Take a quick walk or stand up and do a few quick stretches.
Close your eyes and take mental break. Imagine yourself doing something more enjoyable.
Take a moment to think about how you can make the activity more interesting.
If you are in class, see if you can take a quick bathroom break and stretch a little while you're out of the classroom.
 Novel, challenging, and risky situations are often enjoyable and exciting for people with ADHD. One way that you can cope with being bored is to add some excitement and urgency to what you’re doing. Even if it’s the most repetitive task ever, you can make it less boring by using your imagination to make the task more interesting and engaging.For instance, you might imagine that you’re not just sorting mail, you’re searching for a secret document that you must find to prevent impending world doom.
Or, for example, you could pretend that the report you’re writing for class is actually going to be used as part of a biographical movie about you.
Do not let this turn into an excuse for procrastination, however. People with ADHD often procrastinate so that they feel a sense of urgency and excitement as the deadline draws near, which allows them to focus. Work on your time management skills so that you get your work done on time.
 Another great way to add some spice to boring activities is to ask a family member or friend to participate with you. Having someone there that can relate to what you’re going through as well as to talk with you can help you combat the boredom. They can also help remind you to get back on task and remain focused.For example, you might ask your best friend to help you study your science notes for the test on Friday.
Or, for instance, you might plan to attend a conference session at the same time as one of your colleagues.
Take care, though, that adding a social element to the activity doesn’t become a distraction. For example, you shouldn’t be paying more attention to your colleague than the conference lecture.

