 Once you know the basics of the speed equation, you can use it to find more than just speed. For example, if you start out knowing speed and one of the other variables, you can rearrange the equation to find the missing piece of information.For example, let's say that we know that a train traveled at 20 kilometers per hour for four hours, but we need to know how far it went. In this case, we can rearrange the equation and solve like this:



speed = distance/time
speed × time = (distance/time) × time
speed × time = distance20 km/h × 4 h = distance = 80 kilometers






, Sometimes, you may calculate speed in one set of units but need it in another. In this case, you'll need to use conversion factors to get your answer into the correct units. To do this, just write the relationships between your units as a fraction and multiply. When you multiply, flip your fraction as needed to get rid of the units you don't want. This is a lot easier than it sounds!


For example, let's say that in the example problem above, we need our answer in miles instead of kilometers. There are about 1.6 kilometers in a mile, so we can convert like this:



80 kilometers × 1 mile/1.6 kilometers = 50 miles





Note that because kilometers appears on the bottom of the fraction, it cancels with the kilometers in the original answer, leaving the answer in miles.

This site contains conversions for most common units.
 Objects don't always travel in nice, convenient straight lines. In cases when they don't, you may not be able to simply plug a numerical value for distance into the standard speed equation. Instead, you may need to replace the d in s = d/t with a formula that models the distance the object traveled.


For example, let's say that an airplane flies in a circle that is 20 miles wide five times. The plane completes this journey in half an hour. In this example, we still need to find exactly how far the plane has traveled before we can find its speed. We can use the equation for the distance around a circle (its circumference) in place of d in our equation. This equation is circumference = 2πr where r = the circle's radius.We would solve like this:



s = (2 × π × r)/t
s = (2 × π × 10)/0.5
s = 62.83/0.5 = 125.66 miles/hour






, The simple, convenient equation we have been using to find speed has one significant flaw. The value it gives you is technically an average speed. This means that it assumes the object you're measuring went the same speed for the whole trip. As we'll see below, finding an object's speed at a single given moment can be more difficult.


To illustrate this difference, imagine the last trip you took in a car. It's highly unlikely that you traveled the same speed for the whole trip. Instead, you started out slow and gradually reached your cruising speed, slowing down at stoplights, traffic jams, and so on. If you use the standard speed equation to figure out your speed for the trip, these changes in speed won't be reflected. Instead, you'll get an answer that's somewhere in the middle of all the different speeds you traveled at.