 As a child, you may have had a hard time figuring out the specific triggers that set you off. But as you get older, you can start to identify sounds, sights, and other sensations that cause you problems.Once you know where your sensitivities lie and how different environments affect you, find ways to alleviate the problem or avoid it entirely. For example, if you have difficulties in spaces that are lit with fluorescent lights, you might find relief by wearing sunglasses or glasses with colored lenses to blunt the strobing effect.
Some situations you can learn to simply avoid. For example, if you're triggered by a certain cologne or perfume, you can stay away from people or places where that smell is prevalent.
If you want to adapt your senses so that you're able to handle these situations for longer periods of time, consider going to a psychologist or other mental health professional. You can try therapies designed for people who have phobias, and see if you can gradually adapt so that you're able to endure that particular sensory input for a longer period of time.
Treatment for anxiety includes pharmacotherapy along with individual therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, and behavior interventions. Accommodations must be made to address sensory sensitivities and educational needs.
 When a particular sensory issue is so common that avoiding it isn't practical, it may be possible for you to create one – or several – coping strategies that allow you to handle the stress or anxiety produced.For example, if you find it comforting or relaxing to fiddle with something or chew on something, you might consider buying a stim toy that you can carry in your pocket, backpack, or purse so you'll always have it handy. You can buy chewable stim toys that you can wear as a necklace or bracelet if you want something to chew on.
Some people also find it helpful to visualize a happy memory or an imagined peaceful place such as a waterfall. Focus your mind on your visualization and connect to it with all of your senses until you feel the tension leaving you.
Progressive muscle relaxation also can help reduce stress. Some people find it helpful to use if they feel they are on the verge of a panic attack or meltdown. Identify each of your muscle groups and focus on tensing the muscles in each one for a few seconds, then relaxing them for a few seconds. It can take a few weeks to master this technique, but once you've got it down you may find it helpful.
Use any combination of these coping mechanisms when you encounter an uncomfortable or overwhelming situation. If nothing seems to help, try to have an exit strategy in place as well so you can safely remove yourself from the situation if you need to do so.
 Mastering deep breathing can not only decrease stress but boost your overall health mentally and physically. Taking a break and focusing on your breath pulls you out of a stressful situation and centers you so that you're ready to deal with the task at hand.When you start to panic, your breathing will become short and shallow. You may start to feel your throat tighten, or feel that you can't get your breath.
If this happens, concentrate on breathing deeply through your nose, then out through your mouth. Expand your chest and belly as you breathe in, making room for the air. Then depress your chest and belly as you breathe out, as though you are forcefully squeezing the air out. This is called belly breathing and it relaxes you by stimulating your Vagus nerve and parasympathetic nervous system.
Focus your attention on your breath – you also may want to count or repeat a phrase such as "I am calm" or "I am at peace."
Don't hold your breath. Rather, think of the breath as a circle, coming in and going out in a continuous cycle that never ends.
 Many autistic people have problems with depression, or have severe social anxiety. Anti-anxiety or anti-depressant medications may give you some relief from some of these symptoms so you can cope with Asperger's Syndrome and better handle the world at large.Keep in mind that it may take you some time to find the right doctor, and it may take the doctor some time to find a medication that helps you.
Depression may be exacerbated by experiences like negative socialism including isolation, marginalization, and bullying.
Antidepressant use has an increased potential for suicidal ideation in children and adolescents.
Look for a doctor who has experience working with people similar to you. For example, if you are an autistic person who has depression and social anxiety, you want a doctor who has experience treating social anxiety and depression in people who are on the spectrum.
For therapy or medication to work, you have to be willing to be open and honest with your doctor about what you're experiencing and the effects of your treatment, if any. If something isn't working, don't be afraid to speak up and tell your doctor that you're not noticing any results.
On the other hand, if you find something that works for you, don't be ashamed of taking it. If it improves your quality of life, it's a good thing for you.

