 You can use an ice pack to reduce pain, swelling, and inflammation. Ice is often recommended for acute injuries or as a treatment for pain when it first starts. To use an ice to relieve muscle pain, wrap an ice pack in a paper towel and place it on the affected area.Leave the ice pack in place for about 10 minutes, then remove it and give your skin a break for a about an hour. Using an ice pack for too long can cause tissue damage.
Make sure you always wrap an ice pack in a towel or cloth, as applying it directly to your skin can lead to frostbite.;
, You might find heat useful for chronic (long-term) pain, stress, and for muscle pain after the first 12–24 hours after your muscle pain begins.


Keep in mind that heat can make inflammation feel worse.If heat makes the pain feel worse, then stick with ice packs.
If you don’t have a heating pad, then you can just fill a water bottle with warm water and wrap it in a towel. Then, apply the bottle to the affected area.
Make sure that you remove the heating pad after about 10-15 minutes and give your skin a break. Using a heating pad for too long may cause burns.
 There are many topical pain relief products available as well. These products are often in the form of a cream or salve that you can rub into your skin over the affected muscles. Just make sure that you do not use any of these products on broken skin. These products often include ingredients such as:


Capsaicin, which is derived from the chili pepper and it helps to reduce pain in muscles and joints.Arnica Montana, a plant that has been used for centuries to relieve muscle pain.
Menthol, camphor, and other herbs. Camphor and menthol act as anti-inflammatory agents, which may help with muscle pain., Hot soaks in water filled with minerals may also help to relieve muscle pain. The heat relaxes your muscles and your body can absorb the minerals, such as magnesium, through your skin. These minerals are thought to provide pain relief.To take an Epsom salt bath, add 1–2 cups of Epsom salts to a tub of warm-hot bath water. Soak in the water for about 20 minutes. Don't stay in the bath too long or you risk dehydrating yourself.
 You can also add essential oils to an Epsom salt bath or just use them in a regular bath. Try adding eight to 10 drops of oil directly to the bath water. Some essential oils that may help relieve muscle pain include:


Lavender
Bergamot
Peppermint
Marjoram
Ginger
Pine
Eucalyptus

, Massage is also an effective way to get fast relief from muscle pain.It is necessary to add essential oils to a base oil, diluting it slightly to avoid irritation or other side effects. Choose an anti-inflammatory oil such as coconut oil or almond oil as a base. Add a total of 12–15 drops of essential oils to two ounces of the base oil. Make sure that the mixture is at room temperature before using it.


If you can reach the affected muscles, then you can massage the oil into your aching muscles yourself. If not, then ask a friend to help you.
If you can afford it, then you may want to consider a professional massage. They can be expensive, but a professional massage therapist will be able to target the areas that are giving you the most trouble.

