 A legitimate excuse is one that could plausibly occur. A raccoon breaking into and flooding your apartment, for instance, is not a legitimate excuse. Excuses can include previous events, a sick relative, no access to transportation, or a family emergency, if your excuse is needed on short notice.Choose an excuse you can easily remember. There is nothing quite as humiliating (and heartbreaking for the host) as forgetting your own made-up problem.
A legitimate excuse might include one such as, “I had to take my child to the emergency room” or “My car battery died unexpectedly.”;
, If you turn down an invitation to a significant event, you may have to field a lot of questions and needling. Practice your story, maybe even taking a moment to write down details of your given story to refer back to later.


Be well informed of your fake needs, but do not sound forced or rehearsed. Take a moment to think about answers to any questions that are posed.
Someone might ask how your emergency went. You can say something vague but helpful such as, “We were worried, but (insert name) is doing well now.”
In the case of car trouble, you could say, “I was so bummed! I was able to get my car running a few hours later.”

, If possible, involve someone else who can corroborate your story. You could say, for instance, that you’d already promised a friend you’d take him to a sports game, and have him back you up. This is particularly important if you are turning down an invitation extended by a close friend or family member. These relationships can be fragile, and may deteriorate if your reason for not attending is not important or pressing enough.


You can say that you have to take your child to a game, you have to take a friend to a lesson, or you promised a family member you’d attend their play. The possibilities are endless.
 If possible, give the host or the person inviting you plenty of warning that you will not be in attendance. This is both a courtesy and lends an air of legitimacy to your inability to attend. If possible, avoid waiting until the last minute and extending an excuse hours before the event is due to start.


An ahead-of-time warning could include an excuse such as, “I have to pick a family member up from the airport that day.”
If an advance heads up is not possible, give them at least a few hours of warning. Do not call a few minutes before you were supposed to arrive and ask for a rain check.
 If you’ve given an excuse, follow through by providing additional details, if requested, discussing what occurred during the event, etc. Following through with your excuse will keep suspicions off of you and will make the person inviting you feel as though you weren’t simply blowing them off.


If you are concerned about divulging too much and revealing your hand, feel free to say something simple, such as, “I was so sorry I couldn’t attend, but my family enjoyed their stay.”

