 For short haired cats, invest in a Zoom Groom type tool or a rubber hand mitt. The Zoom Groom is designed to mimic the motion of a cat being licked by another and cats find this very pleasant and indulgent. The Zoom Groom is a rubber grooming tool that draws out shed hair from the coat by gentle friction, much as a tongue pulls out the dead hair.


Many cats will purr ecstatically while they have a Zoom Groom spa treatment and this is a great way to keep a short-haired cat's coat from becoming knotted.
It also has the advantage that the grooming tool is soft and so there are not hard metal teeth to catch against sore joints and hurt the older arthritic cat.
Start using one in kittenhood and not only will the cat look forward to his or her daily grooming sessions but it will have a luxuriously glossy coat to boot., Invest in a well-made cat rake and long-tooth comb to properly help prevent matting. Rakes have short, sturdy bristles that are usually made of metal and are good for brushing dense, long hair.


Long-tooth combs allow you to comb deep into your long-haired cat's fur and comb through small mats before they get too large. Both items can be found in pet and retail stores.
Use the comb first, gently combing through the coat much as you would comb through your hair to tease out any tangles. Grip the knot between finger and thumb and work above your fingers so that you are not tugging on the skin. Start at the top of the knot (the end furthest from the skin) and gently separate the knot until it begins to part. Then work down a little deeper. Sometimes it is helpful to use your fingertips rather than the comb, to open up the mat. Keep working gently until the tangle is removed and you can comb through.
 By grooming your cat every day you catch mats in the early stages, while they can still be untangled. Begin a regular brushing routine on your long-hair cat's coat before mats occur. Work with your long-hair or short-hair cat daily so he or she gets used to being brushed. If you get your cat as a kitten, start when he or she is young.
 Run the rake deeply but gently in the underlying fur, called the undercoat ,where mats begin as tangles. Rakes penetrate down to the under coat and reach deeper than a Zoom Groom or rubber mit. The rake helps to remove shed fur from the soft undercoat, which is often where tangles start to develop.

