 Men cheat sometimes simply because they want physical variety. Marriage or a relationship has become mundane, and the man longs for something more exciting. There’s nothing like the feel of the chase or the rush of the first kiss. If you recognize this factor, you can work to keep your own relationship exciting.


Do spontaneous things (and sometimes leave the kids behind). Arrange a weekend trip without telling him and surprise him with it.
Change your hairstyle. He might be surprised to come home and see you with a hot new ‘do. Or try a new scent. Get a new car. Do something to change it up every now and then.
Develop a hobby. When he sees your excitement in something new, he might be encouraged to try it.
Travel a lot. Changing the environment now and then may reduce his boredom.
 Find a passion or a cause. Confidence is attractive, as is someone who has something interesting to talk about.


You don’t want to have to force a man to realize you’re worth not cheating on. Just develop a persona and life that tells that story on its own.
Men are attracted to women with confidence. Excessive jealousy is not very attractive. If you are snooping in his stuff and constantly demanding to know whether he is cheating, you might actually make him more likely to cheat. You’re a woman not worth cheating on because you’re surrounded by passion, good work, hobbies, friends who care about you, and a confident attitude. , Yes, he should love you just the way you are. And, yes, he’s probably gained a few pounds since college, too. However, if you completely let yourself go, he may be more likely to look elsewhere.


Work out together. Not only will you both be healthier, but you will get to spend more time together and in a positive way. Doing things together outside of the routine at home like this is a good way to build common ground. Although you don’t always have to make yourself up, if you’re not at work, don’t welcome him home in sweatpants, with unstyled hair. Put on a little makeup, and at least get out of the PJs.
Go to one of those mall makeup counters, and have them show you how to use the products. Some women don’t wear much makeup only because they’re insecure and don’t know how to do it. Most men don’t like it when women are too heavily made up, but a little mascara and concealer can do wonders.
Wear something nice to bed. This doesn’t have to always be fancy lingerie (although sometimes it can be). But can the bulky grandma nighties and sweatpants, at least. Go to sleep in his shirt or in a T shirt with pajama shorts.
 Relationships can be worn down by the mundane, the routines of daily life. Make sure you carve out enough time to have some fun.


You could each write down a list of fun things that you would like to do. A bucket list of sorts. Then, share lists. Each of you should choose one thing from your spouse's list, and then schedule it!
Try doing something new with your partner (exploring a new cuisine, for example) or try something athletic. 