 Unless you’re sending several documents or a manuscript, you can use regular envelopes. For instance, you can use a #10 envelope for your larger envelope, and a #9 for the smaller one. Make sure both envelopes are large enough for whatever you want to send and receive. Usually, the receiver will specify the size of the envelope if it needs to be larger than a regular envelope.


Browse local stationery stores, copy centres and mailing stores to find a set envelopes best suited for this process. Feel free to ask an employee for help, specifying that you’re looking to send an S.A.S.E.;
, This is the envelope that will be returned to you by the receiver, hence why your address goes in the center. Make sure you don't seal it! The receiver will seal it after they insert whatever you were asking for (or to return whatever you submitted).
 If both you and the receiver are in the US, you’ll need a First Class Mail stamp. As long as the envelope is under 6 ⅛” in height, 11 ½” in length and 13oz in weight, this stamp is sufficient.If you’re outside the US but your receiver isn’t, you’ll need to use a Forever International Stamp on this envelope. This will allow the receiver to send your S.A.S.E. back to you no matter where you are.
If the receiver is outside the US, you’ll need to get sufficient postage from their postal service to send you the letter. You’ll have to research the kind of postage needed with the receiver’s postal service.
 This is the envelope containing your S.A.S.E., and the postal service will read the address here as the destination of your letter.
 This is the spot reserved for a return address. Writing your address here ensures the envelopes are returned to you if they end up lost in the mail or you use insufficient postage.
 If you’re sending your S.A.S.E. within the US, you’ll only need to use a First Class Mail stamp. This allows shipment throughout the US as long as the envelope follows the sizing requirements mentioned above.


If you’re sending your S.A.S.E. internationally from the US, you’ll need a Forever International Stamp on this envelope, which allows a letter to be sent from the US internationally.
If you’re sending your S.A.S.E. from outside the US, ask your postal service for advice on what constitutes significant postage.
 After both envelopes have been appropriately stamped, the first envelope has become the S.A.S.E. Place it within the second envelope. Seal the second envelope.


If using two envelopes of the same size, you can fold your S.A.S.E. in thirds before placing it into the other envelope.
It's fine to write a note to the receiver and enclose it in the larger envelope along with the smaller envelope. They might ask you to do this if they need specific details from you.
 Now that you’ve prepared your envelopes for mailing, you can send them like you would any other letter. You can simply drop them off in the nearest mailbox. You can go to your local post office if you have any questions or concerns on the mailing of your S.A.S.E.
 If you sent your S.A.S.E. domestically, expect it to take 4-6 weeks for anything to come back to you. This accounts for post office transit time as well as for time for the recipient company to process your request. If you sent your envelope internationally, expect more of a delay.

