 An important defensive principle in field hockey is to minimize the opposing player’s space by guiding them away from your goal and the center of the field. When someone is dribbling toward you, always force them toward the sidelines.Since you are the center back, you have an option of which side you want to force them to. It is better to force them to your right side because that is your “strong side” of your stick. Note the left side players do not want to take this approach and instead want to force them to their left side, toward the sideline.
Position your body slightly to the left so that your shoulders are open toward the right. “Invite” them to dribble toward your strong side. Use the sideline or another defender to help you trap them into a small space.
If you are running neck-and-neck with your opponent who is dribbling the ball, keep forcing her to one side. This is called shadowing her down the field. Try as hard as you can to keep running at the same speed as her and keep her from cutting you off. One of your other teammates will likely come to your help and you can double-team her together.
 Jabbing is when you quickly poke at the ball with your stick when your opponent is dribbling to make them mess up or lose the ball.


Be sure you are not too close to your opponent. Position yourself about a stick-length away from her.
Reposition your grip on the stick as if you were holding a frying pan with your left hand. In one fluid motion, release your right hand from the stick and extend your left arm (holding to stick) while simultaneously lunging toward the ball so that the toe of your stick hits the ball.
Quickly retrieve your stick with both hands. A jab only lasts a second or two - don’t let your stick linger near the ball. You can perform a few quick jabs in a row if you weren’t successful the first time.
The point of jabbing is not necessarily to gain possession of the ball, but to distract and mess up the player with the ball in order to set yourself up for a more successful tackle.
 Now that you've distracted or messed up your opponents with a few jabs, you are ready to lay down a tackle.


The best way to tackle is to lie your stick flat on the ground on your right side, crouching down so that you are in a strong, athletic stance. Keep your hands far apart on your stick for stability.
Collect the ball on your stick and push through until you have regained possession. Be sure not to “hack” or continuously swing/hit at the ball with your stick. This will be a foul called against you.
Do not dive into tackles, as it makes it easier for the opposition to beat you. Time your tackles only when you know you have a good chance of coming up with the ball, once you have already put significant pressure on your opponent. Do not tackle if your opponent is coming towards you with a lot of speed and space.
 Of course, the best defense is team defense. You and another teammate can work together so that one person is putting pressure and forcing the opponent toward a space where the other person is waiting there to tackle.


Communication is key when double-teaming. If you are the tackler, guide your teammate ahead of you on where they should force the opponent by saying things like “Stay with her, force her right!”

