 Does the attention she gives you constantly vary? Does talk about how she is attracted to other people constantly? Those might be signs that she isn’t that serious about the relationship. However, sometimes her behavior may just reflect how comfortable she is in public. For example, if she’s way more emotionally available and affectionate when you’re hanging out alone it might just mean she’s shy around other people. Don’t be suspicious of that.
Merely talking about other guys is not necessarily a bad sign. She may just have guys in her life who she's close to. However, if she routinely talks about how attracted she is to another guy (not you), she may not be into you.
 Does she deny being in a relationship with you to other people, even her closest friends? If she denies dating you when talking to her friends she might be acting in a manipulative manner.


People sometimes like to keep their new love interests out of the spotlight in the event that you have no interest in them. However, once you're dating and everything is exclusive, there is no reason she should be worried to discuss you with her friends.
 You should feel emotionally and physically comfortable in the relationship. If you feel like you have to walk on egg shells around her or that you are always waiting for the next explosion, you may be in an unhealthy relationship. This is really a gut feeling, but you probably already know the answer.
 In a healthy relationship, your partner should do their part to try to interact civilly with the important people in your life. If they are constantly putting down your friends and family they may be trying to isolate you from the people who matter to you. Whether they are doing this consciously or subconsciously, it is still manipulative and unhealthy. , If you’re being paranoid, your friends might be able to get you to stop worrying so much and tell you that you’re being crazy. If there’s fire behind the smoke, they’ll be honest with you. A lot of the time friends want to be supportive of their friend’s relationships even if they know something is wrong. You might have friends who were waiting to tell you that this girl was playing games with you. They were just waiting for you to ask because they didn’t want to offend you.