 Sleep is very important during your pregnancy, but some pregnant women find it more difficult to get a restful night’s sleep.Research has shown that women that sleep less than six hours a night are significantly more likely to have more difficult deliveries or have a Cesarean sections than those that sleep seven or more hours a night. Try to sleep at least seven hours a night, and to nap as frequently as you need.


Try to keep your exercise, caffeine consumption, and naps earlier in the day to help fall asleep more easily.
 During pregnancy, many women experience mood swings as a result of hormonal changes, increased stress or anxiety, and environmental factors. Depression is a mood disorder that causes sadness and hopelessness, and while depression can occur during any life stage, it can be difficult to cope with the disorder during pregnancy.If you notice a combination of these symptoms nearly every day for the past two weeks, talk to your medical provider to see whether you may be diagnosed with depression. Symptoms include:


Frequent crying
Having trouble concentrating
Losing interest in daily activities, even those you once found very enjoyable
Having low energy or extreme fatigue that does not improve with rest
Suicidal ideation
Overwhelming feelings of guild, sadness, or worthlessness
Feeling “blue,” “sad,” or “empty” for most of the days
Feeling anxious

, Occasional stress is a normal part of pregnancy, just as it is during other times in your life. Many women experience some anxiety or fear about becoming mothers and coping with pregnancy. However, constant and high levels of stress can be damaging for you and your baby’s health. Try to limit the amount of stress that you’re under by managing your stress.Find ways to de-stress like relaxing, meditating, doing yoga, drawing, or reading a book. If you find yourself feeling overwhelmed, consider talking to a friend, family member, or a therapist about your concerns and worries.
 Unfortunately, pregnancy can be a major stressor on a relationship and is a common trigger for domestic violence. According to the Center for Disease Control, 4 to 8 percent of pregnant women report abuse during their pregnancy. This number may be much higher because women may be afraid to report their abuse. Domestic abuse is a crime and is never justified. It poses a severe health and safety risk to you and your baby.Call an emergency number like 911, the police, or a domestic violence hotline if you are ever afraid your partner may abuse you.