 Being honest about how you are doing will help you determine what areas you need to work on to improve your job performance.You can rate whether you are ‘exceeding expectations’, ‘meeting expectations’, or ‘need improvement’ in each area.
Make a list of strengths and weaknesses in each area. For example, you might put that you’re good at writing reports, but don’t submit them on time.
 One way to get an idea of how you are performing on the job is to ask your co-workers. Their perceptions of your work can give you an idea of what areas you need to improve in and what areas you are doing well in.


You could ask them to write a few words on a sticky note that describe your work performance and put it in an envelope for that purpose on your desk.
For example, you could say, “Would you write a few words about my work on here and put it in the envelope hanging outside my cubicle?”
You could also create a brief, anonymous online survey for them to complete.
If you are comfortable with it, you could ask for feedback face to face. You might say, “Would you give me some feedback on my work performance?”

, This might be the most important feedback you can receive. This will let you know how your supervisor thinks you are doing and how they think you can improve your job performance.It will also give insight into what exactly your supervisor is looking for in a great employee.Most companies have specific times of the year when they evaluate employees. Check with your supervisor to see when your next evaluation is due.
You could say, “How long after I have been employed will it be before I am evaluated?” Or, “When do we have our evaluations?”
You can always ask your supervisor for informal feedback regarding your work performance or a specific task or assignment.
For example, you might ask your boss, “Would you mind meeting with me about how I did on this last report?”

, Talk to your supervisor about the review and what implications it may have. Use this review as a way to improve your job performance by showing you exactly what areas your supervisor feels you need work in.Ask your supervisor for specific examples of how you can improve your job performance.
For example, you might say, “In my review it said I need to improve my leadership skills. Could you give me examples of how I can do this?”
Focus on the lowest areas on your review. Although you want to improve overall, these are the areas critical to you maintaining employment.
For instance, if you had negative remarks regarding your attendance, you should work on improving that before you work on your leadership skills.



Make a list of strengths that you, your co-workers, or your supervisor mentioned in your evaluations.
Highlight those strengths that were mentioned by more than one person or more than once in general.
For example, you might write ‘reliable’ and ‘dependable’ and also write and highlight ‘diligent’ because you and your supervisor mentioned it.
 You will know exactly what you need to do to improve your job performance if you review the feedback from your evaluations. Look for things that you, your coworkers, and supervisor feel that you can do better.


Look for keywords in your evaluations like: improve, increase, strengthen, expand, or develop.
Look for reoccurring themes in your evaluations like being on time, checking your facts, or being a team player.
 Once you know what areas you need to improve in and what strengths you have to make the improvements, you can set goals. Goal-setting will help make your improvements in your job performance concrete and hold you accountable.Set goals related to increasing your productivity. For example, you might set a goal to submit five additional applications a day.
Break each goal down into doable action steps. For instance, in order to submit five more applications daily you might need to file and review them faster.

