 Pick a store that you know well in order to easily locate your particular item. Or, go to a store outside of your neighborhood in order to avoid running into people you know.Try going to a specialty sex-shop. The best part of buying from these types of locations is that you can easily play it off like you are buying a joke gift for a friend, or a party favor for a bachelorette party. This could also reduce your sense that someone may be judging you negatively by your purchase.;
, Going with a friend or partner can help deflect some of your embarrassment by serving as a social buffer or even a distraction for your embarrassment. Ask your partner to join you on your trip to the store.
Tell a friend you need moral support in buying your embarrassing item.
 Buying just the personal item can feel like it is drawing attention to yourself and may lead to increased feelings of embarrassment.Instead, buy multiple items in order to camouflage your purchase.


Get a bag of chips, gum, or soda to lessen the embarrassment. The more items the better.
 Using coping strategies when buying sex-related items, such as going to a checkout stand with a similar person to yourself (the same gender and around the same age as you), can reduce embarrassment.This is a very common coping resource for avoiding embarrassment in purchasing personal products. It can be very embarrassing to checkout sexual items with a different sex or someone with a huge age difference.


If you can’t find someone like you, try to find the person that is the best fit or that you think will produce the least amount of embarrassment for you.
 This helps to draw less attention to yourself, and reduces the likelihood of engaging the cashier in small talk in order to avoid an awkward moment.


Be polite, but avoid too much eye contact or small-talk with the cashier.
Look at a magazine in the checkout stand.
Text or be on the phone while waiting for checkout.
 This may reduce the feeling that someone is watching you or judging your purchase. Studies have shown that decreasing the sense of a social presence around you can decrease feelings of embarrassment when purchasing a personal item., Embarrassment about buying personal items lessens with experience.This is due to the idea that the more you do something, the more comfortable you are with that activity; the same thing goes for buying embarrassing items. So, the more experience you get buying these items the less uncomfortable you will feel. You may even begin to tolerate feeling embarrassed over time.

