 Hitting a draw means hitting the ball to that, for a right-handed player, the ball curves slightly from right to left. Employing what's called a strong grip will help you do this. Weak grips tend to cause fades, while strong grips encourage draws. In order to hit a draw:


Place your left hand on the top of the grip, with your wrist turned in to your body, so that some knuckles are showing.
Place your right hand below of your left hand, covering your left thumb, with the crease in your right hand angled to your right shoulder. Your palms should face each other.

Note: Rolling your right hand over the club is what "weakens" the grip, causing a slide or fade. If you can see the knuckles in your right hand, you're weakening your grip, making a draw harder.;
, Point your feet and shoulders so that they are aimed slightly to the right of your intended target, but aim your shot right at the target. This is called a closed club face.When you hit the ball, it should start out right of its initial target, curling back to the left the closer it gets.
Some golfers prefer dropping their front shoulder, believing that more of an upward trajectory on the ball contributes to a draw.
 What does this mean? When you set up your feet and shoulders, draw an imaginary line that both your feet and shoulders are pointing to. On the takeaway, keep your swing low and on the inside of this imaginary line. Try for more of a rounded swing than a vertical swing.
 When your club begins to come down, try to straighten out your right arm. This will create good club head speed, promoting a right-to-left path in the flight of the ball.


As you do this, keep your right shoulder back for as long as possible. This, in combination with a straight right arm will help the club face close on time, creating a draw.
 As you hit the ball, try to make sure that the toe of the club is in front of the heel; as you continue your follow-through, the toe of the club should travel farther in front of the heel than it was when you made contact.


To do this, the right arm will cross over the left arm as you make contact with the ball. This will create the signature draw arc.

