 If you don't have the game you will need to purchase it. You can get it through the EA website, or purchase a physical copy at your local electronics store.;
, Make sure they look realistic enough. For example, use custom skins, hair, and clothing to make the Sim unique.


Get some costumes. You might want to make a western, horror film, or a gritty police drama. Pick out some outfits that your Sims can use to get into their characters and make the movie more compelling.
 Normally, you would build houses in the Sims 3. However, you will have a more interesting film if you think of the houses as different sets for scenes in your movie. Get creative and see how far you can go.


For example, if one of your Sims is Batman you can build him a Batcave by adding some black wallpaper, black modern furniture, and cover the walls in televisions and computers to create a high-tech fortress.
Don't worry about furnishing the entire house, only plan on furnishing the rooms you are using for filming.This will save you a lot of time and allow you to focus on the details of the environments you will be using.
 Part of playing the game is that your Sims will get hungry, tired, or need to use the shower or the restroom. Nothing will slow your filmmaking down more than a Sim that hasn't eaten, slept or showered in two days and has an accident on the floor. Get all of that stuff out the way beforehand so your actors are ready.


Once you have enabled testing cheats, you can press "SHIFT" and click on the mailbox. You will see an option to "Make All Sims Happy." Click on it to put all your Sims in good spirits.
 Custom content is an optional material in your movies, but it will give you more options to use when creating your movie. You might want a specific outfit or piece of furniture and it might only be available by purchasing an upgrade.
 You may not have fancy lighting, but if you go to the "Options" menu and select the "Graphics" tab you can change the appearance of your game to your liking. You can add more or less detail to Sims, trees, and other objects. Increasing the graphic quality too high can affect the game speed, so figure out the right settings you need for each shot.


For example, if you are shooting a scene indoors with closeups of your Sim, you can increase the graphic quality of their features and turn down the graphic quality of water, trees and buildings that won't be visible in your shot.

