 At work, Dr. House usually dresses in blazer over a collared shirt with dark jeans. Occasionally he wears a white lab coat over a collared shirt. Start dressing like Dr. House when you are in the public eye to give off a sense of authority.


At home he usually wears a T-shirt and jeans.
 Dr. House is the best in his field. He is the ultimate authority figure at the hospital and everyone looks to him for help and advice. In your work place, do your best to master all aspects of your field and be the one that people consult if they are faced with a tough problem., One thing that comes with being the boss is the ability to bend rules. Even though he works in a hospital with rigidly structured regulations, Dr. House often goes around established procedures and runs things his way. Ultimately, skirting the rules helps Dr. House figure out his medical problems faster, often saving his patient. His rule-breaking therefore improves the quality of his care and is not only for personal gain.It’s not worth getting in trouble just to emulate Dr. House. Carefully analyze the way your workplace is run before you break the rules, and only do so if it helps your company or business run better.
 Dr. House never shrinks away from a challenge. In fact, he relishes a difficult problem and is bored by easy fixes. Dr. House’s enthusiasm for intellectual challenge is what contributes to his expertise as a doctor.At your own workplace, take on difficult or challenging projects that others don’t want to do. These projects will help you grow professionally and will cement your status as an expert in your field.
 Even though Dr. House is often presented with emotional situations, such as terminal illness in his patients, he doesn’t let his emotions get in the way of his judgment when trying to find a solution for their problems.In your own workplace, show empathy towards customers or clients, but don’t let your feelings affect your analysis of the situation.
 Dr. Wilson is Dr. House’s sidekick and second in command at the hospital. Dr. House approaches Dr. Wilson when he needs support and help with moral issues. At your own workplace, start friendship with someone who you like and is professionally competent. Turn to them if you are in need of help or guidance.