 Though a discussion about politics with a Democrat as a Republican can get pretty heated, you can practice active listening. Being an active listener will allow you to have a pointed political discussion with the Democrat without resorting to personal putdowns or anger.Being an active listener means giving your attention, not just waiting to speak. Avoid interrupting or talking over the person's statements.
When the person pauses speaking, you might then repeat back an issue you believe the person has raised to you. You may say, “What I heard was…” or “I think that means…”
The person can then confirm that you have repeated back their words or intentions correctly. Then, you can respond to their viewpoints accurately. Accuracy can encourage the Democrat to actively listen to you so the conversation becomes more give-and-take.
 Avoid saying “you” or “you people” as this might come across as: "You are putting words in my mouth!" or "You are generalizing (painting with a broad brush)". Instead, you should use “I” when talking about your political beliefs and ideals, as this will show you stand by what you are saying.For example, you may say, “As a Republican, I believe abortion should not be legal. I am pro-life.” Or you may say, “As a Republican, I support the death penalty. I agree with the party’s stance on the death penalty and law enforcement.” -- or say, "I do not support sanctuary cities, unsecured/or open borders, nor birthright citizenship for the children of undocumented immigrants."
When you are responding to the Democrat, avoid saying, “You are wrong about everything”, or “You are all bleeding hearts.” Instead, focus on “I” statements and do not make generalizations about other people’s beliefs which may vary. Hard disagreements may seem accusatory, but may be unavoidable.
 It can be tricky to separate emotion from fact during political discussions, especially among opposing parties. You will need to support your beliefs with facts and statistics from valid sources. Bring up what you know in the discussion to demonstrate your point.Assumptions about a political event or a Democratic policy during the discussion may seem unfair. Though your facts will often be logically biased towards the Republican view of things, using research and facts will show the Democrat that you are trying to be informed on the specifics of the topic.
If you are unsure about a specific fact or detail, do not make an assumption or get defensive. Be willing to admit you were unsure or that you do not know all the details. This will show the Democrat that you want to base your views on knowledge and to support your views on the topics under discussion.
 You can make an effort to try to show another side of a policy or issue to the Democrat from your perspective, if only as an exercise in empathy. Putting yourself in the opposing party’s shoes can help you nurture tolerance and openness in the others' perspective. Empathy can also help to foster a discussion that is respectful and productive, rather than a shouting match.Demonstrating empathy can also show the Democrat that you are helping them to understand and to see their views in relation to your logic. Often, political conflicts and issues arise when both sides become rigid and close themselves off from listening and presenting views calmly, in a discussion. Having empathy for others can help to counteract this as you want to help them to see it another way, with empathy for their possible misunderstanding of your point of view.
 You can prevent the conversation from descending into an argument by leaving any angry language, like swearing or cursing, at the door. Try to use language that is cordial, rather than language that could show anger or repulsion.If you feel the need to swear or curse, take a deep breath instead or clear your throat. You may also excuse yourself from the conversation for a few moments if you feel you cannot stop yourself from swearing or cursing.
If you feel you are getting too heated or upset during the discussion, you may step away and take a breather. Remove yourself the discussion temporarily and take some time alone if you start to feel too aggressive or angry., Despite your sincere efforts, you and the Democrat just may not be able to agree on certain issues due to your political beliefs. As a Republican, you tend to have beliefs counter to a Democrat and no amount of healthy discussion may shift or change that. Eventually, you may both have to agree to disagree on several issues. You may be able to move on to discussions about things other than politics.Keep in mind that though you may have to agree to disagree with the Democrat, you can still be friendly and open towards them. Disagreement and opposing viewpoints are part of what living in a free country with laws protecting free speech is all about. Being tolerant and respectful of others, regardless of their political affiliation, will allow you to get along and interact in healthy ways.

