 If your family celebrates Christmas as a religious holiday, you may want to try this theme. Use nativity imagery such as mangers, the North Star, the three wise men, Mary and Joseph, the animals in the stable, the baby Jesus, pictures of angels and so on. Keep in mind that you will need 24 images for the calendar (one for each day leading up to Christmas Day), so find simple images that you can spread out over 24 days.If you need ideas, do a Google image search to find religious pictures and clipart you can print out and use.
Continue the religious theme by writing short Bible verses on small pieces of paper and placing them inside each muffin slot.;
, Snowflakes, Christmas trees, ornaments, gifts, snowmen, reindeer, bells, candy canes, wreaths, holly sprigs, Christmas stockings, Santa Claus, stars and etc. are all popular holiday images. Incorporate holiday colors like red, green, white and silver for backdrops and lettering. Use drawings, printed clipart, holiday-themed stickers, rubber stamps, gift tags or other premade holiday elements as decoration.

If you’re a crafty person, you may enjoy drawing or making cut-out shapes. If you aren’t, you still have plenty of options! For example, do a Google image search for pictures or search for free downloadable clipart online.Also try searching for downloadable advent calendar images – there are many free options on the web created for exactly this purpose.
 Use a variety of different holiday-colored cardstocks as backdrops and feature the countdown number (1 through 24) as the main image. Get creative with the way you display each number. For example, you could draw or paint the numbers onto the cardstock yourself. Since the numbers will be the focal point, try to find ways to set the numbers apart from the backdrop.For example, you could use stencils to trace the numbers onto cardstock, cut them out and arrange them on a totally different color of cardstock.
You could also type out the numbers on your computer using your favorite fonts, and then print and cut those out.

