 Make sure you pick a spaghetti squash that is safe to eat. A spaghetti squash should have a dry, rounded stem. Its color should be ivory, pale orange, or light yellow. The rind should be somewhat hard to the touch and resistant to scratching.You should also smell the squash near the stem end. A fresh squash will not give off a strong odor.;
, You want to start the process with a fresh, clean squash. To start, wash your squash under running water, turning it as necessary to clean the full surface. Remove any dirt and debris from the squash's surface before proceeding., Use a slow cooker big enough to fit the full squash. Place the squash in the cooker and then cover the cooker with the lid.Poke a few holes in the squash with a fork before placing it in the slow cooker.
 Turn your slow cooker to the high setting. Then, simply allow the squash to cook. How long this takes depends on the precise size of your squash and the power of your slow cooker. Usually, it takes around three hours, but a larger squash may need to be cooked longer., After three hours have passed, check your squash. When done, your squash's skin should dent when pressed firmly with your finger. It should also give off a sweet squash smell.If your squash is not done, let it cook for another half an hour and then check again. Keep adding time and checking until your squash is fully cooked.
 Once your squash is cooked, remove it from the slow cooker. Then, use a sharp knife to cut the squash in half lengthwise. Adding a bit of salt can help draw moisture out of the squash as well.You should use tongs and gloves when handling the squash. It will be hot.
 There should be two small holes on either side of the squash, both of which are filled with seeds. Use a spoon to gently scoop out all the seeds. Pluck out any remaining seeds with your fingers.Make sure you remove all the seeds. You do not want any seeds in your spaghetti.
 Take a small fork and gently scrape it against the inside edges of your squash. Dip the fork into the squash and then use gentle motions to pull upward. The sides of the squash should break into spaghetti-like strands you can set aside on a plate.Keep pulling strands out of the squash until you have used up most of the inside.
 Place your strands of squash into a strainer. Allow any excess moisture to drain. After it's drained, you can pat out any remaining moisture with a paper towel., Squash will not have a strong taste on its own. To add some flavor to your spaghetti squash, you can add herbs, like garlic and oregano. It also goes well with cheeses traditionally used in pasta, such as parmesan cheese.Add a bit of salt to taste in order to bring the flavor out.
 You can also serve your spaghetti squash with your favorite pasta sauce. If you're trying to cut back on carbs, you can swap regular pasta for spaghetti squash in a wide variety of recipes.