 You can request a copy of a birth certificate by going to the front lobby of the Lucas State Office Building (321 E. 12th Street, Des Moines, IA 50319), Monday-Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:45 p.m.You can also order copies of some birth certificates from some county recorder’s offices. These offices are not authorized to make copies of all birth certificates, such as certificates of births between 1921 and 1941, delayed registrations, etc.Check with your county recorder’s office to see if this option is available to you.
If you are ordering a copy of a birth certificate from a county recorder’s office, make your check or money order payable to that office.In some cases, a county recorder’s office may require you to pay in cash or by money order., You must have government-issued photo identification, such as a drivers license or passport, in order to request a copy of a birth certificate., Fill out the application form provided by the office, according to the directions on the form. You will need information such as:


Name as it appears on the record
Date of birth
Place of birth
Parents' names
Reason for requesting a copy of the certificate
Your relationship to the person named on the certificate (if you are requesting your own certificate, then this is "self")
The address you want your copy sent to (if applicable)

, You must sign your application for a copy of the birth certificate in the presence of a notary public or an Iowa Registrar of Vital Records.If you are applying in-person, there should be a notary available at the office.
 There is a $20 dollar fee for the copy of the birth certificate. You can pay in cash, by check, or with a money order.


The $20 fee includes the cost of retrieving the certificate, and making one certified copy. If you want multiple certified copies of the birth certificate, you must pay $20 more for each additional copy.
Most of the time, certificates are ready to pick up after 2 p.m. the next business day (incomplete or inaccurate applications, or ones needing further verification, can take longer).
Certificates can also be sent by standard mail. This may take 5 to 7 more days.

