 Rather than view a call where you do not sell a product or do not get the customer to sign up for a service as a failure, look at each call as full of potential and future accomplishment. Even if the customer says no, simply getting the customer to talk to you for one minute and listen to your outline of the benefits of the product should be viewed as a minor achievement. Telemarketing is a difficult industry and connecting with a customer, even if you do not get a sale, can energize you for the next call.It can help to end a call by planting a seed for future contact or communication so you do not feel the call is a rejection or a firm “no”. If you cannot achieve the primary objective of selling the product or service, you can try to achieve the secondary objective of getting the customer to listen to the benefits of the product or agree to a call back at a later time.
For example, “Jenna, it looks like we do not have a good fit here today but if you find yourself needing a program for online sales that is cheaper and full of extra features, please get in touch with me.”

, Often, getting told “no” or being hung up on as a telemarketer can lead to feelings of stress, anxiety, and depression. Rather than isolate yourself when you feel this way, look to your co workers for support and encouragement. Try sharing a bad end to a call with a co worker to let off steam and suggest you go for a quick walk or take a coffee break together to shake off the rough call. Your co workers have likely all had to deal with a bad call or an angry customer and can offer words of sympathy and encouragement., Another way to improve your sales record as a telemarketer, and make your job that much easier, is to be willing to take constructive feedback from your superiors or your co workers. Agree to extra training on how to be an effective cold caller and listen attentively to any suggestions from others on how to improve your cold calling skills.


By focusing on how you can get better at your job, you can also avoid getting bored in the role or feeling unfulfilled. Learning new skills in the role can keep you engaged and excited about doing your job.
 Many telemarketing companies have quotas their employees must fulfill every week or month. These quotas can be stressful, as you will be under a lot of pressure to meet the quota, especially in the last several days of the quota period. Rather than focus on how you are going to land a high amount of sales, which can lead to stress and anxiety, think about connecting with each customer every time you pick up the phone. By looking at each call as an opportunity to connect with someone, you will be less overwhelmed by pressure to fill a quota and will likely improve your sales record by being genuine and enthusiastic.It can also help to keep in mind telemarketing is a very difficult job, with a high level of turnover. Having a strong pre calling plan and approach and practicing your ability to connect with customers on a daily basis will make you a stronger telemarketer and help you thrive in the role.

