 Having a friend with you is a good way to avoid bullying. If you stay with people who are being bullied, bullies may be less likely to confront them. Don’t let others walk alone. Make sure others have friends to walk through any areas they may meet the bully in.
Stay with people in common areas. Try not let others be secluded so they are an easy target for bullies.
Be an online accountability buddy. Help your friend change their passwords passwords if they find themselves being too concerned with social media, so they can ignore the websites.;
, Help others not respond. Bullies may leave them alone.


Stay away from any areas where the bully hangs out. Walk with others who are leaving earlier early for school so they avoid being in any areas with bullies.
Consider the environment and the best way to help others get away. Try to always have an escape plan with others who are being bullied.
If your friend experiences online bullying, tell them sign out of your accounts and ignore bullies. Online bullying may go away if they stop paying attention to it. , Bullies need attention. If those being bullied don’t give the bully attention, the bully may decide to stop since they’re not getting the desired attention.


Tell others to pretend they didn’t hear the bully. If your friend must respond, advise them to speak in a calm and clear voice.
Communicate to your friend that they should look away from bullies. Bullies are looking for any sign or response.
Advise others to not show bullies they are angry or upset. Bullies are looking for a reaction. Tell others to not give them the chance.
Don’t react to what they are saying. If your friend responds back, that may encourage bullies to keep talking to them.
If anyone is trying to bully others on social media, tell your friend to ignore the person, remove them from their friends list, or block them. If necessary, tell your parents or another trusted adult about others being bullied online.
 If bullies do not respond to being ignored, then it may be best to confront them directly. While you should not tell others to antagonize bullies, realize that many are insecure and may stand down if confronted directly. Have your friend make eye contact. Looking someone in the eye shows that they are confident and not scared.
Speak in a steady, confident voice. Advise your friend not to let any underlying emotion show through, especially if they are scared or nervous.
Brush aside any name-calling. Your friend should act like their insults do not bother them or are beneath them.
Maintain a confident posture and walk. Your friend should stand with their shoulders back and head up. Tell them to walk with a purposeful stride.

