 Getting enough calcium is essential to keep your bones healthy and strong. The best way to make sure that you are getting enough calcium is to eat a diet that includes lots of calcium rich foods. Calcium rich foods include:


Low-fat dairy products, such as low-fat yogurt or milk.
Green leafy vegetables, such as broccoli, brussels sprouts, bok choy, kale, and turnip greens.
Foods fortified with calcium, such as orange juice, cereal, bread, soy beverages, and tofu products.;
, The primary way that we get vitamin D is from the sun, but if you live in a place that does not get much sun, you will have to find ways to get it from the foods you eat. Foods that contain vitamin D include:Fatty fish, such as tuna and sardines.
Egg yolks
Cheese
Fortified milk, yogurt, or soy products
Beef liver

, Make sure that your diet includes plenty of vitamin C rich foods to ensure that you are getting your daily allowance, but do not exceed 2,000 milligrams per day. Foods that are rich in vitamin C include:Citrus fruits, such as oranges, grapefruit, and lemons
Watermelon
Berries, such as strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, and cranberries
Tropical fruits, such as pineapple, papaya, kiwi, and mango
Cruciferous vegetables, such as broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts
Leafy greens such as kale, cabbage, and spinach
Sweet potatoes and regular potatoes
Winter squash
Tomatoes

, Foods that are rich in vitamin K include:Leafy greens
Meat
Cheese
Eggs

, A diet that is high in salt may cause you to lose bone density. To eliminate this factor, follow a low-sodium diet and increase your intake of potassium rich foods to help offset the salt you do consume. Look for low-sodium options for your favorite foods and avoid adding salt to the foods you eat.Add potassium rich foods to help offset your sodium intake. Most fruits and vegetables are high in potassium. Some common potassium rich foods include:


Bananas
Baked potatoes
Orange juice
Winter squash
Broccoli
Yogurt
White beans
Cantaloupe
Halibut
Sweet potatoes
Lentils, The occasional cup of coffee is not bad for you, but drinking too much caffeine can cause your bones to lose calcium. Keep your caffeine intake under 300 milligrams per day to help prevent these losses. Keep in mind that caffeine can be found in many different beverages, such as coffee, tea, cola, energy drinks, and hot chocolate.Try switching to half-decaffeinated coffee or switch to drinks that are naturally caffeine free, such as herbal tea, water, and juice.
 People who drink a lot of alcohol are more likely to have broken bones and brittle bones. Drinking not only interferes with your body’s ability to absorb vitamins and minerals, it also results in an increase in hormones that deplete bone density. To avoid these side effects, drink only in moderation or get help to quit drinking if you have problems moderating your consumption.Talk to your doctor if you think that you may have a problem with alcohol addiction. You may need help to get your drinking under control.
 Glucosamine is a chemical compound which occurs naturally in your body and supports the cartilage in your joints. It is not found in any foods, so to increase your glucosamine, you must take supplements.Try taking 500 milligrams three times a day.

