 Figure out what resources are going to be most helpful to you — support groups, family members, an app that tracks what you eat. Whatever it is, get it ready for when you are starting your weight loss program., One pound is equal to 3,500 calories, so to lose 1–2 pounds a week, you need to eat 500–1000 calories less per day. Knowing where you are at the beginning is essential to plotting your diet plan. You can keep a journal, do it on the website referenced below, or use one of the many apps available., If you eat out a lot, think about how you can cook at home to have more control of your diet. Look through cookbooks and online to find new recipes that sound appealing. A big part of starting a weight loss program is changing your way of eating, and new foods and dishes will be part of that. Cooking the same things you always make and just eating less can be more difficult than preparing something new with fewer calories in the same size portion., If you are exercising little, you have a lot of options to explore as you plan your weight loss. If you are already exercising, think about how you might want to add to the activities you already do. You might want to start a new exercise class to inspire you to exercise more., Try not to start at a time that you know will be stressful, like the holidays or when starting a new job. Starting it when you know you will be going on vacation in the next two months is also not advisable — you need to get into a routine at home to help you succeed in your weight loss goals.
 Some people find that being part of a group of people doing the same things with the same issues you have makes it a lot easier. Research has shown that when you do a weight loss program with a friend or as part of a group, you tend to lose more and keep it off more easily. Keep in mind, however, that not all weight loss groups are the same — some are using it as a way to sell weight-loss products, while others are non-profit. Investigate the group thoroughly before you sign up., Make a list of questions to take with you about your proposed weight loss program. Don’t be afraid to ask for suggestions about eating and exercise. If you are thinking about joining a formal weight loss program, talk to your doctor about it. She might know something you don’t and can caution you against it if it wouldn’t be a good fit., Know that there will be times you just can’t cook that healthy meal or do that long exercise period. That’s normal. Your goals should be things that are more than you usually do, but not so different that you can’t keep them up. For example, if you aren’t used to running, don’t set yourself up for failure by choosing a daily half-hour run as your exercise. Start with walking fast and then see if you want to increase your workout by running.