 Instead of pulling the ponytail all the way through, create a loop using about half to three quarters of the hair in the ponytail, leaving a long loose end.









Another option is to create a smaller bow with only half of your hair, leaving the other half of your hair loose. Follow the same steps but instead of gathering all of your hair up into a ponytail, simply gather the top of your hair up into a loop. You can create 'ribbons' by curling the hair that you leave down.You could also create two bows, one on each side of your head. Create a loop on both sides of your head and follow the instructions listed below.
 This loose end becomes the centerpiece of the bow. You should be left with what resembles a loose bun with the hair ends securely fastened underneath the hair tie.









Make sure the loop isn't too loose or the sides will be too long and uncontrolled.
 Gel can help with sculpting and shaping the bow. Be careful to only use a very small amount (a dime-sized dab of gel) so that you don’t overwhelm your hair, thus creating a droopy bow.
 Section off your hair into two evenly distributed sections. Work on one side at a time. These will form the sides of the bow. Use a mirror to guide the division and to help you keep it even.
 Use your finger to straighten out the other loop and push it flat against your head. Insert a bobby pin going from top to bottom at the base of the loop (under the hair so it is not showing). Place another bobby pin going from bottom to top. Do the same with the other loop.
 Take the loose strand of hair in front of the bow and pull it back over and through the middle of your bow sections. Make sure you get all of the loose strands.
 You may need to use a little hairspray to keep the hair in place but try to stuff as much of the top strand into the hair tie as possible.
 Push at least three or four pins into the strand and into the hair tie to connect the entire piece. Make sure that the bobby pins are not too visible.









Hairspray may be helpful to tidy loose or flyaway strands.
 Use a teasing comb or your fingers to fluff the hair. If your hair doesn’t hold the bow shape on its own, hold one section out and spray with extra-hold hairspray. Do the same with the other section.
