 Making a movie takes a lot of gear, including cameras, microphones, and lights. Take a quick inventory of what you have for equipment, then find ways to fill in the holes:



Cameras: Of course, you could never film a movie without a camera. For most movies, you need at least 2 cameras, and preferably 3. That said, modern camera advancements have made it possible to film a movie with an iPhone 6, so you don't have to drop big bucks anymore. The most important thing for a professional film is to have cameras that shoot in the same format (1080i, for example), otherwise the video quality will change subtly with every cut.

Microphones: If you're in a bind, spend your money on audio equipment: audiences are proven to notice bad sound before bad video. While you can use the attached camera microphones if you must, a Tascam or shotgun mic is always a worthwhile investment.Lighting: If you can get a get great 3-5 piece lighting kit, use it. These lights have a variety of functions and settings that help you light any situation imaginable. However, 5-10 cheap clamp lights and extension cords have lit many an indie film. All you need are lights and different light bulbs (tungsten, frosted, LED, etc.) to customize your scene.Essential Accessories: Depending on the movie, you'll need memory cards, a backup hard drive, tripods, light reflectors, extension cords, black tape (to cover or tape down wires), and computer video editing software., Storyboards look a bit like rough comic books -- you draw the general shot, then add the dialog that needs to be said underneath. You can download templates online easily, then draw them in before a shoot. Storyboards are like checklists while you're filming, helping you capture each shot you need so that, when you're editing, you don't realize suddenly you're missing something.Each frame you draw becomes your shot list -- a detailed book filled with every camera angle you need to capture to tell your story. Once your storyboard is finished, copy it and put it into a binder for later reference.
Make notes of cuts and transitions, and essential sound-effects. These drawings don't have to be art, they have to tell the story of your film visually.These may feel tedious, but they will save you time on set, which quickly gets expensive.
 There are many schools of thought about choosing sets, and none of them are wrong. You can build your own sets for ultimate creative control, but this takes time and a lot of money. You can shoot in houses and locations you have easy access too, like your friend's house or backyard. Alternatively, you can rent out spaces that you love, getting the rights to film at a school, hotel, or park. No matter what you do, make sure your set fits your movie, and will allow you and your crew to take over the place for multiple hours, undisturbed.
 This may be the moment every filmmaker hates the most, but you need a realistic idea of your film's cost before you start shooting. You do not, for example, want to get halfway through shooting and realize you can't afford to rent a car for the climactic chase scene anymore. Keep your budget simple and realistic. Do you really need 10 prop guns, or can you do with 2? Can you eliminate or change a scene with 100 extras to have 10? You need to budget for:


Equipment that you don't currently own.
Props, costumes, and locations (such as renting out a ballroom or restaurant).
Crew and actor fees. It is possible to get crews and actors for free, but it rare to get people to help for more than 1-2 days without pay.
Food and transportation costs for you, the crew, and the actors.
Know that, for a "professional" shoot, with paid crew and actors, you should budget, at minimum, $5,000 a day.
 You have your characters, your shot list, and the necessary equipment -- now you need someone to use it all. How to cast actors is a personal choice -- you can hold auditions using Craigslist or newspaper posts, visit local theaters, or get your friends involved. As for crew members, there is a variety of posts that you need to fill:



Director of Photography (DP): Arguably the most important job, they are in charge of cameras and lights. While you direct the actors and give the final say on the shot, they handle the technical aspects of the film. You need someone who understands lenses, cameras, and lighting, even if it is just a friend who is into photography. It is very, very hard to effectively light a scene, place, cameras, watch actors, and set the scenery at the same time, so get someone who can take some of the load off you and allow you to direct.

Assistant Director (AD): Schedules the shots, makes sure the shot list is covered, films small scenes if the director is occupied. May help budget as well.

Camera and microphone operators: Self-explanatory, but essential. You can't make a film without them.

Make-up Artist: While anyone can do this, their main job is continuity. Unless a lot of time goes by in your film, you need the actor's face and costumes to look identical in every single scene, otherwise the audience will notice the changes. Take pictures every day of the costume, make-up and scenes to make sure it looks the same.

Sound Engineer: Listen to all the sound as it is being recorded, ensuring that it is right. They also place the microphones to pick up dialog after the lights have been placed.

Line Producer: Checks out locations ahead of time, makes sure permits and contracts are written and signed.

Production Assistant: Always useful, these people do whatever needs to be done-- preparing food and coffee, wiping memory cards, and even holding a camera when needed. You can never have enough crew members.
 It doesn't matter who you are working with or what the project is -- get a contract signed. This protects you in the case of accidents, legally obligates people to see your movie through to completion, and prevents lawsuits in case the movie gets picked up. You can search online for "Actor Film Contract," "Producer Contract," etc. and tailor it to your needs easily and freely, so don't skimp out on this step.Contracts are, paradoxically, a great way to preserve friendships. Instead of arguing over something later, you can simply return to what you already have in writing.
Make sure to have a provision, especially for actors, that requires them to finish the film once they begin shooting.
 Realistically, unless you only have a few people in your script and 1-2 locations you're only going to get 5-10 pages of your script done in a good day. For big or difficult scenes, you may only get 2-3 pages. The more time you can spend filming the better, but the more time spent filming the more money you will spend as well. How you balance this depends on a few factors:


What scenes all take place at the same location? Can you film them, even if they are out of order, on the same day?
What scenes have massive shot lists? Getting these done first can ensure you get the "big" scenes the way you want them.
Are any shots expendable if time/money is running short? Put these last.
This schedule may, and likely will, have to be fluid. But the more you can stick to it, the better.

