 Whiplash is a problem that causes damage to the soft tissue and ligaments surrounding the upper spine. If you are in an accident or undergo trauma, you could have immediate symptoms. You also may have symptoms that start within a day after the incident. Symptoms of whiplash include neck stiffness or pain, headaches that start at the top of the back of the neck, the inability to move your neck around, soreness of the shoulders, arms, and upper back, tingling to the arms from nerve damage, tiredness, dizziness, depression, blurred vision, ringing ears, insomnia, and memory and concentration problems., If you are having neck pain after an accident, injury, or sports injury, it is important to got to the hospital or your doctor right away. You need to make sure you do not have fractures or other damages to your neck. You should also see a doctor right away to check you out if you experience any of the delayed symptoms in the days following the accident or trauma.If you don't have any pain or the doctor sends you home without much treatment, you might have to make another trip to the doctor. Your injuries may not be recognizable until hours after the trauma has happened. Even if you only have minor neck pain, seek treatment the day or so after the accident or trauma.
Make a through evaluation of bruising and swelling of your neck. Keep a check on this. If your symptoms worsen and you are unable to move your neck, go immediately to the hospital. If you do not go to the hospital, a prolonged disability may be the result.If you notice any head impact or loss of consciousness during your accident, call an ambulance right away or have someone drive you to the hospital.
 Make sure your doctor takes X-rays to look at your bones. You need to rule out fractures to your neck and spine. If the X-rays come back normal but you still have neck pain, you may need an MRI to look closer at the soft tissue in the neck. If your MRI is normal but the pain persists, the doctor may order a CT scan. This looks at the body even closer with computer technology showing all different angles of imaging.


You doctor will use these to assess the extent of the injuries before she advises you of future treatment recommendations., To understand how bad your whiplash is, you can compare it to other possible levels of injury. This system was invented by Dr. Croft to grade the whiplash injury from Grade 1 to Grade 5. Grade 1 consists of minimal whiplash with no motion issues, ligament injury, or neurological injury. Treatment can last 10 weeks. Grade 2 means you have slightly limited motion, no ligament injury, and no neurological injury. Treatment can last 29 weeks. Grade 3 patients have moderate motion limitation, some injury to ligaments, and do have neurological symptoms. Treatment can last 56 weeks. Grade 4 is considered moderately severe, which includes motion limitation, injury to ligaments, positive neurological symptoms, and fractured disc or disc misalignment. Grade 4 requires continued treatment with an unspecified end. Grade 5 is severe and requires surgery and rehab for treatment.