 Denim cropped pants come in a variety of styles and cuts. While these pants can be dressed up with a nice shirt and jewelry, they generally provide a naturally relaxed look for the wearer. Their comfortable feel and appearance is the perfect foundation for a casual outfit to wear around town.Boyfriend-style cropped jeans, which are loose in the leg and end in a cuff, are especially casual. These pants often have tears or fading that adds to the overall effect.
 Cropped pants are available in almost every color you can imagine. Adding a pop of color to your outfit is a great way to be both fun and casual, especially in the daytime. While brightly colored pants may be too informal for business or nighttime settings, they’re versatile enough to work in most casual and semi-casual settings.


Try, for example, red cropped pants in a khaki material.
 Cropped pants look good with most shoes, so long as they leave space between the cut of the pant and the top of the shoe. Rather than choosing heels or boots, keep your footwear comfortable. These low-key options will keep your outfit from getting too dressy.Tennis shoes provide a comfy and cute option for casual wear. These shoes come in a variety of colors, so you can have fun with them.
Ballet flats are sweet and generally comfortable shoes that will look lovely with a cropped pant.
Try a printed high-top sneaker if you’re hoping to add something a little different to your outfit.
 There’s no better way to communicate comfort than with a t-shirt. Leave your shirt untucked. This pairing is classic, and it has the added benefit of being comfortable enough to wear all day.A white t-shirt paired with cropped pants will give you a simple and streamlined casual look.
Try a graphic t-shirt displaying the name of your favorite band or vacation spot for a trendier look.
For something that could translate between casual and semi-casual, go with a black-and-white or blue-and-white horizontally striped t-shirt and cropped pants. This classic French fashion is elegant but relaxed.
 Since you’re aiming for casual, you can probably skip jewelry and other accessories. If you want something to add a little color or shine, keep it small and simple. You don’t want your accessories to clash with the overall tone of your outfit.


For example, wear a simple necklace and studs. Avoid dangly earrings or statement pieces.

