 For births within the past 75 years, only you and your immediate family can request a copy of your birth certificate.This requirement will be easy to meet because you are always eligible to request a copy of your own birth certificate. However, if someone else is trying to obtain birth records for you in Texas, they must be a part of your immediate family, which includes children, parents, siblings, grandparents, and spouses.If someone else is requesting a copy of your birth certificate and they are not a part of your immediate family, they must provide legal documentation (e.g., a court order establishing legal guardianship) and an explanation providing a direct and tangible interest in the records they are requesting.They may also send in a written, notarized statement signed by you or an immediate family member giving permission to Texas Vital Statistics to release a copy to them.The statement must also include their full name and a copy of their photo identification.;
, When you request a copy of your birth certificate, Texas has a number of formats you can choose from. Different formats will serve different purposes, so be sure you choose the appropriate copy of your records.


The Standard Size format. This is the most common format for your birth certificate and it satisfies most purposes (e.g., registering for school and obtaining a driver's license).Unless you are required to have a different type of birth record, you should most commonly request this format.
The Full Size format. This copy contains contains more information than the standard size copy and because of this, it is recommended that you only request this copy if you absolutely need it.The information on this copy can be used to facilitate identity theft, so be careful when ordering and handling this copy.This format is most often used for obtaining a passport or for purposes of dual citizenship.The Heirloom format. This copy is a specially-designed certificate with engraved borders, heirloom-quality paper, background security features, and a gold embossed seal.This copy is most commonly used for decorative purposes, although it is an official copy of your birth certificate., There are a number of ways you can request a copy of your birth certificate and you can choose whichever method best suits your needs. If you are going to request your birth certificate through the mail or in person then you should see the instructions on making a request in person or through the mail. If you are going to request your birth certificate online, you should see the instructions on how to make a request online.
 Once you have decided what format you would like your birth certificate to take, and how you will be requesting your records, you will have to gather the information necessary to place your order. You should do this before beginning the ordering process because some of this information may take some time to find or obtain.


If you are ordering in person or through the mail, you will have to obtain the correct form corresponding to the type of request you are making. For all normal requests (i.e., not expedited), use this form. If you would like to expedite your request, you will need to use this form.
Regardless of how you are ordering your birth certificate, you will need your full name; the city or county where your birth took place; the full name of the father on the birth certificate, if available; the maiden name of your mother, if available; your current photo identification; and your social security number.
 To begin the process, take the appropriate form you gathered in Part 1 and fill it out. Regardless of whether you are using the standard form or the expedited form, you will need to fill in certain general information.


You will start by checking the box indicating you would like a birth certificate.You will then choose the type of record you want, how many copies you would like, and what the total cost of your request will be.You will then need to fill in the boxes asking for the full name of the person on the record (you), the date of birth, the city or county where your birth took place, the full name of the father on the birth certificate, and the maiden name of the mother on your birth certificate.You will then need to provide your address, the purpose for your request, and your signature., Before you send in your application through the mail, or before you take your completed application to the Department of State Health Services, you will need either a photocopy of your photo identification (if you are mailing your request) or the identification itself (if you are requesting in person).Valid forms of photo identification include: state-issued driver's licenses, state identification cards, student identifications, government employment badges, prison identifications, or military identifications.If you do not have any form of valid photo identification, you will need to have two documents with your name (e.g., a utility bill, a recent paycheck stub, or a social security card).One of the documents must have your signature on it., Once you have filled out your request form and obtained your photo identification or valid alternatives, you will have to send in your materials, or take them to the designated location in person, and pay the required fee.


If you are making a request through the mail, you will send in your completed request form, a photocopy of your photo identification, and a check or money order in the appropriate amount.For a standard mail request, it is $22 for each certified copy and $60 for each heirloom copy.You will mail the request to Texas Vital Records, Department of State Health Services, P.O. Box 12040, Austin, TX 78711-2040.For an expedited mail request, it is $22 for each certified copy, $60 for each heirloom copy, and an additional $5 expedited processing fee.You will mail the expedited request to Texas Vital Records MC 2096, Department of State Health Services, 1100 West 49th Street, Austin, TX 78756.For an expedited request, you will need to send your application via an overnight delivery service (e.g., UPS or FedEx).If you are making your request in person, you will take your application and photo identification to 1100 West 49th Street, Austin, TX 78756.The office is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m..You will be required to pay with cash, check, credit or debit card, or a money order.Certified copies are $22 and heirloom copies are $60., After you mail in your request or make the request in person, you will receive your birth certificate after your request has been processed.


If you requested your birth certificate in person, you can expect your order to be processed in about 30 minutes.However, some requests may take more than 24 hours.If you requested your birth certificate through the standard mail, you can expect your birth certificate to be sent to you within six to eight weeks.If you requested your birth certificate through the expedited process, you can expect your birth certificate to be sent to you within 10 to 15 days., To start your online ordering process, visit this website. This government website provides you with the ability to request Texas Vital Records, including birth certificates., Once you reach the website, you should read the instructions and information on the opening page. Once you have done so, you will click the 'continue' button at the bottom of the page and start your request.


The first step will involve choosing what type of record you will be requesting. Choose 'birth certificate' from the drop-down screen and then click 'continue'.
Then you will read the information on the next screen, which will give you an idea of how much records will cost and what information you will need to make your request. You will need to provide your photo identification state of issuance, your relationship to the individual named on the birth certificate, and the date of birth on the birth certificate. Once you have provided this information, click the 'continue' button.
On this screen you will provide information about your identity (the person requesting the records), which will include your name, date of birth, social security number, identification number, and your address. When you are making your request online, you will not have to provide a photocopy of your photo identification, instead you will have to provide your identification's state of issuance as well as your identification number.
Now you will need to provide the information about the record you are requesting, which will include the name on the birth certificate, the date of birth, the father's full name, the mother's maiden name, and the city or county where the birth took place. Towards the end of this page, you will need to indicate how many copies you would like to order, as well as what type of copies you want.
 Once you have completed and verified the information necessary to make the request, you will checkout and pay the required fee. The required fee is $22 for each certified copy and $60 for each heirloom copy. You can pay using a credit or debit card through the government website.
 After you have requested a copy of your birth certificate and paid the required fees, you will receive your birth certificate at the address you provided in your application. Your request will usually be processed within 10-15 business days.