 Make sure it feels right for you. If you're still feeling ashamed, insecure or uncomfortable with a label, don't define yourself with it. Come out to whoever it feels right to come out to when it feels right. You don't have to come out to the entire world at once and you don't even have to know what specific label you want to give yourself. If you tell someone close to you that you're still figuring it out, they might even be able to help you define yourself.;
, People have been thrown out of their homes or had their safety threatened. Don't endanger yourself. If your family is very homophobic, they may not take the news very well. They may attempt to change you. In such situation, silence may be best until you can survive on your own. Alternatively, if there is a school counselor whom you trust and is good at handling such situations, tell him or her about your sexual orientation and wish to come out to your parents. The counselor can act as a medium between you and them, to ensure your safety.


If you aren't sure how someone will react, you can drop a hint or two, and try asking for their opinions about LGBT celebrities or a hypothetical LGBT friend.
 For example, if you've dated someone of the opposite sex before, a friend or family member might ask, "What about your ex boyfriend/girlfriend?" or if you're transgender, pansexual, asexual, or identify by a similarly lesser known label, it may be necessary to explain what the word means. Some people may also have misconceptions about the labels you identify as, so it may be a good idea to research things like that so you can explain it.
 You can always know that your closest friends are more likely to be the ones who accept you. If your friends have said negative things about gays and lesbians, it might not be wise to tell them. The reality is that not everyone is alright with homosexuality yet, and this could include your family. It's very important that you have a safety net to fall into in case your family rejects you.
 When you're comfortable, it feels so much better to come out. If you're scared of someone's reaction, go out in public so they can't do anything to you. If you don't want too many people to know instantly, talk to someone in private first. Come out to the people you want to come out to, even if that means only telling one of your parents or only your friends and not your family. Think about how you're going to tell them, what you're going to say and what you're comfortable sharing or would rather keep to yourself for now.


It's always a good idea to come right out with your statement. Beating around the bush or dodging the subject might (1): scare your friend or family member; or (2): give the impression that you're ashamed. Instead, simply make your statement calmly and then discuss as necessary.

As an example, a good conversation would be: "Hey, bro, I called you here because I have something important to share with you. I'm gay." or "I'm so lucky to have a good friend like you that I can confide in. I've been going through something and I'm hoping I'll be able to count on you for your friendship and support once I let you know that I'm a lesbian." Don't try to cushion or sugar coat it too much; let them know it's important to you, and then just take a deep breath and say it.


If you're scared to come out face to face to someone, call them! You can also send a text or even change your relationship status on Facebook and wait for them to figure it out. This is also a way to come out to parents who might try to harm you or force you to go to "recovery", since they now can't reach you unless you allow them to.
If you know the person you're coming out to is okay with it and you're fully comfortable with it, get creative! It's always fun to be able to tell a "coming out story" about the time you walked out of a closet with a rainbow cake or how you danced out of a self-made "closet" to a gay anthem. This might even lighten the mood and make you less nervous by making it a more fun and light-hearted experience, rather than feeling like you're sitting someone down to tell them an incredibly serious and big thing.
 Some family members and/or friends may need a little time to get used to the idea. Be gentle with them and give them time to come around. Remember, you didn't just wake up one day and say, "Wow. I'm gay." You took some time to accept it within yourself, so others will too.
 Some friends may need to detach for a while, some family members may act differently towards you. Your parents may even feel different and may react a bit angrily towards you. Others will be drawn to you. Things will change, but if you are patient and don't try to force the issue - while at the same time, refusing to suppress or deny it - there's a good chance those changes will end up being very positive.
 It's great once you're out because then people are aware from the beginning of your relationship of who you are - there is no difficult "revelation" later on. If you are comfortable with your casual acquaintances knowing, then the sooner, the better. When people know who you are from the start, they are more willing to simply accept you as you are. It becomes harder to tell people after you've known them for a while, because they have formed an idea of who you are in their own heads without knowing properly. As more people in your social circle come to know you as an LGBT teen, you'll have less explaining to do. But flaming around is only really funny and entertaining on television or amongst others in the LGBT community. However, you should just act as you feel like you want to, not as you are told to do since you're queer or extra "normal" because you don't want to seem like a stereotype.
 Of course, you shouldn't put up with people who just want to harass and humiliate you or make you the butt of jokes. But if, for example, a jock makes a joke, like "Don't touch me, I might catch it", and you respond with something like, "Hey, what did I ever to do to you?" sometimes it can be turned around. He may respond with, "Well, my brother thinks he's gay now. Maybe it is catching". You can say, "Oh, wow, was it a big surprise to you? Do your folks know?" and if he is receptive to talking, you may turn this into a good thing for all of you. Responding with "Would it help to let him know he could talk to me?" might make the jock feel a lot more kindly toward both you and his brother, and toward the LGBT community in general. That's the way we help move others toward tolerance and acceptance.
 It takes time - don't rush it.

