 Each brand cooks slightly differently, so you should get a feeling for how hot your slow cooker runs even on the low setting. Many people believe that older slow cookers cook at a lower temperature than newer versions.


If you find that your slow cooker runs hot, then you will want to reduce the amount of cooking time listed in the recipe. You may find the vegetables are mushier and meats fall apart, if you do not make the adjustment to slow cooker recipes.;
, Even if this is not required on your original recipe, it adds a complex flavor to the meat because it seals in the juices. The meat will also hold together better, while it cooks for hours rather than minutes.


You can also dredge raw meat, like chicken breasts or pork cutlets, in an herb and flour mixture. Then brown it on the stove top. The result will be a more crisp, complex flavor.
 Most recipes should be adjusted to the "low" setting on the crock pot rather than "high." The following times are good guidelines to follow for time adjustments:


If the cooking time is between 15 and 30 minutes on a stove top or in a conventional oven, then set it to cook for 4 to 6 hours on low. You can also set it for 1 and a half to 2 hours on high.
If the cooking time is between 30 and 45 minutes, then set it to cook for 6 to 8 hours on low. You can also set it between 3 and 4 hours on high.
If the cooking time is between 45 minutes and 3 hours, then set it to cook for 8 to 10 hours on low. You can also set it between 4 to 6 hours on high.
 Look for recipes that are stewed, simmered, slow roasted or braised. These recipes will convert easily and with the best results because they use similar methods.
 Make sure it includes recipes for slow cooking meats, vegetables, soups, stews and even casseroles. Find the recipe in the book that is most similar to your favorite recipe and model your favorite recipe on it.
 The slow cooker traps liquid inside the pot, so extra liquid will result in a soupy texture.


If your recipe does not call for any liquid, and does not contain fatty meats, then add 1/2 cup (118 ml) of broth or water.
 If the directions say to simmer the soup uncovered, then reduce the liquid by 1/3. If you are directed to simmer it while it is covered, then reduce the amount of liquid by 1/4.
 Herbs tend to break down and disappear over long hours in the cooker, where spices tend to become dominant. To avoid either of these things from happening, add herbs near the end of the recipe, and add extra salt and pepper before you serve.
 They take longer to cook than other vegetables. Cut them into 1 inch (2.54 cm) pieces and place them underneath meats or other ingredients.
 Some hard cheeses, such as Parmesan or Swiss may be put in the cooker at the beginning, because they hold together more firmly.
 If you have too much liquid in your pot, remove the lid and turn the heat up to high. You can also drain off the liquid with a baster and reduce it in a pot on the stove.


If you want to add cornstarch or flour to thicken the sauce, create a slurry first. Add a few spoonfuls of flour or cornstarch to a small bowl and mix it with cool water. Make sure there aren't any lumps before adding it to the slow cooker.

