 Admissions consultants work with people applying for college, so it is a requirement that the consultant has successfully applied for a school of their choice. Consider a degree in business, psychology, counseling or human resources.;
, If you know that you want to help students applying for graduate programs, then it is helpful to have experience in those programs. You can return to this step if you want to help people applying for bachelor's degrees in the beginning and move on to more stringent graduate application processes in the future.
 Many high schools, community colleges and private firms hire people to help young students choose their college track. A few years of refreshing the different issues faced when applying for college will help you to qualify for consulting work.


Develop your communication skills. You should learn to be patient with students who are frustrated or unsure of their future. You and the student will need to develop a story about the student's life. You can help the student to develop a message that they will communicate in essays and in interviews.
Develop your teaching skills. Part of college admissions consulting is teaching a student to handle the process in a timely manner. Many consultants teach students to write college essays, which can help them throughout their college career.
 Many admissions consultants were previously employed by colleges or universities. This experience may allow you to command a higher wage, because you are experienced in vetting applications according to college guidelines.
 You will receive pertinent industry information and you can be connected to potential clients or training programs.
 Organizations like HECA and the University of California run training programs on admissions counseling. A training program will cement the knowledge you have gained through experience and highlight the best ways to work with students.
 More and more private firms are getting into the college admissions market. They may offer a number of positions, starting with lower degrees and moving up to law, medical or other specialized graduate degrees.
 Some admissions counselors work part-time and are self-employed. Check with HECA or NACAC to see if you can list your services on their site and consult local high schools about posting your services.


Choose several payment options. Some admissions consultants ask students or families to pay a flat fee for specific services. Your fee may total into the thousands if you are offering a complete admissions solution. You may also have an hourly fee for smaller jobs and provide a discount to low-income families.
Possible services you may want to include are interviews with families, college research, writing help, admissions essay proofing, deadline reminders, mock interviews and more.
 If you plan to be a private consultant, then try to develop a relationship with families, schools and teachers. You can offer discounts to people who refer students to your business.

