 Gently lift the baby's head back and chin up to open the child's airway. The airway is small, so this won't be a drastic movement. Again, check for breathing during this time, but for no longer than 10 seconds.
 If you have one, put a face shield on the baby to prevent the exchange of bodily fluids. Pinch the nose shut, tilt the head back, push up the chin, and give two breaths, each lasting about one second. Exhale gently until the chest rises; exhaling too forcefully can cause injury.Remember to pause in between breaths to let the air out.
If you feel that the breaths did not go in (the chest doesn't rise at all) the airway is obstructed and the child may be choking. See this article for more information on helping an infant that is choking.
 If there is no pulse, begin CPR on baby.
 Take two or three fingers held together and place them in the middle of the baby's chest right below the nipples. Gently, fluidly compress the baby's chest 30 times.


If you need to brace your fingers because they are getting tired, use your second hand to help assist the process. Otherwise, keep your second hand cradling the baby's head.
Try to perform your chest compressions at a rate of about 100 compressions per minute.That may seem like a lot, but it's actually only a little over one chest compression a second. Still, try to maintain a fluid push and release when performing compressions.
Press down 1/3 to 1/2 the depth of the baby's chest. This usually works out to about 1 and 1/2 inches., At the right speed, you should do about 5 sets of rescue breaths and compressions within approximately two minutes. Once you start CPR, don't stop unless:

You see signs of life (baby moves, coughs, breathes noticeably, or vocalizes). Vomiting is not a sign of life.






Another trained person takes over






A defibrillator is ready to be used






The scene becomes suddenly unsafe







,"Keep this useful mnemonic handy in order to remember the process of delivering CPR.



A is for airway. Open or check that the airway is open.

B is for breathing. Pinch the nose, tilt the head back, and give two rescue breaths.

C is for circulation. Check if the baby has a pulse. If not, perform 30 chest compressions.

