 To find a good piercing artist, you can start by asking others about their piercings and who did them. Perhaps you have a friend who has a beautifully done piercing and you ask them for a referral to their artist. Or maybe you have a family member who had a positive experience and is willing to refer you to the artist for your piercing.You may focus on asking friends or family who have constellation piercings already that you like or find appealing. Getting a referral for an artist who does constellation piercings well will increase your chances of getting a piercing that you like.;
, Once you have a few names of artists, you should look them up online and see if they have a portfolio or samples of their past work. A good piercing artist will usually have an official website or web page that showcases their style and their designs. You should review their past work to see if their artistic style matches what you want for your piercing.Check if their portfolio includes constellation piercings they have done in the past. Bookmark any examples that you like, as you can use them later as a reference point during your consultation with the artist.
If the artist works out of a piercing and tattoo parlor or studio, which they should if they are reputable, they may have online reviews of their work that you can read. Check that the artist is highly rated and has mostly positive reviews online from past customers.
 You can find reputable artists at piercing conventions in your area. Piercing conventions are a good way to see the work of many different artists and talk directly to the artists about their work. You may end up seeing an artist’s work that you like and chatting with them about getting a constellation piercing.


For example, you may ask the piercing artist, “Have you done constellation piercings before?”, “Can I see samples of your work?” and “How much do you charge for your work?”

, Many piercers are self taught, but this does not mean you cannot still confirm their skills and training. A reputable piercer will be willing to have a consultation with you before they pierce you to examine the area you want to get pierced, discuss your jewellery options for the piercing, and to outline any possible risks or complications.Make sure you have a consultation with the piercer at the studio or parlor they work out of. Check that the studio looks clean, sterile, and well stocked with the necessary tools for the piercing.
You should ask the piercer how long they have been piercing, how they learned to do piercing, and if they have any formal education or training.
 One option for your constellation piercing is to use your astrological sign for the design. Each astrological sign is derived from a constellation in the night sky. You can pick the constellation that represents your astrological sign for a piercing that is personal to you.You can find a list of the constellation for each astrological sign on Space.com.
 Another option for the design of your piercing is to pick a specific constellation that you like. You may look at maps of the night sky online or in a book and pick a constellation that you find interesting or pretty. There may be a specific constellation that you have always found beautiful, such as Orion’s Belt, that you pick for your piercing.The International Astronomy Union recognizes 88 constellations in the night sky, giving you lots of options to choose from.
Many constellation piercings are done on the ears and you may go for a design that creates a unique shape, such as a long constellation that dots your ear lobe or a constellation that curves up your ear.
 If you are not sure what type of design you are looking for, you can have the piercing artist create one for you. Many constellation piercings done on the ear have a free form design that illustrate stars hanging in the sky. Your piercer may suggest several different types of stars or a mixture of star earrings and small stud earrings to create a unique design.Ask the piercer to create a sketch of their design so you can look at it before you get it done. The sketch should be drawn on a sketch of the area you are going to get pierced, such as your ear. You should understand exactly what you are getting done on the area before you agree to the design.
 Once you have settled on a design for your constellation piercing, you should make a formal appointment for the piercing with the piercer. The piercer should tell you how long the piercing will take and allot enough time for the session.You should be aware of how much the piercing is going to cost beforehand so you are prepared to pay for the piercing at your appointment. Some piercers may require a portion of the payment upfront to confirm the appointment.
Be wary of a cheap price for the piercing, as this may indicate the piercer is not of quality. You should get a breakdown of the costs for the piercing, from the piercer’s services to the jewellery used for the piercing, so you know what you are paying for.
 You should arrive for your appointment with the piercer on time, with the area you are getting pierced clean and free of any jewellery. For example, if you were getting constellation piercings on your ear, you should take out any jewellery in your ear and pull your hair back so your ear is exposed.


Depending on your pain threshold, you may take over-the-counter pain medication before the appointment to help with any pain or discomfort.
The piercer should walk through each step of the process during the session so you know exactly what is happening.
 Once the piercing is done, you should look at it in the mirror to make sure it is what you want. The piercer should then outline how to take care of the piercing so it heals safely. Always wash your hands before touching the area. You should clean the piercing three times a day using an aftercare formula. Remember to turn the earrings one full rotation at least three times a day to make sure the holes heal properly.For the first six months of healing, you should always leave your earrings in or take them out for no longer than 24 hours as time. This will prevent the piercings from closing.
Depending on the type of piercing you have, you may have a healing time of six to twelve weeks. Your piercer can give you a more specific healing time based on your piercing.

