 An ideal partner choice for this intimate situation should be someone you can relax with such as a significant other or medical professional. You need to feel comfortable communicating during this massage, so keep that in mind., Even if your trusted intimate partner is doing the massage, you may have feelings of awkwardness and modesty. This is perfectly natural. Try to keep in mind that a perineal massage has the same goal as any other type of massage: to release tension, and in the case of childbirth, to alleviate discomfort for the mother.
 Let your partner know if you experience any discomfort. It is normal to feel slight pressure and discomfort, but if there is too much, ask your partner to take a break, or ease up on the pressure.
 You need to be able to relax your muscles, and be in a position where your legs can be open. Try laying on the bed with your knees bent, and use pillows to support your back. Your partner will be able to better perform the massage in this position.
 Finger nails need to be trimmed, and hands needs to be washed before starting. If desired, your partner could put on latex gloves to wear during the massage to keep the area sanitized.
 Your partner will need to lubricate his or her hands and your perineum with a water-soluble lubricant. The best lubricants to use are vitamin E oil, almond oil or olive oil., Your partner should rub the outside area using his or her thumbs. Slow, back and forth motions on the outside area will help you both ease into the massage.Do this for one to two minutes.
 Your partner should use the index fingers instead of the thumbs to do the massage. Once inside, a “U” shaped, side-to-side motion is used along with downward pressure.Continue with this for about two to three minutes.
 For best results, this massage should be performed twice in one sitting. Try to perform the massage daily in the final six weeks leading up to your delivery., After the massage, you may way to take a shower or bath to wash off the lubricant.

