 Cartridge-loaders are made of two basic parts: the cartridge of grease itself, housed in a similarly-sized and shaped housing, and the dispenser or nozzle, from which the grease is extruded. To remove the cartridge, you'll basically just unscrew the cap that the cartridge is in by turning it clockwise while turning the dispenser nozzle counterclockwise. It might be screwed on kind of tight, so use some elbow grease.
 On the end of the barrel where the cartridge is held, opposite the nozzle, you should see a plunger rod that’s used to push on the cartridge and force the grease out. Continue to pull until the plunger rod is withdrawn fully from the barrel.


On some grease guns, pulling back should make the cartridge eject automatically. Depending on how much gunk is built up on the inside, it may come out all or halfway. Before you remove it, though, you need to secure the rod in place.
 On most grease guns, you should be able to move the piston rod sideways slightly, into a slot in the barrel so that it cannot move forward. On some grease guns, the retracted piston rod will latch into the fully retracted position, and a release tab is provided on the end of the barrel to allow the piston rod to move again.


When you've secured the rod in place, you can pull the empty cartridge loose and discard it.
 Cartridges are typically available at hardware and auto parts stores. Typical sizes are 14 oz. (414 ml) and 16 oz. (473 ml) cartridges. Before you load one in, it's a good idea to clean up the gun slightly to get it ready for a new cartridge. Wipe the end of the barrel with a cloth or rag. This will remove excess grease that may have leaked out during removal of the spent grease cartridge.


Before inserting a new cartridge, remove the plastic cap from one end of the new cartridge, so the grease can flow out normally.
For lots of people, storing grease cartridges upside down is a good way of getting it to settle on the right side, near the nozzle. If it hasn't been stored upside down, shaking it hard once or twice toward the cap can help to settle it in the direction you want, before inserting it.
 Insert the end of the cartridge that had the plastic cap on it first. Push it fully in, so that the end of the cartridge seals with the end of the barrel. Remove the metal seal from the exposed end of the cartridge. Discard the metal seal.
 Screw it on part way, two full rotations, without screwing it down tightly. Release the piston rod from the retracted position and push it into the barrel while simultaneously pumping the handle of the grease gun nozzle. This helps to work air through the mechanism and get the grease started. Stop when grease begins to appear at the dispensing head nozzle.


Continue screwing together the head and barrel. Push on the piston rod to ensure that it is fully engaged in the replacement grease cartridge. Pump the handle make sure that grease is being delivered.

