 There are many reasons a teacher might have a bad impression of you. If you can identify a specific thing you did or said that gave the teacher a bad impression, let them know you understand it. This can be huge way to show maturity.Apologize if that is appropriate. For example, you could say, “I’m really sorry I was late on the first day of class. I’m sure that didn’t give a very good impression. However, that was definitely an exception and I plan to always be on time from now on.”
Don’t overdo it. Generally, a sincere apology followed by meaningful action is enough. Don’t repeat your apology or beg for forgiveness.;
, Your teacher may make assumptions about you based on your appearance or behavior. After all, they’ve probably met a lot of students and think they’re able to tell a lot about a student pretty quickly. If you think you’re being misunderstood or judged, help your teacher understand who you really are.There might be things about your appearance that cause a teacher to judge you. Take a minute to consider if there’s anything your teacher might be noticing and judging. For example, if you walk into the first day of class with black eye, they might assume you’re the kind of person who gets into fights.
Simply explain away the misunderstanding by telling the truth. You can say something like, “I know this black eye looks pretty scary. I actually got it playing baseball last week when my team went to the state championships.”

, Teachers notice who’s engaged in class and who comes prepared. If your teacher has a bad impression of you, it could be that they’ve noticed that you don’t show up to class prepared or that you aren’t taking responsibility for your own learning.Prepare for class. This doesn’t necessarily mean studying hard or even doing your homework. It means being ready to engage with your teacher and classmates. This includes getting enough sleep and coming to class eager to learn.
Always have handy any necessary materials such as books, notebooks, or pencils. This shows that you’re taking responsibility for your role as a student.
 Your teacher might have a bad impression of you without you knowing why. This can be very difficult. Sometimes, teachers are just judgemental. Sometimes you remind them of another student they had in the past. Do what you can to show them that you're worthy of more consideration.


Be kind and patient with your teacher. That's probably how you like to be treated, too.
If you think the treatment you're getting is really unfair, try asking them why they seem to think badly of you. Letting them know that you notice and are concerned can go a long way.

