 Young Earth Creationists raise some common objections, which are fairly easy to handle. Be ready for these and offer honest, straightforward answers.Some objections are philosophical or ethical, i.e. evolution is atheistic or immoral, evolution means life has no meaning, natural selection is might equals right, or even evolution itself is a religion.
Don’t feel the need to reply to these claims. As said above, they are moral rather than scientific issues.
More sophisticated creationists will try to undercut the science or scientific consensus behind evolution. I.e., evolution is only a theory, evolution hasn’t been proved, there are gaps in the fossil record, mutations are harmful, or evolution violates the second law of thermodynamics.
 Try to make sure he can explain the scientific method and what “theory” means. Science builds its theories to fit observed facts. It is theoretical and open to revision, as fact dictates. This does not mean that it’s unsupported by evidence.Dispel misconceptions about the word “theory.” A theory is an idea that is supported by evidence, whereas a hypothesis is a proposition to be tested. While theories like evolution, plate tectonics, and relativity are open to revision, they are supported by vast amounts of evidence.A good scientist will reject or revise evolutionary theory based on the facts that are presented. In fact, evolutionary theory has been revised many times and will continue to be tweaked in the future.
If you must, explain that revision is not a weakness but an example of the scientific process at work. Scientists take almost nothing for granted and are ready to change their minds when new information is discovered.
Impress that there is, in fact, near total consensus in the scientific community. Evolution is accepted by 99% of biologists.
 Some creationists claim that the theory of evolution is not sound for two reasons: it is not testable or falsifiable. It makes claims about things that were not actually observed and cannot be recreated. Be patient and make your case.This claim does not account for the difference between micro- and macro-evolutionary theory, i.e. changes in species over time and changes in groups above the level of species.
Scientists have plenty of observed evidence for evolution on the micro level, with studies of fruit flies, cells, and Darwin’s study of Galapagos island finches, for example.
On the macro level, it is true that we can’t test past conditions. But we can study physical evidence like the fossil record and make informed inferences. We would expect humans to have evolved from a series of earlier hominids, for example, and this what fossils show. We do not find hominids in dinosaur-era strata.
The idea that evolution can’t be falsified isn’t true. It could easily be falsified if we found evidence for, say, a static fossil record or the spontaneous generation of a species.
 Young Earth Creationists have a whole supply of pseudo-scientific arguments. Be prepared for false claims having to do with mutation, fossils, genetics, and entropy. Reply patiently, but realize that you may never actually convince your friend.Challenge doubts about natural selection. Do children look like their parents? Do they inherit traits genetically? And can we notice any trends over time - for example, people's feet are bigger today than they were 200 years ago.
What about animals? Animals and people inherit different colored skin, hair/fur, and dimensions from their ancestors. These differences can be advantageous (for example, a giraffe with a longer neck can eat more leaves, be healthier, live longer, and reproduce more.)
Some creationists will points out gaps in the fossil record – where are the “transitional” species we should see with evolution? In fact, there are many transitional fossils. Point to Archeopteryx: still a dinosaur, but with light bones and feathers. Most people know that it has birdlike features, so point out that it has many more that are fully reptilian.Some also say natural selection can´t explain different species. But animals move to different places with different conditions. A good example is the Darwin finches, which had the same origin but evolved on different islands. They have different beaks and are biologically distinct species.
One thorny claim is about entropy, the idea that systems tends toward disorder. How can we account for complex life in an entropic universe? This is actually a misunderstanding. The Second Law of Thermodynamics only says that the whole entropy of a system can’t decrease. Local complexity does not contradict the law. Otherwise, things like mineral crystals and snowflakes would be impossible.