 Maintaining eye contact while you are talking, as well as when the other person talks, is a sign of confidence and interest. Never check your phone, stare at the floor, or keep scanning the room. This can make you appear rude, anxious, or even discomforting.Try to keep eye contact for at least half of your interaction.As a start, try to make eye contact with someone long enough to find out what color eyes the person has., A solid handshake can instantly make you seem confident and self-assured. Extend your hand to offer the handshake as you approach someone. Grip the other person's hand firmly, but not painfully. Pump up and down slightly for two or three seconds, then release.If you get sweaty palms, keep a tissue in your pocket. Wipe your hand before you offer it.
Never give a limp or "dead-fish handshake." It can make you appear weak., If you tend to jumble words in an attempt to rush through what you're saying, slow down. Pausing a second or two before you speak gives you time to plan your response, making you appear more relaxed and confident.When you slow down, your voice will also seem deeper. This can make you seem confident and in charge., Smiling can instantly make you appear warm, friendly, and approachable. Studies have shown that people like and remember other people that smile at them.If you have trouble keeping a natural smile, just flash a brief smile and return to a more neutral expression.


Laughter is another good way to display and boost confidence, when appropriate. Avoid a constant giggle, which can come across as nervous or overbearing., If you find yourself constantly apologizing, even for trivial things, break out of the cycle. You'll learn to feel and act more confident.Tell your close friends you're working on this. After you apologize to one of them needlessly, say "wait, no, I don't need to apologize!" If you can joke about it with them, it may reduce your fear of insulting someone.


On the other hand, accept compliments gracefully. When someone compliments you, smile and say "thank you." Do not respond by putting yourself down, or downplaying your accomplishments ("It was nothing").
 Treating others with respect shows that you value them as people, you're not threatened by them, and you're confident in who you are. Instead of gossiping about someone, avoid engaging in the drama. This shows that you're comfortable with who you are.Chances are, other people will learn to respect you and become inspired. People will also probably stop dragging you into dramatic or tense situations since they know you won't become involved.
 Go out to a party or social gathering to practice some of these techniques. Remember, you do not have to approach and become friends with everyone at the gathering. Even if you just engage with one person all night, you should consider this a win. If you're not comfortable going out to practice and have instead been practicing at home, enlist a friend's help.


For example, you might ask your friend to be your audience or interviewer if you're preparing for a presentation or interview. If you feel comfortable with it, invite the friend along to the presentation. This can help you by focusing your attention on your confidant, your friend, rather than the people in the room.

