 The best time to sneak in some fiber is often breakfast, as many cereals now are made with whole-grains that you child won't even notice. Take this time to swap whole grain or high fiber cereals in for their favorites., Oatmeal is a great way to sneak fruits and calcium-rich milk or yogurt into the beginning of the day. You can also let your kids customize it to make it their own. Some options include:


Cocoa powder.
Dried or sliced fruit.
Nuts
Agave nectar, honey, or natural sugars (in moderation).
Cinnamon or spices.
 Chances are good you child won't notice the difference, and the added fiber will be good for their bodies.
 Your child can choose between a variety of yogurt and granola flavors, and many fruits from bananas and apples to mango and berries will mix in as well.
 Go over lunch together so that the feel like they have some agency in the meal. Aim to have one fruit or vegetable, a grain, and a source of protein, and don't feel bad about adding a small desert as well if you trust them to eat everything.
 This simple switch may be hard for a week or two, but you child will quickly get used to it once they have a few sandwiches. Adding fiber to their diet without becoming overpowering, whole-wheat bread is a staple of healthy lunches.
 Naturally sweet, fruit is one of the easiest healthy foods to get into a lunch box. What fruit do they enjoy? What are some fruits that they will never eat? Remember to be creative -- you can scoop out watermelon, for example, and keep it in Tupperware safely on the way to school.


There are a lot of different types of apples, for example. Get you kid excited by having a "tasting party," where you let them sample 3-5 types of apple to find their favorite.
 What dressing is on top? What meat or filling to they love? Once you know how they like the beginnings of their sandwich you can find ways to augment it to be healthier.


Tuna melts -- 1 Can tuna, mixed with light mayo and black pepper, with a slice of cheese, a slice of tomato, and sliced avocado, prepared like a grilled cheese.
Peanut Butter and Jelly with sliced apple in between.
Turkey or Ham sandwiches with thinly sliced cucumbers, lettuce, spinach, and/or tomato.
A spinach or tomato wrap is a great alternative to a plain white roll.
 Can you find a healthy alternative for processed treats, like homemade cookies or a sweet roll with jam? What are the big "offenders" in the lunches and how can they be replaced? For example, pretzels, which are baked, are much healthier than a bag of chips, even though kids might not notice that they are a "healthy" option.
 If you don't go overboard on the cheese, pizza is actually a decent, well-balanced meal that kids will love. You can slowly add healthy toppings, or make a "special slice" with extra cheese that they can eat after trying the rest.


Tru caramelized onions, peppers, or mushroom, finely chopped. These vegetables get sweet after cooking in a skillet with a little oil for 10-12 minutes.
Chopped spinach is almost impossible to detect once it heats up and shrinks a bit.
 Try using a hand blender to puree some squash, carrots, or peppers into red sauce, or saute finely chopped onions and zucchini and add them in with the pasta before serving. No one will notice, but the added vegetables are key for a healthy diet.


Switching to whole-grain pasta is a great way to get more fiber into your daily diet.
 Roast veggies are often the easiest for kids to stomach. Try roasting parsnips, sweet potatoes, carrots, beets, squash, and brussel sprouts in a high-heat oven with a little olive oil and salt for a crispy, crunchy side dish.
 This actually applies to a wide variety of food. Frying requires a lot of oil, which adds fat and cholesterol to the meal. If you bake the meal, however, you can still provide some of your child's favorite foods with a healthier twist.


If you can bake a food instead of frying it, it will almost always be healthier.
 Spicing is a great way to get kids involved with making dinner their own. Right before adding spices, call your child over and ask them to smell different scents. Which ones do they like? Which ones do you normally mix together? The child can then feel free to make their own "special blend," customizing the flavor of chicken or fish to their liking.


Remind them, however, that you only need a small pinch of spices to get a lot of flavor.
 Trail mix, customizable and naturally sweet, is a great on-the-go snack for picky children. It is usually a mixture of:


Cereal
Granola
Dried Fruit
Nuts
A touch of chocolate.
 This is a great source of protein, and you can often puree vegetables in as well. All you need are chickpeas, oil, and a food processor.


Add salt, pepper, and herbs & spices to make the dip your own.
 Beans have protein in them that will make the snack more filling and less salty, and kids will love having baked tortilla chips, which feel like junk food.
 Let them pick their favorite flavors and assure them that those are their personal yogurt cups. They'll be excited to have their own food and more likely to reach for it in the fridge.Whenever you can get "individual" healthy options, it lets them feel in control and happier to eat healthily.
 Apples and celery go fantastic with peanut butter, for example. Raw Carrots, peppers, and cucumbers match well with hummus. Kids will be more likely to eat healthy food if they can dip them in something delicious at the same time.

