 For the fudge, you’ll need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) baking pan. Use a piece of parchment paper to line the pan, making sure that the ends extend over the sides of the pan.You can substitute wax paper for the parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add 2 ¼ cups (250 g) of granulated sugar and ¾ cup (188 ml) of evaporated milk to large saucepan. Heat the mixture over medium heat until it comes to a full boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.Be sure to the stir the mixture constantly as you bring it to a boil.
 Once the mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Place a candy thermometer in the pan, and continue to boil the mixture until it reaches 234°F (112°C), which should take approximately 5 to 6 minutes.If you don’t have a candy thermometer, you can use a deep fry thermometer.
Stir the mixture constantly while you heat it.
If the mixture browns or starts to stick to the pan, lower the heat. However, make sure to maintain the boil until the proper temperature is reached.
 When the mixture has reached the desired temperature, turn off the heat. Add 8 ounces (227 g) of chopped white chocolate, ½ cup (113 g) of diced butter, 4 teaspoons (20 ml) of lemon extract, and the zest from 1 lemon. Quickly stir the ingredients into the hot evaporated milk mixture until the butter and chocolate are completely melted.After you combine all of the ingredients, the mixture should have a thick, smooth consistency.
 When you’re finished mixing the ingredients, the fudge will have a white color. If you want it to be yellow, add 2 to 3 drops of yellow food coloring to the mixture and stir until it’s completely blended in.You can use liquid or paste food coloring to tint the fudge.
 Once the mixture is completely blended, pour it into the lined baking dish and use a spatula to smooth it into an even layer. Let the fudge cool at room temperature for at least 2 hours, or until it is firm.It’s a good idea to cover the pan with plastic wrap while you’re waiting for the fudge to set.
 When the fudge is completely set, use the edges of the parchment paper to lift it out of the baking dish. Use a sharp knife to cut it into even squares, and enjoy.Store any leftover fudge at room temperature in an airtight container. It should stay fresh for up to 2 weeks.

