 Canned soups and ramen noodles are high in sodium. Although you may be able to find low sodium options, your best bet is to make your own. You can make a large pot of soup ahead of time, and reheat smaller portions on a daily basis.



Low sodium chicken soup: boil seven cups of water and five cups of low sodium chicken broth in a large pot. Add one pound of cooked and shredded chicken breast, one diced onion, four celery stalks, and two tablespoons of parsley. Simmer for an hour.Sweet potato and turkey soup: in a pot, put four cups of low sodium broth, one pound of chopped turkey breast, one chopped onion, one chopped sweet potato, and one teaspoon savory. Bring it to a boil before reducing the heat. Let it simmer for twenty minutes.;
, Tacos are a great lunch as they are easy to prepare. Since tacos are usually spiced, you do not need to add salt to the recipe. You can have great taste without the sodium.


For a basic taco, cook ground beef or turkey with a can of salt-free tomato sauce, one diced onion, and two cloves of garlic. Add chili powder, red pepper flakes, oregano, cumin, and paprika to taste. Wrap the meat in corn tortillas, and add shredded lettuce and diced tomatoes.For steak and herb tacos, mix chili powder, garlic powder, cayenne pepper, and oil. Pour the mixture over a sirloin steak. Cook the steak for at least nine minutes on each side. Slice the meat. Place the meat in a corn tortilla, and top with diced tomatoes, cilantro, or other toppings., Many low sodium foods may substitute salt with potassium. If you are cutting out sodium for heart related reasons, high potassium foods may be able to decrease your blood pressure.High potassium foods include potatoes, cantaloupe, bananas, beans, milk, and yogurt.
Spinach and strawberry are also high in potassium. Use both to make a tasty salad. Toss spinach leaves with strawberry slices and toasted, unsalted pecans. Add a citrus vinaigrette as a dressing.If you have kidney disease, you should not eat a diet high in potassium. Talk to your doctor about other alternatives.

