 Due to these differences, it is strongly recommended that you read all instructions carefully before you begin setting them up, so as to obtain the best value from the product. When all instructions are followed carefully, hatchlings are guaranteed. Things to note include:

Special microscopic foods, nutrients and sand are premixed with the egg mixture or "Bug dust" sachet in order to sustain the hatch-lings during their first few days of life in replace of the 'nutrient bag' commonly employed in other kits.
A specific volume of hatch water is important (3 litres)to prevent pollution when below this volume or starvation when too much water is added.
A specially designed water conditioner is employed that when added during water changes protects the Triops from shock and or injury after a sudden change of temperature and pH etc.
This can be a common disappointment for hobbyists when water changes are carried out without this protection.;
,, Soap or other cleaning products can be harmful to Triops.
, Triops are very fussy about the type of water they live in. Never use tap water, not even from a rain-water tank. Tap water contains substances that can be poisonous to Triops. This is also why you should only use demineralized water which is available from most major supermarkets (Used for ironing and topping up car batteries).
 There is a higher failure rate with distilled water followed by tap water and then tank water. Some reasons include not enough mineral content and bacteria that although usually harmless to humans can harm baby Triops.
, Peel the backing strip from your thermometer and fasten to the outside of your container. Make sure that you place the thermometer below the water level so that it can give an accurate reading of the water temperature and not the air temperature above it. Place your container close to the light source so that the water’s surface is around 10 centimeter (3.9 in) from the light bulb. Keep an eye on the temperature for the next few hours. If the temperature becomes higher than 29ºC, move the light a little further away. However, if the temperature is still below 22ºC after a few hours, move the light closer to the water’s surface. If that does not help, try placing the tank in a cooler or warmer part of the house. It is important to maintain the temperature because Triops australiensis may not hatch out or could perish outside of these recommended temperatures(See below for more information on Temperature & Lighting.
 During this time make sure your container is in a place that can’t get knocked over. The lamp must remain on at all times for the temperature to remain constant.
 After your baby triops have hatched DO NOT FEED them for the first 3 days. A specially micronized “Baby” food is premixed in with the Magic BugDust™. Adding extra food to the tank at this time will only encourage harmful bacteria that could multiply rapidly and consume all the oxygen in the water, killing your baby Triops.
 Remember, soap and chemicals are poisonous to Triops so make sure your hands are clean and free of soapy residues, cosmetics, hand creams, hair products, perfumes, dirt, grease etc when feeding your Bugs.
,,, From now on you no longer need to dissolve the pellets as the Triops will be strong enough to find them and eat them whole.
 To do this, stir the water, ensuring all the detritus on the bottom is floating in the water. To avoid losing one or more of your Triops australiensis during this process, you can use a very clean (but free from soapy residues) tea strainer or fine netted colander to pour the water through every time you do a water change. Alternatively you use a plastic cup to scoop the water out.
, A good way to do this is to add one cup of demineralised water that is the same temperature as the water in the tank, every ten minutes. This allows the Bugs to acclimatise to the new water.
 As long as the Triops australiensis have consumed all of the pellets in the tank, more pellets to match the number of Bugs can be added. You may find that you are feeding them up to four times a day as they grow to their largest size. But remember make sure that every last pellet has been consumed before adding more food or you will pollute the tank. Also, be aware that underfeeding you Triops could lead to cannibalism – when your Bugs are hungry, they will start to eat each other!

, Also, the same rules apply for special treats – don’t give them any more until the first amount is gone to avoid polluting the water. If your Bugs don’t finish it within a few hours, remove any leftovers from the tank.

