 Spend a day where the class (or other type of learning group) talks about what types of lessons they learn the most from. Assign the group the collective task of designing the next session’s collaborative lesson.You can determine the content by saying something like, “Next class, we’re going to learn about the planets together. Does anyone have any ideas about how we can remember the names of the planets and their order?”
Not only will everyone already start thinking about the content that needs to be covered, they will practice analytical thinking and creativity in determining how to share information with one another.
 If you’re leading a class or other learning session and a participant offers an incorrect answer, ask them to try again. Say something like, “Was there another possibility you were considering?”Second (and third) chances encourages participation, confidence, and learning by reducing pressure in learning environments.
If someone gets stuck, say something like, “How does everyone else feel about that?”
As either a teacher or a student, remind yourself and others that mistakes are simply a part of learning something new.
 Instilling a sense of teamwork in a learning environment not only makes learning more fun, it encourages participation and collaboration. For instance, you can easily set up a jeopardy-like scenario in which teams you ask a question and allow teams a few minutes to talk about the answer.Even better, have teams ask each other questions about course content and encourage them to try to ask challenging questions.
 Have the class determine how they want to track their progress through a section of the course. Offer ideas, such as suspending a bunch of plain spheres from the ceiling and decorating them one at a time, as the class learns about planets one at a time.Another easy, fun option is a some type of progress bar. For instance, make a thermometer that slowly “heats up” by installing a clear, vertical tube that students can slowly fill is crumpled red paper as they complete chemistry assignments.
 People are often motivated to participate or complete a task when there is a reward for doing so. It can equally effective to provide incentives just for doing something, as opposed to doing it correctly.For instance, everyone that participates verbally over the course of a class session gets to add a marble to a jar with their name on it. You can give out extra marbles to those who help work through especially tough problems cooperatively.
Come up with an award to give in exchange for the marbles at the end of the term, or use them to determine participation points.

