 The Wither is a high hitting boss, so arm yourself with as high as armor as you can get. Full diamond armor (that is leveled up as much as you can) is recommended, but it can take an extremely long time to find 24 diamonds, so partial iron may be substituted. However, the Wither can take massive amounts of damage, so a diamond sword or a bow with as high of an enchantment possible is recommended. You can also gather some friends to help you.;
, Visit the Nether to collect 4 blocks of Soul Sand. Arrange these in the shape of a "T". Then you must obtain 3 Wither Skeleton Skulls, which are rarely dropped by Wither Skeletons. They will spawn naturally in nether fortresses. Be careful when fighting it, as it can do a lot of damage as well as inflicting the Wither effect. It will take a while to obtain the three skulls, since the drop chance is only 2.5%, increasing by 1% for each level of Looting.
 When the Wither first spawns, it will be at half its health, so it may be tempting to try to attack it. However, the Wither is invulnerable to damage during this period, and will rapidly start regenerating its health, so any attacks will be useless. Also, it will explode after reaching full health, so make sure you back away a good distance.
 Beware of the flying skulls, as they will explode and cause damage, as well as inflicting the Wither effect. This effect will drain your health much like Poison, but is capable of killing you and will turn your hearts black. Stay away from the Wither, and shoot it with your bow while dodging the projectiles. If you can, jump while fighting the Wither. This will allow you to do critical hits, which do a lot more damage. Also, the wither will attack all mobs except undead ones (zombies and skeletons), so fight near a lot of them or spawn mobs like snow golems to distract it. After its health has been decreased to half, it will activate the Wither Armor effect, making it immune to arrows. In this state, it will stop flying and come directly at you, allowing you to hit it with a sword.

