 You will typically get 1-2 hours of homework each day in middle school.Do your homework first while the instructions or lessons are fresh in your mind. Always do your assignments before going out to play or watching television.
 Be on time. Teachers will keep track of your attendance and whether or not you were at the class on time, or not. If you are late or absent without being excused, it can negatively affect your grades.
 Learn and use a good note taking strategy.Write down key points from your class lectures and discussions. Listen for indications from your teacher when information is likely to appear on your future quizzes or exams. You can review your notes at home to quickly go over the topics and lessons you covered. Even if you feel like you know all the material, learning to take good notes now will be a major asset when you go on to high school and college.
 If your body feels good then so do you. Take up sports and physical activities, but don't overdo it or starve yourself, do what feels right to you. The goal isn't to have a 'perfect body' but rather to be on top of your health and take care of yourself. Also, the junk food that kids eat isn't good and should be replaced by healthy substitutes whenever possible.
 It is important to go to school well-rested and ready to learn. If you are tired from being up too late the previous night, you will have a difficult time focusing and retaining the information being presented to you in class. Make sure you get at least 7-8 hours of sleep each night to be ready for the next day.
 If you are having trouble understanding the lessons in one of your classes, ask your teacher for help before you fall too far behind. The more material you have to catch up on, the harder it will be to be successful.


Take advantage of drop-in tutoring centers. Middle schools have a free tutoring resource that any students can use to get up to speed on their studies. The tutoring center can help if you are struggling with a subject, or if you are just looking for some help to get the best grade in the class.

