 It is important to warm up at the beginning of a workout to increase your body temperature and get your blood pumping. A warmup is usually just a lower intensity version of your normal workout that last from about five to 10 minutes.Marching in place is an easy way to warm up your muscles and get your heartrate up.








To march in place, stand in one place and then start marching while pumping your arms back and forth.
Do this for about three to five minutes.;
, Hip rolls work your abdominal muscles and give you a bit of a stretch as well. Stretching before a workout won’t prevent injuries, but it can increase your flexibility and range of motion.By doing a hip roll before you do more challenging moves, you might be able to flex your body more than you thought you could.








Plant your feet on the ground so that they are a little more than shoulder width apart and bend your knees slightly. Then, place your hands on your hips and move your hips in a circle. As you do this, keep your feet firmly planted on the ground.
Repeat this motion a few times and then change directions.
 Squats work your thighs, but you can add some movement to a squat to engage your upper body too. Try squatting down so that your knees are at 90 degree angles. Then, make your hands into fists and pump them towards the floor.








Alternate sides as you pump your arms downwards.
Do this move for about one to two minutes.
 You don’t need to lay on the floor to get an ab workout. You can do crunches while you are standing up. Try standing with your feet about shoulder width apart and place your hands behind your head, just like you would if you were doing crunches on the floor.








Then, lift one knee up towards the side of your body. As you do this, you should feel your obliques contracting. Your obliques are the muscles on the side of your abdomen.
Make sure that you switch sides after about 10 repetitions.
You can also crunch your knees up towards your chest one at a time to work the front of your abs.
 After your body is nice and warm from moving, you can try some full body rolls. These slower exercises will work muscles from your chest to your legs. To do a body roll, plant your feet about shoulder width apart, bend your knees slightly, and begin rotating your hips and chest.








You can place your hands on your hips, or hold your arms up over your head and move them around as well.
Try doing some body rolls during a slower tempo song or whenever you need to catch your breath.
 Upper body twists work your abs and adding a knee lift will work your lower body as well. To do an upper body twist with a knee lift, place your feet about shoulder width apart and lift your hands and arms so they are about even with your chest. Then, begin twisting your upper body from side to side.








When you feel ready to add a knee lift, start counting and on the count of three, lift your knee. Repeat this move about 10 times on each side.
If you can’t do the knee lift yet, then just focus on the twist. Or, you can also try squatting down a little to work your legs instead of doing the knee lift.
 You may be familiar with the bicycle crunch, which is where you lay down on the floor and alternate your knees towards your chest while rotating your upper body in the opposite direction. You can do a variation of this crunch while you are standing up.








To do a standing bicycle crunch, place your hands behind your head and plant your feet about shoulder width apart. When you are ready, lift your right knee and, at the same time, crunch your upper body forward and tap your right knee with your left elbow.
Do the same thing on the opposite side, so that your left knee touches your right elbow. Continue crunching for one minute.

