 You can use any kind of bok choy you like for this recipe, including baby, mature, or Shanghai bok choy. To prepare the bok choy:Cut off the very end of the stem that’s keeping the leaves together.
Separate the bok choy, but leave the center leaf bulb intact.
Wash the leaves and stems by running them under cold water. Make sure you rub the bottom of the stem well to remove dirt from around where the roots were. Pat dry with a clean towel.
If you aren't using baby bok choy, cut the leaves off the stems, keeping the two pieces separate. Cut the leaves and stems into one-inch (2.5-cm) chunks.
Baby bok choy is already bite-sized and has more tender stems, so it doesn’t have to be cut up.;
, Peel the skin off the cloves of garlic and the fresh ginger. With a sharp knife, carefully mince the garlic and ginger together.









You can also use a microplane grater or garlic press to mince these two ingredients.
To peel garlic more easily, shake the cloves in a tin can for 10 seconds to loosen the skin., Heat a wok or sauté pan over medium–high heat and add your cooking oil. Add the garlic and ginger and cook until they become fragrant and turn a light golden brown, about two minutes.









Don’t cook the ginger and garlic for too long, because the garlic will burn quickly and become bitter.The best oils for this dish are peanut, vegetable, or canola., Start by cooking the stems first if you're working with Shanghai or mature bok choy. Cook them for one to two minutes, until the stems start to become translucent.








Add the leaves and toss the bok choy in the oil for 15 seconds.
 Then cover the bok choy with a lid and cook it for one minute. Remove the pan from the heat after that time and remove the lid.









Instead of vegetable broth, you can also use beef or chicken broth, water, white wine, or rice wine vinegar.
 You can season the bok choy with salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes, to taste.Toss the bok choy to coat it with the seasoning, then transfer it to a large serving platter.


This recipe makes enough to serve about four people.
 Run the bok choy under cold water to wash off dirt. You can cut the baby bok choy in half lengthwise, if you wish, but you can also leave it whole. Steam the bok choy for about six minutes, or until the base is tender and can easily be pierced with a fork or knife.There are many ways you can steam greens, including:


With an electric steamer. Fill the bottom with water as recommended by the manufacturer. Replace the steamer basket, then put in the bok choy. Put the lid on and turn the machine on.
With a saucepan and steamer insert. Fill a saucepan with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place the metal steamer insert into the bottom of the pan. If the water comes up through the holes in the steamer bottom, pour some out. Bring the water to a boil, then place the steamer basket full of bok choy into the bottom and put the lid back on., Peel the garlic and ginger. Then mince them using a sharp knife, garlic press, or microplane grater.


Heat the oil over medium heat in a small frying pan. Add the garlic and ginger and cook for one minute.Remove the pan from the heat.
 In a small bowl, whisk together the sugar, sesame oil, soy sauce, and lemon juice. When the ingredients are combined, whisk them into the garlic and ginger mixture.
 Remove the bok choy from the steamer and transfer it to a large bowl. Pour the dressing over top, and toss to coat the bok choy.


Sprinkle the toasted sesame seeds onto the bok choy. Divide the salad into four portions and serve.
 You can use an electric grill, charcoal grill, or barbecue. Heat it on medium–high heat.


To make the miso butter, simply mix the miso and butter together in a small bowl with a fork.
You can also use margarine or coconut oil as an alternative to the butter.
 Cut the leaves off the stems of the bok choy. Cut the stems in half lengthwise. Wash the stems and leaves under cold running water, and then pat them dry with a towel.


Cut the leaves into long strips and set them aside in a heat-proof bowl.
Use a butter knife to coat the bok choy stems with the miso butter., Place the bok choy stems cut-side down on the grill and close the lid. Cook for about five minutes, then use tongs or a metal spatula to flip them over.


Cook for another five or six minutes, until both sides are golden brown, tender, and slightly crispy.
 Drizzle oil and lemon juice over the bok choy leaves and toss to coat. Remove the stems from the grill and place them on top of the leaves.


Let the grilled bok choy sit on the leaves for a few moments before serving. This will wilt the leaves and make them tender and warm.
 Add salt and pepper to taste, then divide the grilled bok choy into four servings.,