 The most modern word for a boyfriend, someone who you are romantically involved with, is "copain." It is pronounced "co-pahn," where the "n" is almost silent. It sounds like the famous classical composer Frédéric Chopin.


You can put the word "petit" ("peh-teet") before copain to make it slightly more endearing.;
, While this translates literally as "little friend," it is commonly used to refer to your boyfriend in French. It is pronounced "peh-teet ah-me." If it helps, remember that "petit" rhymes with the English "repeat" and "ami" rhymes (though only slightly) with the English name "Tommy."The words are often said closely together so that they sound like one word.
You do pronounce the "t" at the end of "petit," because the next word starts with a vowel.
 In general, the phrase "mon cheri" is a very affectionate, usually private term used for your boyfriend. It is pronounced "sherr-EE," much like the English drink "sherry." Note how your voice, however, should rise slightly on the last "ee" syllable., There are several other terms for your man that can be swapped around in informal context. Most of the following are not so familiar that they would gross out your friends, but not so loose that you should be using them all the time and in public:



Mec: Pronounced "meck," this translates best to "guy" or "bloke." "Mon mec" is used for boyfriends, as in "my guy."

Jules: Pronounced "jool." Another slang term for a guy or boyfriend.

Flirt: Pronounced similarly to English. While it means "flirting" directly, it can also be used colloquially for a boyfriend.

Amoureux: Pronounced "am-or-euh." Used in a variety of contexts, all generally colloquial. When used as an adjective, it means "loving" or "romantic.", Quebecois French has evolved over the years in North America. While the other expressions will still make sense, you can use the slang "un chum," pronounced "tch-UH-m" when in eastern Canada.


The slang term for a girlfriend is not, "une chume," but rather "une blonde."