 Ponies that have been drawn on, are going bald, or whose decals have worn off are good custom bait. If your pony is in fair to good condition, check to see that it is not collectible. Certain original My Little Ponies, like Baby Sugarberry, or Grand Champions are worth quite a lot. Others, like the original Applejack or Blossom are very common. Knockoffs or 'fakies' e.g. Lanard toys are good for practicing on.
 If you just want to restore it, touch up the design and eyes with paint.
 The glue will fail with heat and water so soak the pony in hot water. With time and patience the head should come off. Use a blunt blade like a smooth table knife. If this doesn't work try thick sewing thread soaked in acetone to saw at the neck seam. Personally I would never deliberately cut the plastic around the neck area. Older My Little Ponies (G1, G2) are easier to work with, newer versions and knockoffs have stronger glue (G3, g4, Fakies) and you may *have* to cut through the vinyl to get the head off.
 A vinegar soak can be used to remove rust stains inside the body. Toothpaste is a good cleaner. Bleach can fix stains and damage ponies so you should use another disinfectant such as Savlon in water if necessary to remove mold. To prevent mold in future make sure the pony is bone dry before putting head back on.
 On newer ponies, you may need to cut the hair off first. If you want to use the pony's original hair, take rubber bands and tie off small pieces. If you have other hair, discard or save the hair for another pony, Dolly Hair, KatSilk® or Saran hair works especially well when you are replacing hair.
 If the ring is missing, you can replace it with a fat plastic cable tie which also prevents future rusting. If you want a new design, remove the old one with Grunge Off. It will also remove many stains that your pony may have. If you want to repaint the eyes, you can remove them, or just paint over them. If you dye your pony's head, you will need to repaint the white of the pony's eyes.
 You only need enough to cover both the head and body, but you can also make your final color darker or lighter by adding more or less dye. You can also try other dyes, even natural ones like coffee or juice. Match your shade to the original color of your pony, if your pony is yellow, blue dye will give you a green pony. Dye the head and body at the same time, or they will not match. You can also dip your pony into different color dyes, or at different levels to make more interesting looks. Let your pony dry while you prepare the new hair.
 Snip thin sections, a millimeter or less thick and several inches long, and tie knots into the ends. Smear a little Modge Podge or craft glue onto the ends and stick to a newspaper to dry. When you have about 100, you are ready. Some ponies take up to 150, so count the pairs of holes and make a few extra.
 This is your hair threader. Open the holes in the head with the tack or needle, then insert the ends of the wire into the hole from the inside. Pull a strand of hair through the hole with the wire. When the hair reaches the glue knot, it will stay in place. Alternate hair colors every other hole for a mixed look, or every ten holes for a striped look. When all the hair is in, smear glue onto the seams inside the pony's head to hold it in place. Take a chunk of hair for the tail and tie a knot in the middle. Use the wire or thread to pull the tail through the metal ring, and insert the tail into the body.
 You can add gems to make your own Twinkle Eyes Pony, or give her thick lashes and a realistic iris.
 You don't have to restrict yourself to where the old design was, take the design down her legs, all over, or put a smaller version of it on her forehead. Glue your pony's head onto her body after her paint is dry. Let her sit for several days before playing with her. If you want to add other decorations, save the head for last.
 Pull. Soon the head should pop off with ease.;
, Use a panel remover to pull it out.
 use tweezers to pull it out.
 Try to get every hair off her head.
 Let it dry.
 Paint the head with the desired color model paint.
,


Use krazy glue and glue some Katsilk hair onto your new pony. Dye the hair first.
 Use krazy glue to glue it back in place.
, You have a beautiful new custom pony.

