 In the makeup world, there are four basic skin tones: fair, light (or olive), medium, and deep brown. You can determine your skin tone by looking at the skin on your jawline.If your skin appears very pale or white in color, you likely have a fair skin tone.
If your skin appears pale with slightly brown or yellow coloring, you likely have a light skin tone.
If your skin appears light brown, like you have a light tan all over your face, you likely have a medium skin tone.
If your skin appears dark tan or dark brown in color you likely have a deep brown skin tone.;
, Undertones are useful because they can help you determine what foundation you should use on your skin. There are three types of undertones: warm, cool, and neutral. To determine your undertones, you can use a piece of silver fabric and a piece of gold fabric. Place each piece of fabric next to the inside of your wrist. If the veins on your wrist appear blue next to the silver, you are cool toned. If the veins on your wrist appear yellow, green, or brown next to the gold fabric, you are warm toned. If your veins appear blue and green, you are neutral toned, so you can wear both cool and warm tones.
You can also determine your undertone by putting on a black top. If you look washed out in black, you are warm toned. If you appear tanned in black, you are cool toned.
Most people with warm tones look better in gold jewelry and most people with cool tones look better in silver jewelry. People with a neutral undertone can wear both gold and silver jewelry.
 Once you have determined your skin tone and your undertones, you can select a foundation that is right for your skin. For example, if you have a fair skin tone and a warm undertone, foundation in light ivory or porcelain may be right for you. If you have a medium skin tone and a cool undertone, foundation in beige or brown may be ideal.You can use an online tool to determine your foundation shade based on your skin tone and your undertone. You can also talk to a beauty expert at a beauty supply store or at your local drug store to ensure you choose the right foundation for your skin.
Keep in mind, if you are in doubt, it is usually better to choose a foundation that is darker than your skin tone. If you blend the color well, you can end up looking tanned and glowy. If you choose a foundation that is too light for your skin tone, you could end up looking chalky and sallow., Though you may be confident you have chosen the right foundation shade for your skin, you should always test the product before committing to it. You can ask a beauty salesperson for a sample of the foundation and apply it to your skin to ensure it is the right hue.Swipe a small amount of the shade along your jawline and note the color of your neck, which is often lighter than the color of your face. The correct hue should disappear into your skin and blend well.
Make sure you are testing the foundation in natural lighting. Stand by a window or go outside to ensure the color blends well into your skin and does not look chalky or too tanned.
 Blush is a nice way to warm up your face but still appear natural and effortless. You can select blush based on your skin tone for a glowing look that does not wash out or overwhelm your complexion.If you have fair skin, choose a blush in pale pink. Blush in peach and plum are also ideal to add a hint of color to fair skin.
If you have light/olive skin or medium skin, choose a blush in apricot, with a tinge of orange. Many people with light/olive skin have warm undertones that are enhanced with apricot blush. Mauve is also a good option as well as medium pink or orangey pink.
If you have darker skin, go for blush in light purple or purple-pink. Dark skin is great for bold pigments like a deep terra cotta blush or a bright tangerine blush.

