 It will be difficult or impossible to stick to the morning routine if you and/or your family doesn’t get enough sleep.To wake up energized and ready to jump into your morning routine, you’ll need to have a full night’s rest. You should try to get about seven hours of sleep each night. Younger people will need even more sleep. Teens should get about eight hours of sleep nightly, and elementary and middle school students will need around 10 hours.Your morning routine should start with waking up. Select your bedtime relative to when your morning routine begins.
For instance, if you have a 6:00 wakeup time, you should plan on going to bed around 10:00.;
, Your morning routine should include things that matter to you. Cut things that are unnecessary, unimportant, or could be done later. For instance, your morning routine should exclude things like polishing your shoes, doing the laundry, or walking the dog. Ask yourself what is most important for you and your family, then incorporate it into your morning routine.Things that should be incorporated into your morning routine include getting your children to brush their teeth and eat breakfast.
 The best way to organize morning routine tasks is to place the less fun parts of the morning routine (getting dressed, brushing teeth, and making the bed) before the more enjoyable parts of the morning routine (eating breakfast, watching TV, and meeting friends at the bus station). That way, when your child wishes to engage in something fun like eating breakfast, you can say, “You can eat breakfast after you’ve brushed your teeth.”


Staggering morning routine tasks in a logical way reminds your child that the morning routine must be followed closely in order to have a happy and successful morning.
 Everyone in your family should have a few minutes of special time in their morning routine. This allows individuals to take care of specialty tasks that matter only to them. Alternately, it allows people to catch up to the rest of the family if they’re running behind. Use this special time to do what matters to you – or just relax and read the news while others are engaged in their morning routines.For instance, perhaps your daughter wants to put makeup on as part of her morning routine.
Perhaps your husband wants to shine his shoes.
You and your partner might use the time to beat the morning traffic and get to work a bit early.
 The morning routine should allow time to feed the dog and let it outside for a bit, and time for the kids to make their beds. But nobody should be watering the plants, washing the dishes, or vacuuming the house. Save these time-consuming chores for later, when everyone is home and has more time to commit to them., Starting the school-year morning routine on the first day of school is just asking for trouble. To avoid sleeping late, begin the school-year routine a week or so before your kids start the first day of class. Likewise, if you and your partner have a week off of work, you’ll probably spend a few of those days sleeping late and enjoying lazy mornings. But your last weekend before returning to work should be used to resume your morning routine., Research shows that by exercising before breakfast in the morning, you can better maintain a healthy weight. You could go for a jog, a bike ride, or do pushups and sit-ups.Kids live an active lifestyle and probably don’t need additional exercise time in the morning. However, if your child is overweight or obese, you could schedule some exercise time into their morning routine, as well.

