 Understanding the origins and structure of the tournament is crucial. The first World Cup tournament was hosted in Uruguay in 1930. Since then, it has taken place every four years with the host country, selected several years in advance, given an automatic spot in the tournament. All other national teams must take part in a regional-based qualifying tournament during the two years preceding the finals, with 32 teams eventually winning their way to the big tournament. The qualifying teams are then divided into eight groups of four, split largely on the basis of world rankings, to play an initial group stage among themselves which takes place during the opening days of the World Cup. A total of sixteen teams proceed to the knock-out stage. From this point on, each game is ‘sudden death,’ with the winner proceeding to the next round and the loser being eliminated from the World Cup. As a result, an initial knockout round of sixteen is quickly whittled down to quarter-finals for eight teams, semi-finals of four teams, culminating in a final game to determine the world champions.;
, Experiencing football betting is probably the best way to understand it. You can place a wager in a traditional high street betting shop, by phone or online. Well-known betting outlets such as Coral and William Hill have successfully re-produced an exciting betting experience online. At its most basic level, you can bet on the winner or loser of an individual match. Other popular individual bets include the final score and the first goal scorer. However, the odds on these straightforward bets usually guarantee just a modest win. If you are looking for a more lucrative wager, consider multiple outcome bets. For example, a single bet on both the first goal scorer and the final score will yield greater winnings if successful. You can also find impressive odds on multiplier bets, such as the outcome of multiple matches, for which the odds of correctly predicting all results are slim. Meanwhile, special markets include the odds on the outcome of an entire season or perhaps the next change in manager.
 Betting on the World Cup should be plenty of fun with the eyes of the globe on Brazil. And there are plenty of betting options to choose from. If you are looking to have a flutter on the tournament winner, then investigate the outright markets. You can also bet on the winner of each of the eight initial groups. Of course, there is also the option to bet on any single match during the tournament. There are usually more than 100 markets available to choose from for each game. If you are interested in a more exotic bet, then check out special markets including the tournament’s top goal scorer for example or a number of team specials. England fans can bet on special markets including how many points the team will accumulate during the group stage, how far they will reach in the tournament overall and even which players will be selected in the squad.
 Placing a wager doesn't come without its risks. There is of course always the chance that you will lose your bet and this must always be kept in mind. The odds available are a huge indicator of how likely you are to win a bet. For example, the odds on Iran lifting the World Cup might look very generous, but the chances of it actually happening are very slim. By contrast, a bet on Brazil to win the World Cup might not be particularly lucrative, as it is a greater possibility. But if Brazil does win the tournament, at least you will win something, including bragging rights.
 It is vital to understand exactly how much you can afford to lose before you place a bet. Budgeting is a tricky business, especially when it comes to betting on the World Cup. It can be easy to get carried away by the excitement of one of the world’s largest sporting events, but it is crucial to impose a budget on yourself. Try deciding on a betting budget for the entire tournament and plan it out carefully as the World Cup progresses by allotting specific amounts for each stage of the tournament. If you manage to win a bet or two, it can be tempting to plough your winnings straight back into additional bets. Think carefully before doing this though, as you may simply see your winnings frittered away.
 Knowing the latest news and views as the tournament unfolds can be crucial in placing a winning bet. A new injury, team selection or inside information could well influence your next wager. Staying up to date shouldn't be too hard with huge media coverage of the World Cup. There are numerous news articles, blogs and podcasts to choose from, especially at the larger online sports books, which will keep you well informed of proceedings and their impact on the betting odds. You can usually find live coverage of all the games too at these sites, meaning that you do not have to miss a kick.
 Choosing where to place your bet can be a tricky business. There are so many sites which offer sporting odds, especially when it comes to the World Cup. Everyone has to find the right site for them. However, as a general rule, the more options on a site, the better. Not only do you get a healthy choice, but it is also a sign of reliability too. Well-known sportsbooks with an international reputation offer a varied and reliable service. Some of them, such as William Hill, even allow you to bet as the match unfolds thanks to the ‘in play’ system.
 Placing your bet should be very simple if you have selected a reputable site or bookmaker. If you are visiting a betting shop, then self-explanatory betting slips are readily available, and qualified staff should be able to advise as well. Just remember to keep a copy in order to claim your winnings. If you are betting online, then most reliable sportsbooks have a virtual betting slip which is both easy to locate and simple to slip in. Just enter your bet of choice, select the amount you wish to wager and you are good to go. Many online sports betting sites have online help, a great source for extra assistance.
 Keeping up to date and collecting your winnings is probably the most rewarding part of the process! With matches taking place pretty much every day during the World Cup and huge media coverage, you should have no problem remembering to check the scores. If you do succeed in placing a winning bet, then you can collect your winnings by simply visiting your local outlet if you placed the bet in a shop and producing a copy of your betting slip. If you had a flutter online, then the sum of money which you win will be automatically deposited in your account.

