 If the clams are still in their shells, remove them before frying them.


Place the clams in a freezer for five minutes so that the meat loosens from the shell.
Hold the clam in one hand with the shell hinge toward your palm.






Insert a dull knife in between the shell. Saw around the shell until you cut through the hinge and open the shell.






Slide the knife in between the clam meat and the top and bottom shell to remove the meat.
 Mix the milk, water, and salt in a large bowl until well blended. Place the clams in this mixture and refrigerate for 2 to 4 hours.


As the clams soak, they should take in some of the moisture and flavor from the milk, water, and salt.
If you are short on time, you can reduce the amount of soaking time to 20 or 30 minutes. This is not preferable, but you should still be able to coat and cook the clams.
 Stir together the all-purpose flour, corn flour, and onion powder in a shallow dish until thoroughly blended.


Do this near the end of the soaking time, immediately before you prepare to take the clams out of the refrigerator.
 Let each clam drain slightly as you pull it out from the milk mixture. Then, toss each clam into the flour mixture and dredge until all sides are coated.


To drain the clams, simply hold each one above the bowl for roughly 30 seconds or until you no longer notice liquid dripping off.






You can use your fingers or a pair of tongs to dredge the clams.
 Fill a heavy saucepan with deep sides a little less than halfway with oil. Bring the oil up to roughly 365 degrees Fahrenheit (185 degrees Celsius) by heating it over medium-high heat on the stove.


Use a candy thermometer to monitor the temperature.
A deep fryer can also be used instead of a heavy saucepan.
 Toss a few clams into the hot oil until they turn golden-brown. This should take roughly 3 minutes.


Only fry a few clams at a time. Adding too many will lower the temperature of the oil too dramatically.
 Remove fried clams from the hot oil using a heat-resistant slotted spoon. Drain the clams on several layers of clean paper towels and serve as desired.


You can serve the clams with salt and pepper, lemon wedges, or tartar sauce.







