 It might be because you want to be good enough to use the skill or activity to get you into a sporting team, to get into college or a specialist school, or to succeed in something you've set your heart on doing. Whatever the reason, remind yourself of the motivating reason so that you can remember why it is important to stick to doing this activity in spite of doubts you may be having.;
, It can be hard to deal with the fact that you're not good at something until you've practiced it a lot. It's just a fact of reality and everyone experiences this to some extent––even naturally gifted people have to learn the basics and hone that talent. The chances are that you want to be good at whatever you're doing but the learning process is tough on you. Remind yourself that you will get better in time, and that every practice provides a chance for gradual improvement.
 For example, maybe your mom or dad is forcing you to stay with this activity even though you don't want to. If you really don't like it, you may be feeling that all you want to do is quit as soon as possible. This is beside the point. If you really want to stick with something and see it through, you have to make a decision to do so. It is also important to see that this is about you, not about your parents or any other people––by persevering, it is your achievement and success, not anyone else's.
 Do you want to be the best in your group? If there is no way to find out if you're the best in a group, at least try your hardest, which will help you to feel that you've given it your best.


Don't compare yourself to any other people in your group, club, etc. Every person is at a different stage of their own learning and some people take longer to learn and perfect the skills than others.
 In most cases, you'll find that your role models weren't that good when they started but they were determined to get better through trying, practicing and staying focused. Moreover, sometimes it is about making the most of the whole rather than being "the best" at something; for example, a lot of people who aren't very good singers are still very popular because they present a complete package which entertains people and brings them joy. Use examples of such people to remind yourself that you can do it.
 Practice never makes perfect but it makes you better! No one can reach their goals without practicing and learning from mistakes or near-enough experiences. Whether you're best or not, it won't always depend on talent but whatever skill you're trying to perfect will always benefit from working hard at it.
 Keep progressing and remind yourself that no one is perfect at any skill without trying and relearning all of the time. Even those at the top of their game, field or expertise need to keep learning and relearning to stay successful and good at what they do.
 As soon as you feel close to being about to quit, include every single thing that you can do to help in one action. For example, practice, watch videos of your role models, etc. all at once. Become absolutely immersed in the activity, look beyond the simpler things you've been taught to discover more things for yourself. In this way, you begin to turn the activity into a part of who you are and your curiosity and thirst for learning more about it than even your teachers can share with you will help to drive you onward.

