 Don’t be in a rush to get up after a fainting spell. Your body and mind need time to recover. You should stay in your current position on the ground for at least 10-15 minutes. If you get up too soon you risk triggering another episode., Simple fainting episodes are usually resolved by rapidly elevating the person’s feet and legs. While you are on the ground see if it possible to elevate your feet at all. Making it so that they are higher than your head is best, but an elevation will help. If you are lying down, see if you (or your helper) can stuff a jacket under your feet. This will improve the blood flow to your head and speed up the healing process.
 While you are waiting to stand again, inhale a series of deep, calming breaths. Fill your lungs to full capacity by breathing through your nose and then slowly release the air via your mouth. If you are still in a stuffy or hot area, you will want to carefully monitor your breathing until you can safely walk to a better space.
 One possible cause of fainting is dehydration. So, to prevent another episode, you will want to drinks lots of water immediately after standing and for the remainder of the day. Be very wary of drinking alcohol after a fainting spell as it will dehydrate you only further, thus adding to the initial problem., Eating more frequently and avoiding skipping meals may help to prevent you from fainting.Try eating five to six small meals per day instead of two or three large meals.
 If you do drink, make sure that you only drink in moderation, which is no more than one drink per day for women of all ages and men over 65, and no more than two drinks per day for men under 65., Some medications may cause dizziness and fainting.Consult your medical provider about which medications may cause these symptoms. Some blood pressure medications may even be taken at bedtime to prevent fainting.
 Recognize that your body needs time to recover and give yourself a bit of a break for the remainder of the day. Make sure to walk slowly and carefully. It is probably best to avoid exercise for the next 24 hours or so. Try to minimize your stress by putting off important tasks until tomorrow.


Do something that you know relaxes you, such as going home and taking a bubble bath. Or, sitting on the couch and watching a bit of football.
 If you wake from the faint and still feel other symptoms such as shortness of breath or chest pain, you or your caretaker should immediately call for emergency medical help. These are signs that you may have a more serious health condition and you will most likely need to be evaluated at the hospital.