 If you decide that you want to try to induce a fever the first thing you should do is speak to a medical professional. Make an appointment to see your doctor and ask her about how to induce a fever. Your doctor will advise on the potential benefits and dangers of artificially inducing a fever and what your options are. Sometimes drugs induce a fever when they are taken, but this generally is considered an adverse response akin to an allergic reaction.Immunizations, such as diphtheria and tetanus, may induce a fever.The drugs work by increasing metabolism or evoking an immune response. Drug-induced fevers can cause other symptoms as well.
Doctors who do use this option might use Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), a tuberculosis vaccine.If your doctor advises you not to try to induce a fever you should listen to her. Do not attempt to induce a fever against your doctor's advice.;
, Look for a medical centre or centre of alternative medicine that actively uses fever therapy. These sources will usually be equipped with an infrared sauna unit, also known as a hyperthermia unit. Follow the instructions provided at the centre when using this unit to induce a fever. Usually, you will be instructed to warm yourself internally before using the unit. You might be asked to drink ginger root tea or to take ginger root and cayenne pepper capsules.


Before entering the unit, you will undress and cover the skin in an herbal formula, often containing ginger.
Wrap yourself in towels then enter the unit. A standard session lasts for 60 minutes, but if you are not demonstrating any negative reaction, your session may last for two to three hours.
You will need to drink water during the process, especially if undergoing a longer session.
If you do not sweat within the first 10 minutes or otherwise experience a negative reaction, the session will end early.
After a successful session, you'll undergo a warm to cool shower to close your pores.
 As the debates about the potential benefits of fevers continues, some doctors are advising that people limit their use of fever-reducing drugs, such as aspirin. By using these drugs with discretion you will enable a moderate fever to run its course which can prompt your body's own immunological defences to activate.


The endogenous pyrogen hormone will travel to the brain and prompt a rise in your body's temperature.
Rapid muscle contractions may also be triggered, which will produce heat. Nerves may constrict outlying blood vessels, resulting in a reduction of heat lost to the environment.
Body tissues may be broken down to produce heat.
The sensation of coldness can prompt you on put on extra layers of clothes or drink hot fluids which will help to raise your temperature.