;
, If purchasing in a store, it will be helpful to bring the old stylus. If a compatible stylus is no longer available for your cartridge, both the cartridge and stylus will need to be replaced. Replace the cartridge as instructed in the next section before inserting the new stylus.
 The point should be facing downwards.
 The cartridge usually plugs into a jack secured in the head shell or tonearm. The cartridge is either a "pull out" and "slip in" arrangement, similar to the stylus, or held in place with small hex nuts and screws to a removable headshell. The latter is less obvious and is the one described in this article., Most head shells are secured by a compression ring or nut, which, when loosened, will allow the headshell to be separated from the tonearm. If not fitted into a socket mounted in the headshell, several individual color-coded wires with connectors crimped on the ends will need to be carefully slipped off the cartridge pins. The new cartridge will include a wiring diagram to make reconnects worry-free. Like many small electronic devices, it should be handled with care and aligned with the sockets to be eased into final position. Once the headshell is removed, use jeweler's screwdrivers to unscrew the screws.
 Cartridges have different weights, so the counterbalance (on the opposite end of tonearm) and skew adjustments (usually an adjustment at the rear and near - but not on the tonearm itself) will need to be set. When tracking pressure is properly set, the stylus will "sit" fully in the record's groove. The new cartridge will include a recommended counterbalance weight - often in expressed in grams. It can be accurately set by weighing the downward pressure at the stylus. The anti-skew setting helps keep the stylus pressure equal in horizontal directions - this helps prevent the tonearm from skidding across the record if bumped.
 Depending on model, it may be accessible by removing a cover on the underside, removing the platter, or removing screws that allow lifting the entire mechanism up and out from the cabinet. From here you will be able to access the belt.
 Using alcohol and a clean rag, gently clean all the surfaces that the belt contacts. Wipe the inner surface of the belt with a clean, dry cloth to remove any contaminants (do not use cleaners or alcohol on this part as these can cause the belt to dry out prematurely). When all components are dry, slip the new, compatible belt on. Never apply lubricants to these surfaces.
