 Researchers have found that regular aerobic exercise is one of the most reliable ways to control PMS symptoms.Exercise can help regulate your hormones and boost your endorphin levels, easing the emotional symptoms of PMS. It can also help reduce water retention.


It’s fine to do lighter workouts on days when you have cramps or feel bloated, but don’t skip your workout altogether. To reduce PMS symptoms, it’s important to keep your exercise routine consistent.;
, The food you eat plays a big role in how you feel. Eating nutritious meals throughout the day keeps your blood sugar stable, which can help regulate your mood. Aim to get plenty of protein and fiber in your diet, and avoid processed, sugary foods – they can cause cravings and make you feel worse.Salt contributes to bloating. For women who tend to retain water before their period, it’s a good idea to cut back on salty food for a few days.To keep your blood sugar stable and prevent cravings, try eating 5-6 small meals throughout the day of whole foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Health snack choices to beat PMS might include granola or protein bars, smoothies, avocados, and fresh veggies with hummus.
 If you’re struggling with PMS, being sleep-deprived can contribute to feeling irritable and overwhelmed. Get enough sleep, and you will have more energy and fight stress. It’s best to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day.For some women, PMS goes hand-in-hand with insomnia. To get a better night’s sleep, avoid drinking alcohol and make exercise or light therapy a part of your routine., Nutritional imbalances or deficiencies can cause or worsen PMS. Try taking B vitamins, vitamin D, calcium, and magnesium to keep your symptoms at bay. Omega-3 fats can also be helpful in boosting your mood and easing PMS.Be sure to talk with your doctor before starting any new supplements, however.


Some women use herbal remedies to treat their PMS symptoms. Chasteberry, dong quai, maca, and black cohosh are among the most popular choices.These herbs have not been evaluated by the FDA, so check with your doctor before you use them.
 Although caffeine might be a short-term fix for PMS symptoms like fatigue and sluggishness, it can make you feel more tired and irritable after it wears off. Caffeine can also contribute to headaches and insomnia.And while you might feel tempted to reach for a glass of wine if you have PMS, it’s better to resist the urge: alcohol can exacerbate mood swings and make cramps worse., PMS symptoms like anxiety and irritability flare up more when you’re stressed. Give yourself a break and find ways to stay calm and cool-headed during this time of the month. Deep breathing exercises, meditation, and yoga are all good ways to relax.Other ideas for stress-busting activities include writing in a journal, taking walks in nature, or calling up a friend for a chat.
It’s not just in your head: when you’re stressed out, your cortisol levels rise, which can throw your hormonal balance out of whack and make your PMS symptoms worse., Indulge in your favorite chocolates, a new book you’ve been eyeing, or a relaxing afternoon listening to your favorite music.
 Don’t feel like going out to a spa? Recreate the experience at home. Take a relaxing soak with some bath salts, treat your skin to a nourishing mask, and brighten up your nails with your favorite nail polish.
 Stressful events are never fun, but some times of the month are better than others for dealing with demanding situations and people who make you feel frazzled. If you’re struggling with PMS, see if you can put anxiety-inducing situations on hold until you’re feeling better. It’s easier to cope with stress when you feel level-headed and healthy.For example, if you know your period is approaching, try to get frustrating errands, projects, or homework done in advance. That way, you won’t feel so bogged down during your period.
 A medical professional can evaluate your symptoms and determine whether you’re dealing with PMS or something more serious. An undiagnosed anxiety condition or depression can make PMS symptoms worse. If your symptoms are debilitating, you might have a more severe variation of PMS called premenstrual dysphoric disorder, or PMDD.PMDD can cause feelings of hopelessness, depression, and anger. PMDD symptoms are PMS symptoms taken to the extreme. PMDD can make it difficult to function normally in day-to-day life, and the condition may interfere with work and relationships., If you have severe PMS or PMDD that doesn’t respond to other treatments, ask your doctor about medications that could provide relief. Antidepressants like SSRIs may help keep your mood stable and relieve physical symptoms like headaches and breast tenderness.Hormonal birth control or prescription progesterone may also be able to balance your hormones.Speak with your doctor to see if any of these medications may be right for you.
 PMS is rooted in physical causes, but often the simple act of talking with someone can be helpful in dealing with the emotional side of this condition. A therapist can help you find ways to cope with tension, anxiety, and mood swings. Many therapists practice cognitive behavioral therapy, which can be a useful aid in working through the negative emotions of PMS.