 Pediculicides are available over-the-counter or by prescription. Choose a well-reviewed brand that others have found effective. If you're treating hair that is longer than shoulder-length, you may need more than one bottle.Using a pediculicide is a very effective way to kill lice. Some products kill both the crawling lice and their eggs, while others kill the crawling lice alone. Depending on the strength of the product you choose, you may need to follow up with more than one application.
Pediculicides contain chemicals that are coming under scrutiny for potentially being harmful. If you are treating someone with very sensitive skin or are concerned about using strong chemicals, try a natural method. Natural methods are equally effective, they just take a little longer to work.;
, The treatment itself may stain clothing, and lice may jump onto the clothing during the treatment process. It's best to wear older clothes that you don't mind washing with very high heat during the application process.
 In most cases you will need to distribute the product on the head and throughout the hair of the individual being treated. The treatment should then sit on the head for the directed amount of time before being washed out.


Be sure not to leave the treatment on for longer than instructed on the packaging, as it may damage the skin or hair.
Rinse the treatment out with water only, no shampoo. No shampoo should be used for at least 2 days after treatment.
 The person's clothes, bedding, stuffed animals, pillows, and other washable items should be washed using hot water, since lice die when exposed to temperatures greater than 128ʡF (53ʡC) for more than 5 minutes.Dry the items afterward.


If you have an item in question that isn't washable, it can be stored in a sealed plastic bag for two weeks before using.
Soak plastic combs, brushes and hair accessories in hot water for at least 5 minutes.
Vacuum carpeting and furniture.
 After 8 hours or so, check the hair. At this point you may see a few live lice that are still moving slowly. Comb all dead or live lice as well as nits from the hair at this stage. The best tool to use for this purpose is a nit comb, available for purchase at drugstores.


Continue checking the hair every 8 hours or so. Comb dead or sluggish lice and their nits from the hair for the next 2 days. Soak the nit comb in hot water for at least 5 minutes in between combings.
If you still see crawling lice after 3 days, another treatment may be necessary. Consider seeing a doctor for a product recommendation.
 If you see more lice, you may be able to control them by combing the lice and their nits from the hair every 8 hours or so. If the lice are back in full force, consider undergoing another lice treatment.

