 Legitimation is the process by which a child's father becomes legally-recognized. If you are not already legally recognized as the father of the child because you were not married to the mother when the child was born, you can file a legitimation case to establish your paternity and parental rights.Download the packet, which includes all of the necessary forms and instructions, on the court's website at http://www.southernjudicialcircuit.com/selfhelp/paternity/legitimation.pdf. The packet includes:


Petition for Legitimation, Custody, and/or Visitation
Plaintiff's Affidavit
Acknowledgment of Service and Consent to Legitimation
Affidavit Supporting Acknowledgment of Service and Consent to Legitimation
Certificate of Service
Rule NISI
Defendant's Acknowledgment of Service- Affidavit of Waiver of Venue and Personal Jurisdiction
Motion for Service by Publication
Affidavit--Service by Publication
Order of Service by Publication
Notice of Summons
Domestic Relations Financial Affidavit of Plaintiff
Order
Income Deduction Order

, You do not need to fill out all of the forms in the packet. Some of the forms are for you (the father or plaintiff) to complete, while others are for the other parent (the mother or defendant). The orders are for a judge to complete and sign. Review the signature portions of each form, which should indicate who is supposed to complete and sign the form.


You will need to fill in detailed information about the parents and child, as well as information about your finances, which the court will use to determine your child support obligations.The packet includes a motion, affidavit, and order relating to service by publication. These are only necessary when you cannot locate the other parent. By filing that motion, you are asking the court to give you permission to publish a notice of this legitimation action in the newspaper, which would satisfy the requirement that you give notice to the other parent at the outset of the case.
 For each form that has a space at the bottom for the signature of a notary public, you will need to sign it in the presence of a notary public. The notary will also sign, verifying that you signed the document in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory online at http://www.notarypublicdirectory.com/.
You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Before anything is filed, have your forms reviewed by a courthouse facilitator. Your county may have a courthouse facilitator on staff who can help you find the right forms and review them for you before you file them.. Courthouse facilitators do not represent clients or give legal advice, but they can still answer questions and provide document review.
 Make copies of your forms and deliver them to the court clerk. The clerk will mark the original and the copies as "filed" and retain the originals. The clerk will then contact you at a later time to give you a hearing date. The filing fee for a civil action is approximately $216.00, but may vary by county.If you cannot afford the fee, ask the court clerk how you can file an application for a fee waiver.
 You will need to have copies of your forms delivered by someone over 18 and not involved in the case. You can also hire a professional process server or an officer of the sheriff's office to serve the forms for you. Have that person complete and sign the "Certificate of Service" form, which is included in the legitimation packet.Then file the form with the court.
 At the hearing, the judge will ask you questions about the documents you filed. The other parent will have a chance object, and will have the opportunity to argue that your are not the child's father, or that it is not in the child's best interests for you to have contact with the child. Once your paternity is established, you can request custody and a parenting plan.

