 Your local police department has a non-emergency number you can call to file a report, and some have dedicated hotlines for reporting financial fraud.


You can always walk into your local precinct and file a report in person. Additionally, some police departments have online forms you can fill out and submit to report financial fraud.
Contact information for local law enforcement agencies nationwide is available at http://www.usacops.com.
 Prepare to submit your report by organizing all your information and making copies of any relevant documents.


You might want to review your state's law to understand what constitutes fraud. Police investigate crimes and won't conduct further investigation into your report if it doesn't provide any evidence on its face that a crime was committed.
Generally, criminal fraud is theft by deception. The person or business must have intentionally provided you with false information to deceive you into giving them financial information so they could steal from you., Once you have all of your information organized, provide a report to the police department of exactly what happened.


Include a chronological description of everything that occurred, including any behavior or statements that led you to believe the transaction was fraudulent.
Make sure your description is as detailed as possible, with dates and times if you can remember those specifically.
If the bank fraud involves possible identity theft, you should submit your report in person and bring along proof of your identity and current address such as a driver's license., Not only will you need a copy for your records, you also may need to submit a copy of the report, or the reference number for the report, to your bank or other entities as you work to resolve the situation.


If you've already talked to a bank representative about the fraudulent activity on your account, follow up by providing a copy of the police report to your bank as well.If you have to file any affidavits with any other businesses or banks, you also will need to attach a copy of the police report., As police officers look into your report, they may contact you for more information about the activity.


Assuming you have a reference number for your report, you can call the police department to check on the status of your complaint or find out if any investigation is taking place.

