 Urinating in the pool is one of the major ways that residential water illnesses get spread in pools. The urine released into the pool can contain bacteria and interfere with the pH of the pool. No matter how young your family members are, make sure that you explain that there should not be any peeing in the pool.


Use an age appropriate explanation about why urinating in the pool not to be done. This can be harder to explain to younger children, but try to make it clear. , In order to help prevent urinating or pooping in the pool, take a break from the pool once an hour. This will give you time to check and change the diapers on younger children and make your older children to go to the bathroom.


Make sure you change your children's diapers away from the pool. You don't want to accidentally contaminate the water with germs., Water is the main way that you can get residential water illnesses. To avoid getting sick, make sure you do not swallow any pool water when you are playing in the pool. It is important to be well hydrated before getting into the pool to avoid swallowing pool water by accident. This can expose you to the bacteria and other germs in the water.


Make sure you tell your children to avoid doing this as well. Explain to them that the water can make them sick.
Also avoid opening your eyes underwater. The intense water exposure can cause eye infections from the bacteria or germs., If you have young children, they cannot wear normal diapers in the pool. Your child should have swim diapers or swim pants on when they go into the pool to help prevent excrement getting into the pool.


These will not prevent your children from contaminating the water if they have diarrhea because these diapers are not completely leak proof.When your child is in swimming trunks, make sure you change them every 30 to 60 minutes. Always wash your hands afterwards., When you take your family to the pool, make sure you each wear a pair of water safe shoes. This will keep your feet away from any germs, viruses, or bacteria that might cause skin irritations.


If you don't, it can cause athlete’s foot and warts.

