 You want to use lightweight paper as you be surfing your glider on a wave of air rather than throwing it like an airplane. 







, In addition to a piece of paper, you will need the following:









Pair of scissors.
Three metal twist ties
Scotch tape
Ruler
Pen

, Here is an example.









Using scissors, cut one of the two large triangles along the outer black lines. Save the second triangle to give to a friend so they can make their own origami hang glider.
Cut a small notch along the thick black lines at the base (longest side) of both triangles.
 Make sure the template is flat against your paper and there are no wrinkles or folds. Use four pieces of tape to secure the template, one at each point and one in the center of the base of the triangle.









Once the template is secured, cut around the outer edges of the triangle making sure it remains connected to the underlying paper.
 The dotted lines indicate where you will fold the paper. They are separated into two categories and labeled on the pattern:









There are three valley folds. One line runs parallel to the base, and the other two are located at each end of the first line.
There are three mountain folds. One bisects the top edge of the triangle, and the other two run parallel to the sides of the triangle.
Have the template facing you at all times so you can orient yourself according to these folds.
, Fold the base inwards over the ruler. Gently unfold the paper so the fold remains loose.
 Start with one side and then do the other. Keep these folds loose for now.









Once these have been folded outwards, pinch the mountain fold at the top of the triangle.
Pinch along all three mountain lines, stopping at the end of the lines or where they intersect with a valley fold.
Make sure the folds are crisp and symmetrical.
 This forms the vertical stabilizers at the back corners of you glider.
 The ends of the wings can bend up or down. Both wings must be up to fly, otherwise the glider will nosedive when thrown.
 At this point, your glider is back heavy, which will cause it to roll back-over-front when thrown.










Cut out the square labeled 'Front Weight Stabilizer'. Use this to cut-out a square from the same piece of lightweight paper you used to build the glider.
Cut away the plastic covering on the metal twist tie until it is just a thin, metal wire. You can do this by cutting along the wire and scrape-off any remaining covering with your fingernails.
Place a small piece of tape (no more than 1/2 inch) on one end of the wire. Tape the wire to one of the corners of your paper square.
Place the paper square on a thick book so the corner with the wire is at the edge of the book. The wire should extend out from the edge of the book and have no support.
If the wire tips down, then it is too heavy. Use scissors to cut-off small pieces of the wire until it only slightly tips.
If the wire is perfectly balanced, it might be too light. You can make it heavier by adding tiny pieces of tape to the end not attached to the paper.
 You will need to attach the wire to the nose of the glider.









Turn the glider over so the side with the template is facing down.
Attach a small, square (ca. 1/2 inch) piece of tape to one end of the wire.
Tape the wire so it exactly follows the fold that forms the nose of the glider. Attach it so the corners of the tape match-up exactly to the front edge.
Turn the glider over and refold the front so the crease supports the wire. It is okay if there is a slight bend to either side of the fold. This gives the glider strength.
 The curvature of the wings is known as camber, and influences lift in planes or gliders by forming the airfoil. Folds that are too tight create too much camber, and this destabilizes the plane.









Place the plane in the cover of heavy book.
Push the vertical stabilizers down so they are not damaged.
Close the cover and press down for 5 to 10 seconds.
This will improve the camber by creating a more gentle curvature.
 Place the plane on a flat surface and measure the angle between the surface and the back flap.









If this angle is less than 20 degrees, increase the angle by bending it slightly forwards. #*Check that the angle on both ends is equal.
Refold the vertical stabilizers so they form a 90 degree angle with the body of the glider.
Separate the template from the paper if you haven't already. Bend the end of the wire up until it forms a small hook. Be careful not to tear the paper or disturb any of the folds.
Use the wire hook to pick-up and carry your glider.
Do not pick-up your glider from the back. This can damage the vertical stabilizers or the back flap of the glider, known as the elevon which is important for roll and pitch. Use scissors to cut along the curved line in the back, and cut-off the pointed tips of the stabilizers along the solid black line.
 Hold the glider in the center with you thumb and index finger. With the nose of the glider pointing slightly down, gently drop it.









Walk behind your glider and gently wave a piece of cardboard that is at least 1.5 by 1.5 feet underneath it. This will help keep your glider in motion.
 Enjoy your glider.








