 If your cat is using a potted plant as a bathroom, you need to encourage her to use her litter box. There are several reasons a cat may dislike using her litter. Try to address any potential problems.


Keep your litter box clean. Cats dislike having to urinate and defecate in dirty litter. If their box isn't clean to their liking, they'll make use of other objects around the house. Clean out your litter box at least once a day.Make sure your cat's litter box is easily accessible. A box with sides that are too tall may be difficult for your cat to climb in and out of. If you keep your litter box in a space that's often closed off, your cat will not be able to find the box when necessary. Conversely, a cat may be embarrassed or scared to use a box that's out in the open or in area where there's a lot of noise or commotion.If you have a multiple cat household, you may need to get another box. Cats sometimes become territorial about their litter boxes. Another box may encourage your cats to use their litter boxes instead of your plants.Try a different litter. Cats are sensitive about their litter and may dislike using certain brands. If your cat is having litter box issues, try a softer brand of litter. Keep in mind many cats dislike litter that is scented and might go outside the box to avoid it.
 Cats in general respond better to positive reinforcement than negative reinforcement. When you see your cat leaving a plant alone, reward the behavior.


Watch your cat around your plants. If she passes by the plant without digging at the soil, praise her. Call her name in a nice, soft voice and give her a treat or attention to reward her for staying out of the plants.Always reward your cat as soon as she passes by the plant without incident. Animals live in the immediate. In order for your cat to understand what behavior is desirable, you need to praise her in the moment.Be as consistent as you can. While you cannot constantly watch your plants, try to reward your cat every time you see her leave the plants alone. This helps solidify for your cat what behavior is appropriate., Cats do not respond well to punishment. Cats do not usually connect yelling, scolding, or time outs with a certain behavior. They may become agitated or scared when punished, which can lead to further acting out. If you see your cat getting into a potted plant, it's better to distract her with another toy or activity instead of yelling at her., Cats may misbehave due to boredom, which can also cause stress and anxiety. If your cat does not feel engaged enough at home, she may take to digging up your plants. Try to provide your cat with more toys to combat the behavior.


Make time each day to play with your cat. Try to schedule 20 to 30 minutes of playtime each day. You can drag a string across the floor for your cat to chase. You can also throw a toy for your cat to run after. Feather toys, which dangle feathers off the ends of strings, are a popular toy for cat owners.You should also get your cat toys she can play with on her own. This way, she won't get bored while you're not at home. Try getting your cat mouse or bird toys, which she can bat around the floor by herself. Interactive puzzle toys can be fun. A small bit of food or a treat is put inside a puzzle and a cat must figure out to get the reward.
Some companies sell stimulating or calming DVDs to play on your television while you're away. These keep cats entertained when no one is home.
Make sure your cat has access to windows in your home. Cats love to gaze at wildlife and activity outside.

