 It doesn't necessarily have to be in focus (the objects popping out will draw the eye instead), but it should be fairly plain and not super attention-grabbing. A street, a park, or a natural setting (forest, woods, etc.) are all good choices.






;
, Try to get as close to the actual shapes of the objects as you can without cutting into them.









Think about the size of your background. Will your objects fit into it without looking strangely big or small?
You can either work with several copies of the same image (producing a "normal" photo that becomes alive with depth) or different images, playing with contrasts between the subjects and the background.
 The photo should be on the inside. Press along the fold to get a sturdy crease. Keep the photo folded.
 Position them behind where your object will be. Depending on the size of your object, you'll want the cuts to be about 1/2" to 1" apart (1.3 to 2.5 cm). The longer these cuts, the further the image will sit from the background.









Make another set of cuts for each additional cutout that you're adding to the background.

Before you cut, keep in mind that you'll be pasting your cutouts to the front of these boxes you're cutting. The cuts should not be longer than the height of your cutout photo and the width between them should not be wider than your cutout photo, either.
The closer together you make the cuts, the smaller your tab will be. The smaller the better (to a point) -- that way, more background is left as is, better seen from different angles.
 Your crease should run horizontally between your two vertical cuts. Fold to the front, then flip the folded image over and fold the tabs to the back. Return the tabs to the flat position.
 Your "floor" or ground should be horizontal, and your "backdrop" should be vertical. Use your finger to push each tab forward into the center of the photo, creating pop-up boxes.
 Use a glue stick (instead of white school glue) to avoid any mess or over-gluing. Voila! Now where to put it?









If you don't have glue, transparent tape will also work -- just make sure it's flat and not visible from most angles.

