 The white canvas is located near the save point at the entrance of the area and beside the portrait with a moving tongue that spits acid. At first, Ib will tell you that it's just a blank canvass.;
, After repeated examination of the portrait, Ib will realize that there's a tiny number written on the pure white canvass.
 The number will be in red, so write it down in red marker if you must, just don't forget the number and its corresponding color.
 The red doll is in the upper-right side of the room. Once you examine it and another red doll will fall from the ceiling.
 Ib will tell you that there's a number on the clothes. The number will be written in green; take note of the color and number.
 To do this, go to the upper-left corner of the area and enter the door you see at the end of the hallway.
 You need to find which painting is telling the truth. Let's start from the right.


Talk to the one wearing a red dress and she'll say that she agrees with the one in yellow. If you talk to the one wearing a yellow shirt, he'll tell you that the one wearing white is telling the truth.
Talk to the girl wearing white and she'll tell you to stand in front of the statue, head 2 steps east and south 2 steps. Unfortunately since the paintings are telling you that she's telling the truth, she's obviously telling a lie.
Talk to the painting with a blue tank on. He will say that the only one telling the truth is green, and green will give you further directions. But since they're agreeing with each other, they too are lying.
Talk to the last portrait, which is the one in brown. This is the only painting that has been ignored by all other paintings, and it's also the only one that tells the truth. Brown will tell you to stand in front of the statue then go 4 steps east and 2 steps north.
 You will see a statue and tiles on the floor once you enter the door that's in the middle of the 6 portraits. Stand in front of the statue then go 4 steps east and 2 steps north.
 Take note of the blue number that you'll find underneath the tile you landed on.
 The door is located just past the hanging dolls.
 You'll be prompted to enter a code on the keypad. The only clue you have is X*X+X. You will notice that each X is a different color, either blue, red, or green.
 Replace each X with the number that matches it’s color (remember that each number you found had different colors), then calculate the equation.


For example, if blue = 5, red = 8, and green = 20, then our calculation will be 5 x 5 + 20 = 45.
 If your answer is correct, the door will open.

