 They can be mailed or even sent through email. Make them spooky and Halloween themed, of course! You can make it a themed party, or you can have everyone dress up in the costume of their choice!;
, You can go to different stores to find decorations such as candlesticks, spider webs, or Halloween cups and plates. Before you go to Halloween stores, go visit your local grocery store or even the dollar store! They can sometimes have simple decorations that you don't need to spend much money on.
 Will it be Jack-o’-lantern cupcakes? Or just orange and black sprinkles on cookies? Decide what food you want to serve. For drinks, you could buy a red fruit punch, for example.
 You can go to a Halloween store, or even a party store to find Halloween music and sound effects. If you plan on having your party outside, be respectful of your neighbors, and don't blast the music. Also, you should decide on lighting. If you plan on having the party inside, you could turn the lights off and use fake candles or flashlights pointed at the ceiling to create a dim light. If you want the party to be outside, you could use lanterns or fake candles. Try to avoid real candles, because they can be dangerous, especially if children are going to be at the party.
 Some activities are for all ages, while others are for young children or teenagers. One activity for all ages is to try to guess what's in a bag. Have four or five different brown bags filled with foods like peeled grapes, or cold cooked spaghetti. Guests have to feel what is inside the bag without looking, and then guess what the item is inside. Peeled grapes are eyeballs, cold cooked spaghetti is brains, etc. Whoever is closest wins. Other childrens games are "Mummy Wrap." Split the guests into equal teams of 4 or 5. One of the team members is the mummy, and has to remain still while the other members wrap the mummy in toilet paper! Limit each team to 3 or 4 rolls. You can purchase bulk toilet paper rolls at Costco or Sam's Club. The winning team is the one who can complete their mummy first, and have no part of them showing.
 Before the party begins, blow balloons up with air, not helium, and then add a prize inside, like a plastic spider ring. Have at least 10 balloons. During the party, split the guests into two equal groups, each with their own bucket. Have the teams stand in two single-file lines, with the bucket next to the first person in each line. Have the balloons scattered in front of them. The first person in each line has to run to a balloon, sit on it until it pops, collect the prize, and then place it in the bucket. Keep going until all the balloons are popped. The winning team is the one with the most prizes in the bucket.
 Also, have glow sticks, vampire teeth, or spider rings available for each guest to have.
 Fill it with candies and prizes like spider rings, vampire teeth, glow sticks, and other spooky surprises!

