 Instead of trying to “fit in” with everyone else, set your own standards and live up to them. Dress how you like to dress. Geek out with pride over your passions. Show people that, for you, the most important source of approval is your own–not anyone else’s.Don’t take this to mean that you should be a contrarian! If other people’s values, interests, fashion sense, etc. happen to match yours, embrace them as your own. The point is to be authentic, however you present yourself.
Don’t stretch it, either. Again, the important thing is to be authentic, so don’t overreach to the point that you’re striking a pose and playing a character outside of yourself.;
, Recognize the “bad” in life for what it is, but don’t let it get you down. Being cool means that when problems arise, you are confident that you can solve them, so don’t undermine your image by acting defeated! Show other people that you are someone who is worth having around, regardless of the circumstances.


Treat failures as experiences to learn from, obstacles as challenges to overcome, and just about everything else in life as an opportunity to improve yourself!
Keep negative comments about others to yourself. Don’t be seen as someone who has to knock other people down in order to lift yourself up., Being confident means that you feel content with who you are, flaws and all. Avoid deluding yourself into thinking that you are superior to everybody else. Acting superior will make people think that you are doing just that: acting.Ask for help when needed. Don’t bluff your way through situations you can’t handle on your own.
Risk looking foolish. Show other people that you are brave enough to not care what people think, but also confident enough to laugh at yourself when you do end up looking ridiculous.
Voice your opinions during projects, debates, or casual chitchat, but concede with a laugh that you were wrong when other people prove themselves right., Feel free to make gestures to liven up your conversations, but in general, try to be still. Convey the sense that you are perfectly comfortable in your surroundings. Own the space that you are in by showing that you have no intention of fleeing. Move at a relaxed pace and keep your gestures small and languid.Keep your head still and your chin up. In conversation, always look people in the eye.
When you are standing, distribute your weight evenly across both legs. Own the ground you stand on. Keep your feet planted in place.
Sit still. Whatever seat you take, relax in it as you would in your favorite chair. Resist the urge to lean forward or bounce your legs as if you are ready to bolt at the first opportunity.
 When prompted, share your thoughts and opinions without fear, but refrain from oversharing, especially if no one asked for them in the first place. Avoid being confused as a bully or bragger. Share what's relevant to the moment, but leave other people wanting to know more about you, rather than wanting you to shut up already.If a conversation drifts into an area you know quite well, respond knowingly to comments other people make, but stop short of lecturing.
Leave all the really impressive things about you unmentioned. For example, if you happen to be talking about baseball, share your thoughts and opinions without mentioning the fact that you were the MVP for every team you ever played on.
Make people tease information from you. Frame your responses in conversations in a way that answers their questions, while creating even more about you, like, "How could he/she possibly know so much about that?"

