 To get a parentage case started, you must file a petition, summons, and UCCJEA petition.


Either parent can start a parentage case. If you're not sure where the child lives, you can start the parentage case in the county where you live.You only need a judge to establish parentage of your child if you and the child's other parent were unmarried when the child was born.You can get the forms you need either online or at your local superior court. You can fill in, save, and print the online form directly from your browser. If you do, don't forget to clear the form when you're done so no one else can view the information you entered., If you want the judge to make a ruling about the custody of your child, include this form with your parentage petition.


If you also want the judge to enter a child support order, you must include either an income and expense declaration or a simplified financial statement.
These forms area available here: http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/fl150.pdf and http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/fl155.pdf.
 If you don't want to hire an attorney, or can't afford one, you still should get a legal professional to review your forms before you file them and make sure you filled everything out correctly and have all the forms you need., Once you've verified that everything is filled out correctly, make copies so you'll have them for your records.
 Your original documents will go to the judge. The clerk will stamp "filed" on all your copies.


You'll have to pay court fees of several hundred dollarsto file your petition and open the case. If you can't afford the filing fees, you can request a waiver.
 Get someone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in your case to give file-stamped copies of your parentage papers, along with a blank response form and a blank UCCJEA declaration.


Include a blank income and expense declaration as well if you've asked the judge to make a child support order.Make sure the person who serves those papers on the other parent also fills out a proof of service form so you can file that with the clerk of court., The other parent has 30 days to respond to your parentage petition. What happens after that depends on how he responds.


If the other parent doesn't respond and there is no agreement on parentage, child custody and visitation, or child support, your case is called a "true default." This means you can fill out the appropriate forms and the final judgment will reflect whatever you want in terms of parentage, child custody, visitation, and child support. Provided all the forms are filled out correctly, the judge will sign your orders without you ever having to appear in court.If the other parent doesn't respond but there is an agreement on parentage, child custody and visitation, or child support, your case is called a "default with agreement." Fill out the appropriate forms and file them with the clerk. The judge will review them and enter a judgment without either parent needing to appear in court.If the other parent filed a response but you still haven't reached an agreement on parentage, child custody and visitation, or child support, your case becomes a contested case. Usually you would file and serve a form to set a trial date, but the procedure varies among courts.If the other parent filed a response and you do have an agreement on parentage, child custody and visitation, or child support, you can fill out forms stipulating to that fact and file them in court. The judge will review your agreement and enter a judgment without either parent having to appear in court.