 A common cause of stomach ache is constipation: your body needs to move its bowels, but something is blocking or impeding this movement. You can ease constipation by eating or drinking fiber-rich items such as prunes, bran, or broccoli. Prunes are particularly powerful as they contain the natural laxative sorbitol, as well as packing a mean, fiber-full punch.If constipation persists after consuming fiber-rich foods and drinks, try a mild laxative such as a water-soluble powder or sennoside-containing tea.
A cup of coffee can also stimulate your digestive tract muscles and cause a bowel movement. Don’t gulp it down all day long, though. Coffee is a natural diuretic, so too much of it can cause dehydration and exacerbate constipation.Prune juice is well known to help stimulate the bowels and get them moving. Drink a small glass in the AM, and a small glass in the PM to help with constipation.
 Studies have shown that these three herbs can help mitigate nausea and general abdominal discomfort. Ginger regulates digestion, while mint and chamomile can be particularly soothing to cramped muscles.


You can also chew on boiled mint leaves or drink ginger water rather than drinking teas made from these herbs. To make ginger water, toss a few chunks of ginger in hot water, steep, and strain., Most over-the-counter antacids contain baking soda as their primary ingredient, so next time skip the store and make your own antacid at home. Simply dissolve a tablespoon into a glass of warm water and drink the solution slowly.


Repeat this process every few hours until your indigestion or nausea subside.
 Unlike regular white vinegar, apple cider vinegar alleviates nausea by absorbing unwanted nutrients in your stomach. Mix two to three tablespoons of it into a glass of lukewarm water. If the taste doesn’t put you off too much, you can sip on a glass every few hours until your nausea goes away.Purchase an organic, unpasteurized apple cider vinegar which clearly states that it contains ‘the mother.’ This means that it holds the raw enzymes and bacteria which are particularly useful for intestinal health., Aloe vera juice has shown to decrease the pain of stomach cramps. It also has ties to helping with constipation and indigestion as well. It used to be available exclusively at specialty and health food stores, but increased popularity in recent years has made it much more widely available.