 Long-term dehydration can prevent your kidneys from functioning properly. Drink whenever you feel thirsty, and drink enough to keep your urine colorless or pale yellow.It's a myth that additional water beyond this baseline will help flush your kidneys, but it will help prevent kidney stones in at-risk groups., The foods you eat are very important to your kidney health. When you are trying to flush your kidneys, pay particular attention to your diet. You should always aim to eat healthfully, but it is especially important when you are cleansing a major organ like your kidneys.A healthy, balanced diet will help prevent high blood pressure and diabetes, the two major causes of kidney damage.Watermelon is a great food to add to your diet. It contains a lot of water, and acts as a diuretic, which will help flush the toxins from your kidneys.
Eat more berries. Cranberries and raspberries in particular can help rid your kidneys of unwanted substances.
Pumpkin seeds contain a lot of powerful antioxidants that can help improve kidney function. Consider adding them to your diet as a healthy snack.
 Diets that are high in sodium lead to a greater risk of high blood pressure. This can result in extra strain on the kidneys. Reducing the sodium in your diet is an excellent way to promote overall health, especially for your kidneys.Eat fresh fruits and vegetables. Fresh varieties contain lower amounts of sodium than the canned options.
Read labels. Start scanning ingredient lists to make sure the foods you purchase do not have high sodium content. Canned soups are an obvious one to avoid. Compare products to make sure you buy the one with the lowest amounts of sodium. Look for products that are advertised as low-sodium.
 Because your kidneys are your body's filtration system, they can collect some build up. Drinking natural juice with no added sugars is a good way to stay hydrated while delivering nutrients to your body.


Cranberry juice is one of the most effective choices for kidney cleansing, because it helps reduce the amount of calcium oxalate, which can cause kidney stones. Look for juices that are all natural and do not have any added sugar.
Beet juice is also a great juice. It contains betaine, which can help remove buildup of many substances.
The natural acidity in lemon juice helps flush your kidneys.Add water to cut the sharp taste.
 Many herbs are traditionally used to treat kidney problems, but overusing them or taking them in combination with other herbs or medication can end up causing more harm than good. Always talk to your doctor before beginning any dietary supplement.


Milk thistle and grapefruit seed extract are all examples of naturopathic kidney treatments. Herbal products are usually best taken as a tea, made by steeping the herb in hot water for 5 to 10 minutes.Dietary supplements are especially risky if you have a kidney disease, or if you are taking other medication.Even beneficial supplements such as vitamin C or cranberry tablets can backfire if taken in large amounts.To avoid contaminated products, look for supplements with a seal of approval from an independent organization, such as Consumer Lab, NSF International, or U.S. Pharmacopeia., A kidney cleanse is a good way to "reset" your body and begin new, healthy habits. Consistent healthy changes are safer and more effective than extreme changes, so don't feel the need to design a strenuous cleansing challenge. A few days — or even just one day — of cleansing can have good results.When you are doing a cleanse, you will only eat specific foods and liquids. These includes fruits, such as cranberries, and herbs, such as marshmallow root. Look for recipes that will allow you to integrate these foods into your meals.
Cleansing means that you also need to avoid certain foods that stress your kidneys, notably alcohol and caffeine. If you are at risk for kidney stones, also avoid chocolate, nuts, tea, wheat bran, beet greens, strawberries, rhubarb, and spinach.