 All-natural types of rice are best, as these haven’t been treated with preservatives or any other substances that may change the behavior or the four when it’s used for cooking. To produce large quantities of flour, you’ll need to pick up a bag of rice that’s about one pound or bigger. If you only need to make a little bit, a smaller bag or canister should be enough. Do not cook the rice before processing it. It needs to be dry in order to grind properly.
Avoid rices with flavors or any other additives.;
, Pour in the rice and place the lid securely over the top of the blender. Only use 2-3 tablespoons at a time—if the blender is overcrowded, the blades may will have a difficult time grinding the rice grains.Most smaller blender will only be able to effectively manage about 1.5 cups of rice at a time.
Making your own brown rice flour at home can be time consuming, but it’s worth it when you consider how much you stand to save by skipping the grocery store.
 Starting on a low power setting, start and stop the blender a few times in quick succession. This will help reduce the grains to a smaller size without causing the blades to jam or overheat. In addition to a standard blender or food processor, you can also use a compact unit, such as a VitaMix or Magic Bullet. These single-use blenders are perfectly suited for processing small amounts of ingredients.
If all else fails, a coffee grinder will also get the job done., Once the grains have been broken down a bit, switch the blender to a higher power setting and continue blending in 10-20 second intervals. Be sure to pause every now and then to give the motor a chance to cool off.Rice flour needs to be very fine in order to produce the right effect in culinary recipes. By the time you're finished, the processed rice should contain no whole grains or coarse chunks.
When left to run continuously for too long, the blender can easily overheat. This can cause it to become a potential electrical hazard.
 Get out a large bowl and set it in front of you on the countertop. Remove the blender from its base and empty the contents into a manual sifter. You’ll use the sifter to extract usable flour little by little as you go.If you don’t own a sifter, a regular wire strainer will serve the same function.
Be careful while dumping out the flour. One wrong move and you could have a big mess on your hands!

, Position the sifter over the bowl and begin turning the crank slowly. The rotating action of the sifter will help separate the powdery rice flour from larger pieces that haven’t been blended as thoroughly. Keep sifting until all the flour is gone, then shake out whatever is left.To sift with a strainer, shake the flour gently with one hand while tapping the edge of the strainer with the other.
Shake the sifter periodically to dislodge flour that’s become stuck in the mesh.
 Whatever rice didn’t get ground small enough on its first trip through the blender can go back through. This time, blend the rice on a high speed to ensure that the flour achieves a fluffy, powdery texture.


Take advantage of free space in the blender by adding a little more rice each time.
Should you have trouble getting the rice down to a small enough size, experiment with multiple processing methods. For instance, move the rice from the blender to a coffee grinder.
 Keep repeating this process until all of the rice has been turned into to usable flour. Depending on the strength of your blender and the amount of rice you’re using, it may take 20-30 minutes to produce a cup of finely-ground brown rice flour.Make sure the rice has been processed thoroughly. If it’s too coarse, it may not produce the desired effect when it comes time to cook with it.
On average, 1.5-2 cups of rice will yield roughly 1 cup of rice flour.
 Choose a container with a lid that will form a tight seal, such as a piece of tupperware or a canning jar. This will keep unwanted moisture from getting into the flour, which can cause clumping and allow bacteria or mold to set up.Use a container or separate lid with a built-in pour spout to make it easier to measure out the flour for recipes.
Limit the number of times you transfer the rice flour to a different container to minimize the amount of air it receives.
 When kept covered and dry at room temperature, grain flours will stay fresh for weeks. They can last even longer in the refrigerator or freezer, where they’ll be protected from unnecessary exposure.For optimal flavor and texture, try to use your rice flour within 1-2 weeks.
Refrigerate the flour with a box of baking soda to prevent it from absorbing odors from other stored foods., Brown rice flour makes an excellent substitute for conventional wheat flour in all gluten-free dishes. Use homemade four to bake cookies, cakes or brownies, whip up a batch of rustic pancakes for breakfast or even bind fresh pasta or crabcakes. Rice contains less sugar than wheat, and is also packed with beneficial vitamins and nutrients.Look up new gluten-free recipes for ideas and inspiration on how to use a fresh batch of brown rice flour.Stir brown rice flour into soups, sauces and gravies to help thicken them.
