 Children enjoy playing with different things so give your child several types of toys and equipment to play with. This way, your child can explore and learn about what things they enjoy interacting with. Your child might also discover what physical skills they have. You might offer balls, hoops, climbing structures, and jump ropes.


For example, your child might find that they don't enjoy jumping rope, but that they're good at playing basketball. Finding something they like to do will help their self-esteem.
 Children need to challenge themselves in order to find their limits. Instead of overwhelming your child with lots of organized sports, just let your child play and explore. This will also help your child determine what they enjoy doing and might want to pursue later.Your child doesn't have to be playing a game to get physical activity. Your child might enjoy just walking the dog or running around the yard.
 It can be difficult to watch your child taking risks, but it's important for your child to try new, challenging things. Give your child the space to try and learn without interference. If you don't step in and tell your child what they can and can't do, they'll learn their own physical capabilities. For example, if your child wants to rock climb, you're going to have to let them find their own footing.If your child is scared to take physical risks, encourage them to start small and work their way up to face their fear. They'll feel a sense of accomplishment.
 If you suspect that your child is feeling discouraged or lonely, remind the child that they're not alone. Let them know that everyone has physical strengths and challenges to overcome. By talking to your child, you can create a nurturing environment where they feel comfortable to talk with you.You can also ask your child's teachers or coaches to talk with them. Sometimes hearing encouraging words from others will make them feel supported.
For example, you might say, "I know that you're disappointed that you didn't make the team. I'm proud of you for trying out and I think there are other activities that you'd be even better at."

, If your child doesn't like physical activity, it may be because they haven't found the sport or activity they enjoy. Young children (under six years old) often lack the skills needed to play organized sports, so try to let them develop basic skills through playing. If your child is older, ask them if they'd like to play a group sport or if they'd rather do an individual activity.It may take some time to find what your child likes to do. Just be patient and keep talking with your child. Avoid forcing your child to do any physical activity that they don't want to do.
 If your child is feeling pressured or influenced to do something they don't want to do, they should know how to respond to their peers. Teach your child several ways to say no, let them know you support them, and remind your child that they have other friends that don't pressure them.For example, you could say, "I know you're feeling like you have to dress the same way as the most popular kids in class, but if that won't make you happy, then you shouldn't. Your real friends won't force you to be someone you're not."

