 Open a word processor such as Microsoft Word, and change different font styles to see which looks best and try them out. If you find a font you like, type out every letter (capital and lowercase) so you can copy it later.


You can also practice good handwriting by borrowing notes from people who have good handwriting. See how they have written each letter and word and copy it.;
, Don't try to change everything all at once. Start with the letter that is sloppiest. If your A looks like a giraffe with eight legs, change it. It'll be easier to see progress this way, too.


Place a letter sample on the side of your paper. Have a short line next to it for practice. Continue this for the whole width of the paper. Skip a line and then do this again with a sample for copying each time. Never do a row of letters; you will tend to copy the one you just finished.
 Take for example lowercase letters "g," "c," "o," and "e." They all have that same rounded shape. Good handwriting is consistent, and all these letters should have the same round-ness about them. Once you've worked with letters separately, work with them in their groups.


"M," "n," "u," and "w" is another common set of letters that may need working. You may also want to consider making your tails consistent ("y" and "g," for example) or your longer letters the same, like "h," "p," and "b."

, Now that the letters are easier, what about writing them in actual works? It is usually best to write down a sentence and then start writing that same sentence a few times slowly. As it gets easier, aim to write faster and faster.


The key is to remember to try to keep each letter the same size. For example, tall letters like "t," "l," "k," etc. should all be the same height. Then letters like "a," "o," "e," etc. should all be the same height, too. You'll need to concentrate at first, but it gets easier! Keep the letters rounded and take your time.
"The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog" has all the letters of the English language. It's a good sentence if you want to work on every letter!

, Practice connecting the letter before and after with another letter you know well in the same group, such as "adc," "aca," "ada," "gag," etc. When you get good at that, start working in different groupings.


Hard to make letters like "f" in cursive can be done with notebook paper turned sideways ¡ using the line as the down stroke for the f. lowercase b and q are other ones that can be successful with this approach. They all have the loop going to the right unlike "g," "j," and "y."

, This will make it easier for people to distinguish between letters and joins. Ensure that spaces between words are consistent, too.


A sloping desk encourages more rounding of letters. If your angle isn't what you want it to be, consider changing the angle of your paper or the surface you're writing on.
 You're never going to be perfectly happy with your writing, but you've got to realize that you can write, and that is something to be thankful for. Just find a style that suits you, regardless of what it looks like.


Good handwriting is like a "good painting" – subject to fashion, technology and personal judgment. The Mona Lisa was not considered to be a good painting for many centuries until Franco-Italian nationalism made it the focus of attention. Similarly, we consider the serif Renaissance style of handwriting to be barely legible and now encourage our children to write in a sans-serif style resembling digital fonts like Arial. Neither can be considered "good" in the long term, but there have been times when each was seen as ideal.
 There is an inverse relationship between legibility and credibility: doctors are universally respected for their knowledge yet derided for the illegibility of their prescriptions; manual laborers receive less respect even though it is generally very easy to read their handwriting. If your handwriting is hard to read, don't stress it. No one is judging.


A similar pattern can be seen between male and female handwriting: the latter tends to reflect the shapes of letters as taught much more closely than male writing, yet people are less likely to be promoted if their handwriting is seen as childish, simplistic or lacking individual identity.
 If you try your best, you will definitely see an improvement in your skills. Keeping a diary or journal is a good way to practice without it feeling like a chore. Go off of the computer for a bit and write instead. Make small efforts to see large changes.


Everything gets better with practice. When you have a bit of spare time, write down everything you can. Write letters to your friends, even if you don't send them. Write notes to your friends in class; or even write notes to yourself. Think of it as doodling.
 Take it slowly at first; when you practice more only then will you get faster. When it comes to handwriting, to be neat takes time. You'll get into the habit of writing clearer and you'll be able to read what you've written. In the end it will pay off.


Write slowly and take the time to make sure each letter is the perfect shape. Speed will come later. Don't stress about it now. You have to walk before you can run. This isn't a race; you have years to perfect your handwriting skills.

