 The maxim for freshwater fishing lures is "light day, light color; dark day, dark color." This is more commonly applied to jigs, plastic worms, and crankbaits than to artificial flies, but it can be a factor with them, as well.
 Subtle color shades, such as maroon, indigo, and purple can be effective when fly-fishing in clear water. Fluorescent orange, yellow, and chartreuse flies can be effective when fished in muddy water or other conditions when fish having a harder time seeing the fly, as can black and red.


Fluorescent colors are more effective in muddy water and on cloudy days because they are made brightly visible by very short ultraviolet wavelengths of light. They are visible for greater distances than non-fluorescent colors, but are not as effective when fish show a preference for the natural color of specific bait.
Black and red can provide better contrast in both dirty water and low light conditions than can lighter non-fluorescent colors. Black, in fact, provides the best silhouette against a dark sky.
 Fly colors in nature vary according to the time of year. In the early spring, late fall, and winter, flies are usually darker in color, while from mid-spring to mid-autumn, they tend to be lighter in color. The color variations match those of their environment.
 Although they are called flies, dry and wet flies may also imitate minnows and crustaceans that fish feed on.


Pink is a good color to use when fly fishing for smallmouth bass, because it is found on creek chubs, minnows, and trout, and earthworms. This color also works on trout because larger trout will eat smaller trout, including their own young. For salmon, orange, yellow, and green often work better in the spring because they match colors found in the foods those fish feed on then.
Green chartreuse works for both fresh and saltwater fishing because of baitfish such as emerald shiners and ladyfish, while yellow chartreuse is effective because jackfish, shad, and herring all feature the color yellow.
One small freshwater crustacean, the scud, appears brown, olive, or tan; flies in these colors work well to imitate the scud when fished in slow, slight movements. When the scud dies, it may change to a brighter color such as pink, orange, or yellow; flies in these colors may work better when fished to simulate a dying scud.
Multi-colored flies should have the darker color on top of the lighter color, because this is the way the baitfish or insect the fly is imitating is usually colored.

