 Always be considerate and conscientious. Make sure your conversation is appropriate and that you make others feel welcome in your presence.Use your sense of humor. However, limit off-color jokes or statements. Don’t joke about things that may offend strangers or acquaintances.Have good manners. Poor manners can make people uncomfortable, especially when eating and drinking.Be considerate of others. Hold open doors for others and pull out their chairs. Don’t make them uncomfortable, but let them know you are trying to make them feel welcome.Come with a gift if appropriate. When you are visiting someone’s home, come with a gift. It can be small, but you want to have something you can present to your host or hostess to show your appreciation for being invited., Many people are nervous in social situations. Putting yourself in their shoes can ease your own nerves as well.


Know who others are and how they may feel. Try to remember each person you meet and how and why they are there. This will tell you something about their own comfort level.
Realize that uncomfortable situations are nobody’s fault; they are just a fact of life. Think of things from their perspective if you're in an uncomfortable situation.
Pay attention how much eye contact others are giving you. This may tell you how comfortable they feel and how much they are engaged.
Look at other’s body language. See if their arms and body is closed, or crossed, or open and available., Make sure you consider what you should say before you start talking. Don’t let it paralyze you, but also don’t say anything you may regret.Try taking a breath or counting to three to yourself before responding to someone. Give yourself a minute before you speak.
Clear your head to avoid saying something regrettable. You don’t want to create an uncomfortable situation.
Avoid controversial topics. Don’t talk about things like politics or religion. Those subjects are based saved for close family and friends., Don’t try to act like you’re perfect. Instead, admit things about you that show you’re not pretending to be perfect.Try to share truthful things about yourself. This will show that you are not only concerned with making you look good.
Use self-deprecating humor. Making fun of yourself can be a good way to make sure others will not.Don’t put yourself down too much. Otherwise, you seem like you are not confident.
 Share things about yourself that others may be interested in.


Talk about things that make you proud. You can share things about work, school, or your life that you feel good about.
Contribute to the conversation. Don’t start talking about something that does not relate. Instead, let your contributions flow naturally in the conversation.Make an effort to talk to others. People like others who share and talk to them.
 Don't be afraid to call and ask a friend to help you with a sticky situation.


Talk to people you know at parties. This can be a good way to meet others that they may know.
Try not to gossip with friends. This will alienate other people from you.Make sure to not talk exclusively to people you know. Otherwise, you’ll never meet new people.
 Make sure you are wearing something that is appropriate for the occasion. It’s always better to be overdressed than underdressed.


Gauge how to dress appropriately. Keep in mind what type of social situation you’re going to and dress accordingly.
Use common sense. Don’t wear anything strange or out of place. You want to look your best, not draw unnecessary attention to yourself.
If you end up overdressed or underdressed, make sure that you still look good. Being confident in your dress may make you look appropriately dressed.

