 Use a notebook to keep a record of your activities for a week, in order to recognize wasteful patterns, such as overspending or overcommitting yourself to too many things. By writing about what you focus on each day, you'll gain an appreciation of what is wasting your time and energy. The first step to changing your habits is to take note of them., It's easy to discount the value of money and to spend it without any planning. Setting aside a portion of your income each month to put into a savings account can help give you more financial freedom. Create budgets for each of your needs, such as housing, groceries, bills, and your social life.Save money by setting a realistic spending budget and by making goals to save for bigger expenses. Save spare change in a jar, and then bring it to the bank when you have filled the jar with coins.
Mark bills and other payment deadlines on a calendar so that you are never caught off-guard by a big expense. Preparation is key to financing your future.
 Evaluate your environmental impact by factoring in electricity use and gas use, along with any efforts you make to recycle and reuse materials. Think of ways to cut back on any waste of planetary resources. Try walking or riding a bike to work instead of driving, for instance. Much of what we use can be reused or recycled. Used objects can also be repaired or passed onto a friend or sibling., You can reduce the amount of water you are wasting by turning it off whenever you are not actively using it, such as while brushing your teeth. Be sure to fix any leaks in faucets or toilets right away. Take short showers and limit water usage while rinsing dishes, using only what is necessary to clean. Your utility bill will surely thank you, and your carbon footprint will be reduced as well., Clean out your fridge each week and keep expiration dates of food in mind. Creating lists before you head to the grocery store can prevent needless purchases and later waste.In the US, about 40% of food waste is generated at one's home. Be sure that you are only purchasing what you need and will eat.Ask for food to be packaged if there is any leftover when you go out to eat. Any uneaten home-cooked meals can also be stored as leftovers. Stock up on plastic wrap and tupperware containers for easy storage in your fridge. Eat leftovers in a timely fashion to avoid the spoiling of food.