 It’s good to start with a good, clean base before applying any makeup. If you apply an overnight moisturizer before bed, you’ll want to make sure it’s off your lids completely before starting to apply makeup. You can use a gentle facial cleanser or just lukewarm water to rinse off your face and eyelids. Pat your face dry with a clean towel, making sure not to rub and potentially irritate your skin.
 It can be tempting to skip this step and start applying your gorgeous cream shadows, but this part is so important. A make-up primer will help to create a smooth base for your eyeshadow. It gives your cream shadow something to adhere to, which will help prevent smudging and creasing.Gently dab the primer onto your lids with your fingertip. Allow it to soak into your skin for a minute or two before proceeding.
 After you’ve applied your makeup primer, dust your lids with a mineral veil or your favorite matte powder. You don’t want to use much – just enough so that the creamy shadow has a dry base to stick to.You can either brush the powder on very lightly with a small shadow brush, or pat it on with your fingertip., With cream anything, whether it be lip product, blush, or foundation, you should choose a synthetic brush over a natural brush. Natural hair brushes are fluffy, while synthetic brushes are flat and easier to manipulate in cream product.Synthetic brushes will help the cream eyeshadow go on smoothly and evenly.

Choose a synthetic brush over applying the shadow with your fingertips, too. When you apply the cream shadow with your fingers, you are more likely to create unsightly streaking. The oils on your hands can also cause the shadow to crease more easily, as well., To apply the cream eye shadow, begin by brushing the product into the center of your lid. Blend the color across your lid, staying below the crease. Continue reloading your brush with product until you are satisfied with the intensity of your eye shadow. Make sure you’ve covered your entire lid, from the inner to outer corners., Instead of dipping your brush back into the cream shadow, you simply want to blend the product upwards to your crease. You don’t want your crease to have the same intensity as your lid, so it’s not necessary to add any more product. Gently brush the shadow upwards, continuously blending your synthetic brush into your crease., This step is optional, but can help to make your eyes look bigger and brighter. Choose a lighter cream eyeshadow that complements your lid color. White, silver, and gold colors work especially well for this step. Dab a bit into the very inner corners of your eyes.You can use this same color to highlight your brow bone as well.
 No makeup look is complete with out sleek, clean brows. Use a brow powder or a brow gel to carefully fill in any spots on your brows where the hair is sparse or spotty. Come the hair upwards with a spoolie to make sure everything is adequately and evenly filled in.

Learn more about the specifics of filling in your eyebrows here.
 For a cohesive, soft look, you can skip your regular, go-to eyeliner and use your cream shadow for this instead. Using a small brush, lightly blend your cream shadow along your bottom lash line. This only takes a minute, and it can make your eyes look polished and masterfully made-up., The cherry on top of your eye makeup look is long, luscious lashes. Curl your eyelashes first with your eyelash curler. Then, apply your mascara. Start at the base of your eyelashes, wiggling the wand as you apply the product along your lashes. For extra volume, apply a second or even a third coat.