 Click on the Start menu and look for the Command Prompt application. This is usually found under the Accessories folder. Click on it to launch it, and a window with a DOS-like environment will be opened.;
, On the Command Prompt, type in “powercfg –lastwake” and then press the Enter key. The Wake History details will be displayed.


If the Wake History Count is more than 0, that means your computer was woken up by something.
 If the Wake History Count is not 0, the Wake Source details will also be displayed. The Wake Source will state what caused your computer to wake up.


For example, if a device attached to a USB port was the source, USB Root Hub will be displayed.
, To see the list of hardware devices that can wake up your computer, type in “powercfg -devicequery wake_armed” on the Command Prompt and then press the Enter key. The list of hardware devices will be displayed.


Some possible devices that can wake your computer include, but is not limited to, your keyboard and your mouse.
 Take note of the list of hardware devices that can wake up your computer. You will need to configure them properly in the Device Manager.
 Click on the Start menu and click on “Control Panel.” The Control Panel applets will be displayed.
 Browse through the items under the Control Panel and look for “Device Manager.” Click on it. The Device Manager will be opened and the list of hardware devices for your computer will be displayed.
 Navigate through the Device Manager until you find the possible devices that may cause your computer to wake up. Click on the triangle icon beside each device to expand the category.
 Right-click on the device you want. Select “Properties” from the menu to bring out the device’s properties.
 From the Device Properties window, select the Power Management tab. Untick “Allow this device to wake up the computer” option.


Click “OK” to save your changes and exit. The selected device will no longer wake up the computer.
 Repeat Steps 6 to 8 to disable all possible devices that can wake up your computer. If left enabled, sudden or accidental movements that affect these devices can wake up your computer.
, To see the list of scheduled tasks that have set wake timers, type in “powercfg –wake timers” on the Command Prompt and then press the Enter key. The list of scheduled tasks will be displayed.


Wake timers wake up your computer at the defined time for it to run the scheduled tasks. This can be useful if you want to run certain tasks on schedule, even without you monitoring them.
 Take note of the list of scheduled tasks that can wake up your computer.
 From the list of scheduled tasks, check which ones you really need. Uninstall or remove the ones you don’t need, and adjust the schedules for the ones you do.


Set a schedule that’s good for you and your computer. Adjusting the scheduled tasks can be done from the Windows task scheduler or directly from each of the programs.
 Click on the Start menu and click on “Control Panel.” The Control Panel applets will be displayed.
 The Power Options will be opened.
 Your computer’s power plans will be displayed. Click on the “Change plan settings” link beside the power plan you’d like to modify.
 Look for the “Change advanced power settings” link and click on it. The Advanced settings for the Power Options will be displayed.
 Navigate through the list of settings until you find “Sleep.” Click on it to expand its properties.

Under Sleep, click on “Allow wake timers” to expand it further. Set both properties under it to Disable.
No wake timers will now be able to wake up your computer.

