 A babysitter who has gone to jail or has been guilty of crimes is probably someone you want to avoid.;
, A good babysitter is 12 or up. Anybody younger might not be mature enough. The age needed will also depend on how many kids, how old the kids are,how much experience they have, etc. The age is just a factor and sometimes younger teenagers are better than older people. For example, a 16 year old who has been babysitting for 3 years and gone to babysitter and CPR courses and has a good reputation will be better than a 21 year old who knows nothing about kids and doesn't pay attention to the kids.
 Babysitters should dress casual but appropriate. Avoid a babysitter with sagging pants or anything very loose, baggy, cleavage showing, midriff, ripped up, bad hygiene, clothes with inappropriate sayings on them, anything too revealing, and just plain not dressed for the occasion.
 If they treat them badly, it's a bad sign.
 Ask them how it went. If they had a bad experience, it's a bad sign.
 The kids are the ones who are with the babysitter the entire time. If they kids throw a fit about having them as a babysitter, it's not a good sign.
 Babysitters who show up late are a bad sign, because they lack responsibility. If they, however, call ahead of time and give you a good reason, he/she is probably not lying unless he/she is known for lying.
 If they have been babysitting for a while, then asking around is a good way to decide if they are trustworthy.
 This is a sign they didn't take care of the child's needs.
 It is not uncommon for children to occasionally get minor injuries. However, any serious or frequent injuries that happened because the babysitter was not watching the child is a bad sign.
 A babysitter that breaks the rules and/or does not enforce them is a bad babysitter.
 They are a bad babysitter.
 This shows they lack maturity.
 A babysitter should always be watching kids under the age of 5 and older kids should always be in reasonable distance away from them.
 A babysitter should understand and respect your request. If the babysitter does things their way while you're gone is a bad babysitter.
 If they hit your kids, use bad words, sexually assault, or anything else you wouldn't want your child exposed to is a bad babysitter.
 If you are very concerned about this babysitter, hide a video camera in the house. Have it record everything while you are gone.
 If they have taken any, ask them if you can see their certificate. They are more trustworthy.
