 Since turmeric has been used as a skincare product for so long by so many people, it should be no surprise that there are countless recipes out there. The following is a simple, basic, general use facial paste that may be a good choice if you’re new to turmeric skincare:








Add a few tablespoons of turmeric powder to a bowl (start with a smaller amount and mix up more if you need it).
Add a bit of honey and enough full-fat yogurt or milk to create a smooth paste when stirred. Make it thin enough to apply to your skin easily but thick enough that it will stay in place.
Use it as a 20-minute face mask or for topical application on problem areas, which can range from chapping to acne to age spots.;
, If you’re trying to retain or restore your face’s youthful luster, try one of the many turmeric pastes that claim to give your skin some extra glow. The following is a simple example:


In a bowl, mix 2 Tbsp chickpea flour (besan flour), ¼ tsp turmeric powder, 2 tsp raw honey, and enough yogurt, coconut milk, or water to form a smooth but dense paste.
Apply it to your clean face with your clean fingers. Let it dry for 10-15 minutes.
Wipe and rinse your face clean and pat dry. Apply moisturizer if desired.
 Turmeric has long been a staple of both cuisine and skincare in India. To this day, many Indian brides swear by a turmeric beauty mask in the days leading up to the marriage ceremony. The following recipe draws from common beauty mask recipes:Mix 2 tsp of sandalwood powder, 2 tsp of turmeric powder, and one-half cup of chickpea flour (besan flour) in a bowl.
Stir in a small amount of almond oil and/or ghee (clarified butter) and enough water to make a smooth, rich paste.
Apply this facemask, leave it on until it dries, and then wipe and rinse it away completely.
 Turmeric skincare advocates have long championed its supposed anti-inflammatory properties, and modern science has started to uncover shreds of evidence that this may possibly be true.Try the following simple recipe as a face mask or for topical applications:








Mix 1 Tbsp of full-fat yogurt, 1 tsp of turmeric powder, and 1 tsp of raw honey in a bowl. Mix it until a smooth paste forms.
Apply it as a facial or use it topically on inflamed areas of the skin.
 Use your favorite browser to search for “turmeric face masks” or “turmeric skin care” in order to reveal a seemingly limitless number of recipes. Some of them combine turmeric with oatmeal, another food product renowned for its skincare benefits, or other common facemask ingredients like lemon juice, aloe, and rose water.You are very unlikely to see any negative effects from trying a turmeric skincare recipe. However, if you do develop any type of irritation, rash, discomfort, etc., remove the product immediately and discontinue its use. In this case, or in an abundance of caution otherwise, talk to your doctor or dermatologist first., If you have some turmeric powder, honey, and milk or yogurt in your home, you can easily make your own simple turmeric face mask. However, if you don’t want to mix up your own concoction, don’t have easy access to turmeric powder, or simply prefer commercial skincare products, you’ll have your choice from a wide range of products that contain turmeric.You can buy turmeric-infused serums, masks, cleansers, and so on; but be prepared to spend at least $25 for a bottle.

