 Yes, there are going to be days where you want to relax and watch TV, but if you spend every weekend doing that with and bowl of chips, you might end up like Hefty Hanna! When you have nothing to do, call your best friends just to talk, or ask them if they want to meet at a restaurant or a mall. Almost every time you see her, she is socializing with someone.;
, One of Hanna's favorite things to do is shop, and if you can't go to the mall because you don't have a ride, browse the Internet for cute clothes! A lot of Hanna's clothes featured on the show are very expensive, so finding similar duplicates to the clothes she wears for less money is fun and time consuming! And who knows, you might be dressing like her in a matter of weeks!

, As we know from seeing her room, she has a dress form in the corner of her room covered in magazine cutouts. This is a unique piece of her own art that really jazzed up her room. Collage is fun and time consuming, and the finished product always comes out marvelous! Only do this once you've read the magazine cover to cover, and have wrote down the handy fashion tips and products to buy in a notebook or your iPhone.
 Hanna's nails are always marvelous and have immaculate designs on them. Get creative! Paint your nails a bright solid color, and then add accents to whatever nail you prefer. Her nails are always manicured, so when you do this make sure your nails are soaked, filed, and cut.
 Hanna is very close with her mom and is always with her for at least an hour a day. Help you mom cook dinner, or invite her out to a local restaurant where you can bond with her about something you have in common.
 Hanna is really close with Caleb and whenever she is stressed or depressed, she has a loving companion to comfort her and cheer her up. This will keep you busy and prevent you from isolating due to the fact you are depressed or upset about someone bullying you or a bad test grade.
 If you can, go to the mall and buy new clothes, or go to a spa. If your at home, pamper yourself by taking a long shower or bath, give yourself a mani pedi, apply a hair masque or facial, or create fabulous makeup looks. This will keep you busy in a good way because you will end up looking best!

