 If you turn in your FAFSA in a timely manner, you may qualify for a low-interest loan called the Perkins Loans, which have a set interest rate of 5%. To qualify, you must demonstrate high financial need. Funds for these programs are given on a first come, first served basis., After filing your FAFSA, you may be offered federal student loans in place of or in addition to grant money. Student loans consist of money that you must pay back with interest in the future. Stafford loans are the most common type, and they can be either subsidized or unsubsidized. If the loans are subsidized, then the government will pay your interest while you are in school. If the loans are unsubsidized, you are responsible for paying all the interest that accrues., PLUS loans are loans given to the parents of undergraduate students, and Grad PLUS Loans are given to graduate or professional students. After filing your FAFSA, many schools require that you fill out the supplemental application for PLUS Loans, here: https://studentloans.gov/myDirectLoan/launchPLUS.action.
 Private loans may come from a bank or another private lending organization, such as Sallie Mae or College Ave. In most cases, it is best to use federal loans instead of private loans, as they have lower interest rates and various options for loan forgiveness. However, if you need to take out private loans, there are some important things to keep in mind:


Compare interest rates. Look for a loan with a low interest rate that is fixed, which means it will stay the same over time. Loans with variable interest rates may increase or decrease as economic conditions change.Look for loans with options to defer payment or make a flexible repayment plan in case there are times when you can’t afford your payments.
Ask about any fees that will be required in addition to your interest payment.
Determine whether or not the loan requires a co-signer, and if you have someone who can co-sign for you.
 It is important that you don’t neglect paying back your student loans, as doing so can negatively affect your credit. Consider consolidating your loans to simplify the repayment process. If you are unable to afford your payments, speak to your lender about changing your payment due date each month or changing your payment plan altogether. No matter what you do, don’t neglect making the payments. This will hurt your credit score and can lead you into a life of debt.