 Clear skin is always a must if you want to look like a "Mean Girl" while in Girl Scouts. Buy facial wash products such as Proactiv, Neutrogena, and Clean&Clear.;
, Buy makeup from brands such as Covergirl, Rimmel London, and Revlon at your local Walgreen's or other drugstore. Buy eye shadows that work for your skin tone. Some possibilities for this particular look could be "baby colors" such as baby blue, baby pink, yellow, white, and nude eye shadow. Buy liquid eyeliner, especially the color black. Buy mascara. Use the Exact Eye lights Eye-Brightening Waterproof Mascara to make your eyes pop out. Buy lip glosses in colors like pink, clear, nude, or whatever works for your skin tone and outfit. Buy the make up to ensure you are like a Mean Girl. Take it a step further and wear the makeup if you wish.
 You won't want to look emo or like a geek! Shop at Stores like Forever 21, Easy Pickins, Rainbow, Wet Seal, BeBe, Abercrombie and Fitch, Hollister, Papaya, Daffy's, Mandee, Marshalls, and TJ Maxx. However, you do not have to shop at these stores. You can find cute, Mean Girl-esque clothing even at stores like Walmart, Target, and - yes - even thrift shops! You never know who donated something there. Maybe it was even a "Mean Girl" like you. Channel your inner "Mean Girl" look. Shop at stores you like and buy things you like. Wear the clothing if you wish, it's less important than buying the items obviously.
 Buy purses from Juicy Couture, TJ Maxx, and Marshalls. Never buy a fake designer handbag. A purse can be cute without trying to look like something else! Have two basic ones and always keep them neat so you can switch them out regularly. Again here the emphasis is on having the bag, use them if you like, or just keep them on display.
 Just like the movie Mean Girls, don't buy hoop earrings! However, this is just a movie reference that you don't have to live by. If you like them, or they were given to you, and they look good with your outfit, wear them! Jewelry is something completely reflective of your personality. Popular girls shine!

, You know to use shampoo and conditioner, but you can also use hairspray, straightening or curling spray, heat protectant, or anything to go with your look! If you want, buy a "Bumpit" to be like the character Brooke from Bring It On: In It to Win It. Mean Girls can straighten their hair like Meagan Fox in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, wear it curly, wavy, up, or any other style! As long as is it's trendy, a "Mean Girl" can wear it. Cliquey girls also accessorize with bows, flowers, and big headbands for their hair.
 Mean girls always have a confident walk! This is also referred to as "the model" walk. Megan Fox in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen walks like she owns the world! Just don't fall!

, Every "clique", or small group of popular girls, always has about 4 members in the group. Remember: pick wisely about who you want in your clique! Always be friendly to them while in a Girl Scout Meeting, Camping Trip, or a Hotel Trip! You want them to want to stay in your clique! You can also pick what "style" your clique has, such as sporty, "good girl", or fashionable!

, Gossip about other girls, or what you saw that you hate or love. But do not talk like you're stupid! Don't use the word "like" too much. Don't always use the phrase "O.M.G." and other phrases like that. Also use hand motions while you are talking.
 Is there anybody from another troupe that is camping with your Girl Scout Troupe that is talking about your clothes or the way you talk? Just roll your eyes at them! Mean Girls are confident and know they look good, so don't forget it! Since you are on a camping trip or something like that, don't try to be "cool" and say something mean back to them: you will get in trouble! It is a very stupid thing to do. Mean Girls don't get caught.
 Know how to stand up for yourself. Try studying some "Mean Girls" who seem to always have it under control.
 This means troupe leaders, teachers, and parents. You don't want to get caught confronting a hater in front of someone who can get you into big trouble!

, Brush your teeth every day. Mean Girls are clean and kissable. Always have gum in your purse. Also always take a shower everyday and wash your hair if needed too.

