 This is the easiest way to organize your bookmarks and folders without skipping around multiple menus or bars. The Bookmarks Manager lets you order your bookmarks, make and organize folders, rename or edit bookmarks, and search all of your links.Make sure you have the latest version of Bookmarks Manager by navigating to "About Google Chrome" (URL: chrome://chrome/). If you don't have the latest version it will auto-update from this site.;
, This is how you adjust your settings in Chrome. Click on these bars and a small white menu will appear, starting with “New tab.”


This icon is often called the "Hamburger Icon" colloquially., From here you can see your bookmarks and do some basic organizing.


Click “Bookmark this page,” to automatically bookmark whatever website is currently open in your browser. “Bookmark all Open Pages” will make a bookmark for every open tab you have.
Click “Show Bookmark Bar” to conveniently display your bookmarks as buttons underneath your search bar.
Click and drag your bookmarks to reorder them or place them in folders.
Right-click on a link to edit, rename, or copy and paste a bookmark.
 This opens up a customizable page that lets you easily edit your bookmarks. Your bookmarks are displayed as a list in the center and all of your folders are displayed in a bar on the left. Double-clicking on a bookmark opens it up in a separate tab, while clicking on a folder shows you the bookmarks in that folder.
 Look at the folders on the left side of the screen. You will likely see a series of "nested" folders, which is when you have one folder inside of another. They will be organized into any of three basic folders. All of your bookmarks must fit into these three larger folders.



Bookmarks Bar: This is reserved for your most popular bookmarks. Anything in here will also show up on the bar at the top of your Chrome screen.

Other Bookmarks: This collects everything you have not put in your Bookmark Bar.

Mobile Bookmarks: If you've connected your Google accounts between your phone and computer then this folder will appear with all of the bookmarks you've saved on your Chrome Mobile App.
 Organizing your bookmarks from this page is easy -- simply click a link, hold down the mouse button, and drag it to the folder you want. Let go of the mouse to drop the bookmark in.
 Clicking either of the small words at the top of your bookmark manager will bring up a small menu that allows you to add new folders or links. You will be asked to name the bookmark and attach a link, or choose where the folder goes. None of these decisions are permanent, however, as you can always drag and drop them into new places.


You can also undo your past changes from this menu.
 You can also edit the link or copy and paste the bookmark somewhere else. Simply right-click and choose "Edit Bookmark/Folder" to give a description, change the URL, or rename the link.
 This is the best new feature with Chrome’s Bookmarks Manager—the search bar reads the titles of your bookmarks and words on the pages too to let you search anything. For example, if you favorited a few “Best Movies of the Year” lists and want to quickly see if American Hustle was on them, you could search for the title without clicking through every bookmark.


This is a great organizing tool, as you can search something like "Movies" and move every result into its own folder.

