 There's nothing small about small talk. Small talk is what helps you get to know people and open up to having a more serious conversation and a more personal relationship. Talking about the weather or what classes you're taking can lead to a more serious discussion about your favorite interests, or your favorite memories from a certain time of year.


To make small talk, you should work on being interested in the other person instead of obsessing over being interested.
Ask the person some basic questions like what classes he or she is taking, if he or she has any pets or siblings, or ask anything about his or her summer vacation or upcoming plans.
Learn to build off a simple comment. If the person says he hates the rainy weather you're having, you can ask what activities he likes to do when the sun is out.
Listen carefully. If the person mentions that he's from San Francisco, when sports teams come up later, you can casually ask if he's a 49ers or a Giants fan.
 Awkward silences can very easily turn into creepiness, but so can your babbling on and on about your mother, your cat, or your collection of bugs. A good conversationalist keeps finding things they have in common in a casual, non-intrusive way. For example, there's a difference between asking someone "Have you ever held a tarantula?" and saying "Have you ever felt the tiny hairs of a tarantula's legs brush up against the palm of your hand?" The latter is more poetic, but way too intimate for a first conversation.


Learn to start a conversation and keep it flowing in a fun, positive, and casual way.
It's worth repeating that you should not go on and on about unique hobbies or interests unless the person shares them or asks a lot of questions. If they only ask a few questions, that doesn't necessarily mean they're interested; it probably means they're just being polite, so don't dominate the conversation with your enthusiasm.
When first meeting someone, it's more important to listen to what they have to say than to talk about yourself.
 Work to find something that you and the person have in common -- even if it's a bit of a stretch. If you're both from Jersey, talk about your favorite summer time destinations in your state or ask if you played on any competing sports teams; if you found out you both went to the same college, then talk about any extra curricular activities or Greek life activities you both might have been involved in.


Don't make it too obvious that you're trying to do this -- asking the person to list his ten favorite TV shows or bands will make it sound too obvious.
It can be very simple. One thing you may have in common can be that you both think the bar you're in has an amazing beer selection.
Though it's advisable to stick to having a positive interest in common, you can always find common ground over your mutual hatred of Justin Bieber or your history teacher too.
 To keep a conversation flowing, you can occasionally complement the person you're talking to. Saying something like, "Wow, it sounds like you're really managing to keep a lot on your plate with work and school" or "I love those shell earrings" can help make the person feel appreciated. Saying, "You have the most beautiful eyes I have ever seen" or "I've never met anyone with such incredible legs before" will send the wrong message.


Be sparing with complements when meeting a new person. Just complementing one personal item or one personality trait throughout the course of a conversation will make you sound polite, but not creepy.

