 Start to carry cash in a variety of denominations with you when out shopping. Buying everything with cash will make the transactions seem more real. You’ll actually have to count out the money that you’ve earned instead of simply handing over a piece of plastic. If you give yourself a certain amount of cash to spend each week, you can also start to budget.Studies have shown that people will spend twice as much on the same item when they pay with a credit card instead of cash.If you are trying to avoid spending any money at all, you can leave your entire wallet at home as well.;
, Make all of your cards inaccessible by cutting them in half with scissors. Make sure to keep one with a higher limit intact, just in case you have an emergency. You might want to give this card to a trusted friend or family member for safekeeping. Also, clear out all saved credit card information from your computer to keep you from making online purchases.Cutting the cards up is enough, you do not need to formally close out the accounts. Closing a charge account can have a negative impact on your credit score.It is okay to leave cards active online in order to pay recurring bills, such as utilities.
 If you see something at the store that you must have, then look at your watch and give yourself a half-hour to think about buying it. Walk around in other sections of the store or leave the place entirely and decide to come back if necessary., Before you head out to the grocery or department store, sit down with pen and paper (or your phone) and make a detailed shopping list. It should contain all of the items that you plan to purchase. As you pick up each item, mark if off the list., You can go to your browser settings and check down any particular shopping sites as blocked. This will make it more difficult to access them if the urge to shop overtakes you. You can also purchase a program, such as Covenant Eyes, which will monitor and block commercial sites from your personal electronic devices.Every week or so go through and clear out your cookies and cache as well. This will make it more difficult for companies to send ads to you via your computer.
 Go through your emails and click “unsubscribe” to any sent by companies advertising products. Look through your paper mail and call or email those companies who send you mailers or fliers for products. Keep doing this until you no longer receive these mailings., Select and delete or disable all commercial or shopping apps from your phone or tablet. You should even remove those that are linked to reward programs. Also, disable any “one-click” purchasing preferences that are activated on sites or apps, such as Amazon.