 It could be something such as: "Do you know what asexuality is?" Some people already understand asexuality, so you may save yourself some explaining and awkwardness if you ask what they know first.;
, Do this especially if you yourself are asexual. People are more likely to be receptive if you are sincere. Give a general definition.
 Some people find it difficult to imagine life without sexual attraction, so it may take a little elaboration to help it sink in.


"Imagine that an attractive person's bedroom is like a magnet. Sexual people are like metal, so their innate nature is usually to go to it. Asexual people are like plastic. There's no force driving us that direction, but we can go there if we want to."
"To me, sex is sort of like anchovies. You can eat all the anchovies you want. I don't think any less of you if you eat anchovies. But there is no way in heck I'm touching that."

, Asexual people are very diverse, and one asexual person may feel very differently from another asexual person in regards to sex.



Demisexual: A person who only experiences sexual attraction towards people they have a strong romantic bond with

Gray-asexual: Someone who has some sexual attraction, but not very much or not very often

, Asexuality can be confusing at first to people who do not understand it, and it can help if you field any questions they have.


If a question is uncomfortable to you, say "It's personal" or "I don't feel comfortable answering that." You are never obligated to provide answers!

, Most people think of sexual attraction, sex drive, and romance as part of the same package, so they may be a little confused at first as you try to explain the differences between these. You may need to explain that...



Asexual people are not necessarily aromantic. Aromantic people do not experience romantic people, and may be happily single for life. Most asexual people are interested in dating, falling in love, and marriage.

Not all asexual people are sex-repulsed. Some enjoy and seek out sex, some are okay with it, some find it unsatisfying, and others are grossed out by it.

Asexuality is not necessarily lack of a sex drive. It is possible to have a sex drive, without feeling sexual attraction. These people may identify as gray-asexual.

Asexuality is a real orientation. Asexuality is as natural and innate as being straight, gay, bisexual, et cetera. Most asexual people are asexual throughout their entire lives.
 Educating others is nice, but optional, and you are never obligated to hand-hold someone through their discovery of the letters in LGBTQIA. Feel free to end a conversation at any time you want to, and refer them to AVEN if they want to learn more.

