 Diversity is key. If you want to be popular on Instagram, you need to find a variety of things to post about. Look at the pictures that you've taken and find ways to vary those themes, and repackage the same content. Learn what kind of photos are getting the most likes and evolve on them


If you like taking food pics, that's great. A theme is good, but if you like hamburgers, nobody wants to look at three pictures of hamburgers a day. You'll lose followers if your feed is repetitive.
Instead, take pictures of empty plates, food in process, the outside of restaurants you like, menus that you like. Shake it up.
Never re-post the same picture that you've already posted, especially not the same day. If you didn't get as many likes as you wanted the first time, don't put the same picture back up.
 Instagram is notable for its filter-options that you can use on your pictures. Using them to complement the pictures that you take can help you get more followers and likes. It's good taste.


"#nofilter" is a popular tag for a reason. If you can find beauty that's real and not artificial, people like that. Think sunsets, or very colorful, high-contrast night scenes.
Filters can't make a bad or boring picture good. Experiment with different ones, but make sure the picture is interesting to begin with.
Try to upgrade your camera if you can. HD pictures always look a lot better.
Willow is said to be the filter that gets the most amount of likes, but experiment for yourself and find out which filters are most effective for your followers.
 It's possible to combine pictures together to make interesting combinations or even collages that can tell an entertaining story. Take before and after pictures and post them spaced out a little, according to what kinds of photos were included.


Take a picture of the burger you're about to eat, with some kind of comment about how you're hungry enough to eat a horse. Half an hour later, take another picture of your empty plate with the caption, "#winning."

, There are a tons of other photo editing apps made specifically to work along with Instagram. You can add additional filters and frames for your pictures, you can add funny visual tricks, and you can split pictures or combine them with other pictures. It gives you a bit more creativity to share on Instagram with your followers.Here are some popular editing apps:


Snapseed
Camera+
VSCO Cam
Photoshop Express and Photoshop Touch
Noir Photo
ColorSplash
Afterlight

, Keep it classy, or you risk getting your Instagram account cancelled. When you're trying to get popular on Instagram, keep it hovering around PG-13 at the most. In some cases, it's true that sex sells, but no nudity or crudity on your Instagram feed.

