;
, Some preschools require children to be fully potty-trained, while others may accept those whom are still continuing.
Is your child able to focus on an activity for a period? Many arts and crafts projects may take at least 10 minutes or children may be sitting in a circle listening to the leader.
How is your child's stimulation level? To a child, being in an environment with all sorts of puzzles and other learning toys, other kids, and the involvement in activities may be either lots of pressure or a positive breeze. Children with a very high stimulation level may have a difficult time listening or paying attention to simple rules or requests, while children with a very low stimulation level may not want to join or participate in activities as much or find certain stuff not appealing., Most to all preschools are four hours a day, whether it is Monday through Friday or certain days of the week.
Can you be away from your child for a prolonged time? Nursing a child since birth and seeing them go to school, even if it's preschool, is a huge emotional deal to parents as well. With your child in another place without you, you have to be strong inside as well. Children will pick up their parents' emotions very quickly, positive and negative.
 It's not a requirement, but practicing one-on-one with them by sharing food, sharing crayons, or taking turns with puzzles are perfect suggestions to increase these skills.
How much interaction does your child have with kids their own age? Play dates, taking your child to the park or playground, and infant daycare are all great starters before your child enters preschool.
How much adult interaction does your child have? Children act very differently around family members, your friends, and in public places, such as restaurants.
 You may see that your child is ready for preschool, but it is always good to get a second or several opinions.
 Your child's pediatrician may give you insight concerning your child's developmental areas, even information that you don't know about. They can also give you advice on how they perceive developments and offer advice on how to improve them.
 This is the most personal decision agreement or opinion concerning preschool. If one of you isn't comfortable with the idea or believe the child is not ready, do not force it on them to change their mind. Talk it out and think of ways to improve the cons.
 Children will act different around their own mother and around their grandmother.

