 You can make a fun strapless dress from an oversized t-shirt. The shirt should be large enough to come down to your knees.Cut the sleeves of the shirt off, and then cut the seam of the sleeves to open them up into a long piece of fabric. Lay the sleeves flat on a table and cut two identical rectangles out of the sleeves without cutting the finished hem of the sleeves. These will be the top of the dress.
Cut a straight line across the top of the shirt just under the neck line. Discard the neckline of the shirt that you cut off.
Cut the large portion of the shirt that’s left up the sides to create two identical large rectangles of fabric. These will be the body of the dress.
Use a sewing machine to sew the smaller rectangles of fabric to the bottom larger body pieces of fabric. You should end up with two dress pieces, the front and the back. Make sure you sew the wrong sides of the fabric together.
Sew the front of the dress to the back of the dress, by sewing the sides together. Then, sew elastic for under the bust of the dress. Sew the elastic onto the dress right where the top piece meets the body piece. Stretch the elastic as you sew it.
Cut any excess fabric beyond where you sewed on the top or sides. Then, turn the dress right side out.
 You can cut old jeans to create cute cut-off shorts. This is a great project to do with jeans that look new on the top but have stains or fraying on the bottom.Turn the jeans inside out to mark the jeans where you’ll cut them. Start at the waistband and use a tape measure to measure down one leg. Make a mark where you want to cut the jeans. Do the same on the opposite leg, making sure the marks are at the exact same length.
Keep the jeans inside out and use fabric scissors to cut the jeans where you made your marks. Starting at the side of one leg, cut straight across until you’ve cut off the bottom part of the leg.
Embellish your new cut-offs with by adding jewels or buttons to give your cut-offs a special touch, or you can use a bleach pen to draw shapes or lines on the jeans., You can spice up an old shirt by adding fringe to the bottom to create a stylish boho look. Use a shirt that fits well and is long enough to cut fringe from the bottom.Lay the shirt out flat and starting in the armpit of the shirt, measure where the fringe should start and make a mark on the shirt. Make a mark on the other side of the shirt as well and draw a straight line from one mark to the other.
Using the bottom hem of the shirt as a guide for the ruler, make marks at the bottom of the shirt at ½ inch intervals across the shirt. Use the ruler to draw a straight line up the shirt from the bottom to the horizontal line you already made at each ½ inch mark. These are the lines you will cut on to create the fringe.
Use fabric scissors to cut up each line you’ve drawn, stopping once you reach the top horizontal line drawn. This should create fringe on the bottom part of your shirt that are ½ inch in width. Stretch out each strand of fringe after you cut it to make it hang better.You can add a unique touch to your new fringed shirt by adding embellishments to it. String beads on the fringe and secure them with a knot for a cool boho look, or tie every other piece of fringe together to create a netted look.
 You can make a small shirt new by adding lace inserts to the sides of the shirt. The lace will make a shirt that’s too small be able to fit again.Cut the shirt up the seams on both sides. Cut the bands of the sleeves as well.
Cut two pieces of lace that’s about four inches wide and the length of your shirt side.
Turn the shirt inside out and sew the lace onto both sides of the shirt to join the sides of the shirt back together again.
 Gather eight to ten old graphic tees to upcycle into a fun, unique scarf. This is a great thing to do with your old school and sports shirts.Cut rectangles from the shirts that are eight inches wide and ten inches tall. Try to cut the rectangle to include the design on the shirt.
Take two rectangles and pin them right sides together on one short end.
Sew a line where you’ve pinned the rectangles.
Pin another rectangle onto one short end of the two you’ve sewn to add another rectangle.
Sew the third rectangle on.
Repeat these steps until you have the scarf the length you want.

