 Learn what other cleaning companies in your area are charging and for what types of cleaning. You can ask for rates as a potential client if the rates aren't displayed anywhere.;
, You cannot afford to be the WalMart of cleaning companies, i.e. the cheapest in the state. You may have to increase contract amounts for existing clients and even drop some.
 Get your script together and get started.
, Charge lower if you are at a disadvantage in attracting customers, or higher if you are at an advantage.
,,,
Decide what your "Show up Charge" is: you can set it at $90.00, ie. you will NOT clean a house for less than $90.00 - remember, you have to buy supplies, insurance, pay taxes, pay gas, and 941s. Usually the price is right around $110.00 to $120.00 a cleaning.
Have all of your residential clients COD ONLY. If you arrive and there is not a check waiting when you get there, leave and charge the $45.00.
If a client would like an invoice mailed to him on a billing cycle, charge $19.00 (Per Invoice) - Remember, you are "fronting" a service and this costs you too.
MAKE SURE YOU GET A SIGNED CONTRACT BEFORE YOU START. If you don't have one, you can have a huge mess! Verbal agreements are hard to enforce.
 Charge them $5.00 to pre-treat any stains and traffic areas, and let them know that you do not guarantee that they will come out but you will try your best.
For Residential Tile Cleaning, charge $0.50 a square foot, with a MINIMUM of $100.00 per visit.
For Hard Surface floor rehab - like vinyl composition tile flooring, charge about $250.00 MINIMUM; do not care about the size of the space, because it is an 8 hour job all night long. You need to move furniture, sweep, supply floor stripper, buy black stripping pads for your buffer, use the buffer to remove stains and old wax, and get on your hands and knees, and scrub the dirt out of the corners. After this, you do two rinses, let it dry, and apply about 3-5 layers of wax. Then once it dries, you have to wax it with a soft pad to make the surface hard and durable.

