 Chapter 7 is called a “liquidation” bankruptcy because the bankruptcy trustee can sell your assets and distribute proceeds to your creditors. Nevertheless, you might be able to exempt certain business assets in a Chapter 7.You should find a bankruptcy lawyer and discuss the Chapter 7 process.


Every business form can apply for a Chapter 7 liquidation. However, it doesn’t make sense unless you are a sole proprietor because there are no exemptions for other business, such as corporations and LLCs.Sole proprietors technically file a personal Chapter 7 bankruptcy because there is no distinction between you and your business.The bankruptcy will wipe out your business debts and also any personal debts you want to include.
Think about hiring a lawyer to represent you. People who file without a lawyer's help have much less likelihood of success.
 Each state has a list of exemptions for individuals. In a few states, you can choose between your state’s exemptions and the federal exemptions. You should find out what business assets you can exempt, which will depend on your state.Nolo has a list of state rules here: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/bankruptcy-exemptions-state.


For example, in some states, you can exempt a few thousand dollars in tools of the trade. Accordingly, if you are a plumber, then you could exempt some of your tools.
States might also have “wildcard” exemptions worth a certain dollar amount. For example, a state might let you exempt $1,000 in any asset. You might be able to use the wildcard to protect business assets.
You should analyze whether the exemptions cover all of your business assets. If they don’t, then the trustee can sell any business assets that are non-exempt. You might want to choose a Chapter 13 reorganization instead to preserve all assets.
 Because you are filing as a sole proprietor, there is no legal distinction between your business and personal debts. There’s also no legal distinction between your business and personal assets. The trustee can sell your personal assets, such as your home, to pay your business creditors.States have exemptions for personal assets as well. For example, in Texas, you can exempt an unlimited amount of equity in your home.
However, most states allow you to exempt only a limited amount of equity. You must analyze with your lawyer whether you are putting personal assets at risk by filing a Chapter 7. If you are, then you might want to file a Chapter 13 instead.
 You file for bankruptcy by submitting a petition and schedules which list your assets and debts. Your lawyer should complete the paperwork and file for you. Supply your attorney with a list of business assets and recent profit and loss statements.Make sure that you review the forms before they are submitted since you must attest that the information is accurate.
Check to make sure the exemptions are properly noted. You must state on the schedules what property you are exempting and the applicable exemption.
 If you have assets acting as collateral to loans, you might want to reaffirm the loans in bankruptcy. When you reaffirm, you agree to get current on the loan and stay current according to terms the lender agrees to.If you do, you can keep the lender from foreclosing on the asset.


However, you can only reaffirm if the equity you have in the asset is exempt. If it isn’t, then the trustee will want to sell the asset and use your equity to pay creditors.
 Sole proprietors will receive a discharge of their business and personal debts at the end of the bankruptcy process.Generally, it only takes a few months from filing to discharge. This discharge will cover unsecured debts incurred before you filed for bankruptcy.


Because you are filing as a sole proprietor, any personal debts can be discharged as well, including your personal credit cards or payday loans.

