 When you're going out at night, even if you're just going around the corner, it's a good idea to carry some form of communication, so you'll be able to be in touch in an emergency. Make sure that you've got a fully-charged cellphone in your purse or in your pocket at all times.


If you have an iPhone, set it up so your phone can be tracked via your Apple account, should you lose it, or it should be stolen.
Sometimes, it's a good idea to keep your cellphone tucked away, unless you absolutely need to use it. If you've got the brand-new smartphone, it might be more attractive for muggers.
 It's always the best bet to stick with people when you're walking at night. Man or woman, young or old, you're safer if you've got some back-up. Don't walk late at night all by yourself.


If you must walk alone, stick to well-lit areas, using reliable routes and get where you're going as quickly as possible. Call someone to let them know your travel plans, as soon as possible.
If you go out drinking, make sure you get rides figured out before it gets late. If you end up downtown at 2am without a plan for getting home, you might end up in a sketchy situation.
Avoid neighborhoods with high crime rates. Generally, you can contact the census in your area to find out which areas of your town are statistically more dangerous than others. Avoid these areas when you're walking alone.
 Try to keep in touch when you go out. You don't need to make a big deal out of checking in periodically with someone, just to be on the safe side. Let a parent, a close friend, or some other loved one know where you are, where you're going, and when you're likely to be back. At the very least, you'll keep people from worrying about you.
 While it's not necessarily advisable for everyone, learning to safely carry pepper spray or mace can be an effective safety tool, if you absolutely must walk alone regularly. These deterrents are effective against assailants, stray dogs, and more importantly can help to keep you feeling safe as you walk around.


Learn to use mace or pepper spray before you start carrying them. In many areas, it's illegal to carry these modes of defense without the proper training.Carrying concealed knives and guns can be more dangerous than safe, but if you're interested, learn to do it safely by enrolling in a personal defense course and learning to defend yourself properly., Learning a bit about how to defend yourself in the event of a confrontation will help keep you feeling safe as you move through the world. You don't need to be paranoid, and you won't have to be if you're confident that you can defend yourself if it comes down to it.


Avoid physical confrontations at all costs. The best way to win a fight is to avoid it entirely.

