 Once you’ve found a claim that belongs to you through the state’s unclaimed property database, click the pursue claim button, and follow the screen instructions.You can choose to mail in your claim. To do so, choose the mail in option when you see the provide proof page. Print the claim voucher that pops up. The electronic form should guide you through the process of filing a claim step-by-step.
This voucher will list what you need to provide to prove your claim. Send copies of the requested proof with the claim by mail. If you prefer to file the claim online, upload them to the Internet using a scanner.
If you don’t have a printer, you can request that a claim form be mailed to you. Include the name found in the database or the claim inquiry number as well as your mailing address.
 Maybe you don’t have a printer or have other questions about your claim.


Call the Department at 1-800-435-2429 (in WA) or (360) 534-1502 between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday to request a claim form. They will send it to your house if you request it.
You can also email the Department of Revenue online through their contact form.Or write to them at: Department of Revenue, Unclaimed Property Section, PO Box 47477, Olympia, WA 98504-7477.
Write the claim number on every page. If submitting online and you don’t have a scanner, use a digital camera to take pictures of your proof documents and attach them. The department only accepts file types that end in: .jpg, .xls, .doc, .pdf, .tif, .txt, .png, and .gif., Only complete this form if the business is open. If the business is closed, provide of a copy of its IRS Schedule K-1.


The IRS Schedule K-1 form lists the shareholders of the business and their ownership of it.
The business affidavit requires the signature of a notary and can be found on the Department of Revenue website. It asks you to list the total amount owed, and to attest that you are an employee or officer of the business entitled to the property.Businesses must report unclaimed property to the state if they are holding it.The state also contacts businesses if it thinks they possess unclaimed property. They are required to send written notice to the owner, if known.
 There are special rules for owners who want to reclaim securities. It’s specified in legislation that passed in 2011.


The department is supposed to sell securities as soon as practicable when it receives them. If you file a claim, and the Department has not ordered the securities sold, you can have the securities returned to you or choose to receive the net proceeds of a sale.
If the Department has ordered a sale, you can choose to receive the net proceeds as of the date of the sale.
Basically, the securities are thus converted to cash if sold. You are entitled to that cash if you are the owner of the securities or the owner’s heir.

