 Drink 8 glasses of water if you are an adult. For children, the amount of water depends on body weight. Water helps mucus in the lungs to become more liquid. Water or fluids helps mucus to be brought out of the lungs and the nose and mouth more easily. This leads to better breathing., Regular exercise and physical fitness training help our pulmonary cope with disease. In most individuals who exercise at sea level, the lungs saturate arterial blood with oxygen more effectively than those who don’t. This means, if there is breathing limitation due to exercising at high altitudes, or to having exacerbation of asthma or other types of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, those who actively exercise may have extra ventilation that can be called on.Walking, running, swimming, and cycling are all excellent ways to restore your lungs’ strength. Before you exercise, begin by stretching and bending. Each exercise session should last about 20 to 30 minutes. Stop if you feel short of breath or have palpitations., Smoking is known for being dangerous to health. It is even worse for you if your lungs have been stricken by pneumonia. One effect of nicotine is constriction of the terminal bronchioles of the lungs, which leads to airflow resistance into and out of the lungs. When you are already having trouble breathing, you certainly don’t want you lungs to become even more constricted.Nicotine also paralyzes the cilia, or the hair-like projections found in the cells that line the airways. Cilia help remove excess fluids and particles--paralyzing them will stop them from helping you remove excess fluids in your airways caused by your pneumonia.
Another effect of smoking is the irritation from the smoke itself which causes increased fluid secretion into airway passages.
 Even when you think you’re all good, you shouldn’t stop taking your antibiotics unless your doctor tells you to do so. People who suddenly stop taking these meds or who do not take their meds on time put themselves at risk for drug resistance. This means antibiotics may not be as effective as they could have been if you don’t follow your doctor’s prescription., Good nutrition helps fight illness and a good balanced diet can give you the vitamins and minerals you usually need. For a little boost, intake of multivitamins or a tablet of Vitamin C once a day may help your immune system.


Adequate amounts of vitamins such as A, B complex, C, E, folic acid, and irons such as iron, zinc, selenium, and copper are required. These vitamins and minerals act as antioxidants and help the immune system fight diseases, especially infectious ones like pneumonia.
Zinc sulfate is helpful in the reepithelialization, or in the repair of the lining of your airways.
Vitamin D and beta-carotene supplements can also boost your immune system.