 Just about any spicy materials will keep rabbits away. Always dilute them in soapy water to minimize harm, and so they will stick to the plant. Here are appropriate amounts to add to 1 gallon (4 liters) water:Five to eight cloves crushed garlic
1–2 tsp (5–10 mL) crushed red pepper
A few grinds of black pepper
A mixture of the above may work best of all.
 Rabbits dislike the smell of raw eggs, although they may get used to it over time. Shake the egg in a spray bottle and spray it onto the plants or around the border to your garden.


This may attract other pests, such as ants., These are available from gardening supply stores, for sprinkling on the soil around plants. Made from ground animal parts, they may keep rabbits away. These break down quickly when wet, so they are more effective in dry conditions.Blood meal adds nitrogen to the soil, promoting green, leafy growth. Apply only during the growing season, and never to legumes.Bone meal adds phosphorus to the soil, promoting root health. This is usually not necessary in home garden soil, and may even be detrimental if phosphorus is already high. Do not apply to Protea plants.
 Spraying predator urine around a garden can keep rabbits and other prey animals away. How effective this is varies greatly depending on predator species, rabbit species, diet of the predator, and other difficult-to-find variables. Unfortunately, research on this topic is limited, but coyote and fox urine are the most commonly used options.


You may wish to research the company before buying the product, to find out whether the urinating animals were humanely treated.
 Most of these products use similar ingredients to those described above. Check the label for information on weather resistance, since this is the main advantage over home solutions.
 This is usually an unreliable solution, and requires either replacing all tasty plants or planting a barrier around the entire garden. Some plants will still be eaten by young rabbits, or certain rabbit species.


Ideally, get specific advice from a local university extension, to find plants that grow in your climate and deter rabbit species in your area.
Yarrow, foxglove, digitalis, lilac, elderberry, and yucca have all been described as rabbit-proof plants — but again, this is no guarantee.