 It's always a good idea to check the local forecast whether on TV, on the Internet or in the Weather section of the newspaper. If it calls for rain in the afternoon, get an early start. If it'll be wet in the morning, plan to spend the afternoon outside instead. Websites like Weather.com have helpful hour-by-hour forecasts and live radar maps of almost every city in the state.;
, Temperatures in Florida will obviously vary by season, but you can't rule out the possibility of a surprisingly mild day or cool night, so it wouldn't hurt to pack a sweater or even a pair or two of long pants and shoes that don't expose your feet.
 These storms happen almost every day (usually during the late spring and throughout the summer) and produce torrential rain, sometimes gusty winds, and spectacular lightning shows. For this reason, it's no wonder Florida has been dubbed as the Lightning Capital of the United States.
 The climate in Florida is warm year-round, but during the summer it will be especially hot and humid. Remember to drink plenty of water and rest in the shade frequently so you don't get weak or ill from the sometimes overwhelming humidity.
 The sun in Florida is especially powerful and will burn unprotected skin within a matter of minutes, especially during the summer and when the sun is directly overhead and at its strongest. Young children and elderly people will burn even more quickly than average adults, so it's wise to apply a strong sunblock (SPF 50 and over is a good idea) when you first set out and to keep reapplying several times throughout the day.
 They will usually affect areas along the coast of South Florida (like Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Key West, Naples, etc.), but by the time a hurricane is imminent most vacationers have already left to avoid getting caught in the middle of it all.
 While you should always be cautious, Florida is a beautiful state and there is a lot to do, from spending a day at the beach to exploring the theme parks of Walt Disney World. Just focus primarily on having a good time, and when the wet weather does happen, it will typically be brief and remain dry throughout the rest of the day.

