 A typical privacy screen project calls for several pieces of pressure-treated lumber, including multiple 4”x4” (89x89mm) posts and 1”x4” (19x89mm) and 2”x4” (38x89mm) boards. You'll also need some strong fasteners rated for outdoor use, a standard hammer or electric drill and a gallon of paint or wood stain to achieve an aesthetic finish that matches the look of your home. Compile a list before making a trip to your local home improvement store so that you can acquire everything in one trip.It will also help to own or have access to a circular saw and Kreg jig, though these tools are not required.
In most cases, you can find all the materials you need to construct a simple garbage can enclosure for less than $100.;
, Run a tape measure from one end of the receptacle to the other, then repeat on the perpendicular side. Add 5-6 inches (approximately 12-15 centimeters) to both measurements to provide for adequate clearance. Your can make your enclosure as roomy or as space-efficient as you see fit.The idea is to approximate how much square or rectangular space you’ll need to conceal one or more garbage cans entirely without obstructing your access to them.
Write down the measurements you take so you can refer to them when cutting the lumber to size.
 The boards that will form the frame’s upright supports should be slightly taller than the receptacle you’ll be covering, while the connecting horizontal pieces should correspond to the length measurements you took earlier. Make sure the cuts are consistent so that the finished screen won’t be misaligned. Sand rough cut edges to smooth them out.The exact dimensions of the enclosure will depend on the size and number of receptacles you’re trying to block from view.
Most home improvement stores will cut lumber for a variety of projects at little or no cost. This will be extremely helpful if you have no means of sawing the boards on your own.
 Nail or screw the shorter horizontal boards between the longer vertical supports at the top and bottom. You should be able to see the basic outline of the screen beginning to take shape. Leave the center of each frame section open for now—you’ll be overlaying these with a wooden lattice or slats later on.A Kreg jig can come in handy during this task. Subtle pocket holes will hide a profusion of screwheads and give your screen a more natural, organic look.
 At this point, you can halt construction just long enough to brush your building materials with an attractive finish. Stretch out a dropcloth or plastic tarp and place the frame sections on top to prepare your work area.It will be much easier to paint the screen’s individual components before they’ve been pieced together.
You can also rest the wooden pieces on a pair of sawhorses while you paint for added neatness and convenience., Clean the surface of the wood with soapy water before applying your finish to ensure that it will hold. Go slowly and use long, smooth strokes to maximize your coverage. Apply two coats of paint for a bolder color and greater durability. Stain unfinished wood until it reaches the desired depth of detail.Choose a semigloss acrylic or latex paint formulated specifically for outdoor use. A smoother type of paint will repel dirt and help protect the wood from precipitation and general exposure.Paint the screen in a shade that complements the color of your home, or use a light stain to emphasizes the rustic charm of the wood you’ve chosen for the project.When using paints and stains, always work in a well-ventilated, open area to avoid inhaling irritating fumes., The finish will need to be dry to the touch before you proceed to piece everything together. This will ordinarily take anywhere between 2-5 hours.Check the label on the paint or stain you're using to get an idea of exactly how much time it will require to properly cure.
The wood may require more time to properly cure if you applied the finish during wet weather conditions or live in a climate with a high humidity.
Frequent exposure to moisture can cause wood to swell, split and rot. Consider adding an additional sealant if you think precipitation might be an issue., Once again, the exact size, number and dimension of the slats is largely up to you. Measure the total area of the frame’s inner edge and divide that number by the average width of the slats so that you’ll have an idea of how they should be spaced.Be sure you’ve purchased enough materials to provide slats for each section of the screen.
 Rest the cut 1”x4” (19x89mm) boards across the frame laterally, then nail them into place. For lattice screens, place the precut lattice over the frame on what will be the reverse side and fasten the edges using nails or staples. Now all that’s left to do is fit the separate sections together.Nail the top and bottom corners of each slat to make sure they'll hold.
You won't need to fasten every strip of a lattice individually. Instead, work your way down the strips, nailing or stapling every third or fourth one.
 Line up the frame sections in the correct orientation. On a basic two-paneled screen, the sections should form a right angle. If you’re constructing an enclosure from three or more sections, arrange them to make a “U” shape or square. Secure the edges using nails or wood screws.Use a clamp or a dab of wood glue to hold the pieces of the frame together while you prepare to fasten them.
Fasten the frame at the top, bottom and along the middle for increased stability.
 Take things a step further by installing a few extra pieces of hardware. After installing a door, your trash receptacle will be completely invisible to nearby onlookers. Jointed frame sections will allow you to adjust the position of the screen as you please, which may come in handy for beautifying areas that are oddly shaped or change frequently. Offset your hinges roughly 6-10 inches (approximately 15-25 centimeters) from the top and bottom of the door or jointed panel.
Larger areas can create an opportunity to include more elaborate features, such as a swinging gate.Ornament the door of your privacy screen with a stylish set of knobs, handles or pulls.
 Set up the finished screen and enjoy the newfound curb appeal it offers. Make sure you’re able to slide your receptacle in and out of the screen with ease. Now you’ll never again have to deal with seeing piled up rubbish laying out in the open!L-shaped screens can act as an extension of your home to hide unsightly trash from your neighbors.

