 Many of these people, particularly on social networking sites, have fake personas or limited information. Often these people don't bother with about me sections as it opens too many traps for them to be caught out in. Does it seem too wooden or stereotypical? For example, somebody posing to be a teenager will include only the current most popular bands and keep interests generic (hanging with friends). If it's somebody you know, they will more than likely list interests that are opposite to their real interests, but let themselves down with telltale phrasing and punctuation.;
, Do their friends consist mostly of a particular demographic of people (young, good-looking girls for example). Do any of their friends appear to know them? Are they tagged in any pictures? Are they scattered across the country... or are they purely from one place? Do they have a lot of puzzled comments asking who they are/why the add? Have they hidden their information feed? None of these factors are foolproof; but if the profile ticks a few of these boxes, there's something odd about it.
 Often to which they sweet-talk 'I thought you looked gorgeous babe' etc. On this note, also beware of comments such as I've seen you around campus or didn't we get chatting at that party last week? Remember, if you regularly change your status and they've been lurking they could know what you've been up to, to which they could construct a story that sounds plausible. If they have no mutual friends or events, this is far-fetched. If they do have mutual friends, ask if anyone knows or remembers them. If they're claiming to be from your community or to have ran into you at a social event, somebody will know them, or there will at least be faces and names you recognise in their friends. If they're making you feel threatened or unnerved, don't be afraid to check college systems for their names.
 If they know any of your insecurities or weaknesses, they have a tool of which to play you by.
 They will often shower you with compliments, and are very eager to move things on quickly. Don't believe somebody online telling you they love you - They don't know you. they aren't going to buy you a diamond ring worth millions and whisk you away to the Bahamas, and you cannot tell if you're somebody's soulmate online.
 They will often try to arrange meet-ups in obscure places, putting you at a disadvantage... or insist on picking you up/ 'taking' you somewhere. if you are going to meet somebody online, make sure it is in a familiar busy place, that you can easily leave and that doesn't put you at a travel advantage. Don't go anywhere quiet with them. Tell somebody where you are going, and if it makes you feel more comfortable arrange to have a friend stay close so they can 'bump into' you in emergency. If somebody is genuine, they will accept all these rules.

