 If you are good at drums, drum. If you've got the aggressive vocals and ability to scream, sing.;
,, always look for friends that have decent skill with an instrument and time for the band. IF you can't, look around the internet for musicians in your area.
 Once you're good enough you can start to write your own music. It is suggested that you start out covering other metalcore bands to get a feeling for the genre. Start with Hatebreed, Converge or I Am War.
 A good vocalist is important.He should be able to perform screams at an enjoyable level using correct technique. The screams should fit the music and mood. Avoid inhale screaming.
 Needless to say lead guitar is vital to your metalcore band. He should be able to play solos and pretty much know his way around his guitar.
 The rhythm guitarist, or what I like to call 2nd guitar is usually misconceived as the "the other guy". Musicians looking to be in metalcore bands need to realize 2nd guitar is extremely important in this genre and most metal and rock in general. They don't have to just play the power chords from the chorus. They give the guitar parts harmony and maybe a tad dissonance (which is good for the genre!). They are like Yin and Yang (as it relates to the driving force of metalcore which is the guitars). But even if you're rhythm guitarist isn't at the same level as lead, it's a great way to have him learn new stuff along the way without embarrassing himself live.
 Some also might think bass is "just another guitarist", but in metalcore, bass is vital almost more vital than lead guitar! It gives us the "oomph". You know. The heavy feel. Metalcore is heavy music so you need bass! The bassist is also the 2nd biggest part of a BREAKDOWN! And even if you don't know how to play incredibly fast bass parts (it would be cool if you could though), all you need is a sense beat and good strumming.
 A good drummer is normally what you NEED to worry about when starting a metalcore band. He NEEDS to know double bass. Although, he doesn't need to overdo it or need to know how to do it insanely fast (but it's good if he does know), but it's a skill every drummer in the genre use. But if your drummer sucks at double bass. fret not! You could always try an Underoath kind of style. No double bass. More kind of a hardcore punk feel. Your drummer is also the most important part of a breakdown. Bass is next. Then guitars. FOLLOW DRUMS!

, Synthesizers and programmed laptop beats are becoming more commonplace in this style of music. Current purveyors of Electronicore are Asking Alexandria and Enter Shikari from England, Motionless in White and Attack Attack! from the United States and We Butter the Bread with Butter from Germany. While they and others groups use keyboards in different ways, if you want to include electronics in your band, listen to these bands to understand their appeal.

