 Spray water on the moss, peat, or other material you've placed at the base of your tank whenever it starts to dry out. Keep this material moist at all times.If you can't spray every other day at least, you could leave an ice cube in the tank, or a rag or sponge soaked with water.
 The snails may stay healthier if you spray them with water every day or two, but pay attention to water temperature. Spray with warm water in cold weather, and use room temperature water during hot weather or if you have central heating., Most snails are not picky eaters, and will enjoy most types of fresh fruit and vegetable. Wash all food thoroughly in clean water before you give it to them, and cut large vegetables into chunks or slices.Some foods, such as carrots and potatoes, may need to be boiled for a few minutes to soften them slightly. Always let cooked food cool completely before giving it to your snails.


Some snails may eat raw meat, raw eggs, brown bread, or (soaked, but uncooked) oatmeal. Experiment to give your snails a varied diet to increase the chance that they are receiving all the nutrition they need., Not much research has been done on the best nutritious diet for snails, and there is disagreement among snail owners about which foods may or may not harm the snails. Here are a list of food ranging from the most to least dangerous:Salty foods could kill your snails. Avoid anything with salt crystals on it entirely.
Avoid pasta, rice, and millet. These starchy foods can potentially cause blockage in the snail's digestive system. Do not feed them to your snails.
Homegrown plants may be exposed to car exhaust while growing, which could cause harm.
Acidic foods such as citrus fruit, tomatoes, and kiwi fruit may or may not harm snails. Use them in small quantities along with other foods.
 You can use any source of calcium as long as it is clean and washed. Egg shells or discarded snail shells in your garden will work for the average pet owner. If you are trying to breed snails you may wish to buy more concentrated calcium sources from a pet store, such as cuttlefish bones or pure calcium supplements.Have a source of calcium available in the tank at all times. Replace it whenever it runs out, but use calcium supplements with greater than 20% calcium sparingly., Clean a snail with a toothbrush whenever their shells get dirty. Do not use soap and brush gently to avoid damaging the shell. Pour a few drops of water onto the shell to help remove stuck-on soil.
 Pick up the snails gently by coaxing your finger underneath their head, then place them on a towel in a temporary container. Remove the old soil to discard in the garden. Use a wet, slightly soapy sponge to scrub the walls and base of the tank to get rid of snail slime marks and scum. Rinse the tank carefully to make sure every trace of soap is gone, as it could harm the snails.


Don't leave the snails untended if the container is small.
Do not shut the snails in a container without air.
When replacing the soil and other materials in the clean tank, follow all of the steps described under Making a Snail Home

