 Remove the tofu from the package and drain the liquid. Cut the tofu into ¼ inch or .65 centimeter thick slices. Line a plate with 4 paper towels. Place the tofu on the paper towels and then place an additional 4 paper towels on top of the tofu. Use your hands to press the tofu.

You can repeat the pressing with new paper towels until very little water comes out of the tofu when you press it.
You can also use clean dish towels instead of paper towels.
 Once you have pressed the tofu, you will need to cut it into strips. Using a paring knife, cut the individual squares of tofu into thin strips. The strips should be about into ¼ inch or .65 centimeter thick., Put one teaspoon of olive oil in a medium sized frying pan. Place the pan on the stove burner. Turn the heat on the burner to medium., Add two diced shallots to the hot oil in the frying pan. Fry the shallots over medium heat until they begin to brown. This should take about 3-4 minutes., Place the strips of bell pepper into the frying pan with the shallots. Cook the pepper along with the shallots for an additional 4 minutes., After you have cooked the shallots and pepper together for 4 minutes, add one tablespoon of maple syrup to the frying pan. Continue cooking the shallots and pepper with the maple syrup for 1 minute., After you have cooked with maple syrup with the shallots and pepper for 1 minute, add the remaining ingredients. Place the strips of tofu, 1 tablespoon of nutritional yeast, and 1 tablespoon of soy sauce in the skillet. Cook all the ingredients for an additional 3-4 minutes., Take the frying pan off the heat. Add ½ cup of vegan “cheese” shreds over the top of the mixture. Allow to melt for about 1 minute. Then stir the mixture 2-3 times to incorporate the shreds., Now it’s time to enjoy your vegan Philly cheesesteak. Place the tofu mixture on a toasted bun of your choice. A ciabatta roll or traditional hoagie bun are great choices. Serve with a side salad for a quick, easy, and tasty lunch or dinner.