 Being confident helps you know that you're here to become a cool shopping freak without being insecure. Try wearing makeup sometimes, so it could help you with this step. If you can't, don't sweat it. Just make sure that you're confident like the Clover you want to be.;
, Clover is a boy-maniac, and she loves to flirt with them. That means that you need to flirt too. Get boys' attention. If you're not good at that, try going to " how to flirt " . Now don't annoy guys, they won't like it. Try being nice to them. But remember, it's not an obligation. If you don't feel comfortable doing it, it's all right.
 Clover adores this hobby and she has a great sense of style. Try going shopping with your buddies but don't buy too much stuff or you'll run out of money. Don't forget to mix and match some pretty good patterns like a dark color with polka dots.
 You don't want to redouble your year or anything just because you're trying to be like someone else. You could also try being a teacher's pet but don't push it too hard. Stay smart and study hard.
 In everything that you do, you should be unique. Yes, you could follow styles but try not to, too often. When you talk, try mixing different accents together like saying "y'all" instead of "you guys" or "oh ya" instead of "yes". Don't forget that you need to be nice and polite to people and not thinking that if you're more like Clover then you could be " ALL-THAT".
 Don't act foolish or self obsessed or you might have some backstabbers behind you. If there is a group of people you dislike , try to be a little mean if they're mean to you. Be glamorous and act like if you were a star. but, don't push it too hard or others might say that you're not yourself.
 Try mixing your style with Clover and who knows, you might even successful on it.
 If you love sports, then that's a good thing. If you absolutely hate sports, then try walking a little around the block since walking is healthy. Remember; shopping is a sport.
 So you're a little shy towards people because you think they might say; what does she want? and why is she here? To avoid that kind of reaction, stay in a group of people. If you don't have many friends that want to stay with you, try going on " How to be Popular" , it might help.

