 While you may be tempted to push your feelings down and pretend they don't exist, this is only a temporary solution. Feelings don't just "go away" if you ignore them--they come out in other, usually destructive ways.Give yourself the time and space to express your sadness.


Cry, punch a pillow, sit in your car and scream if you think it will release some of the negativity.Try not to turn to alcohol or other substances to cope with your feelings. This may work temporarily, but it may only make things worse in the long-run.
Be careful that you don't get caught up in your sadness. At a certain point, you will have to start making moves to heal. If it's been weeks and you've stopped taking care of yourself (not showering, crying all the time, refusing to see friends), then it's time to focus on feeling better.;
, Even if you think it's clear you are meant to be, the hard truth is that she doesn't feel the same. You can't control how someone else feels or chooses to do with her life.You may be tempted to try and change her mind--with passionate pleas, gifts, or even yelling--but you can't make someone feel something she doesn't feel.Keep in mind, this person is probably not trying to hurt you. She can't make herself have feelings for you, either., If you can, take a break from this person for a while. You don't have to be mean or cut him out completely, but some distance is necessary for you to put these feelings to rest.If this person is part of your daily life (like a coworker or classmate), do everything you can to minimize your contact with him. Don't sit next him at lunch, don't walk him to class.


This means minimizing your contact online, too. If you can unfollow, unfriend, or at least hide this person from your social media, do so. Checking on his Facebook/Instagram/Twitter will just keep the feelings alive.
If the person knows you have feelings for him, tell him you need some space. Ask that he respect that space so you can heal.
Staying away from someone you really like can be hard, but it's an important part of putting a stop to these feelings.
 Make a list of her negative characteristics and all the ways she’s not right for you. The very first item on that list? They don’t reciprocate your romantic feelings. For a relationship to work, both people have to be invested.You deserve someone who really wants to be with you, not someone who feels so-so or is not really interested.


Put whatever you want on the list, since it’s just for you. Maybe she smacks her food when she eats, and that would have really bothered you after a while. Or maybe she would flake out on your plans all the time and cause you a lot of pain. Write it down!
Studies show that recognizing someone’s lesser qualities can help you get over rejection faster., Rejection, especially romantic rejection, seems like the most personal thing in the world. But much of the time, rejection has more to do with the person rejecting you and his issues, than you yourself.Don’t think that because this person doesn’t like you, no one ever will.Remember that everyone is rejected at some point in their lives. This is a universal experience, and you shouldn't feel bad about yourself because someone didn't like you back.

