 You'll need to have internet access to check for and download updates. If your iPad has 4G access, you can use it to download updates, but this will count against your data usage plan.


Open the Settings app and tap "Wi-Fi" to find and connect to a wireless network.;
, You can find this app on one of your iPad's Home screens. It may be in the Utilities folder.
 You'll find this in the bottom-right corner of the screen. You'll see a number on the tab indicating how many apps have updates available.
 The app will be added to the queue of downloads. Apps are updated a few at a time.
 You'll find this button in the upper-left corner of the screen. This will queue up the downloads for all apps that have an update available.
 When an app update is downloading, the app's icon will be grayed out on the Home screen and you'll see a progress indicator for it. You'll be able to use the app again once the icon returns to normal.
 Oftentimes the "Update All" function doesn't exactly work as it should, and some apps will just display the "Update" button again. You can tap "Update All" again, or tap the individual "Update" buttons for each app.
 There are a few things you can try if your apps are not updating properly:


Double-tap the Home button to open the App Switcher. Swipe the App Store window up to close it. Return to the Home screen and open the App Store. Try downloading the updates again.
Restart your iPad. Press and hold the Power button until the Power slider appears. Slide the slider with your finger and wait for your iPad to turn off. Turn it back on and then try downloading the updates again.
Hard reset your iPad. If the updates still aren't working, try a hard reset to clear your cache. Press and hold the Power and Home buttons until the device shuts down. Continue holding both buttons until the Apple logo appears. Once the iPad restarts, try downloading updates again from the App Store., You can turn on automatic app updates so that your device will automatically download and install any available updates for the apps on the iPad.


Automatic updates will not occur if your iPad is in Low Power mode.
 You'll find this about halfway down the menu.
 This will set your iPad to automatically download app updates as the become available when you're connected to a wireless network.
 When your iPad is connected to a charger and a wireless network, app updates will download automatically.
 3D Touch only works on iPad devices running iOS 10, and you must use the iPad Pencil. Press firmly with the Pencil on the app that is waiting to download., This will move the app to the next available download spot, after whichever app is currently updating.
 The download for the selected app should begin momentarily, as soon as whatever is currently downloading finishes.