 Your wheel wells are a common trouble spot for rust developing in a vehicle. Because they tend to be dirty and difficult to see clearly, people often neglect to inspect them. Most tire manufacturers recommend that you rotate your tires every 6,000 miles (10,000 km), so as you remove the wheel from your vehicle to rotate it to another wheel well, use a flashlight to check in the well for rust. Check the areas your bumpers attach to the vehicle each time you rotate your tires as well.If there is too much dirt or mud in the wheel well to inspect for rust, use a hose to spray the area out, then check again.
Use rotating your tires as a reminder to check your bumpers for rust as well. Older vehicles with metal bumpers sometimes rust faster than the body of the vehicle.;
, Your vehicle is most likely to rust where two pieces of metal meet, particularly if there is the potential for them to rub. Rubbing will wear away the protection provided by the paint, allowing rust to form. Walk around your vehicle and inspect the areas where components meet such as in the door frame, where the hood meets the fenders, and around the trunk.Open the doors, hood and trunk while you inspect your vehicle for rust.
Look for signs that the paint is bubbling, as rust may be developing beneath bubbled up paint.
 The underside of your car or truck often takes the most punishment, and is therefore more likely to rust. If you live in an area that snows in the winter, salt and other chemicals used to treat snow and ice on the roads may increase the likelihood of rust developing beneath your car. Check beneath your car during oil changes or as you rotate your tires for signs of rust developing.Look beneath your vehicle for rust while changing your oil.

Never climb under your vehicle without using jack stands.
 Your vehicle is designed to withstand most things regular weather can throw at it. Paint, clear coats and plastic trim pieces are all intended to protect the metal on your vehicle from rusting, but over time these forms of protection can become compromised. If you notice an area of your car or truck that tends to hold water, such as a truck bed or leaky trunk, make sure to drain it or dry the water out of it.If your trunk leaks and gathers water, there should be drains that allow the water to pour out. If the water does not drain, locate the drain holes by consulting your service manual and remove whatever is blocking them from allowing the water to drain.

