 A neighborhood watch system is a group of community residents who periodically patrol the community in the interest of the safety and well-being of its residents. These systems help reduce crime in the community as well as foster a sense of pride and safety for neighborhood residents.Neighborhood watch systems are about more than simply catching or deterring criminals. For example, if your group of neighborhood watch volunteers is out for a routine patrol, they might notice a lost child or pet and help get them home. Or, they might notice smoke coming from a window of a home and alert the fire department.Many police departments are happy to offering training or conduct a meeting with neighborhood watch groups to offer tips and training. Contact your local police station to see if they offer these services., When you spend money locally, local businesses thrive. When your community has a thriving business economy, there are fewer vacant buildings and lots, which can be havens for criminals. A thriving local business scene also helps foster a sense of community pride. Instead of defaulting to a chain store or restaurant, try out your local coffee shop or cafe and get to know the owner. Not only will you be cycling money back into your local economy, but you’ll be promoting safety and a sense of community by getting to know others who work in your neighborhood.
 It’s difficult to take pride in your community if it looks run-down. As much as possible, work to maintain and improve the appearance of your community. Encourage residents to maintain the exteriors of their homes and complete routine lawn maintenance. Develop community green spaces like parks or gardens, if possible, as these are great crime deterrents.A great way to improve and invest in your community is to Start a Community Garden. Community gardens have been shown to increase neighborhood property values and build a sense of community among participating gardeners. They also deter crime by reducing the number of abandoned vacant lots., Sometimes neighborhood maintenance goes beyond what residents can do for themselves. At this point, it’s appropriate to involve city or district council member to discuss how to implement community safety measures.


For example, if your neighborhood has poor lighting, this is a safety hazard on multiple levels because criminals feel safer committing crimes in the dark, and residents out walking in the evening might not be seen and could be struck by passing vehicles. The city will have to install better lighting because it’s a major improvement project not suitable for individual residents to do themselves.
 Attend city council meetings and bring a formal list of requests with you or your community's representatives. Having your requests in writing gives your local city governance something concrete to work with. Be sure to detail the ways in which your requests will better your community by making it safer, both in terms of accessibility and decreases in crime.


Depending on your community’s needs, examples of community improvements that your neighborhood might request from local officials include the repair or creation of well-marked bike paths, youth centers, or accessible and safe playgrounds for neighborhood children to use.

