 The business owner should work personally when starting the business to assure quality standards are met, because reputation is the main ingredient for success. When you begin to hire employees, they must be trained to meet the high standard your customers will expect. Also, it is a great idea to do the things other janitorial services do not offer (i.e. doing windows, cleaning litter boxes, cleaning your refrigerator, or car), because that makes your business unique meeting individual needs.;
, Janitorial businesses can do commercial or residential cleaning. Maid service jobs become stable income. If you keep your customers happy, they will remain a weekly or bi-weekly customer for years to come.
 They have many deals such as 1000 cards for approximately $35.


It should say something like:

Ruth's Janitorial Service
Professional Cleaning
Residential
Commercial 561-123-4567


Your first customer can be an excellent reference.
 You can call them up out of the phone book, and ask them what they charge. Don't tell them you are getting information to become their competitor. Just get at least 3 general price quotes on charges. Without knowing the going price in your area, it is hard to say what you should charge. To give you an idea, most maid services in South Florida are charging $20 to $30 dollars an hour for maid service, and $30 to $50 dollars an hour for commercial.
 It is a good idea to charge a little less than the lowest price found. Maybe a promotional offer of 15 dollars an hour for the first few customers, and raise the price for new customers to $18. an hour, maybe about $2 to $5 dollars cheaper than anyone else.
 These (and the business cards) can be gradually placed on bulletin boards, passed out, or on display. You will get calls from them, but it is not enough.
 People are either interested or not interested, and do not need sales persuasion. Make calls right out of the white pages for residential, and yellow pages for commercial. Calls require a mind set of devotion --especially since you don't have a boss. Say to yourself, "I will call 2 pages out of the phone book a day, or I will make calls for one hour a day." And then plan the time you will do it, set the alarm --whatever. Without self-discipline, your business will not be successful.
 The answer machine will come on, and you can simply leave a message. If they are interested, they will call you back.


A sample message would be,

"Hello, My name is Wendy White.
I have recently started a cleaning service in your area, and I am calling to see if you "might" be interested in cleaning services?
If you are, please call me back at 561-123-4567.


And hang up unless a person answered. If they do answer, they will say no thanks, or how did you get my number, or how much do you charge. Don't worry about any negative comments. You will get positive responses. Some people will laugh and think God had you call to help them.
It is a good idea to have a 3 to 4 hour minimum. Working for one or two hours is barely worth the drive.
 They may ask what do you mean? Tell them you will clean their office, vacant houses, rental apartments, laundry and halls, whatever they need. Call dentist offices, lawyers, small businesses that have offices. Apartment complexes are excellent.
, This way they cannot blame you for any chemical reaction creating a stain. You can also bring your own products if they don't have any or don't have a preference for what you use.
