 Studies have named the sun as the No. 1 cause of wrinkles. Wear a broad-spectrum (UVA and UVB) sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30. There is no need to go above SPF 50.You need to wear sunscreen even when it’s not sunny. If you’re tanned, this doesn't mean that you’re protected from the sun. Wear sunscreen no matter what!Wearing sunscreen will not only prevent wrinkles; it will also reduce your risk of getting skin cancer.Reapply your sunscreen often — at least every 2 hours.;
, Doctors recommend washing your face twice a day — no more than that. Over-washing your face can strip your skin of its natural oils and moisture so that wrinkles appear deeper; it may even cause new wrinkles to form.Even if your skin is oily, don't wash your face more than twice a day, as it can irritate your skin and, if you have acne, it can cause further breakouts.
People with mature skin (ages 40 and up) can likely get away with washing their faces with a cleanser each night, and only rinsing with cool water in the morning., Applying a toner to your skin after you’ve washed your face can help balance your skin’s pH and keep it looking healthier. Just be sure to avoid toners containing alcohol, as this can dry out your skin.
 Many moisturizers contain ingredients aimed at fighting and preventing wrinkles. Apply a moisturizer to your face twice a day: once after your morning face-wash and once after your evening face-wash.


There is little evidence to suggest that day and night creams are particularly different; however, some ingredients in moisturizers are made ineffective by the sun. For example, retinol, a highly effective wrinkle-fighter, is rendered inactive by sunlight., The skin around your eyes is different from the rest of your facial skin: it is thinner and more delicate, quicker to wrinkle and droop. For this reason, it’s worthwhile to use an eye cream in addition to your facial moisturizer.


Look for an eye cream that contains collagen, vitamin C, peptides, and/or retinol., Some health professionals claim that retinoids are the best proven way of reducing wrinkles and other signs of aging. At first, medications containing retinoids can cause redness and peeling, but once the peeling stops, your wrinkles should be improved. You can get a retinoid cream as a prescription from your doctor.


Many drugstore skincare brands offer creams containing retinol, a less irritating form of the prescription acid, retinoid. These do not require a prescription. They vary in quality, so it’s important to know what to look for.
Retinol degrades with exposure to light and air, so choose a product whose packaging blocks out both. Seek brands that offer retinol treatments in single-dose capsules, opaque glass bottles with air-tight pumps, or aluminum containers., Idebenone is a powerful antioxidant. A recent study showed that in 6 weeks of topical use, idebenone was able to reduce lines and wrinkles by 29%., Alpha-hydroxy acids will not irritate your skin as much as retinoids, but they also won’t give you the same results. These skincare products will only subtly reduce your wrinkles., Skincare products containing vitamins A, C, and E plus beta carotene can mildly improve wrinkles., There are a variety of skin peels available both through medical professionals and over the counter.Note that the deeper the peel, the more likely it is to irritate your skin. Peels can even cause scarring and changes in skin color.,


Peels with ingredients like salicylic acid and trichloroacetic acid go deeper than glycolic acid peels; as a result, they are better at removing fine lines.
 Lasers can stimulate collagen production, making the skin look plumper. If your wrinkles are particularly deep and you’ve found that nothing else works, ask your doctor to see if this might be an option.
 If you have tried everything and are still struggling to reduce or remove your wrinkles, speak to a doctor or a dermatologist. A medical professional may be able to help you select a wrinkle-removing option that’s right for you — for example, a medication, a medical procedure, or a prescription cream.
 Dozens of studies have named the sun the No. 1 cause of wrinkles. One study even found that sun exposure was more important than heredity in determining wrinkles.Best stick to the shade!


If you must go out in the sun, ensure that you’re covered up: wear sunglasses, a hat, and at least SPF 30 sunscreen.
Particularly avoid going out in the sun between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., when its rays are at their strongest., If you do smoke, here’s another reason to quit: many studies have confirmed that cigarette smoke ages skin; it does this primarily by releasing an enzyme that breaks down collagen and elastin, which are important to keeping your skin looking young., Excess alcohol consumption can damage blood vessels in the skin. It can also harm the liver, which can cause wrinkles., When you’re dehydrated, your wrinkles can appear deeper. Staying well-hydrated will keep your skin looking healthy. If you’re unsure of how much water you should be drinking, divide your body weight (in pounds) in half: that’s how many ounces of water you should drink each day.


A 150-pound woman should drink 75 ounces of water each day.
If you exercise or live in a hot climate (i.e. if you sweat a lot), you’ll need to increase your water intake.
A reliable way to tell if you're getting enough water is by paying attention to your urine: if it’s bright yellow or has a strong smell, you’re likely not getting enough water.
 Some doctors have linked inflammation to poor skin quality (including wrinkles) as well as diseases such as cancer and heart disease.Eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables, raw nuts, whole grains, and lean proteins.Avoid foods that contain a lot of sugar — particularly processed foods.
 Antioxidants such as vitamin E, C, A, and B are essential for healthy skin. To ensure that you get enough of these vitamins, eat 5 to 7 servings of fresh fruits and vegetables each day.Some recommendations in case you’re unsure of where to start: tomatoes, citrus, green leafy vegetables, and carrots.In addition to eating foods rich in vitamin C, using vitamin C as a topical agent can help reduce the appearance of wrinkles. The most potent form of topical vitamin C is L-ascorbic acid; search for this ingredient in face creams.
, When we don’t get enough sleep, our bodies produce excess cortisol, which breaks down skin cells. When you get enough sleep, your body will produce more human growth hormone (HGH), which will help your skin look thicker and more elastic.The average adult needs between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night. Teenagers need between 8.5 and 9.5 hours of sleep each night.When you do sleep, sleep on your back if possible. Sleeping on your back can help prevent wrinkles on your cheeks and chin if you’re a side sleeper, and on your forehead if you sleep on your stomach., Cortisol, which breaks down skin cells and promotes wrinkle formation, is the primary stress hormone.Beyond that, physical expressions of stress can also lead to deep facial wrinkles: frown lines around your lips and forehead, wrinkles between your eyebrows. Try these techniques for reducing stress:


Meditate for a few minutes each day. Sit up straight on a chair or in a cross-legged position on the floor. Close your eyes and focus your attention on reciting a positive mantra — for example “I feel at peace” or “Breathe in love, breathe out fear”. Place one hand gently on your stomach to remind yourself to breathe deeply into it.Practise deep breathing. Sit straight with your eyes closed and your hand on your abdomen. Slowly inhale through your nose, imagining that you are inflating a balloon deep down in your stomach. Slowly exhale through your mouth, paying attention to how your body feels as the breath moves out of you.Do something nice for yourself. Light some candles and poor yourself a nice hot bath with some stress-reducing lavender oil. Go for a slow, mindful walk and take in the scenery around you. Watch 10 minutes of cute animal videos. Whatever makes you feel good, do it!

