 Just like when you are finding a new hairstyle to try, the safest route is to map out what inspires you. This especially helps when going to a professional because no matter how well we think we can articulate what exactly we want, the stylist may have a completely different perception. Play it safe and bring pictures your stylist can work from in order to avoid any misinterpretations.


Ask someone someone with a look that you admire where she got her eyebrows done. If she did it herself, use local review or social media sites to do your due diligence in finding a professional. Factor in method, location, and customer service into the budget you’re willing to spend.;
, Brushing your eyebrows up and out will make them look full and natural but it will also give you a sense of how long they are and what stray hairs need to be removed in order to achieve what you want.


Use a brow shaper to give you a sense of the style you want to achieve.Use hairspray on your brush to keep the hair in place as you shape it to your desired look.
 Wash your hands with antibacterial soap, disinfect tools with hygienic solution, and remove make-up with water-based makeup remover. When removing hairs there may be a chance for infection so be safe by keeping your skin and tools clean and sanitary., Tweezers are an easy tool for plucking individual strands of eyebrow hair that may have grown astray. Use a sharp and slanted tweezer along with a mirror in a well lit room to pick out any loose hairs. Slanted tweezers ensure you don’t pinch at the skin when trying to pluck stray hairs from their root. Take your time and pick individual hairs working inward from your eyebrow.A hasty approach can cause you to pluck several hairs at once making your eyebrows look patchy and cause you some unwanted pain. If you have over plucked, don’t repeat until you have given your eyebrows at least a month to grow back into its natural shape.
Use a concealer to find out how your eyebrows will look after you have plucked the unwanted hairs.Tweeze after a shower or washing your face with hot water. Warm water softens your hair and opens the follicles so that your hair is easier to remove.
If you have a lot of hair that needs to be removed, you may want to use a razor, wax, or another method that removes a lot of hair quickly. Research which method appeals to you as each have their own pros and cons.
 Trimming is the main step in dealing with your curls by using a combination of brushing, plucking and trimming to create the overall shape.Scissors can cut off curly tips that may seem unruly to the rest of your eyebrow. Research which brow scissors are best for the look you are trying to achieve and trim slowly.


Using tweezers and scissors may be tedious so don’t get stuck on minute details that can only be seen with a magnifying glass or up close against a mirror. If you have to strain to point out an imperfection then it won’t be visible from a normal distance.
Trimming is a one time deal so don’t do it unless you are confident. If you have overdone it, allow your hair at least a month to grow back before attempting it again.
 Once you have shaped your eyebrows, apply eyebrow wax to straighten out the rest of your curls. This will lock in the shape as well as straighten out the curl.If you are using waxing as a means to remove excess hairs rather than tweezers, it can be painful and irritate sensitive skin. If you are unsure how your skin will react and have the time, use professional waxing services., Apply brow gel on top of the wax to lock your curly eyebrows in the straight position. Having the wax base allows the gel to adhere to it as it keeps your eyebrows in place.Use an eyebrow stick or brush to help apply the gel over your eyebrows but avoid placing the gel on the tip of your eyebrows. Cover the area with special absorbing eyebrow film and a towel for 15 minutes but check every couple of minutes to ensure the hairs are placed in the right direction. Wipe off any excess product from the brush before applying.
After 15 minutes remove the film and towel and use a dry cotton swab to remove unsightly gel.
Brow pomade works just as well as gel. Just like hair products, eyebrow gel and pomade will hold your hair in place but provide different looks. Brow gel can make your eyebrows look and feel hard and crunchy while pomade won’t., Use massage oil, coconut oil, or even olive oil to further straighten your eyebrows. Massage in a single direction rather than circular in order to keep the straightness. Use your fingertips and repeat every night before bed.Remove the oil from your face each morning by washing your face with hot water and dabbing your eyebrows dry with a towel. Make sure not to rub but dab in order to keep the straightness.
 Employ the bristles and chemicals in clear mascara to help shape your eyebrows and keep them in place. Mascara that is the same shade as your eyebrows can fill in any sparseness if you’re attempting a fuller look., Use tiny hair like strokes when applying the colour. Eyebrow pencils that are the same colour as your hair or darker create an unnatural solid look. Give your eyebrows dimension by using a lighter colour.Don’t use your eyebrow pencil where there isn’t hair. This can draw unwanted attention to an unfavourable look.
 Do your research as these kits come equipped for a specific look. The specially designed equipment may only be used for this specific look so be sure that it is worth the investment.,