 Most game disc manufacturers do not recommend using anything but water, but that's not always going to get the job done. These alternatives below are listed with the safest methods at the top, increasing in risk as you move down the list. Always use gently motions when cleaning to reduce the chance of scratches.
 If you aren't prepared to risk damage, search online for a mail-in disc repair service in your country. These services may have buffing machines or cleaning products that are not commercially available.
 This method will not repair scratches, but should remove grease stains. Apply a dab of isopropyl alcohol to a clean cloth, and rub the disc from the center to the rim. Carefully wipe off moisture with a dry cloth with the same motions, then let sit for two minutes so it is completely dry.


Since dry cloths can cause scratches, some disc owners prefer to let the disc air-dry for half an hour or more instead.
 If the game still won't boot up, purchase a "disc repair" product in spray bottle form and follow the instructions on the packaging to clean the disc. This may be sold as a "CD/DVD repair" or "scratch repair" product.


Using a disc repair buffing wheel or other machine that comes with the disc repair product is highly discouraged, as these can cause damage.Always check the warnings to make sure the product is safe for your type of disc.
 Toothpaste is slightly abrasive, and can polish off scratches with low risk of causing more damage.For maximum safety, avoid whitening and tartar control toothpastes, which tend to be more abrasive.Apply the toothpaste as you would water or rubbing alcohol, as described above.


The toothpaste must be in paste form. Don't use a gel, liquid or powder.
 If toothpaste doesn't work, you can move on to plastic polish, furniture polish, or metal polish. These are also slightly abrasive, but because they are not intended for game discs, there is a higher risk of damage. Always check the ingredients list for "solvents," "petroleum," or petroleum based products before using, as these can dissolve through the CD and destroy it. If it smells like kerosene or gasoline, don't use it.Some people report that Brasso metal polish is effective, but this does contain a mild solvent. Use at your own risk.
 Deep scratches can be filled in by gently applying a clear wax, then buffing it in with a clean, dry cloth moving in straight lines from the center outward. 100% carnauba wax or another non-petroleum-based, clear product is recommended.