 Do you want to sew drapery? Make crafts? Make clothing? Do mending or alterations? Do embroidery or quilting?
,, Sewing machine types and quality range from very basic machines meant for only occasional mending to very high end machines meant for sewing multiple layers of upholstery material and even to machines that will embroider anything you can imagine. The costs will range from around $150 USD to $15000 USD and up., Get a good idea of what is available for what price. If you go to your local shop, you are much more likely to be "encouraged" to purchase something more expensive than what you need, not because you need the machine, but because the salesperson needs the commission.,

0-$200 USD: "Disposable" machines with plastic cams (parts) that are hard to find/replace. Common brands in this price range are "Brother", Some very low end "Singer" and "Kenmore" brands and some less well known brand names such as Riccar thrown in for good measure. If you're purchasing the machine at a department store such as Kmart or Walmart, this is likely what you are getting.
$200-$600: Average machines which will do well for the occasional seamstress, but will not hold up well long term if you are doing a lot of sewing. (i.e. more than once a week) Good name brands in this price range are Singer, Bernina, White, Janome etc. These machines can occasionally be found in higher end department stores such as Sears or JCPenney.
$700 to $2000: Machines in this price range tend to last longer because they are made from better materials and are engineered better. They also have much better availability of replacement parts for repair. Most good brands will have machines in this price range as well as in the average price range. Mid-range to higher-end Baby Locks, Bernina, Viking Husqvarna, Janome, Juki, Pfaff and a few higher end Singers can be found in this range. Machines in this range are generally not available in department stores and must be purchased either from a sewing shop or online.




 A long-arm quilting machine.

$2000 and up: Machines used by tailors, seamstresses, upholsterers and others who use their machines on an almost daily basis. Machines over $2000 USD tend to be specialty machines such long arm quilting machines, upholstery machines, and embroidery machines. Many sewing shops will rent you time on these machines for a very reasonable fee, saving you the time and expense of purchasing your own (and the space to store them).




 A serger or overlock machine.

The serger, or overlock, machine is another type of specialty sewing machine. It sews with multiple needles and multiple threads to create stitches better suited to stretchy fabrics, such as those used for t-shirts and swimsuits. It is probably not what you want for general purpose sewing. If a serger is the kind of machine you want, they also range from about $200 on up into the low thousands of dollars.
, You may have to visit different shops for different brands., Will you purchase a used machine? Will you save up for a little longer? Will you chose a slightly lower quality machine?, Often, you can get a fantastic deal on a very lightly used machine if you've done your homework beforehand., If you already know how to sew and you can get a copy of the manual, you may not need to talk to anyone about it to use the machine.,