 Be sure they are low cost. If they are too high cost, are all spells, or just won't help out in any way, remove them. Look at the new cards you draw and make sure they are good. If they are still a high cost in mana, it's best to try to exit this battle and try another one.
 If it is your turn, it is normal to just end your turn without doing anything. However, if you have something good to start off with, choose it and put it on the battlefield. A good one you can start off with is a one cost Taunt, or a one mana cost charge, such as the wild boar. You can also put down a 0 cost card if you have any.
 Some cards that have high attack or is a good spell/secret can be exciting to put down to defeat your opponent. However, your opponent usually will have spells such as Execution, (this is a spell that destroys a minion no matter if it has Taunt, Divine Shield, etc.). They can also have cards that change a minion's health to 1, which makes it easier to kill. Put down your good cards when it seems that your opponent doesn't have any more spells or has run out of cards.
 Don't always heal yourself when you have the chance to deal damage that turn. Heal it when necessary, such as when you are low on health, or a really important minion is about to be killed. Put down minions that can attack, but can restore health as their Battlecry if you really need to.
 Do not put down a lot of cards that draw more cards or discard cards. You get about 25 cards in your deck, and if you run out of cards, you will easily lose the game since when you don't have any more minions to put down, your minions will be killed, and nothing will be left to fight with.
 The Priest doesn't have many spells, so it's best to use them only when needed. Put down spells after you put down a minion if it gives ""attack"". Use spells that restore health on your hero when it is low on health, or when an important minion you need is about to die.


Choose good secrets to put down. There is a number of secrets that each hero should have. Since the Priest uses other strategies using mostly minions, it doesn't have many secrets either unless you get them using Kezan Mystic. Use them only when they're really needed since they are in short supply.

