 Babies need a lot more sleep than adults do, so it is important to make sure that your baby takes regular naps and goes to bed at the same time every night. Consider your baby's sleep needs and try to stick with a regular napping schedule to meet those needs.



Newborns and babies up to three months. Newborns and babies up to three months old need the most sleep. They may require as much as 18 hours per day, so plan to put your newborn down for a couple of naps per day. However, most newborns will eat and sleep on their own schedule, so don't worry about scheduling naps or feeding times in the first few weeks.

Babies between four and 11 months. From four to 11 months, your baby will need about eight to 12 hours of sleep per night plus a few naps per day ranging from 30 minutes to two hours long.

Toddlers. Toddlers between the ages of one to two will need about 11 to 14 hours of sleep every day. This might mean sleeping for nine hours at night and taking two one hours naps during the day., You may be able to prevent your baby from becoming too tired by knowing what to watch for in the future. If you notice any of these signs, then it may be time to encourage your baby to take a nap or go to bed. Some common signs that your baby is tired and needs to sleep include:fussing and crying
grimacing
sucking his/her thumb
looking for a pacifier
clenching fists and waving arms
staring
arching back
yawning
rubbing his/her eyes
acting clingy
throwing tantrums

, As soon as you start to notice that your baby is drowsy, put her down for a nap or to go to sleep at night. If you wait to put your baby to bed, then she may become overtired and have a hard time falling asleep., Using a bedtime routine may help to soothe your baby and make future bedtimes easier as well.Try setting up a short (30 minute) bedtime routine that you can repeat at the same time every night. Some good things to include in a bedtime routine include:


giving baby a bath
putting on pajamas
dimming the lights
reading a book
turning on a musical mobile or musical toy
giving your baby a kiss goodnight

, Sometimes babies may have difficulty falling or staying asleep due to growth spurts, teething, or illness. If your baby often becomes overtired and will not go to sleep, then talk to your baby’s pediatrician.Treatment might be necessary to improve your baby’s sleep.

