 Look through nature books or images on the internet to find a basic black-and-white outline for a butterfly or dragonfly's wing. You will need the basic shape as well as the "cells" (or smaller shapes inside the wing) to create a strong frame for your wings. Print this design out onto one or multiple sheets of paper (depending on size).


You will probably want to do two wings individually, as this will be much easier to manage than a single, unified set.
 Get a thick paper (or several layers of thick paper glue together) and place your printed wing on top and facing up. Firmly trace the outside of the lines with a pen so that you end up embossing the cardstock below.


This cardstock can be whatever color you want but black is recommended for realism and so that the wings will be easier to see.
 Cut out the design using an exacto knife or similarly strong cutting utensil. Be careful to get the lines as clean and even as you can, since the frame will be very visible.
 Use spray glue on both sides of the frame (with scrap or newspaper underneath), being careful not to get it stuck on anything. Take the glue-covered frame and place it on a sheet of cellophane.


Make sure to use cellophane and not shrink wrap.
Colored cellophane has color only on one side. You will want to glue that side so that it is facing or touching the frame. Test to know which side is which by using rubbing alcohol on a scrap or corner. If the color rubs away, this is the side that should be glued to the frame.
If you want to use glitter or paint or anything like that, do it after you have glued down the frame to this first layer.
 Place the second layer on the other side of the frame from the first. This will enclose the frame and any glitter or other additives you have placed in the cells.


Add more glue to the frame if you have not done the previous steps fast enough and the second layer will not adhere.
 Put your iron on the lowest setting and go over each side a few times. You do not want to over-iron or have your iron too hot, as this will make your wings look bad and melted.
 When everything is glued and ironed, trim the excess cellophane from around the edges of the wing.
 Take a wire coat hanger and open it up into a single line of wire. Create a loop with ears or Ichthys (Jesus fish) shape. The "ears" should be bent at the correct angle for your wings. Attach the wings to the ears.
 You can cut a hole in your costume or clothing and fit the wire loop through the hole. Bind the wire loop to the chest with an ACE bandage and you're good to go!

