 Whatever 'symptoms' you may experience which point to the oncoming of a mid-life crisis, they are perfectly real. Who could argue the opposite? So your mother didn't have one and twenty years ago she talked your father out of buying that motor bike he always wanted. That doesn't mean they didn't have a crisis. It means they ignored it!;
, Move on to the next stage in your life. If, however, the transition from one decade to the next is accompanied by nagging thoughts, feelings of discontent and growing desire for something which remains undefined and elusive, then its time to be still and listen! Here's what you should do:

, That means, trust that your body and your mind is trying to tell you something.
 No thought needs to be justified.
 If you feel any of those things, there is a reason.
 Trust that your recurring thoughts and persistent feelings and moods are there to teach you something. Until you accept and acknowledge this, they will not disappear!

, A crisis is much like a ' breakdown': It provides a chance to dismantle, to break into smaller components and to reassemble into a new whole. A crisis, scary and unpredictable as it may seem at times, serves a purpose. Don't let the crisis use you, use the crisis as an opportunity to become a bigger, better, happier person.
 That goes for the ' big' stuff as well as the small stuff. Walking out on a long marriage is the hardest thing to do and will cause heartache and grief, but only you will know if it feels right. If you feel drawn to going back to church after an absence of many years and it feels right, do it. If you want to convince your long suffering spouse to sell the nice apartment in the city to go and live on a hobby farm, good luck!

, Nobody should get needlessly hurt while in your pursuit of becoming a new you. A crisis is not a big boulder which rolls down the hill and we run away from it. We create the crisis in that part of our subconscious mind gives that boulder a little push to alert and awaken us to the fact that something- whatever it may be- needs to change. This is why a midlife crisis is a friend. It is an opportunity to let go of old habits, to learn more about the person we are, to become more active participants in our lives. So next time your friends wonder whether you are going a little crazy, say' yes'. Crazy is your new friend.

