 If you've bought a packaged black pudding, start by removing the plastic wrapping from the outside of the sausage. Lay the sausage on a cutting board and cut it into slices roughly half an inch thick using a sharp knife. The thicker slices will need to cook longer, but there will be less chance that the sausage filling will crumble as it heats.You can also begin slicing the sausage while it’s still in the plastic wrapper and remove the plastic and the skin together.Blood sausages like black pudding have a more delicate consistency because they contain very little actual meat. The oats and grains inside will not hold up as well to cooking as meatier sausages.;
, Make a small incision at the edge of each slice with your knife and then peel away the skin. Be careful not to damage the sausage as you are cutting and peeling. Removing the skin the black pudding prior to cooking will allow it to get more evenly done, and will also make it easier to eat.Use a sharpened knife to keep from mashing the sausage as you slice it.
 Turn the stove on to a medium heat and begin heating a pan large enough to hold 2-3 pudding slices. If you prefer, you can use an ounce of butter or a tablespoon of oil to fry the black pudding, though this is not necessary due to the high fat content of the sausage. Place the slices flat in the pan and let them start cooking.Black pudding will cook just fine in its own fat, much like bacon or other varieties of sausage. Butter and oil can be used for flavor and to give the outer layer an extra crispy finish.
For a traditional English breakfast, add other ingredients to the pan that can be fried at the same time—eggs, bacon, potatoes, and other sausages are all fair game., Fry the black pudding slices for 3-4 minutes before turning them. Keep a close eye on them as they cook—because of their dark color, it can be hard to tell when they are done. A properly fried pudding should be black and crisp on the outside, with a soft center slightly lighter in color.Black pudding that has been overcooked will become shriveled and hard as it loses moisture.

