 When considering nursing programs, there are a number of factors you will need to consider. You may need to apply for general admission to a university or college before you can join their nursing program. Other programs may allow you to apply directly to the nursing school. Nursing programs can be competitive, so you should apply to three or four to increase your odds of acceptance. During your search, you might consider:


Do I want to take a full time course or a part time program?
Do I want an online program or do I want to be taught in a classroom?
How much does each program cost? Am I eligible for financial aid at this program?
Is this school accredited?
What type of career planning and assistance do they provide?
Does the university have its own hospital for clinical training?
In the US: how many of its students in the past five years have passed the National Council (of State Boards of Nursing) Licensure Examination? (This exam must be passed to become a nurse in the US.)Does the clinical rotation portion of the degree have a waiting list?, There are various requirements that a program might require for you to apply. You should read through each program’s website carefully to understand what is needed to be accepted into the program.

In the US, a GPA of at least 2.5 is needed, although many programs require a GPA of 3.0. You must also have a high school diploma or GED.In the UK, you will generally need to have completed at least five GSCE’s and two A levels.In Canada, you must have a high school diploma or equivalent degree before applying to a bachelor’s program in nursing.Check to verify if your program requires you to be a certified nursing assistant (CNA) prior to applying. Many programs are adopting this as a prerequisite. Be sure to research the requirements further.
 Nursing schools can be competitive. Experience in the health or medical fields look very good on a nursing school application. Before you apply, you should volunteer at a local hospital, hospice, nursing home, or clinic.Call local health care providers, and ask them if they would interested in a volunteer. State your interest in applying to nursing school.


You can tell them, “Hi, I am applying to nursing school right now, and I wanted to get some experience first. Is there anything I can do to volunteer at your clinic?”
This type of experience can let you know if nursing is the right career path for you.
 Most applications are completed online. You may find the application for nursing programs on their website. You can also visit the campus to pick up a paper application if they are available. You may have to attach certain documents. These might include:


Transcripts from previous education
References or recommendations from teachers
Personal statement
CV or resume

, You may be responsible for paying for your own education. If you do not have the funds available, you can apply for a variety of student aid, loans, and scholarships available to student in nursing. Contact your program to see if there are any sources of internal funding that might be available to you. You might also consider:


Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)Nurse Faculty Loan Program
Advanced Education Nursing Traineeships
Nurse Anesthetist Traineeships
Nursing Student Loan ProgramScholarships