 Everyone loves winter squash soup, but a surprising, simple, and elegant late-summer soup can be a perfect way to use up some lingering summer squash you may have. It's a great way of using up as many summer squash as you want, and is perfectly for one of those mid-September cold snaps. This recipe calls for 4-6 small-medium squash, grated coarsely, and serves 3-4 people.


Use a box grater or a plane grater after trimming off the ends of the squash. Run the squash through the coarsest setting. If you want the squash more fine, run it through whichever setting you wish.
Salt and squeeze the grated squash to remove some of the water, and rinse it thoroughly in a colander. Squeeze the rest of the water out of it and prepare the rest of the vegetables.
 There's plenty of room to add whatever vegetables you like to this dish, or you can just go with a simpler squash-and-rice version if you're not a veggie-head. You've really got to try it with the following additions, though:


One inch of grated ginger
2 medium carrots, peeled and chopped
One small-medium white onion, chopped
3-4 cloves of garlic, minced
One bunch of chopped Italian flat-leaf parsley
Browned sausage or bacon (optional)

, Start in a pot big enough for a sizable pot of soup, and sauté the onions, garlic, carrots, and ginger until the onions become translucent. This should take 5-7 minutes.


If you want to add sausage, bacon, or other meats to this recipe, cook the meat in the bottom of the pan first, remove it from the pot, and return it back in 5-10 minutes before its done cooking.
 Measure out some jasmine rice, rinse it in clean water to remove dust and sediment from the grains, and add the rice directly into the onion mixture at the bottom of the pot, and stir it for 1-2 minutes, until the rice becomes fragrant.


You don't have to "toast" the rice, so this step only takes a very short amount of time. Warming the jasmine helps to bring out some of the flavors.
If you don't have jasmine rice, plain white rice, short grain brown rice, or any variety would be perfectly fine as a substitution. Use what you like.
 As soon as the rice becomes fragrant, add the squash to keep it from browning or burning. Stir the squash quickly to coat everything in the mixture, and keep stirring it for a minute or two to coat it thoroughly.
 Depending on how big your squash are, and how big a pot of soup you want to make, you can mess around with this amount. Read the directions on the rice you have to make sure you've got enough water to cook the rice to doneness, plus two cups. You can add water if necessary.
 The rice should take approximately 20-30 minutes to cook, which should be the perfect amount of time for bringing the flavors together. It's usually best to cook with the lid on the pot, slightly askew, and to lower the temperature so it's at a gentle simmer, just barely boiling.
 When the rice appears done, beat two eggs into a heat-resistant bowl with the juice of one lemon, then temper the egg mixture and add it to the soup to thicken it.


Stirring the egg and lemon vigorously, add small spoonfuls of the broth from the soup, very slowly, to bring the temperature up and cook the egg without curdling it. Go slowly and keep stirring. When the egg mixture is steaming in the bowl, it's done, and you can pour it into the soup pot, while stirring it in. This will thicken and flavor the soup.
If the idea of tempering eggs grosses you out, or if you'd rather not have them, add the lemon juice directly into the soup and thicken the soup with cornstarch or flour, if desired.
 It's important to wait to season the soup until after you've tempered it. Very salty broth can curdle eggs more quickly, rather than tempering them. Perfectly edible of course, just not quite the texture you're looking for. Season this soup with salt and black pepper.


If you want, a little cayenne also goes nicely with this basic recipe, and you can season it however you prefer.
 After tempering the soup, remove the lid and let it continue cooking gently for 5 or 10 minutes, just to let the flavors come together. Taste it to check for salt and serve with fresh chopped parsley and grated parmesan cheese on top. Serve with a lemon wedge.

