 Exercise will help reduce feelings of fatigue.Although it may seem counterintuitive to expend energy when you feel fatigued, exercise can help reduce many of the symptoms of PMS, including fatigue. Getting regular aerobic exercise 30 minutes four to six times each week will help to balance your hormones, improve your lipid profiles, reduce your risk of heart disease, and improve your overall health.


Exercise also helps to reduce stress levels and improve the quality of your sleep. Being physically active will reduce cramps and help you manage the psychological effects of PMS as well as boosting your body’s natural production of endorphins, a natural antidepressant.Increasing the amount of exercise you get during the premenstrual and menstrual period of time can help promote more deep-sleep stages that are restorative and reduce fatigue.
 Obesity is one risk factor for suffering from premenstrual syndrome, including extreme fatigue. One study interviewing over 870 women found that those who had a BMI (Body Mass Index) over 30, which indicates obesity, had a three-fold increased risk of suffering from symptoms of PMS.Obesity, although difficult, is a modifiable risk factor. This means that although a challenge, you can reduce your risk by losing weight.
By following a balanced diet that is high in healthy fats and low in carbohydrates, as well as including 30 minutes of exercise, you can lower the risk of fatigue.
 Dehydration can cause you to feel fatigued, so you need to keep hydrated. Drink at least 64 ounces (2 liters) of water each day and eat foods that are also high in water content, such as vegetables.


Although it can seem counterintuitive, the more water you drink, the less water you retain. Water retention and bloating can contribute to your mental and emotional health, which can affect your fatigue., Avoid alcohol, especially when you are close to your period. Alcohol is a natural depressant, which increases feelings of fatigue.

Avoid alcohol altogether during premenstrual time periods as your progesterone levels are higher between ovulation and menstruation. These high progesterone levels can exacerbate the effects of alcohol, or make the already depressant effects of alcohol worse, thus increasing your experience of fatigue. Test the beverages you would like to include in your diet and chart the effects on your level of fatigue., Get between seven to nine hours of sleep each night.Research has determined that these are the hours needed to reduce fatigue, improve health, and increase productivity.


However, PMS can cause sleep disturbances which contribute to feelings of fatigue.These sleep issues are related to the fluctuating estrogen levels in the body during menstruation.
If you have a hard time sleeping when you are premenstrual and menstruating, practice stress reduction strategies to improve the quality of sleep you get.Strategies can include deep breathing exercises, listening to calming music, learning to laugh each day, watching comedy shows, taking a walk outside in the sunshine, and talking with close friends and relatives.