 Using a major credit card like Visa, Mastercard, or American Express will allow you to track your purchase and will provide a purchase history if the cruise is a scam. In addition, the Fair Credit Billing Act allows you to get a refund if the merchant fails to deliver on the cruise.This may not apply to debit or bank cards. Check with your bank to see if there is protection on your purchases.
 Using the cruise line's official website is a good way to avoid scams online. Beware of phishing emails that will route you to a website that looks similar and has the same layout, because they are trying to steal your personal information.Always go to the official website. If you don't know it, search for the cruise in a search engine and make sure that they have a legitimate company listing.


Some of the most popular legitimate cruise lines include Carnival Cruise Line, Princess Cruises, and Royal Caribbean International., Travel agents can be beneficial because they usually will have a lot of knowledge about the different cruises available and can cater your vacation to your desires and tastes. In addition, if they are a recognized travel agent who specializes in cruises, they may also get promotional offers or discounts that will be passed along to you. Do a search online for a reputable travel agent and talk to them one on one about what you're looking for on a cruise.


Some popular travel agencies online include Zicasso, smalTours, and Vantage Deluxe World Travel.Get booking confirmations from both the agency you're booking the cruise through and the cruise company itself. This will allow you to dispell any confusion that may happen between you and the travel agent.
Talk to your agent about the type of climate or weather you enjoy, the kind of cruise you want to go on, and what parts of the world you want to see.
 Climate, weather, and location are all critical aspects of a cruise. Other things you should take into consideration include the age of other passengers on the cruise, and whether the cruise is domestic or in another country. Select a trip that would be appropriate and fun for the other people that you're taking.


Types of cruises include romantic cruises, senior cruises, kid-friendly cruises, and nightlife and entertainment oriented cruises.
You can go on a cruise in the cold waters of Alaska or in the tropic climate of the Caribbean.

