 The ukulele is typically played in its standard tuning of GCEA. The best place to start tuning the ukulele is with the leftmost, G string. There are different types of ukuleles that are tuned to a different sequence:


The baritone ukulele is tuned in DGBE.
Soprano ukuleles are tuned to ADF#B.
Concert ukuleles are similar to the soprano ukuleles’ tuning. Many also like to play the concert ukulele in CGDA.;
, The best way to train your ear is to hear the note you’re tuning to. For this example, use standard tuning, GCEA, and seek out tuning the G string. If the generator is electric, select the G note. It will produce the G tone without any tonal decay. Listen to the note for a few moments, turn it off, and then playback the note again. This will reinforce the tone into your brain.


There are free websites that have note generators and tuners available.
Note generators can be found on most tuners and can be bought at music stores. Sound generators are good tools to train your ears and are often used by choirs.
A chromatic tuner with a note generator is the most resourceful tool for training your ears.
 If you have access to a well-tuned piano, you can use this instead of a note generator to find a base note. The piano is one of the most common tuners through music history. You can play any note on the piano and match it on the ukulele. If you are completely unfamiliar with the notes on a piano, use a different system.


You’ll need to be able to locate the G on the piano.
 Take some time listening to the notes from either the note generator or the piano. Compare that sound to the pitch of your G string. If it doesn’t sound right, you’ll need to spend time matching the notes. The best way to get a good start is by tuning the string too low. It is easier for your ears to match the note while tuning higher.


Once your G string is tuned you can tune the rest of the strings based off this tuning using your ears.
Feel the notes and the rhythms they are sending off. The tuned string shouldn’t produce any dissonant vibrations.