 Never whitewash wood that is in good condition. It will ruin your existing paint job or finish.


Look for materials for reuse, such as pallets and boards. They can be used to make simple furniture and then be whitewashed.
Find old crates, trunks, tables, dressers and other wooden items.;
, The same technique that is used to whitewash furniture can be used to paint floors, walls and ceilings.


You may decide to use a very gradual whitewashing process, if you are painting permanent features in your home.



If you choose finished wood, you may need to use a chemical stripper to remove layers of paint. The preparation process will be longer.
If you find unfinished wood, you will need to lightly sand it until it is even.
If you choose unfinished wood, the paint may soak more deeply into the grain, making it harder to apply the whitewash.
 You do not want to strip the wood inside your house.


Choose an area that can open to the outside, like a garage. If you decide to use a chemical stripper, the wood should be placed near an open door.
Pick an area that you are not worried about damaging with dust and paint.
During nice weather, you may be able to place the furniture outside on a large piece of cardboard.
 It can be an arduous process to remove the top layer of paint from a pre-painted or stained surface.


Use an 80-grit sandpaper attachment.
Sanding is recommended over stripping for stained wooden surfaces. If you are removing colored paint from a surface, you may want to try stripping it with a chemical stripper.
 It is easier to handle a sanding block than separate sheets of sandpaper.


Use an 80-grit sandpaper block.
Buy several blocks at the hardware store. You will need to use between 3 and 10 to complete a large piece of furniture.
 These products are available at your local hardware store.


Always wear work clothes that cover your body, including plastic or rubber gloves and safety goggles.
Apply chemical stripper according to package directions. You will usually be told to paint the stripper onto the surface of finished wood.
Then, you will wait a while and strip it back with a scraper or another implement.
Dispose of the chemical stripper and paint carefully, at a hazardous waste receptacle.
Sand the wood after you have stripped the paint from its surface.
Add more texture to your whitewashing by leaving streaks of color from the previous paint job. You can create a colored patina by layering white on top of colors.



If you have sanded and stripped it heavily, you will want to rub the surface with a damp cloth to remove excess chemicals and dust.
 If you don’t want to mix your own paint, then purchase this ready-to-use product.
 A whitewash is actually diluted white paint, designed to give minimal cover and color on the underlying wood.


Whitewashing an object should cost less than painting an object, because the paint is diluted with tap water or turpentine.
Choose an oil-based or water-based paint that is not too yellow. You will want to start with a crisp white, rather than a cream color.
Dilute water-based paints with water. Dilute oil-based paints with mineral spirits or turpentine.Grab a sturdy bucket or old paint can in which to mix the whitewash.



For finished wood, use a mixture of 1 part white paint to 1 part water/turpentine.For unfinished wood or previously painted wood, use a mixture of 2 parts of white paint to 1 part water/turpentine.For walls and floors, use a mixture of 2 parts water/turpentine to 1 part of white paint. You can apply this mixture with a brush, while the other mixtures are better applied with a rag.
, Both are acceptable for whitewashing, but they create a different look.


Use old rags with the whitewashing mixes that have higher levels of paint.
Apply the rags with the grain, wiping off the excess as you go, in order to use it on other sections.
Use paintbrushes for a faster, more even finish. You can also apply the paint strategically to certain sections, such as the legs
Keep a cloth nearby if you choose to paint. Remove paint that is applied too thickly immediately.
 Whitewash dries more quickly than regular paint, because it is diluted.
 You can shave a few hours off of the paint can directions, if it is water-based paint.



You can also apply the second coat to spot fix areas that look too uneven.
,


You can easily customize your look by sanding down edges, so that the whitewashing only appears in the interior, surrounded by dark edges.
,
Use a paintbrush to apply an even coat of sealer.
Apply 2 coats for a more durable finish.

