 In some professional sports, termination of contracts due to a breach requires the parties to follow a particular grievance procedure outlined in the collective bargaining agreement between the league and the players' association.The arbitration method of ending a standard player contract is most commonly used in the NHL, and the collective bargaining agreement of the NHL/NHLPA establishes that the league and the players' association, through the grievance procedure laid out in the agreement, are the sole arbiters of grievances between players and clubs.
However, either the player or the club, if dissatisfied with the results of the grievance procedure, can request an impartial arbitrator be appointed to resolve the dispute.
For example, if an NHL team wants to terminate a player's contract because the player has breached his contract, the team must file a grievance and ultimately submit to arbitration.
 League procedures typically require players or clubs to notify the other party of any grievance under the contract within a specific period of time after the incident that gave rise to the dispute.For example, the NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement requires the grievance process to be initiated within 60 days of the date the incident occurred, or the date that the party became aware of the problem.
The NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement includes specific rules for effective service of written notices. They can be sent using email, or using fax if internet service is unavailable.
Notice to players may be sent through the player's certified agent or through the NHLPA.
 Typically the other party has a deadline set forth in the collective bargaining agreement to respond to the notice in writing.In the NHL, the other party must respond to the notice within 10 days, and admit or deny each fact alleged in the notice.
If the receiving party denies any facts alleged, it must provide the specific grounds for each denial.
 In some leagues such as the NHL, each party is required to give the other an outline of its legal and factual position concerning the grievance in advance of the grievance hearing.These outlines must be provided to the other party at least seven days in advance of the grievance committee hearing during which the grievance will be heard.
 A separate grievance hearing in front of representatives from the league and the player's association may be held in advance or instead of a hearing before an impartial arbitrator.Under the NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement, the grievance committee, formed by representatives from the league and the players' association, meets once every two months.
Each meeting covers grievances filed at least 30 days prior to the meeting. Grievances filed later will be heard at the next meeting. In other words, if the grievance committee is meeting 10 days from the date the grievance is filed, that grievance will be heard in the meeting occurring in two months and 10 days.
 If the dispute isn't resolved through the grievance proceeding, the party that filed the grievance may request a hearing before an impartial arbitrator.Under the NHL/NHLPA agreement, the arbitrator must be a member of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
For example, if an NHL team wanted to terminate a player's contract and the grievance committee found no grounds to terminate that player's contract, the team could request an impartial arbitrator to hear the matter.
If arbitration is requested, each party must submit a disclosure statement to the other party that provides a statement of the issues, the factual background of the case, the theory of the case, and any witnesses or documents that will be produced as evidence.
If documents are listed, they must be attached to the disclosure statement.
The party that requested arbitration must submit its disclosure statement to the other party at least 30 days before the date of the hearing. The other party must submit its disclosure statement at least 20 days before the date of the hearing, so it has 10 days to complete and submit its disclosure statement after receiving the statement from the grieving party.
The costs of arbitration are shared equally among both parties.
 An arbitration hearing typically works much like a court hearing, with the arbitrator listening as both parties present their sides of the dispute and then deciding which party should prevail, much like a judge.Arbitration hearings under the NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement take place either in New York or Toronto. The parties can agree to hold the hearing in another location.
Witnesses are expected to testify at these hearings. If a witness is unavailable, the parties may agree to allow the witness to appear and give testimony over the telephone, or the hearing will be rescheduled for a date on which the witness can attend.
 Typically an arbitrator's decision is binding on both parties under the collective bargaining agreement, so there is no opportunity for appeal if you disagree.Under the NHL/NHLPA collective bargaining agreement, the arbitrator must issue a written decision within 30 days of the date of the hearing.
The arbitrator's decision constitutes a full, final, and complete disposition of the grievance.

