 While church is a social gathering, it’s not a party or a night out with your friends. Families of all different ages attend church and many churches are still conservative, so make sure to dress appropriately. You should eliminate backless or low-cut dresses, spaghetti straps, tank tops, or anything that shows your midriff.Just because it has to be modest, does not mean it can’t be fashionable. Just make sure to not leave a lot of your skin exposed.
Overly glitzy jewelry or expensive accessories should also be avoided.;
, When picking out a dress, consider one that’s a bit longer. Although, dresses do not have to be down to the ankle like they were expected to be in times past.


While there is not any exact measurement that’s appropriate, make sure to avoid showing too much of your body or dressing in a way that would send signals that go against your tenets of the faith.,, While it is expected in certain faiths that women wear dresses, a pair of dark pants will typically also work.You can pair your black pants with a dark top and blazer to stay stylish but conservative.
Avoid wearing stretch pants/leggings or jeans.
 Sneakers are not appropriate shoes for Sunday morning services. Pick out your best pair of heels when going to church, just make sure the heel is lower than 3 inches (not high stilettos-type). Pumps compliment pencil skirts or pants.If heels aren’t your thing, flats are also appropriate.


Coordinate your shoe color with your outfit, but avoid loud colors like a deep red or bright pinks and greens. The focus should not be on you, but on the Lord.
 Some denominations or sects have specific traditions and customs that women must follow when attending service. For instance, in the Apostolic Church, women are required to wear hats while they are in church.While it may not get you kicked out of the church, violating these customs can be disrespectful to the people who practice that faith.
Research the denomination online or on your church’s website if you are unsure on what the appropriate attire is.

