 Kids feel more secure and safe when they have structure in their daily lives, including bedtime routines. Predictable times for bed each night have been shown to lead to better sleep.Having a solid routine about bedtime will help to prevent whining or bickering. You can stand your ground, and remind them of what has already been discussed.
Make sure to stick to the set bedtime for each child as much as possible.;
, Each child is unique, including their sleep habits. Focus on how to make each of your children feel special and respected. You can help each child brush their teeth and read them a story. This will help them learn to naturally wind-down before bedtime.


Make sure to check in with your children, particularly if they are older, about what is working for their sleep schedule and what's not. Listen to what might be bothering them from that day. They may be able to sleep easier when you connect with them in the evenings.
Understand that there may be biological differences in what times for sleep work best for your children. Be willing to work with your kids to find a routine that works for them best, but can also respect the rest of the family's needs.
 Set the tone in the evenings by doing this soothing activity. Make it a calming and relaxing experience that helps to promote sleep.Bubble baths with simple toys can help to make the activity fun. By making bath time more interesting, there will be less resistance.
Bath time can help to promote individual attention between parent and child. If your children are older, this is less of a bonding time, but can help to teach children the importance of routine before sleep.
Use softer lighting during bath time, when getting them ready before bed. Softer lights rather than strong bright lights can help to create a more relaxed mood.
 Make story time a way to get children relaxed and ready for dreamland. When you read in a soothing voice, it helps to promote sleep. Use this time as a way to bond with both of your children.


If you are reading a children's book that focuses on going to bed, this can help to teach children about the importance of sleep.
Consider reading to both children at the same time. Even if one child is a more advanced reader than the other, pick a book that you think they may both enjoy.
 Electronic devices shortly before bed make it more difficult to wind down and prepare your mind for rest. Televisions, phones, video games, and computers often increase cognitive stimulation. This can impact your child's melatonin (sleep hormones).Teach your children to put away devices shortly before bed. Ideally, if they are having bath time and reading shortly before bed, then this can help to divert their attention away from the TV or video games.
Lead by example. Your children are more likely to follow what you say if you demonstrate how you're putting away your devices. Preparing your children for bedtime should involve minimal distractions.

