 You'll need sugar, a tall glass container (a jar works best), a pencil or dull knife, string (not nylon), a saucepan to boil water, and food coloring if you choose to use it.


Gather these and place them nearby, preferably close to your stove for ease of use once the solution is made.
 You'll need to tie your string to the middle of your pencil or knife. Once done, place the pencil or knife flat over the top of the glass jar so that the string will drape down inside.


Cut the string where it reaches the bottom of the glass so that it doesn't spool at the bottom.
Be sure the string hangs as best it can in the very center of the container, to avoid uneven crystal growth.
 Now you'll make your solute using 1 cup of water and 3 cups of sugar. It is important in this step to be sure the sugar is dissolved.


Put the water over high heat until it begins to boil (bubbles should cause the water to roil). Keep on high heat once boiling.
Using spoonfuls, mix the 3 cups of sugar in until they are totally dissolved. The water may become murky, but you should see no visible sugar crystals.
If using food coloring, include it in the solution after dissolving the sugar. A few dashes should be enough.
 Here is where the crystals will be left to grow along the length of the string. If the knife/pencil is disturbed when pouring, be sure to replace it to its original position once done.


Be careful when moving boiling water; use oven mitts and walk slowly.
 Look for a place where most people don't go like a guest bathroom or closet. Keep it high enough off the ground so that it doesn't get any dust in the solution.Crystals should appear as soon as the next day, but will continue to grow until the solution has evaporated entirely.
 Since these are made of sugar, they are essentially rock candy and can be eaten without worry. If your aim is still to decorate or make a garden with them, consider hanging them where they can catch the sunlight. Or find a container in which to display a number of them (try with different colors) in attractive patterns.

