 Get out a large mixing bowl. Melt 2 tablespoons of unsalted butter in the bowl and add 1 cup (240 ml) of warm milk and 1/3 cup (80 ml) of warm water. Whisk in 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar and 1 tablespoon of instant yeast until the sugar and yeast dissolve.The sugar will help feed the yeast, so it activates and foams a little.
 Get out another mixing bowl that you can fit into a stand mixer. Place 3 1/4 cups (406 g) of all-purpose flour in the bowl along with 2 teaspoons of kosher salt. Turn the mixer on low speed and gradually pour in the liquid mixture. Turn the speed up to medium and beat the dough for 6 to 7 minutes.The dough should become smooth. If it's still sticking to the sides of the bowl, you can add a tablespoon of extra flour at a time until the dough forms a shiny ball.
If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can beat the dough in a large bowl with a wooden spoon. It may just take longer for the dough to come together.
 Sprinkle some flour onto your work surface and dump the dough out onto it. Knead the dough (turning and folding the dough with your palms) for about 5 to 6 minutes. The dough should become smooth and elastic. Rub a little vegetable oil along the inside of a large bowl and place the ball of dough in it. Turn the ball, so it's coated with the oil. Cover the mixing bowl with plastic wrap and put it in a warm place to prove. Let it set for 1 hour.The dough should double in volume, so you'll need to put it in a large mixing bowl.
 While the dough proves, grate 3 cups (300 g) of cheddar cheese. Put 2 cups (200 g) of the cheese into a prep bowl and set the other cup (100 g) of cheese aside. Mince 4 scallions and add it to the prep bowl with the 2 cups (200 g) of cheese.You'll use the reserved cheddar cheese for sprinkling over the top of the monkey bread.
 Once the dough has doubled in size, sprinkle more flour on your work surface and dump the dough onto it. Use your hands to form the dough into a 10-inch (25 cm) square. Spread the cheese and scallion mixture across half of the dough. Fold the other side of dough over the filling and use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a square. Cut the dough into 1-inch (2.5 cm) pieces.You can use a sharp knife or a bench scraper to cut the dough into even pieces.
 Get out another small bowl and melt 8 tablespoons (113 g) of unsalted butter in it. Stir in 1 teaspoon of garlic powder, 1 teaspoon of paprika, and 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper. You should also spread a Bundt pan with a few tablespoons of softened butter. This will keep the monkey bread from sticking to it.You can use your fingers or a pastry brush to coat the pan with the butter.
 Take each piece of cheesy dough and roll it in the melted butter mixture. Place each coated piece in the prepared Bundt pan. Once you have a layer of dough balls, sprinkle them with some of the reserved cheddar cheese and continue to layer the rest of the dough on top.You can place each piece of dough on a fork and dip it into the butter. This will allow the extra butter to drip back into the bowl.
 Wrap the top of the Bundt pan with plastic wrap and set the pan in a warm place to prove. Let it sit for 1 hour, so the dough balls rise to about 2-inches (5 cm) below the top of the pan. You should turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (180 C) once the bread has almost finished proving.It may take a little longer for your bread to prove enough. For example, you might need to prove the dough for 1 hour to 1 1/2 hours.
 Take the plastic wrap off of the bread and place the bread in the oven. Bake it for 35 to 40 minutes. It should turn a dark, golden brown once it's finished baking. Remove the pan from the oven and let the bread cool for 5 minutes. Set a plate over the pan and carefully flip it over, so the bread is inverted onto the plate. Finish cooling the bread for 10 more minutes before you serve it.You should wear oven mitts when you invert the bread since the Bundt pan will still be hot.

