 Confident people smile a lot. It shows charisma.Smiling more often will make you more attractive to women, and it has added health, stress, and psychological benefits. Some studies even suggest it can change your mood and make you happier., When you are around others you need presence. You need to grab attention. One way to do this is take up a larger or higher space. Being larger and higher instinctively conveys strength. Additionally, it has an impact on boosting testosterone levels.Try a few of the following techniques to convey the image that will draw the right attention:


Practice good posture. Aside from positive health benefits, looking taller and more confident shows a degree of control.Stand with your arms a little wider than normal, or with your hands on your hips.Keep your arms and legs uncrossed. Crossing your arms and legs gives off a timid vibe. Uncross, remain relatively still, and try not to revert back into bad habits of looking defensive., You want to be noticed. Being the center of attention, even if for a brief moment, is key to gaining the eyes of the women in the room. Take your time upon entering by pausing at the entrance where everyone can see you.Arrive on time. Being fashionably late is not really preferred. You don’t want to appear to be someone who is disorganized and not in control.
Make the entrance fit the situation. There is a fine line between getting everyone’s attention and being narcissistic.
Look like wherever you are is the place you’re most happy. If people believe you’re excited about the situation, your positive vibe will rub off., Moving around a lot gives off an uncertain or nervous appearance. It also distracts from your overall effort of being suave and attention-getting. Instead, the attention will be on the fidgety movement. Find your crutch and try to stop doing it.Avoid biting your nails.
Don’t pop your knuckles.
Try not to tap toes or wiggle feet.
 Some research has shown that simply dressing up leads to an increase in perceived attractiveness. Choose clothing that accentuates your features and lines, something that makes you look more muscular. Try a few of the following tips to step your clothing game up:


Utilize fewer upper layers if you have a muscular build, and multiple layers if you're on the slender side.
Take good care of your shoes, and match them to your choice of attire.
Add in nice accessories, like a watch, pocket square, or tie clip to draw extra attention.