 If you do not attend school everyday, you will miss out very important skills, tactics and teachings which could help you with your homework and exams in the future. Do not miss out and keep attending your classes.;
, It is very important for you and the other classmates around you to concentrate on the topic you are studying. When you have an assigned homework at the end of the unit and are studying for it you will understand the questions and the assignment given to you.
 Your teacher and determined classmates will encourage you to revise the topics you have been learning for the past semester or two to prepare you for your final exams; do not ever start an exam without revising the subjects you are requested to revise on, otherwise you could end up giving yourself a headache, a high stress level and, to make matters worse, a very bad set of grades.
 If you have completed a set of exams during the day, relax yourself and regain your energy by having some water to drink and a healthy snack to eat, don't drink anything with high amounts of caffeine, as this type of drinks will make you feel run down, even when they make you feel active at first, the same applies to snacks. Do not eat anything with too much sugar or fats, try to eat a piece of fruit or a granola bar.
 A day or maybe even a week before an exam, be sure to get at least nine to ten hours of sleep every night, this will increase your brain power the next day and make you feel awake in the early hours of the morning, you will just find that your grades will be great, and your concentration levels will be high throughout the day, also you will be highly alert and you will have complete energy.
 If not, try to drink at least 4 cups or at least one liter of water before an exam. When you finish an exam or a set of exams, you must drink at least 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of water afterward; you will feel extremely worn out and thirsty after an exam, so stick to your fluids before and after an exam and you will feel much better.
 Many students purposely do not bring certain equipment to class. If you are one of these forgetful people, put up a reminder of what you need to bring to school and stay organised. People who do not come in organised will suffer in exams and their grades will drop down, or even be disqualified.
 Homework is very important for learning and also gives you an opportunity to revise and understand the topics properly.
 the only way you will ever gain self confidence in an exam, is to stay optimistic throughout the exam, being negative will only lead you to instant failure and a lack of self-esteem in the long run, so smile and be glad you have tried your best and just have faith in your work regardless on how good or bad you are in the subject.
 Yes, you may be tired and bored of work after 6 hours of school, but if you really want to earn your desired grades, encourage yourself to turn up to after school classes, they will boost your knowledge and show your teachers you are dedicated to work and prosper in the future, and you may find revising and doing exams easier and you will feel great for yourself for taking part in these activities. You can also catch up on unfinished assignments, essays and other unfinished work which will save you the trouble of having to rush things in class later on.
 If you have exams coming after the summer, Easter or winter break, then you have an opportunity to boost your knowledge at home or at a local library, not only reading can boost your vocabulary and give you an ability to understand certain words and techniques, but they can also boost your knowledge very quickly, and what's more, reading books will make you relax and is a great stress reliever; it may be boring to some, but to others it is for a good cause in future exams and essays.
 It is always good to get praised by teachers, but you need to praise yourself also for your successes in life, treat yourself to a hot chocolate or to a movie, always take pride in yourself and in your work, and you will have no problems in future exams and classes, because you will feel successful about passing your exams and have a bright clear idea of what your future beholds.