 Look good every where you go, you never know who you will see. Have a couple pairs of cute, skinny jeans, some pretty skirts, and leggings. Bows, lace, flowy, and over sized shirts are amazing. Be unique, don't wear the same thing twice in one week!!;
, Every outfit should have 5 components: Shoes, a shirt, jeans, a belt, and earrings. Only two accessories. Accessories make or break an outfit. They bring it to the A+ level. Forever21 has great jewelry.
 Your school bag, purse, duffel everything should be cute. Try a North Face backpack, or a cute designer tote like Juicy or Tory Burch. For sleepovers and things a great Vera Bradley duffel is perfect. A Coach wrist-let purse is a must. If you can not afford all these things, they do not have to be designer items, but it still boosts your status. Just make sure its cute anyhow.
 Must haves: Boots, UGGs and 1 pair of flats. Ankle booties are great. Uggs are pretty expensive, but if you can't afford them, don't go fake. It is worse than not having any. Sandals are very important for the spring and summer.
 Get a cell phone if you can. Always be in touch with your girls. If you are allowed to, get an account on Facebook. Post anything you want but not anything that will make people jealous. If you're not popular, it makes you seem like a brat. Take tons of pictures with your digital camera of you and your friends and upload them (If you are allowed). Always post when you're with them. If you can, get your own laptop, but it is not needed.
 Popular girls do many, in fact, almost everything, together. Go on vacation with your friends, go to the mall, hang out all the time (don't let it get in the way of your schoolwork, though, dumb girls aren't popular, even if they look good), go to the movies, go everywhere with them, but make sure you're having fun with them.
 Wash your hair every second day. If your hair gets dry, wash it a little less often. Always brush your hair, and keep a brush in your bags and locker. Mix up the dos. Don't wear your hair the same every day. Wash your face every day, use astringent and zit-zapping cream. Have basic hygiene, do your nails, wash your face and shower every day. Invest in whitening strips and braces if needed. Brush teeth regularly, twice a day.
 Be confident. Love yourself. Don't be mean to anyone, even your enemies. Don't lie either. Eventually someone will learn the truth and no one will trust you.
 You should try to be well-rounded. Study hard and get good grades, be good at sports, be in a couple of clubs that you have an interest in.
 Have your own style that makes you cool, nobody else can take it. Take care of your body. Always eat healthy Get rest, it will make you prettier and more well prepared for a long day.
 Don't go overboard. It will make you seem more mature. A simple eyeshadow will do in formal occasion, and in daily life, go for mascara, maybe eyeliner, and gloss. Blush if you are really pale or also in formal occasions. Make sure to use good quality makeup that won't harm your skin.

