 The exchange rate is the amount of foreign currency you are able to purchase with each U.S. dollar. For example, for every U.S. dollar, you may be able to purchase 0.89 euros, 17.31 Mexican pesos or 6.47 Chinese yuan. Currency exchange rates vary by country and are constantly changing. Money transfer services are required to communicate with you about the exchange rate you are getting. Different services may use different exchange rates, so shop around for the best rate. Try to get a guaranteed rate instead of an estimated rate. This way you know for sure how much you are going to have to spend., Transfer fees vary depending on how much money you are sending and the country to which you are sending it. The amount of the fees also depends on how quickly you want the money to get there. For example, you pay more for same day service than you would for a transfer that takes a few days. In addition, the fees differ for online and walk-in services. Finally, you pay different fees depending on how you fund the transaction.Many money transfer services allow you to estimate the cost of the transfer with online cost estimator calculators. You enter the amount you want to send, the destination country, how you are funding the transaction and when you want the money to arrive. The calculator then tells you what the fees will be., Your total out of pocket cost includes the amount of money you’re sending plus the fees. The total currency delivered to your recipient depends on the exchange rate. You can calculate this by multiplying the number of U.S. dollars you sent by the exchange rate.For example, suppose you want to send $200 from the United States to Mexico. The fees will cost anywhere from $8 to $24, depending on whether the money is sent immediately, overnight or within a few days. Your out of pocket expense will be $200 plus the fee.
The amount your recipient gets depends on the exchange rate. Suppose the exchange rate of dollars to Mexican pesos is 17.33. Multiply this by $200 to determine how much the recipient will receive in pesos. So, $200 * 17.33 = 3,466. The recipient receives 3,466 pesos.

