 For the foundation and the cover-up make sure the shade of makeup matches the color of your skin. You do not want it to light or too dark otherwise it will look strange. You do not want a line of different skin tone from your face to your neck, which will happen if you do not have the correct shade for your skin tone.


This is the same for the color of eye shadow that you choose. Different shades of shadow look better on some people than others. This often depends on your eye color as well as your skin tone. In order to find shades of eye shadow that compliment you, you will need to experiment with different colors.
 You only need to use a small amount. Apply a small amount of foundation into in the palm of your hand. Either use your finger or a foundation brush to apply the makeup to your face. Make sure to cover your entire face with a thin layer of the foundation.
 To have more precision use your fingers to apply the makeup around the eye if you are using a foundation brush

, Apply a small dab on the blemish, and then gentle dab the around the area to blend the makeup into the skin.
 Lightly brush the cover-up brush over the top of the makeup, and then lightly brush the powder all over your face. Make sure to cover your entire face.
 First choose a color scheme, brown, blue, purple, greys, or others colors. Stick to one color, and then pick out three shades of that colour. A light, medium, and dark. Once you have the eye shadows picked out you can apply them.


Take the medium shade, and apply it to the eyelid. Use the eye shadow brush to apply an even amount to cover just the lid. Make sure not to use too much, you just want a small amount on your brush. The darker the color you use the less you want to apply to the eye.






Take the dark shade, and apply a small amount into the crease of your eye. This is the area where your eyelid ends, and the skin in indented. You should be able to feel the curve of the crease with your fingers. Use the brush to make a smooth line along the crease.






Take the lightest shade, and use this as a ‘highlighter’. You want to take a small amount of this shade, and apply it just above the line you have made in your crease. You want to make sure you don’t put this colour to high. Make sure to stay well below your eyebrows.
 Once again when choosing the color you will have to experiment, but black is the most basic to use. You do not want to use a lot of liner as a little goes a long way.

Apply a thin line to your upper lid. You want to stick to your lash line, and be careful not to stick your eye with the liner. Keep your hand steady as to create an even, smooth line.






Apply a very small amount to your lower lid along the lash line. You want to make sure you press lightly here as to get a thin line.
 Be very careful that the mascara doesn’t go into your eye as this will cause your eyes to water and your makeup to smear. Use the brush on your upper lashes by brushing up. To keep from getting clumps shift the brush back and forth a little when brushing it through your lashes.


Lastly, brush it softly against your lower lashes. You do not want to apply to much to your bottom lashes.

