 To properly shave a bat, you will need to either know someone who owns a lathe or have access to one yourself. The lathe will be used to accurately and evenly trim the inside of the bat, removing material and increasing the performance of the bat. If you don't have access to a lathe of your own, try asking someone who does to learn if they can help you shave your bat.You may consider using a professional service to shave your bat for you.
Do not attempt to operate a lathe if you have not had proper training.
You can shave aluminum or composite softball bats.
Shaving a bat removes material from the barrel, resulting in thinner walls. These thinner walls will compress and spring back with more force than a regular bat. This extra force can increase the speed and distance of your hits.
Because of the unfair advantage a shaved bat can bring, they are illegal in any official baseball game or league.
 The end cap of the bat will need to be removed before it can be properly inserted into the lathe. The lathe will need to shave the inside of the bat's barrel. Caps can be easily removed using a screwdriver and some leverage. You can follow these basic steps to remove the end cap from your bat:Some people will apply gentle heat to the end cap before trying to remove it.
Insert a screwdriver into the gap between the end cap and the barrel of the bat.
Gently use the screwdriver to apply leverage against the end cap.
Work to push the end cap up and out of the barrel of the bat.
Don't apply too much force as you could damage your bat or the end cap.
 Fix the bat into the lathe in a way that will allow the bit to shave down the inside wall of the bat's barrel. Set up the lathe so that it will trim off no more than .075” from the inside of the barrel's wall. Shaving more material off might result in greater power behind your swings. However, taking more material off of your bat will also make it less durable and more likely to break.Composite bats seem to benefit the most from shaving.
In one case, shaving off four layers of material from a composite bat added 6.5 mph (10.5 km/h) to batted-ball speed.
 After the bat has been shaved, you will need to replace the end cap. Putting the end cap back on will help make your bat look as good new. You can use these basic steps to replace your bat's end cap.Clean the inside of the bat's barrel.
Put a coat urethane epoxy on the inside of your bat's barrel.
Place the end cap back into the bat. You may need to lightly hit it with a mallet to make the fit a secure one.
Wipe away any excess epoxy that may have spilled over the edges.
 Before you can begin using your bat to play ball, you'll need to let it completely dry. Allowing the epoxy time to form a tight bond between the bat's inner walls and the end cap will prevent the end cap from coming loose during play. Make sure the epoxy has had plenty of time to dry before using your bat again.


Allow the bat up to two days to dry.
You can secure the end cap with a ratchet strap while it dries. This can help achieve a firm bond between the bat and the end cap.

