 You should look for warning signs of a bad friend so you do not end up with friends who are negative and harmful. Avoid friends who belittle you by talking down to you or by putting you down with negative comments. These actions can be harmful to your self-esteem and your self-worth, leading to friendships that can be toxic and unhelpful.A negative friend may talk down to you by telling you that you are “worthless”, “stupid”, or “dumb”. They may also constantly tell you you are wrong about things and that you do not know what you are talking about.
They may also put you down in front of others to make themselves look better and focus on the things you are bad at to make you feel diminished. You may leave your hang outs with negative friends unsettled and feeling low.
 You should also stay away from friends who are only takers and do not give you any encouragement or support. Friends who use you are only interested in their own personal gains and wins. They may show no interest in your own needs and fail to show up when you need them.

For example, maybe you win a big writing prize and feel your writing career is finally taking off. You may share this news with a friend, think she will be happy and supportive of your success. Instead, she may act jealous or disinterested in your news and instead focus on her own goals and needs. She may also try to use your success for her own gain and disregard your needs in the process.
 You should also try to rid yourself of friends who are always harping on about the negative aspects of a situation, as this can end up draining you of your energy. You may have friends who only view things from a negative point of view and refuse to focus on the positive aspects. This may then lead you to also adopt a negative point of view and put in you in a permanent state of negativity.You may try to cheer up friends who are negative, to no avail. You may also feel you are responsible for making your negative friends feel happy and productive, leaving you with little time to focus on your own needs and goals. Avoiding negative friends will allow you to spend time on your own development and not use all your energy on someone else’s issues.

