 Let the shorter layers of your hair hang loose, creating a "short" look, while the bulk of your longer hair is pulled back and out of the way. From the front, it will look like you have a shorter cut. The ponytail can either be left as it is or rolled up and pinned against the back of your head.Putting your hair in a bun is also a great way to disguise length. If all your hair is wrapped up, nobody will know how long it is.You can also just tie long hair into a half-bun, leaving some strands hanging loose. Sweep the extra loose hair onto your shoulders and out of the way.This usually looks best if you have a layered cut to begin with. Talk to your stylist about a layered cut if necessary.;
, If you braid the hair tightly, it will appear shorter than if it was just hanging down your back. There are a variety of styles of braids such as the regular three-strand braid, fish braid and French braid. If you're going for a looser look but want it to still seem shorter, leave some pieces out in the front near your face., Place a headband around your head with the back of the band pushed down near the top of your neck. Starting just behind the ear, roll your hair under and tuck your hair into the band. Secure it with a few bobby pins. Keep tucking until you reach the other ear. Use hairspray to hold it in place., Try curling your hair with foam rollers, bobby pins, fabric, or whatever tools you want to use. Do it while the hair is wet and use conditioner, setting lotion, hair spray or any other hair products that set and hold curls. If you can, let your curls set in rollers overnight so your hair completely dries without the use of your hair dryer.If you want really short, bouncy curls, let your hair dry naturally. When you let your hair air dry, it dries at a slower rate and your finished hairstyle turns out with much more defined curls that have a tighter hold, which makes your hair look shorter.
 Part your hair from ear to ear in a headband shape. Keep the parts about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) wide. Use an elastic band to keep each part out the way.


Split the rest of your hair into four or five sections. Bring the first section up so that it drapes over your face. Bobby pin it, then flip it back over to your shoulders and bobby pin it.Repeat with the rest of the sections. Part the "headband" you started with, then pin it back over your head over the bobby pins. Try to hide them and bobby pin the cover piece in place.
 If you have layered hair, clip the bottom of your hair like as in the "bobby pin method." Roll the longest layers, then clip them at the base of your neck so that they appear shorter. Then let the top layers of hair cascade over the bottom. It will appear as if your top layers are your longest layers.

