 It’s the site that shares external maps made by members of the community.
 At the top of the page is a menu of game modes listed horizontally across the screen. Click the third mode from the right that says “Survival Maps.” It will bring up a list of maps that are meant to be played in Survival Mode.
 On the list of survival maps, left-click the name of the map you would like to download that appears on the left side of the screen to bring up extended details about that map.
 Left-click the black “Download Map” button in the top-left corner of the screen. The download will begin automatically, and the file will be stored in your default Downloads folder on your machine as a .zip file.
 Do so by clicking the Start button at the bottom-left corner of the screen. In the search bar at the bottom of the Start menu, type in “/.minecraft”


Click the .minecraft folder that appears at the top of the search results with a folder symbol.
 It will be located about halfway down the list of folders in the .minecraft directory.
 Left-click the Start button in the bottom-left corner of the display, and type “downloads” into the search bar at the bottom of the menu. Click the “downloads” folder that appears at the top of the search results.
 Left-click and drag the map from the Downloads folder into the Mods folder, and release the mouse to drop it into the folder.
 As mentioned earlier, the file downloaded as a zip file, so in order to use it, right-click the .zip file that was downloaded. Select “Extract here” to open the contents of the file into the Mods folder.
 To do this, double-click on the Minecraft icon on your desktop that is shaped like a block of dirt to open the launcher. Click the gray “Play” button in the center of the launcher to open up the game.
, Simply left-click the name of the map that is listed with any other maps that you have in the center of the screen.
 You will find it in the bottom-left corner of the screen. You can now play the external map in Survival Mode.