 Begin by bringing your dog out on the boat when you are at dock. Next time, try bringing him out to the dock, but turn the motor on to get him accustomed to the sound. Then, take him on a short boat ride and then progressively longer rides.


This is important for getting your dog comfortable with the boat.
It is also an opportunity to train your dog to be safe on the boat, teaching it commands and how to get on and off the boat.
Short trips will also be a good opportunity to determine whether or not your dog gets sea sick. If so, you will need to buy medications that make your dog more comfortable.;
, It is good to see if your dog is fine swimming in water at the dock before venturing into the deep. You should recognize, however, that there are additional dangers in open waters. Typically it is better to be safe than sorry and keep your dog on the boat.


You need to consider whether your dog can handle the current or tide. The water quality might also be bad and there could be threats lurking underneath.
If you do play catch in the deep, keep two balls on hand. That way, if your dog begins to swim too far away, you can throw the second to lure him back., It is particularly imperative that your dog should know “sit” and “stay.” You should also teach it the command “on boat” and off boat,” so that it will follow you when you are ready to get on and off boat.


It is important to teach your dog “sit” and “stay.” That way, you can stop your dog when it is trying to jump into or drink the water, either of which can be dangerous., Your dog might be reticent to use the restroom without any green space, or, alternatively, might go places you'd rather it not. You should try to place a piece of AstroTurf, puppy pads, or sod for the dog to go on. When you first take your dog out, begin to train it go in this space.


If you have taught your dog the command “do your business,” it will be easier to train your dog to go to the bathroom on the boat.If this is impossible, keep doggie waste bags, paper towels, and odor neutralizer on hand. This is good sanitary policy, but it also has safety implications. You don’t want to slip on your doggy’s business.Consider training your dog to use the facilities on the back swim platform, where you can wash it off with the transom wash down. You only want to wash off the dog’s urine and not solids. Solids will need to be bagged until you get back to shore and disposed of properly.
 You should have a plan for getting your dog back on board if it falls off. While at dock, teach it to come to a ladder or swimming platform where it will be easier to help it back on board. For small dogs, consider keeping a fishing net on board, that you can use to sweep it back on board., Life jackets for dogs can be purchased at most pet stores and boating stores. Bring your dog with you to the store to try a life vest on. Make sure that it fits well before you buy it. If you have trouble figuring out to use the straps to secure the vest on your dog, ask for assistance at the store before venturing out.These will typically cost anywhere from $20 to $80.
 Leashes that go around the neck can be very dangerous on a boat, because the waves can toss around your dog, putting a lot of pressure on your dog’s neck. Use a harness that goes around its torso and legs so that pressure will be more evenly distributed.
 Put a tag on your dog that includes your cell phone number, your marina location, and your slip number. Consider having an ID microchip implanted in your dog., Bring any medications that your dog is on and antibiotic ointments in case it scratches itself.Full pet first aid kits can be purchased at most pet stores.


A human first aid kit can also work, but you should keep some pet specific items on board: contact information for your vet, copies of important medical information including rabies vaccination, self-cling bandage, and a muzzle., If you are not sure if your dog is susceptible to seasickness, you should keep the medication on board. Talk to a veterinarian about what medications are appropriate for your dog. Generally some human seasickness medications will work, specifically Benadryl and Dramamine. , There are no national regulations pertaining to the way that dogs are handled on board a ship. However, some states might have laws, as do some foreign nations. Research the laws in any of the political units that you will be venturing into on your trip.Pennsylvania, for example, limits the number of dogs that you can have on Fish and Boat Commission lakes to two, but lifts the rule that dogs must be on a leash, once the dog is on board a boat., Find a shady location or air conditioned cabin that you can keep your dog in for part of the trip. Be sure that there is plenty of cool water for it to cool off with and that the water is well secured.To limit the amount of water that gets spilled, bring a large water bowl and fill it up half way. Spilt water can cause accidents.
 Dogs can get burned if exposed to the sun for too long. An SPF 15 spray is optimal. Try to find an unscented spray so that your dog does not get agitated., Bathroom throw rugs and outdoor carpet will serve multiple purposes for your dog. It will prevent your dog from slipping on the deck. It will also protect your pet’s feet. Dogs absorb heat through the pads on their feet and boat surfaces can get very hot in the sun.


Alternatively, you can put shoes on your dog to protect its feet.
 Keep your dog on short tether so that it can’t venture too far away and never leave it unattended. Tell your dog to stop or sit if it seems like it is about to drink water outside of the boat. Lake, river, and ocean water can be polluted and dangerous for your dog.


Keeping sufficient water on board and providing cool spaces will discourage your dog from drinking untreated water.

