 Whether your boss asked you for feedback or you volunteered, think about how giving feedback might benefit you or your workplace. Consider whether you face any risks in providing feedback to your manager.Try to see things from your manager's perspective. If you have a problem with the way they're doing something, figure out why they've chosen to use that method and how it benefits them. Make sure it's more than just a personal pet peeve of yours.
Look at alternatives that you think would work better, and try to walk through them in your mind. Decide whether the alternative is a significant improvement over the current situation.;
, Most managers welcome feedback that is intended to increase workplace efficiency or productivity or save the company money. Your intentions should be focused on some benefit to the business, not to yourself.Be especially wary of personal motives if you and your manager have a competitive relationship, or if you're also in the running for a management position. In this situation, your manager may suspect you have personal intentions even if you don't.
 Your manager may not be receptive to your feedback, depending on your relationship with them and how long you've been working together. This will determine how you approach your manager. For example, if you and your manager butt heads frequently, they may not be open to any feedback from you. In a volatile relationship, you'll want to tailor your feedback so that you focus on positive feedback first and emphasize that you have respect for your manager.When in doubt, approach your manager and simply ask if they would be open to feedback on a particular issue.
Unless you have a close relationship with your manager going back a year or more, they probably won't be open to general feedback about their management style.
 Typically when a manager requests feedback, they're really only looking for answers to one or two specific questions they have. If you talk about anything else, you risk overstepping your bounds.If there are other areas apart from those your manager listed on which you would like to give feedback, bring them up specifically. For example, you might say "I know you're looking for feedback on the Lumbergh project, but I also have some thoughts on the handling of TPS Reports. Could I talk to you about that as well?"

, Even if your manager specifically asks for feedback, you're putting a lot on the line if they're not going to be receptive to it. If you don't think your feedback will be used to any benefit, keep it to yourself.In some cases, managers also say they're looking for feedback, but they're really just looking for confirmation of their decisions rather than real feedback.
Talk to other co-workers if you're unsure how to respond when your manager requests feedback.

