 If you're going to go out for a round of beers with friends, make sure you eat something that it is both substantial and healthy first. Lean meats, whole grains, and nutritious vegetables are an essential part of any good weight-loss regimen, as well as effective at helping to metabolize the beer you consume. If you're full, you'll also be less likely to drink more and eat unhealthy bar food.


Never drink on an empty stomach. The toxic impact of alcohol is increased if there's nothing else going through your digestive tract. Plus, the hangovers are way worse. Always eat something before you have beer.
Eating healthy food before you have a couple drinks will also help you avoid the temptation of late night bad food cravings. The Drunk Munchies are a major cause of beer bellies, so if you want to avoid the gut, you also need to avoid the midnight fourth meal.
 Many dieters make the mistake of skipping breakfast when they're trying to lose weight, but the truth is that eating within an hour or so of waking up helps to jumpstart your metabolism, helping to keep your blood-sugar levels constant throughout the rest of the day, making exercise more effective and making you more energetic.


Try to eat at a regular time each day, starting the morning with a breakfast high in fiber, with whole grains, fresh fruits, and healthy protein like eggs or natural peanut butter. Try to avoid processed sugars and cereals, as well as starting the day with refined carbs.
 Focus on consuming less high-calorie fatty food, the type of which you find in bars and we all find ourselves craving after a few brews. Hot wings, pizza, and burgers are all fatty, caloric bombs. Replace these types of meals with lean meats, fish, and fresh vegetables as much as possible. Avoid fried foods, cheesy meals, and red meat as much as possible.


When you're drinking, it's often tempting to have some snacks. Instead of reaching for the easily-available bar food, though, take some unsalted nuts, or fresh fruit with you to the bar, or keep carrot sticks available at home, to avoid the salty chips and fatty cheese sticks that you might normally gravitate toward.
 Legumes, beans, lentils, and nuts will help to keep you full, provide you with the protein necessary to stay healthy and energetic, and will help you lose weight more quickly than if your diet consists largely of meat, eggs, and dairy, helping to cleanse your kidneys and liver, as well as upping your metabolism.
 Cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, kale, and other hearty green vegetables are excellent foods to introduce into your beer-belly-reduction diet.Aside from providing an excellent supply of fiber and micronutrients, these super foods help to cleanse these organs that bear the brunt of the alcohol you consume.


The kidneys and liver work hard to process the alcohol from your system, and treating them right will help keep your metabolism up, helping you lose weight much more quickly. Eating these foods on a regular basis and cutting the alcohol from your diet will have that belly dropping inches much more quickly., Refined sugars, carbs, and fatty snacks are the enemy of your waistline. High in calories and in calories from fat, these will make it very difficult to lose that beer belly, even if you're consuming fewer calories from beer. Foods to avoid:


Potato chips and snack crackers
Candy
Bacon, sausage, and burgers
Muffins and pastries
Egg yolks
Fried foods

