 After showering, people commonly use a bath towel to squeeze the excess water from their hair. Rubbing a towel vigorously against frizz-prone hair, however, further damages the cuticle and increases your susceptibility to frizz. Instead of using a common bath towel, gently pat and squeeze water from your hair with a microfiber towel or cotton shirt., Silicone-based hair serums are ideal for people with dry, frizzy hair. These products will protect your tresses from the sun and humidity. Prior to blow drying, apply the serum to your damp hair.


If you have thin hair, avoid serums that are "extra-moisturizing." The additional oil may weigh down your hair. Search for a product that contains Indian Alma oil.
If you have thick, wavy hair, purchase a serum that claims to be "extra-moisturizing." Look for products that contain Alma or Argan oils.
If your hair is coarse and curly, you need a product that will moisturize and curl your hair. Purchase products that contain coconut oil., While heat from a blow dryer can further damage dry hair, the moisture your hair absorbs while air drying causes unwanted frizz. Following a shower, never let your hair air dry for too long. Apply an anti-frizz shine serum to your wet locks and blow dry your hair as soon as possible to lay down the cuticle.Invest in a high-quality, ionic ceramic blow dryer. Ionic blow dryers help to press down the cuticle and keep frizz-inducing moisture out.Set your blow dryer to a medium or low heat setting. High heat can cause the cuticle to swell.
When drying your hair, use a round natural bristle brush, such as a boar bristles, to help smooth and distribute the natural oils of your hair.If you have curly hair, use the diffuser tool and your fingers. It will help your curls dry evenly., Excessive exposure to heat can further damage your dry, frizzy hair. When you use a curling iron or straightener, take a few additional measures to protect your tresses.


Limit your use of heated tools.
Always apply a heat-protecting serum to your hair prior to curling or straightening it.
Set your heated tool to a temperature between 350℉ to 450℉. Applying such a high heat to your hair seems counter-intuitive, but it actually significantly reduces your hair’s exposure to heated tools. The higher the temp, the fewer times you have to go over a section of hair to achieve the desired results.
Invest in high-quality tools., People with frizzy hair tend to have flyaways, little pieces of hair that stick straight-up. After styling your hair, lightly spray your locks with an alcohol-free hairspray. The hairspray with set your style in place and prevent flyaways.


If you have kinky, wavy, or curly hair, spray the hair spray directly into your palm. Rub your hands together and then pat the areas of your hair that are prone to flyaways.