 The full plank can be difficult to do, especially if you have back pain and/or weak core muscles. A modified plank will help you strengthen your core muscles safely, without putting too much strain on your back.Lie on the floor on your stomach. You may prefer to use a yoga mat for cushioning.
Raise yourself up so that your body is resting on your elbows and forearms and your knees. Your elbows should be directly beneath your shoulders. You can place your hands flat on the floor or keep them in loose fists.
Align your spine so that your back, shoulders, and neck are aligned. You will be looking at the floor, but not slumped toward it. Don’t look toward the ceiling.
Tighten your stomach muscles to help you hold the position. If you need to create extra resistance, you can use your abdominal muscles to press your elbows and knees towards each other.
Hold this position as long as you can. Aim to hold it for at least three deep, even breaths.
Gently lower your body to the floor and relax for a moment. Repeat the position several times throughout the day.
 The “bridge” will help build core strength and relieve back pain.Lie on your back on the floor. If you’d like, you can use a yoga mat to cushion your back.
Bend your knees, keeping your feet flat on the floor. Keep your head and shoulders relaxed, not tense.
Tighten your abdominal and gluteal (buttock) muscles. Using these muscles, push your hips toward the ceiling until your body forms a straight line from your knees to your shoulders. Your hips should not sag or arch too much. Your buttocks and abs should hold you in place.
Hold the position as long as you can. Inhale deeply through your nose and exhale through your mouth as you hold the position. Try to hold the position for at least three good breaths.
Gently lower your hips back to the ground. Take a breather, then repeat the bridge four more times.
 This exercise will help strengthen your core without putting too much strain on your back. Stronger core muscles mean a healthier, less painful back.Lie on your back on the floor. You can use a yoga mat for cushioning.
Bend your knees, keeping your feet flat on the floor. Make sure your back is in a “neutral” position (you should be able to just slip a hand between the natural arch in your back and the floor).
Tighten your stomach muscles. Bring your right leg up so that your knee forms a right angle to the floor. Place your right hand on your right knee.
Keep your stomach muscles tightened to pull your knee toward your body as you push your right hand against your right knee. You should encounter some resistance as you push.
Take deep, even breaths as you hold the position. Try to hold it for at least three good breaths.
Gently lower your right leg to the floor. Repeat the exercise with your left leg and left hand. Do this five times on each side.
Once this position becomes comfortable, you can increase the difficulty by placing your hand on your opposite knee (i.e., left hand on right knee, right hand on left knee). You can also increase the difficulty even more by placing your hand on the outside of your knee and pushing inward as you use your ab muscles to keep your leg upright., Once you’ve mastered the single-leg abdominal press, you can move up to the double-leg press. This exercise will strengthen your core even further.Lie flat on your back on the floor. Use a yoga mat if you would prefer. Make sure your back is in a neutral position.
Tighten your abs. Raise both legs off the floor so that they are at a 90-degree angle to the floor. Rest your hands on top of each knee (left hand for left knee, right hand for right knee).
Keeping your abs tight, push your hands against your knees as though you are pushing them toward the floor. Use your abs to keep your knees pulled up toward your body.
Take deep even breaths while you perform this hold. Try to hold the position for at least three breaths.
Gently lower your legs to the floor. Take a breather, then repeat for five times on each side.
You can perform the same variations with the double-leg press as with the single-leg press.
 This exercise also helps strengthen your core muscles in a back-friendly way.Begin on all fours. You can perform the exercise on a yoga mat if you would prefer. Make sure your hands are directly underneath your shoulders.
Align your spine so that your back, shoulders, and neck form a healthy line. You will be looking at the floor, but not slumping your head forward. Do not strain to look up.
Tighten your stomach muscles. Raise your right arm up off the floor and reach ahead of you with your palm facing up. Hold this position for three good breaths. Return your right arm to the floor and repeat this position with your left arm.
Keeping your stomach muscles tight, raise your right leg off the floor and stretch it behind you. Hold this position for three good breaths. Lower your right leg to the floor and repeat this position with your left leg.
If this is too easy for you, increase the difficulty by raising the opposite arm and leg (i.e., right leg and left arm, left leg and right arm) at the same time. Repeat with the opposite side.

