 Having a strong support system is one of the primary factors for successful treatment of schizophrenia. A good support team may consist of mental health professionals, family members, and personal friends and peers who share the diagnosis.Talk to trusted friends and family members about your symptoms. They may help you navigate mental health care systems to get the treatment you need.
Many times, maintaining stable, consistent housing is difficult for people with schizophrenia. If staying with your family is an option during stressful times, consider allowing your family to care for you until your symptoms improve.
Housing options, such as group homes or supported living apartments, support people with schizophrenia. The availability of such homes varies widely from state to state. Check with your local National Alliance for Mental Health (NAMI) chapter or other mental health professionals to learn more about these services.
 Having good, honest communication with a mental health professional will allow you to receive the best level of treatment they can provide. Being honest with your doctor about your symptoms will ensure that you're getting the right dosage of medication, neither too much nor too little.You can always seek out a second opinion, if you feel that your doctor isn't responsive to your needs. Never discontinue medical treatment without having a back-up plan.
Check in with your doctor regarding any questions you may have regarding treatment issues, medication side-effects, persistent symptoms, or other concerns.
Your participation is essential towards most effective treatment of your symptoms. Treatment works best when you're working together with your treatment team.
 The stigma from schizophrenia can be more uncomfortable than the symptoms. In a peer support group, your experience is shared by other members. Attending a group for support has been shown to be one of the most effective ways to minimize the difficulties of living with schizophrenia and other mental illnesses.Peer support groups are offered through local mental health organizations, Schizophrenics Anonymous (SA) and NAMI throughout the United States. For more information, do an online search for groups in your area.
Peer support groups are also offered online. SA offers conference call support groups as well. Find a support group option that works for you.

