 This may be quite easy for some but very difficult for others. If you are unsure where you lived at the time of the divorce, try some of these methods of narrowing it down:


Run a search for yourself at People Finder. If you are unsure of what state you lived in at the time of your divorce, select “all states”. The results should show at least some of your previous addresses, which could help to jog your memory.
Look through your old files. If you keep old mail, tax returns, property deeds, or other documents, look through your files and see if you can locate documents with your previous address or addresses.
Talk to your friend and family. Perhaps a friend or family member will remember where you lived at the time of your divorce.
Request transcripts of your previous years W-2’s from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). Transcripts of W-2’s are free of charge, and will contain your address at the time the W-2 was issued. To request a transcript, complete , and mail it to the address contained in the instructions.;
, If you cannot locate an exact date, try to narrow it down to the year that you were divorced. You may be able to access electronic records for your divorce, if it occurred within the last 10 years or so. Access should include a docket sheet, which will list all filings, orders, and happenings in the case in chronological order, so that you can locate the date your divorce was granted. To find your state and county’s electronic Court records:


Check Legal Dockets Online for county or city trial or lower Court records.
Find your state in the Reporter’s Committee for Freedom of the Press’ Electronic Access to Court Records’ publication. If your state or a private company in your state has set up electronic access to Court records, you will find information on how to access them in this publication.
Run a search in your favorite search engine for “YOUR STATE electronic court records”. For example, if you were divorced in California, you would want to search “California electronic Court records”.
 You can find your state Court’s website, which should list the Clerk’s number by following the appropriate link from the National Center for State Court’s State Court Web sites page.
 Call the clerk and explain that you were divorced in that county in, whatever year you were divorced in, and are attempting to locate a divorce decree, as you do not have one. Give the clerk the date your divorce was granted and/or any other information for which you are asked. The clerk will very likely take your phone number and arrange to call you back once he or she has conducted a search.
 Be sure that you ask for a certified copy. There may be a small fee for obtaining a certified copy and/or having a copy mailed to you.



If the clerk is unable to locate a decree, but does find your file, ask there is a record of the divorce having been granted. If the answer is “yes”, ask on what date it was granted, and write it down. Also, ask for the case or cause number, and write that down as well. Go on to the next step.
If the clerk is unable to locate your divorce file, start all over determining where your divorce was granted.
 If your divorce was previously granted, and you have the date on which it was granted, you will add that into your decree, otherwise, you can follow the instructions on the form. You can locate a divorce decree form for your state by:


Checking with the clerk’s office. Call the clerk’s office in the county and state where you were divorced and ask if standard divorce decree forms are available.
Looking on your state court’s website. You can find your state court’s website by following the appropriate link from the National Center for State Courts' State Court Web sites page.
Visiting eDivorcePapers. eDivorcePapers offers free divorce pleadings for all 50 states.
Following the appropriate link from Find Law’s Divorce Forms by State webpage.
 Write a letter to the clerk explaining that you are enclosing a divorce decree for the judge’s signature, because none was ever issued. Ask that he or she file the decree and return a signed copy to your, once the Judge has signed it. Be sure to provide your complete contact information, including a telephone number where you can be reached.
 Including a self addressed stamped envelope will help ensure that the signed decree is returned to you as soon as possible. You can locate the address of the clerk’s office on your state court’s website. To find your state court's website, follow the appropriate link from the National Center for State Court’s State Court Web sites page.
 If you do not receive your signed decree within two or three weeks, call the clerk’s office to make sure that the decree was received. Ask when you might expect to receive the signed decree back, and/or if the Judge needs anything else from you in order to sign it.

