 You don't want to overwhelm the dog with affection the first time you meet it. Give it a chance to get to know you and approach you first. Try sitting down on the floor, and letting the dog come over to you as it explores the room. Running up to it and grabbing can be scary for a pup.This step may be easier to do in a friend's house or in a breeder's home. However, shelters may also allow you to visit several times.
At a shelter, you might just sit near the dog's cage to let it get used to you.;
, Before you ever touch or even move towards the pup, give it a chance to smell you and explore you thoroughly. Once it's smelled you, try touching it lightly on the nose, just to get contact started.If you're at a shelter, sit outside the cage before letting it smell you. Reach out a hand near the cage so the dog can sniff you.
 If the dog seems interested, try petting it on the head. Show as much affection as the dog seems to enjoy. You can also talk to the dog in a calm, low voice. Continue petting the dog until it runs off.Stop petting the dog if it seems upset. If the dog is growling or running away from you, let the dog take a break.If you're at a shelter, ask an attendant to open the cage so you can try petting the dog.
 Don't expect to build up a bond with a puppy in one meeting. It takes time to start building a bond, so expect to visit several times before taking the dog home. Each time, you're going to need to let the dog get used to you again.For example, with a breeder, you could say, "I'd like to spend some time with my pup before bringing it home. Do you mind if I visit a few times?" You could say the same with a friend's house.
At a shelter, you may only have a chance to visit once or twice, since puppies tend to move out more quickly than older dogs. In other words, you may need to take it home sooner because the dog is at risk for being taken by another family.
 If your puppy is going to be a part of the family, it's good to bring the family along to one visit. Prepare your kids ahead of time by reminding them that a puppy is not a toy but a living, breathing animal that can be hurt. Also, teach them to let the puppy come to them, as you let it come to you.


At a shelter, let them sit outside the cage quietly, letting the dog get used to them and their smell before moving on to petting.
 Leaving a piece of clothing behind that you have worn will give the dog a chance to get familiar with your scent. You can even have other members of the family hold the piece of clothing to add their scent to it. If you have other pets, then make sure to rub the clothing on them as well. This is called a scent handshake and it is a good way to help a new dog get familiar with the scents of their new home.

You can also rub a piece of clothing on the puppy and bring it home for your other pets to sniff.This may help to make the transition easier when you bring the puppy home.
 During one of your visits with the puppy, ask if you can take them for a short leash walk. Doing this will be a good bonding opportunity for both of you and it will help to create a positive memory for the puppy. This may help to make bonding easier after you bring the puppy home., Each visit, shower the dog with affection as much as it will allow it. You want the dog to associate you with happy times, and affection generally equates to happiness for most dogs. Praise the dog, and call it by the name you've chosen to start the bonding process.That is, pet the dog if it will let you, and give it praise.
 If the dog is old enough to have treats, bring some with you to offer the dog. If the puppy isn't old enough yet but is starting to eat some solid food, you can try letting the dog lick some solid food off your fingers to help build trust.As the dog approaches you, either at the shelter or someone's home, offer the dog a treat. Continue offering treats throughout the time you're there, as the dog will come to associate you with positive things.
Be sure to ask if the treat is okay for the dog. Some dogs may not tolerate certain foods well or even be allergic to them.
 Watching how your pup behaves can help you create the right environment for it when you bring it home. If your pup is an explorer, you need to puppy-proof your home more thoroughly. If your pup is more reserved, you need to make sure the environment is quiet for it when you bring it home.For instance, if the dog hides in the corner when you visit and takes a great deal of coaxing to get it to come out, you may have a more reserved pup. If the pup bounds up to you every time, it may not need as quiet an environment.
 When you're ready to take your puppy home, make sure you spend some time getting to know the dog that day, too. Let the dog come up to you, and play with you. That way, the dog will feel more comfortable going home with you.That is, treat this visit like your other visits. Let the pup come to you, then pet it and praise it. Have a few treats ready to remind the pup that you're a friend.
 It is important to praise and reward the puppy with treats and play time to let them know they are doing good. For example, if your puppy goes potty outside, be sure to call him a “good dog” and pet him as well. If your puppy sits and waits patiently for his dinner, then praise him for the good behavior., Leaving your puppy alone for long periods of time can make him feel anxious, and puppies also have a harder time holding their bladders than adult dogs. Be sure to have someone who your puppy is comfortable with come by and check on them if you will be gone for more than a few hours. You might even consider hiring a dog sitter to come by and take your puppy for a midday walk or at least let them out and play with them for a little while., Once you've gotten the puppy home, give it room to explore and play. As it comes up to you to investigate, shower it with attention as you did when you visited it. The puppy will remember you, and gradually come to accept you as the giver of affection.That is, try not to approach it too much. Let the dog come to you, so it can get to know you better at home.

