 Clean your face using your usual facial cleanser, and follow up with some toner and moisturizer. If you plan on wearing any foundation, put it on now. You can do your lips and blush as well, but hold off on the eyeshadow for right now.
 Tweeze out any stray or unruly hairs. Next, use a clean spoolie to comb the hair on your eyebrows upwards and out., If your tinted brow gel came with a spoolie applicator, choose a thin, angled brush, and run it along the spoolie instead. You will be using the thin brush to apply the brow gel along the bottom edge of your brows first.
 Get out a thin, angled brush and pick up some of the brow gel. Outline the bottom of your eyebrow using short, light strokes. Stay within your eyebrow, and don't let the brow gel extend past the hairs. Outline from the inner corner of your eyebrow all the way to the outer corner.Use a brush with stiffer bristles, like the kind you'd use to apply lipstick. Avoid brushes with soft bristles, like an eyeshadow blending brush.
Avoid applying too much. Remember that less is more; you can always apply more layers later.
 Gently wipe off any excess brow gel from your brush. Next, use the brush and light, feathery strokes to blend the brow gel upwards and into the body of your eyebrow., Use the flat side of and angled brush and long strokes to fill in the arch and tail end. Use a short, stubby brush, and quick, upward strokes to fill in the inner part. Make the arch and tail of your brow darker and more defined. Make the inner part of your brow softer and lighter. This will look more natural.


If your brow gel came with an applicator, you can comb the applicator through your eyebrows instead. Be sure to follow the direction that the hairs are growing in, however.
 Use your angled brush to pick up more eyebrow gel. Then, starting at your arch, outline the upper edge of your eyebrow. Don't outline right above the inner corner of your eyebrow; this will give you a softer, more natural look., Use the same techniques that you did at the beginning of the method: upwards towards the inner part of your eyebrow, and outwards and down towards the end of your eyebrow., Choose a concealer that either matches your skin tone or is one shade lighter. Using a thin brush, apply the concealer along the bottom edge of your eyebrow. Apply it just below the hairs so that it doesn't accidentally smudge the brow gel.If your concealer came with an applicator tip, you can use that instead.
You don't have to use the concealer on a daily basis; it's great for whenever you want something more dramatic., Using short, light strokes, blend the concealer down towards the crease of your eyelid. You can do this using your finger or a foam eyeshadow brush.Soften the concealer up with a Q-tip.
 Now that you have the hardest part of your makeup done, you can do the rest, including your eyeshadow, eyeliner, mascara, and anything else you wish to put on.

