 The solid wall must be able to hold the diaper as you are applying it on the wearer.
 Take it out of the package and un-ruffle the static cling from the railing sides of the diaper's containment zone.
 It really doesn't matter if the old diaper rips by it's tapes or not at this point. Pull the diaper tapes off from the front of the old diaper, in any way possible. Rip it off the person's body, if needed.
 It will fall off of the wearer. If the wearer would like, you may hold the diaper on the outside down near the crotch of their diaper, and let it drop. After it has dropped to about knee-length height, you may pull the diaper gently out from under them.
, Make sure it is propped up against the wall, so that the back of the pant is shown to be on top of the front, and so that only the outer plastic isn't seen.


Don't allow the wearer to step backwards quite yet. The adjustment of the diaper to the wall is a critical step in getting just the right fit of the diaper to the wearer.
Make sure the pant is hanging freely.
Allow a caregiver to assist, if one is available.
 The placement doesn't have to be perfect, but it can help better acquaint the wearer to the placement of their new diaper.


Locate the back of the pant with the tag-like icon/strip mentioning the back of the pant. Notice that many adult disposable diapers will have a tag-like icon or strip that will indicate which portion of the pant is the back of the pant.
 But don't pull the pant up the person's legs just yet.


If you need to, you can pull the diaper up a little to help steady it, but pulling it up shouldn't be needed often and too much so go easy on this.
 The caretaker might have to pull the diaper up about an additional two to three inches from the default position, to ensure they can properly see the effective area of the diaper's strip that might be facing them.


Hold both sides of the diaper firmly onto the wearer's body as you pull them up the person's body, the remainder of the way.
 If you don't do this, it can cause the diaper's chemicals to not "activate" if and when the wearer urinates into them (and thereby will allow the water to flow out of the diaper and onto the surrounding surfaces and that can cause a big mess).


To prevent leakage in the diaper, always remember to unruffle the sides of the diaper using one of your hands' thumbs and pinkies, as you push the side ruffles outward a bit (no matter what type of diaper you wear (whether it be pull-up style or not)).

