 Cut down as many trees using your Copper Axe as you can. Just be sure to point your mouse to the point where the tree and the ground meet to cut it all down. The tree will drop wood and almonds that are then automatically placed on your inventory when you get in close proximity to them.


It’s advisable that you get 200 to 300 blocks of wood early on since a lot of the early-game items use it as a crafting ingredient/requirement.;
, Go to your inventory screen (default key is Esc) and craft a basic workbench. Once it’s crafted, you can then place it on a flat surface and exit out of your inventory screen.
 Move your character close to the Workbench and then open your inventory again. Now you’ll need to look for the Wood Fishing Pole on the items that are available for crafting. You can then place it on your inventory after you’ve finished crafting it.


The Wood Fishing Pole is the easiest to craft of the four craftable fishing poles in the game. Other fishing poles like the Reinforced Fishing Pole, Fisher of Souls, and Fleshcatcher, both of which require Lead/Iron Anvils and metals like Lead, Iron, Crimtane, and Demonite Bars to craft., To get the Merchant NPC, you’ll first need to build him a house. Start by building a 9 block (width) by 7 (height) block frame/enclosure made of Wood (or any other available block). Additionally, make sure that you leave a 3 block space for a door.
 After making the house’s frame, go back to your workbench and open your inventory to craft a wooden table, chair, walls, and a door. Once you’re done crafting these, make sure that you place them on your inventory.
 Go to the frame/enclosure you made earlier and place the furniture (table and chair) in the area inside of the enclosure. Once they’re in place, cover the background layer inside the enclosure with the wooden walls and close it off by installing a door.
 After building the house, go outside and look for slimes. Use your sword to kill as many as you can and then collect the gels that they drop after they die.


Slimes are found in all biomes and will spawn during the day. Other than the sword, you can also use your axe and pickaxe to kill these monsters since they’re fairly weak.
You’re usually going to find a couple of slimes in the area where you spawn for the first time in your world.
 Once you’ve accumulated to 10 to 15 gel, you can then go back to your workbench. Open up your inventory and craft as many torches as you possibly can.
 Place one or two torches inside the house you built earlier to give it lighting.
 Go ahead and make another 5 of these houses to accommodate other NPCs.Although the only NPC required for fishing is the Merchant, you’re still going to need the others to access advanced crafting and healing features as well as weapons. Making their houses in advance will save you time later on in the game.
 Coins are not only dropped by killing monsters but also when you break jars as well as by opening chests found all over the world. You’ll need to get 50 coins in your inventory before the Merchant NPC will spawn in your world and take shelter in one of the houses that you built.The 50 silver coin requirement will only work for the Merchant. Other NPCs have their own requirements and will usually spawn once you defeat bosses or have certain items in your inventory.
 You will get a notification once the Merchant NPC has spawned. Once this happens, go to your house/houses and look for him there.
 Have your character stand close to the merchant and right-click on him. Click on the Shop option and you should now see the Bug Net as one of the items that he’s selling. Take note that you’ll need at least 25 silver coins to purchase one.
 After purchasing the Bug Net, equip it by placing it on your item hotkeys. Critters are found all over the Terraria overworld, but you’ll want to focus on catching worms, snails, sluggies, fireflies, and buggies due to their high bait power., The easiest way to fish is to go to the nearest ocean biome. However, you’ll need to be careful since you’re probably going to come across some high-level monsters on your way there.In order to get something to bite the bait, you’ll need to make sure that you are fishing in an area that has at least 75 continuous (vertically or horizontally) tiles/blocks of any liquid (this includes lava and honey). This technically means that you can fish in any body of water so long as they adhere to the 75 continuous tiles/blocks requirement.
Although it’s possible to make your own fishing area, it will take time. You might want to look into this though, once you’ve acquired more powerful equipment after defeating a couple of bosses.
You can also fish in lava and honey, but you will need to make sure that you have the right fishing pole and bait.
 Once at the ocean, open up your inventory and equip the Wood Fishing Pole to any of your hotkeys.
 In the same manner, equip your bait into one of your ammunition slots.
 With both the bait and fishing pole equipped, you can now cast your fishing line by pointing and clicking your mouse on the water.


Make sure that you’re standing on a dry land (or on a platform) and not submerged in water when you cast your line or else you won’t be able to catch anything., Now you’ll need to wait for the bobber to move, indicating that you’ve caught something. Once it’s moving, click the mouse again and you should now have the item on your inventory.

