 There are numerous potential symptoms of Psittacosis in parrots, and the way each bird exhibits the condition will vary. If you notice even one of these symptoms in your bird, it is best to consult your vet. Psittacosis symptoms include:

Loss of appetite
Weight loss
Ruffled feathers
Green or yellow diarrhea
Trouble breathing
Nasal discharge,
Severe weakness
Trembling
Swelling around the eyes.;
, If you have recognized symptoms of Psittacosis in your parrot, bring them to the vet immediately. Your vet will examine your parrot, and run a series of tests to help diagnose the condition. False negative results are possible with these screenings, so it is important to run a combination tests to get an accurate diagnosis. If possible, bring your parrot to an aviary veterinarian, or a vet who specializes in exotic birds.Your vet will likely perform:

An antigen test
An antibody test
PCR-based tests

, It is possible for your bird to become sick with Psittacosis as the result of a weakened immune system. If your vet suspects that may be the case, they may run additional tests. Your parrot may need additional treatment or medication to treat any secondary infections present., The primary treatment for Psittacosis is a regimen of antibiotics. Often your vet will prescribe doxycycline, tetracycline, or a combination of these. Once your parrot has been diagnosed with Psittacosis, your vet will likely inject a strong dose of these medicines., You will likely need to continue giving your parrot antibiotics after they return home. These antibiotics (usually doxycycline, tetracycline, or a mix) will come in liquid form. They can be added to your parrot's water.Follow all dosage instructions from your vet.
Continue to administer antibiotics for as long as your vet has advised. Do not stop early even if your parrot seems better.
 Some birds may exhibit no symptoms of Psittacosis (these are called carriers), but then shed the illness in their feces or nasal discharge when they are otherwise sick, crowded, or stressed. You can reduce the chances of your parrot contracting Psittacosis by keeping their cage clean, avoiding over-crowded, providing a healthy diet, and keeping up with regular veterinary care.Psittacosis can be contracted by humans! It is very important for you to wear gloves and a face mask when you clean your parrots cage.
A clean, well-ventilated cage can reduce the instance of respiratory infections like Psittacosis.

