


Lists are an important first step in prioritizing and time management.
Prioritized schedules must allow time for family. When you ignore family, everyone's unhappy.






Don't forget yourself. What's an important personal goal you want to accomplish this week?





;
, A common time management tool often used to prioritize tasks and schedules is to:


Give each activity that is important and urgent an A.






Assign a B to important tasks that aren't urgent.






Finally, place a C by anything you would like to do but doesn't carry any urgency or importance.
 Then do it.
 Perhaps the time you spend on a mass transit commute or at your child's soccer practice can be used for tasks like checking email and voice mail, making phone calls or revising a report.
 This is a popular time management tool used to deal with one of our biggest time wasters.


When you stop what you're doing every time your computer chimes with a new email, you get off task.
 A prioritized schedule means completing A tasks first. Completing your most important tasks contributes to a feeling of accomplishment.


If you have a meeting with others scheduled first thing in the morning that you've decided is a B task, obviously it takes priority in your daily schedule, unless you can switch it for later in the day.
Consider what time of the day is best for you in terms of thinking clearly and accomplishing more. For many, it's first thing in the morning, but you may be different. If you know that you're in the zone in the late afternoon, then make certain you're scheduling your A tasks for that time.
C tasks should never be worked on during your high energy time. It's a waste of your resources.



Display your daily schedule where you will always see it.



While you may only want to concentrate on A tasks, these often take a lot of time. Instead, look at a mix, such as three As two Bs, and one C in a prioritized schedule.
Say "no." No matter how full your daily schedule is or how well you prioritize tasks, someone will ask more of you. Politely say no instead of feeling like this is the apple that will upset the apple cart.






Chances are the person doing the asking will be surprised when you turn him down. You may feel a little guilty, but persevere.
The more your turn down requests when you don't have the time, the more you send out the message that you're not a "yes" person.
Sometimes you will want to say yes. If you have the time, fine; if not, look at your prioritized schedule and decide what you're willing to give up.
Emergencies happen, but they occur far less often than we think they do.

