 A healthy relationship is when both parties are genuinely happy and elevated from the support they give to one another. Obviously, there are times when a person needs to feel their own identity through socialising with others, committing to hobbies or keeping personal information to themselves. Most importantly, it is important at these points, to respect the other party's boundaries.


It is important to understand that jealousy is merely a feeling in your mind that may or may not signify other problems not necessarily within a relationship. For example, if you don't have enough confidence in yourself or experiences in a past relationship. All of these can distort your ability to commit to a healthy relationship.
 Jealousy can also be, not always, a habit stemmed from either negative thinking or bad gossiping. Wherever it comes from, stopping these other habits may help you to overcome your sense of jealousy.


Even if this article does open with the importance of building a healthy relationship, we need to work backwards in order to remove the first layer of jealousy and then create an open relationship that uses active management skills as opposed to aggressive and passive.
 A childish tactic that is often forgotten. Remember to honestly build a picture. This method really helps you understand what jealousy is doing to you in the face of your partner.;
, If you have confidence issues, there are many articles on wikiHow that can definitely help you. But, in summary, firstly changing your mindset from 'I am hopeless' to something as simple as 'I can be creative, honest and motivating' can be the game changer to improving your overall character. (Tip: Never place another person into the picture, like 'I am better than this person' or 'At least I am not as spoilt as this person'. This won't help you remove the cycle of jealousy nor make you any more mature, as you cannot know every single detail of another persons life.)

, In particular, secretly checking their phones, following them through GPS tracking or feeling mad whenever they are tagged in a group photo with others. You should feel happy for your partner to have friends. Again, place yourself in the other persons shoes.
 When you feel yourself reaching a dangerous point of jealousy. Take a moment to re-evaluate the problem and ask yourself whether it is really worth getting upset over.
 Improvements may become a great confidence booster. If not, take note of this situation for future reference.
 Find time when both of you are free. Find a private space that is secure and comfortable for a face to face discussion. If you both are too busy or can't find such a place, talking over the phone or web chat is another option.
 This could be your own jealous feelings to a situation that falls outside the situation such as secretly checking your partners phone to find it locked. Explain to your partner how these situations are affecting you. However, realise that certain actions such as frequently making secret calls that seem suspicious should be brought up at a later date.
 Tell them what would bother you and tell them to put yourself in your shoes if the situation is reversed would you also be uncomfortable?

, Never blame or speak in a destructive manner such as 'YOU ARE ALWAYS DOING THIS'.

