 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the coffee cake, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Keep an eye on the oven so you know when it’s fully preheated. Most models with flash an indicator light and/or beep to alert you.;
, For the coffee cake, you’ll need a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) pan. Keep the cake from sticking by greasing the interior of the pan with butter, and set aside.If you prefer, you can grease the pan with nonstick cooking spray.
 Add 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of baking powder, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of baking soda, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to a large bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients until they’re fully combined, and set the bowl aside.If you’re using salted butter in the cake, you can omit the salt if you prefer.
 Add ½ cup (113 g) of butter that’s been softened to room temperature and 1 cup (208 g) of granulated sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric handheld mixer to beat the two together on medium-high until the mixture is light and fluffy, which should take approximately 2 minutes.You can mix the coffee cake batter with a stand mixer if you prefer.
 Once the butter and sugar are creamed together, add 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, and 1 cup (230 g) of sour cream to the bowl. Mix the ingredients in at medium speed until they’re fully incorporated, which should take approximately 1 minute.You can use a reduced-fat sour cream if you prefer, but it’s best not to use fat-free.
 After you’ve mixed in the eggs, vanilla, and sour cream, add the flour mixture to the batter in increments. Mix after each addition on medium-low speed until the dry ingredients are just combined.Don’t overmix the batter. You may wind up with tough coffee, dry cake if you do.
 To make the topping for the coffee cake, add ¼ cup (52 g) of sugar, ⅓ cup (69 g) of brown sugar, 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon, and ½ cup (105 g) of chopped nuts to medium bowl. Use a spoon to mix the ingredients together well.You can use whatever type of nuts that you prefer, but pecans or walnuts are classic options.
 When the topping is ready, transfer half of the batter into the greased pan. Use a spatula to spread it across the pan so it’s in an even layer.If you want the inner layer of the filling to be closer to the bottom of the cake, you can pour a little less than half of the batter into the pan.
 After you’ve added some of the batter to the pan, use a spoon or your fingers to spread half of the topping over the batter. Try to sprinkle the topping as evenly across the cake as you can.You can skip this step, pour all of the batter into the pan at once, and sprinkle all of the topping over the top of the cake if you prefer.
 Once you’ve added the topping to the first layer of batter, spoon the remaining batter into the pan. It will be difficult to spread so you’re better off adding dollops of the batter with a spoon all over the pan and then spread it out with a spatula.If you find that the batter is sticking to the spatula, you can spray it with non-stick cooking spray to make spreading the batter easier.
 When all of the batter is in the pan, sprinkle the remaining topping over it. Once again, distribute it as evenly across the cake as you can.If you want thicker layers of topping for your coffee cake, you can double the recipe for it.
You can also add extra layers of the topping if you prefer. For example, pour just a quarter of the batter into the pan, sprinkle a quarter of the topping, add the next quarter of the batter into the pan, and repeat the process until you’ve used up all of the batter and topping.
 Place the pan in the preheated oven. Allow it to bake for approximately 30 minutes, or until a toothpick that you insert in the center comes out clean.If you don’t have a toothpick, you can use a knife or fork to test the cake for doneness.
 When the cake has finished baking, remove it from the oven. Set the pan on a wire rack, and allow it to cool for at least 15 minutes.You can pour the icing over the cake when it’s still slightly warm. However, if the cake is fresh from the oven, it will be so hot that the icing will likely melt off.
 While the cake is cooling, add ½ cup (63 g) of powdered sugar and 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 ml) of milk to a small bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re smooth.If you want the icing to have a glaze-like consistency, you can add a little more of the milk to thin it.
If you want the icing to have a spreadable, frosting-like consistency, you can add a little more powdered sugar to thicken it up.
 When the icing is mixed, drizzle or spread it over the top of the coffee cake. Cut it into pieces, and place on plates to serve.Store the cake covered and at room temperature. It will keep for up to 3 days.
