 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the one with “Esc” on it. Tap to open.;
, Once the app is open, you will see some options on the top portion of the screen. Tap “ENABLE KEYBOARD,” and you will be taken to a list of keyboards on your device.
 Tap the toggle button by the Hacker’s Keyboard option, and press “OK” in the pop-up that appears. This will enable Hacker’s Keyboard.


The pop-up warning is only a precaution by Google, saying that the keyboard may collect data from your input, but the app is well regarded.
 Press the back button on your device to go back to the Hacker’s Keyboard main screen. Tap “INPUT LANGUAGES” at the right of “ENABLE KEYBOARD,” and you will be presented with a list of supported languages.
 Scroll through the available languages, and tap the one you wish the keyboard to use.


You can select multiple languages by tapping on more than one.
 Go back to the app’s main screen, and tap “SET INPUT METHOD” below “ENABLE KEYBOARD.” This will present you with a list of enabled keyboards. Tap on “Hacker’s Keyboard” to set it.
 On the app’s main screen, tap “GET DICTIONARIES” below “INPUT LANGUAGES.” You will be taken to a Play Store list of dictionaries you can download as add-ons to the keyboard.
 There are multiple downloadable dictionaries implemented by the developer, Klause Weidner. You can browse the available dictionaries by scrolling down on the Play Store page Hacker’s Keyboard directs you to.
 Tap on a dictionary of your choice, and tap on the green “Install” button and then the “Accept” button, like you normally would when installing an app from the Play Store. This will download the dictionary and save it for the Hacker’s Keyboard use.
 Go to the Settings application on your device by tapping the gear app icon on your home screen or application drawer.
 Scroll down to the Language and Input menu, and tap on it. Under the list of Keyboards in the Language and Input menu, tap “Hacker’s Keyboard.” This will open the settings menu for the keyboard app.
 Look under the Keyboard View settings header. Here, you can set the keyboard to portrait or landscape mode by tapping on the option and using the slider to adjust the percentage.
 Under each screen layout option, portrait and landscape, you can choose to either have the 4-row or 5-row layout. The latter will have more buttons for advanced input, as well as arrow keys, Ctrl, Alt, and FN keys to name a few. Tap to select the option you prefer.


The 4-row layout is best for when the device is in portrait mode, and the 5-row layout is more efficient when used in landscape orientation.
 In the Settings menu for Hacker’s Keyboard, you will be able to find a host of other configuration options, all of which are plain to understand and try out. Tinker with the settings to get the best experience with the keyboard. It is a rewarding experience, especially when you frequently type on a Terminal emulator or when needing input that you can only do on a full PC keyboard.
 Open an application with a text field to try Hacker’s Keyboard out. Your previous keyboard will be replaced with a plain Android Gingerbread-themed keyboard. The difference is that It will be almost like a desktop keyboard!


You can use the arrow keys when on the 5-row layout to move the text cursor, as well as the Esc key when using PC emulators on your Android device.

