 Drills are practices that are designed to help you strengthen your technique. The better your stroke techniques, the faster you will be able to swim. Practice one or two drills at the beginning of your swim practice each day.


The hand-drag drill increases hand-recovery speed. Swim a stroke as you normally would, but drag your hand through the water during the recovery phase. When you swim normally again, your hands will perform the drill much more swiftly.Try dolphin kicks for a swifter momentum. To practice dolphin kicks, kick your right and left leg at the same time, as if they were a dolphin fin., To increase your energy and gain control over your speed, change your pace for every lap. Swim some laps at a leisurely pace, some at a moderate pace, and some at a racing level.


For best results, don't just perform your laps from slowest to fastest. Mix up your laps with fast laps in-between slow or moderate ones so you have time to catch your breath.
 Poor swimming form can greatly limit your swimming speed due to excessive drag.Study the correct position for each stroke and do your best to stay in correct form.
 Most swimming pools have a pace watch, a small instrument with a minute and second hand that divides time into 5 second increments, from 5-60 seconds or minutes.Try to perform a certain lap or drill within a specific time frame, shortening the time limit as your speed improves.


If your swimming pool does not have a pace clock, consider buying a waterproof stopwatch or your own small pacer clock.
 Part of strengthening your speed is increasing your efficiency. Try your best to keep your body in a straight line. Don't let you arms or legs cross their lines: for example, your left arm should never move into the right lane.


Practice the single arm drill if you have trouble with swimming straight. Perform a stroke with just one arm per lap. Hold onto your kickboard with the other arm if you have trouble staying afloat.
If you are performing a backstroke, use your eyes. Focus your sight on something straight ahead, like a diving board or a chair directly ahead of you. This will help you swim in a steady line.

