 Before you start to construct your pipe racks, you'll need to know how big your pipe rack has to be, and how much space in your kitchen that you have to accommodate it.Measure the area with a tape measure and write down your wall measurements on a piece of paper. Use a level when measuring horizontal lines so that your rack will also be level.


If you have more pots and pans, you'll need a larger pipe or you'll need to have multiple pipe racks on your wall.
If you have no wall space available, consider putting the pipe rack on the ceiling.
 Lay the pieces out on a flat table and separate the pieces that you need to cut. Use a tape measure and a marker to mark lines where you need to cut. After you've created the layout and have measured all the pieces, it's time that you cut the pipe to fit the space in your kitchen. Proceed to cut your pipe down with a pipe cutter. Make sure to take into account the connector pieces, as well as the size of your wall flanges or pipe hangers when measuring out your pipe.


You can purchase copper or galvanized piping at most hardware stores.Use either a 3/4-inch (1.9 cm) thick or 1/2-inch (1.27 cm) thick copper pipe for this project.You can use a hacksaw or a pipe slice instead of a pipe cutter to cut down your pipe., These elbow connectors will fit into whatever is mounting your pipe to the wall. You can usually just slide the elbow connectors over your copper pipe if you've bought all the pieces together. If not, you may have to solder your copper pipe over male threaded pipe pieces to keep the pipe together. In this case, use your soldering gun to heat the copper pipe to the threaded pipe and elbow connector.
 Now that you have your layout and pipe cut, you'll need a way to connect it to your wall or ceiling. For this, you can use a variety of pieces that you can purchase at most hardware stores. Attach the elbow connectors that you have on both sides of your pipe to wall flanges or hangers that you can screw into the wall.


Wall flanges are larger and often square or circular pieces of metal that screw into the wall.
Pipe and bell hangers are smaller and made specifically for copper tubing.
 Connect your finished copper rack to the wall. Line up the wall flanges to the wall, over where you made your marks. Use a screwdriver or drill to safely fasten the hangers to the wall in the spaces that you marked earlier with a pencil.


It's best not to use pilot holes until you have the length of your pipe rack exact. If your measurements are off, you'll have to screw another set of holes.
 You can purchase S hooks at the hardware store, or you can create your own by bending thin copper rods into an S shape. Use pliers to bend the rod before hanging the rods onto your copper tube rack.If you bought metallic colored S hooks, you can use a copper spray paint to make them match the pipe rack.