 If your cat is having a hard time with grooming, then your cat may have a medical condition that makes it painful to groom. In this case, addressing the underlying issue will help to make your cat more comfortable and your cat may even start grooming himself again. Treatments might include dental attention for a cat with a sore mouth or pain killing medications for the elderly arthritic.If your cat’s fur is severely matted, then seek the help of a professional to remove the matted fur. It is traumatic to the cat to have large matts removed and it is often kindest to sedate the cat so that he is happily oblivious to the procedure.;
, When your cat is not grooming himself as well as he once did, one of the best things you can do is to incorporate regular brushing into your routine. Brushing the cat from head to tail removes loose fur, dirt and other debris and stimulates circulation and sebaceous gland secretions. This helps return shine and luster to the coat and prevents the formation of painful mats, especially in long-haired cats. , Do not brush your cat while he is agitated.Gently pet your cat and talk soothingly to him. He will respond better to you.


If your cat is not used to being groomed then he may resent being brushed. Try to help him understand it is a pleasant experience and keep the first sessions short so that he doesn't lose patience.
Try brushing your cat right before you feed him so that he associates being brushed with a food reward afterwards. This may increase his tolerance levels for being brushed.Keep in mind that brushing can be a bonding experience between owner and pet. But if your pet is agitated or stressed, he may start to associate negative feelings with you instead.
 In some cases you may need to groom your cat right away even if he is unwilling. For example, if you cat has soiled himself, then it might be necessary to groom your cat even if he is agitated. In these cases there are several options to help you calm and control your cat.



Use a towel. If it is essential to groom the cat right away and he is agitated, try wrapping him in a towel with only the dirty area left out. Having his eyes covered can help to calm him down. Plus, having his teeth and claws inside the towel will protect your hands from bites and scratches.

Hold onto your cat’s neck scruff. Some cats will calm down if you hold onto their scruff, which is the skin on the back of a cat’s neck. When a mother picks her kittens up by the scruff it has a calming effect, and this persists in some adults. However, do not pick the cat up by the scruff, merely grasp a handful of skin over his shoulder and hold it firmly while he rests on a flat surface.

Work at a height that is comfortable for you. It might be easier to clean your cat is you put him on a high tabletop or on top of a dryer. This will prevent you from having to bend and strain your back. Help the cat to feel secure by placing a blanket or towel on the table top so that he is less likely to slip and slide around.
 Long-haired cats need to be brushed frequently, preferably on a daily basis.Otherwise, their fur may become matted and dirty. Short-haired cats can be brushed less often, such as a few times per week and as needed.
 Take your time when brushing your cat so that you do not pull the fur or frighten your cat. Be aware that elderly cats with painful joints and arthritis, can become hissy when you go near their joints. It is all too easy to bang a comb or brush against a bony cat's hips, shoulders, elbows, or knees, and cause pain, so work slowly and carefully over these areas.
 Take a few moments as you brush your cat to check his skin for any abnormalities, raw or bare spots, or other problems. If you notice anything abnormal, make sure that you contact your veterinarian as soon as possible.Make sure to check for fleas while combing your cat as well. Part the fur and look for small shiny brown insect about the size of a sesame seed. Check for flea dirt as well. These look like little specks of dirt. If you find something suspicious put the speck on damp cotton wool. If it is flea dirt the moisture will rehydrate the dried blood and you will see an orange halo.
Run your fingers over the cat's body to feel for lumps and bumps. If you find a new lump, or an existing lump is growing or seems to bother your cat when you touch it, take your cat to see a vet as soon as possible.
 A metal comb can be used to remove debris and other matter from your cat’s fur. It can also help to untangle the coat, which is especially useful for longer-haired cats.Start by combing the hair on your cat’s tummy and legs. Then comb the fur on the back, combing it upward and toward her head. Comb out the tail too., If your cat has long hair, take extra care to untangle knots before they become a bigger problem. If you find any knots, gently untangle them. You can use a comb, a mat splitter, or your fingers.No matter what you use, try to hold onto the base of the mat near the skin so that you do not pull on the skin as you work through the mat.
 If you find a mat that you cannot untangle, remove it with clippers rather than scissors to avoid cutting the cat's skin.Cats have very delicate skin underneath their fur. If it gets nicked, your cat might get an infection. In worse cases, your cat may need stitches.


If you do not feel comfortable removing the mat yourself, contact a groomer who is experienced with cats or contact your veterinarian.
If you do not have clippers, use scissors but with care. The safest method is to slide a comb between the skin and the base of the knot. Then cut above the comb on the knot side. The comb shields the skin and makes it less likely you will nick it. If you cannot get a comb under the knot then this is a job for a professional groomer or the vet tech, and do not attempt it yourself.
 After combing the coat, use a rubber or bristle brush to remove loose hair.This will grab the last of the loose hair and it will also feel good to your cat. Even short-haired cats need to be brushed, otherwise the hair that they shed can get stuck in their coat.

