 It's very difficult to set pre-existing rhymes and words to a melody after the fact. Most songwriters find it much easier to compose the melody and then go about composing a set of lyrics that fit in with the tone and the structure of the song.


Many songwriters find it helpful to sing nonsense syllables or whistle to figure out the melody and establish a base form for you to fill with words.
Go with whatever technique works best for your process. Bob Dylan, considered by some to be one of the greatest songwriters ever, often wrote words first. Give it a shot.
 A popular and important technique in country music especially, a good song will often "turn" a phrase, or use a line to mean more than one thing throughout the course of a song, when used at different times.


In Kacey Musgraves' "Blowing Smoke," the phrase "blowing smoke" is used at different times to refer specifically to waitresses on break smoking cigarettes, and also to boasting of quitting someday, referring to both the job and the habit. It's an effective technique that changes the meaning but not the words.
 Avoid overloading your lines with too many words, making your song a tongue-twister that can be difficult to sing. As you compose, use words judiciously, leaving out more than you put in. A simple and quick rhyme that's simple can be much more effective in a song than a lot of "poetic" words.


In "The Butcher," Leonard Cohen makes a brief and devastating rhyme out of drug use:

I found a silver needle. I put it into my arm. / It did some good, did some harm.
 Novelist and Beat writer William Burroughs pioneered a method of writing that involved cutting up rhyming words and phrases and throwing them into a bag. Try doing the same and removing phrases at random to collage together a tapestry of weirdness for your song. Music is amenable to that kind of writing.


The Rolling Stones employed this technique for their song "Casino Boogie":


One last cycle, thrill freak Uncle Sam / Pause for business, so you'll understand.