 A sliding scale, sometimes known as a cryptograph, takes our traditional alphabet and slides it in one direction, giving each letter a newly assigned code letter.The simplest way to do this is to slide the entire alphabet down a single letter. This means that A will be represented by B, B by C, until Z will eventually be represented by A.


You can go beyond this single move, however, and slide the alphabet down multiple places. This will make your code more advanced, as a one letter slide can be cracked fairly easily.
You can also slide the alphabet backwards. This requires a bit more planning, however, as you'll have to work from the latter side of the alphabet, move past Z, and then start from A.
This strategy is also known as "ROT1," which stands for "rotate one letter forward." You can apply this to more advanced scales if you would like. ROT2, for example, would stand for "rotate two letters forward."

, Start by writing out your message in one rectangular block, moving one row at time.You'll want to preplan this a bit, as each row should be as close to even, in its length, as possible. It may not line up perfectly, however. Once you've written out your blocks, move vertically down each column. Each vertical column will be its own word of a nearly equal length, if you've planned your rows evenly.


When decoding these messages, write your code words as individual columns again, and you'll be able read the message in row form again.
 The Pigpen Code, often referred to as to masonic cipher, is one of the most advanced codes to write within. Make sure that you write it out clearly in an organized fashion, as you'll want to be returning into it when you're writing and decoding these messages.Draw your two major grids. One will look like a tic-tac-toe board, and the other will look like a massive X. You'll fill in the thirteen holes of the two grids with two letters each.


Compare the codes for A and B. Both will have the same major shape, but B, because it's the second letter in the box, gets a dot attached to it. This will apply to all of the shared spaces. The first will be plain, and the second has a dot. It may help to write each letter out individually in its code to compare them with each other.

