 For young children in the U.S. whose native language in not English, going to school can be frustrating. Here’s a way to help make the transition fun, while also teaching English at the same time. Have students sit in a circle facing inward. The teacher then walks around the circle, tapping each student’s head and using English vocabulary words such as “duck, duck, dog.” When dog is called, that student chases after the teacher. If caught, the teacher must go again. If not, the student can take a turn as the picker, thus practicing pronunciation.


Using words like these will help students recognize the difference between similar sounds like “u” in duck and “o” in dog and “ck” in duck and “g” in dog. , Before starting, the teacher should talk with students about different animals, including how they sound and how they move. Now have the students sit in a circle facing inward. Choose one child to start as the picker, only in this case the picker will be a duck and will quack and flap its wings while walking around the circle, tapping each child’s head and saying “duck.” Then the duck will choose another student, tap his or her head and say the name of another animal. That child will then hop up and chase after the duck, using the appropriate sounds and movements of the animal he or she was called.


If the duck is tagged before making it to the new animal’s spot, the duck must sit in the middle of the circle until a new animal is tagged.
If the duck isn’t tagged, the new animal then walks around the circle, tapping heads and saying his animal’s name until he chooses a child, taps his or her head and calls out a new animal name, which starts another chase.This variation is great in that it integrates dramatic and expressive play with learning.
 Using masking tape or chalk – depending upon whether you are playing inside or outside – ask your students to help you create a large circle (it's also a trick to keeping children in the area you want them). While you're doing that, review a subject or area they've been learning. Have the children sit in a circle facing inward, choose a child to be the picker and use your topic as for the basis for the words the picker will say while he or she is tapping heads. For instance, if you were going over shapes, the picker might say “square, square, rectangle.” The picker will circle around, tapping heads and saying “square” until finally saying “rectangle.” When rectangle is called, that child chases after the picker.


As with traditional duck, duck, goose, if the picker gets back to the vacant seat first, the rectangle becomes the picker; otherwise the picker goes again.
This can be modified for seasons of the year, characteristics of plants and trees, parts of the body, colors, elements of writing, for math, etc.
For example, if students are learning how to count, write a number on a piece of paper and put it in the center of the circle. Have the picker go around the circle tapping on each child’s head, counting from 1 upward until that number is called. When it is, that child then chases the picker. This could also be done when teaching how to count by 2s, 5s and so forth.

