 You can also use your journal to help you develop characters that feel real. Using the real-life details of a person you know well to create a character in your novel will allow you to make them feel more believable. They will also come across as more relatable to your reader.Look for real-life people in your journal that you find interesting or fascinating. Often, interesting characters will have specific habits and traits that may go against what is considered "normal" by society. This could be a weird quirk, like an intense interest in outer space, or a unique physical trait, like two different colored eyes or a unique sense of style.
For example, maybe your journal is dominated by times you have spent with your best friend during childhood. You could then turn your childhood best friend into a character in your novel, using physical details and mannerisms of your friend that you wrote about in your journal.
 You can tap into the deeper elements of narrative by using the voice and tone in your journal for a character in your novel. You can use the voice in your journal to create the voice of a character or the narrative voice of your novel.The voice in your journal, narrated by you, may shift with age. You may sound more young and dramatic in your teen years and then more resigned and mature in your older years. You could then use the voice in your journal entries from when you were a teen to create the voice of a teenage character in your novel.
You may also notice your tone shifts in your journal based on your age or your experiences at a certain point in your life. You can then use this tone if you are creating a character based on you at a certain age or a character going through similar experiences as you.
For example, you may notice you have a more immature tone during your teenage years, where you describe experiences as "awesome", "sick", or "super dramatic." As you get older, you may notice your tone shifts into being more mature and developed, describing experiences as "difficult", "challenging", or "enjoyable."

, Do not treat the material in your journal as sacred. Be willing to combine several real life people in your journal to create one character. This will make your character feel more detailed and nuanced.For example, you may cherry-pick certain slangs or ways of speech from several individuals in your journal to create the dialogue for one character. Or you may use the physical traits of several people to create the physical traits of one character in your novel.

