 Remember that if you ask your Mom for something, and she says no, do not throw a temper tantrum. Otherwise, your Mom will never change her mind, and never buy you the item. If you do throw the fit then either your Mom will punish you (unless she's really nice), or never buy you the item.;
, Avoid situations where tempers can get out of control. If you need to talk to her about something, find out what kind of mood she is in. If she is stressed from work, trying to deal with a sibling's problem, or household responsibilities, she may not be able to deal with you at that moment.
 If you can tell you may be on the verge of pushing the "wrong" button, back off, and let the matter rest.
 If an issue is pressing and you need some time to think about it, or just to cool down, back off before anyone loses control.
 Take responsibility for situations when you are able to. If there is something you can do about a situation without involving your mom, try to deal with it yourself. If you want a new pair of shoes, and don't think she will buy them, look for a job or other source of income, or save up and buy them yourself.
 If you are frequently arguing about a particular chore, do it in a timely manner, and your mom won't have to fuss at you, which in turn may make you cop an attitude.
 Don't always complain you don't get what you want. You should consider both how much you do get, and how able she is to provide what you want. Often, we do not consider how well off we are, nor do we consider how hard parents work and scrimp to provide what we have.
 Even if you are dead set on getting what you want, you may be better off compromising than losing an argument and having hurt feelings.
 Keep your problems with your siblings, peers, teachers, and others out of your attitude with your Mom. If you are mad or upset with someone else, your Mom does not deserve to take abuse from you because of it.
 Remember that your Mom probably wants what is best for you, and, in fact, may know better than you do what that is.
 Therefore complaining about yours won't help at all. But you can also "swap" and tell each other about your day.
 Make sure to listen to what she has to say.
 When she asks you to do something, do it; don't give her a chance to complain.

