 It's a grey app with a black camera icon. You can usually find this option on the Home Screen.

You can also swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the camera icon in the bottom-right corner of the menu.;
, Tapping the screen while the document is centered will re-focus the camera on it to preserve as much quality as possible.

If Camera opens facing you, first tap the camera icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen to switch camera lenses.
 It's the white circle at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will take the photo.

Repeat this process for any extra pages your document may have.
 This will open your iPhone's Camera Roll to the most recent photo you took., It's an upward-facing arrow in the bottom-left corner of the screen. Doing so will bring up a list of options at the bottom of the screen., It's an option in the row of grey icons at the bottom of the screen. As long as iCloud Drive is enabled on your iPhone and you only have one picture selected, you'll see this option at the bottom of the screen.

If you'd rather just print a copy of the document and you have an AirPrinter connected to your iPhone, tap Print instead.
 It should be the top option in the "iCloud Drive" window. Doing so will place your selected photo in iCloud Drive; you can now open the file on any computer with Internet access.

You can also tap a folder if you'd prefer to store the photo somewhere specific.
If you have multiple pages of material to upload, you'll have to individually upload each photo.
 You'll be able to open your iCloud Drive and download any saved photos from there., If your computer remembers you and signs you in automatically, skip this step., It's a blue app with a white cloud on it., Doing so will select it.

You can hold down Ctrl (or ⌘ Command on a Mac) and click multiple files to select all of them.
If you stored your document in a specific folder, first double-click the folder.
 It's at the top of the page; this is the "download" button., Once it does, you'll be able to open it from your computer's "Downloads" folder and do what you please.

Depending on your browser, you may first need to select a download location (e.g., your computer's desktop).

