 If you already have a classic or custom type of drink in mind, go for it. However, if you’re wondering what types of drinks to feature at your party, the season can be great source of inspiration. Maybe you want to make hot buttered cider for a winter dinner party. On the other hand, maybe you’re hosting a summer lawn party, and want to set up a DIY lemonade station.


Be sure to choose something that will allow for you and your guests' creativity. Following the lemonade example, your station could feature freshly juiced lemonade, some other juices or flavored seltzer waters to add, and garnishing like fresh berries, mint leaves, and lavender petals.;
, This includes both liquid ingredients as well as add-ins. Once you’ve selected the type of drink station you want to set up, think about all of the specific ingredients you want to provide. Look online for further information, by searching for different recipes of the drink you’re thinking about.


Don’t forget about fruit and fresh herbs, as they can add visual appeal and the aroma they offer can make a great drink even better.
Note that many different types of drinks can be made with or without alcohol. Allowing your guests to make that choice themselves ensures that their drinks are just what they were hoping for.
 Many drink recipes call for specific ingredients to be juiced or cut into sizes appropriate for garnishing. For instance, many cocktails call for lime juice and/or a lime slice. Be sure prepare any ingredients that require dangerous or significant preparation beforehand.Be sure to prepare enough! It's best to avoid using knives or blenders during a party.
Whenever you’re using a recipe that calls for juice of any type, consider juicing fresh fruits the day of the party for the best flavor.
 So, you’ve decided on a Bloody Mary bar. You plan to offer a few different types of tomato juice and pre-made Bloody Mary mixes, a few different types of liquor, a plethora of vegetables and other add-ins, and a fridge door’s worth of different hot sauce. Your guests have plenty to work with and will undoubtedly wind up making some great drinks. That said, some guests may appreciate a bit of guidance.For instance, write down your recommended recipe and make a sign that says something like “Sarah’s Sassy Bloody Maria: 2 oz tequila, 2 stalks of pickled asparagus, 2 pearl onions, in a glass rimmed with powdered beef jerky and filled to the brim with McClure’s Bloody Mary Mix.”

, Even if you specify a classic cocktail drink station, you’ll want to offer some variety in terms of the main ingredient. For instance, maybe you’ll focus on offering specialty ingredients for the finest martinis in town, with a few choice bottles of vodka and gin in particular. You might as well put out a bottle of bourbon and another of tequila as well.Don’t forget liquors. Depending on the types of drink you want to offer, vermouths and certain cordials will be vital. Bitters are great too, and come in all sorts of flavors.
Further, not everyone who drinks alcohol likes to drink liquor. If you want to make sure there are options for everyone, it’s worth putting out an ice bucket with some beers and a bottle of champagne.
 Even when you’re hosting an adult party and expect the booze to be flowing, you should always make sure guests can find a non-alcoholic option when they’re ready to slow down for the evening. If nothing else, a water pitcher is always a good idea.Another great option to set out is carbonated water. Many people enjoy drinking sparkling water on its own, while others will likely use to it spritz drinks of all sorts.
 Whatever you use to hold your different ingredients, make sure they’re labeled clearly and correctly. This is important for several reasons, including notifying those who may be allergic to certain items. If you’re using squeeze bottles, simply add a piece of masking tape and write the contents on the tape in permanent marker.If you have bowls of a bunch of dry ingredients, especially spices, make mini signs you can attach to toothpicks or skewers and stick into the bowl as well.
 Several factors should be considered to determine what type of cups or glassware you’ll want to set out at your drink station. For instance, if you’ve made a large batch of hot chocolate, you’ll likely want to keep it in a vessel that will preserve its warmth. A ladle can then be used to dole out single portions into mugs, and guests can add liqueur, marshmallows, etc. as they wish.


Aside from temperature, other factors to consider are the age of your guests. For instance, if children will be using the drink station, you may want to use plastic cups and utensils.
 Especially if your drink station will include alcohol, it’s important to provide something to help people determine portions of certain ingredients. For instance, put out a shot glass or tablespoon and mention it specifically in your posted recipes. For instance, “Start with 1 shot glass of whichever liquor you have…”, One of the most important components of a drink station is making sure the drinks you offer can be made at the proper temperature. Most of the time, this will simply mean providing lots of ice. An ice bucket can work, but a cooler with a scoop is even better. Be sure to have some backup ice in your freezer too.On the other hand, you may need to keep drinks warm. In this case, keep the base liquid - such as hot apple cider - in a crock pot. Turn the crock pot on and set it to "low" or "keep warm."

, One of the most common types of containers that bartenders use, for instance, are squeeze bottles. These soft plastic bottles with conical spouts can help facilitate easy drink mixing. Further, the top on a squeeze bottle can stay on throughout the party, reducing the risk of spills and protecting each ingredient from contamination.Use squeeze bottles to hold popular, common ingredients like lime juice or simple syrup.
Other equipment that can make self-service simpler includes items like stirring utensils and drink strainers.
Don't forget a scoop for the ice, and a container to hold the scoop when it isn't being used.
 As guests arrive, be sure to point out both the location and theme of the drink station. Even better, let guests know about your plans to have a drink station when you invite them, and encourage them to bring whatever ingredients they may favor as well.


For instance, include something in your invitation along the lines of, “We’ll have a make-your-own-mojito station set up with the necessities, but feel free to bring your own secret ingredients to share.”

, Throughout the party, try to keep an eye on the station or ask someone to help you do so. Most importantly, you’ll want to swing through and tidy up from every hour or so. In particular, make sure to wipe up any spills each time you check the station.


Make sure napkins or paper towel are still in good supply during each check.
Be sure to have clearly labeled trash cans and recycling containers nearby for guests’ use.
 There are a few things you need to make sure your drink station has throughout the party. Keep a close eye on your base ingredients and main additions, especially if people seem to be enjoying a particular offering. Have backups of everything you don’t want to run out of ready to serve.Make sure that no one over-serves themselves. One good way to do this is by only putting out a certain amount of booze at a time. Each time you check the station, you can provide more as needed.
You likely already have back up ice and extra sliced limes. There are other items you may need to replenish as well. During planning, think about everything you may need more of - such as cups and silverware - and have back ups ready.

