 If you’re typically a shower-and-go sort of person, you can treat yourself with a long, relaxing bath. Alert your roommate or family not to disturb you. Light a scented candle. Add bath salts, oils, bath bombs, or bubbles to the water to enhance the experience.Bring a book or your tablet along so that you can read or watch a show. Or, turn on some music and simply relax.
 Wrapping yourself in a soft, cuddly fabric is like a long-drawn-out hug. Adding a cup of tea only increases the feeling of warmth. Plus, many teas offer health benefits. Choose exotic flavors or simply reach for a classic blend that you prefer.Doing this for yourself is like a physical representation of self-love. The warmth of the blanket and the tea can ease stress and calm you down after a long day.
If you want, ask someone to join you, like your partner, parent, or your pet.
 Reading has many benefits from teaching you about different cultures to expanding your vocabulary. But, best of all, it provides an escape from everyday life. Choose a book that you already own or check one out from your local library. Find a comfy place to sit and get lost in another world, or learn some interesting facts., The ultimate way to spoil yourself with self-care is by eating foods that support your health. It’s nice to indulge in comfort foods and sweet treats, but these choices won’t actually make you feel good about yourself. Healthy, balanced meals can provide energy and make you feel positive because you made a healthy choice.Eat a nutrient-dense meal with vegetables, fruit, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and healthy fats. Drink plenty of water to stay hydrated.
For example, you might treat yourself to a steak, but serve it with roasted veggies instead of greasy French fries.
 Mother Nature offers many opportunities to wonder or explore. If you want to treat yourself, try scheduling in a bit of outdoor time into your week. Spending more time outside has been shown to improve mood and reduce depression.Even if you’re not feeling sad, sitting by a lake, hiking through the woods, or walking along the beach will surely feel like a special treat.

