 Instead of hiding the fact that you’re seeing someone, discuss with your parents about your boyfriend when the relationship becomes more serious. Tell them more about him, and how long you’ve been dating. Open communication with your parents will likely feel better and healthier for you in the long run.
If you are fearful that they will disapprove, be calm and polite.
Focus on showing them why he is a good fit for you, and what you like about him. Explain how your relationship will not interfere with your work, life, or school.;
, While hearing that they don’t like your boyfriend may be tough, give them a chance to explain themselves. Have them provide clarity about why he’s a bad fit for you. While you may not like what your parents have to say, sometimes it comes from a place of wisdom.Ask them why they have an issue with your boyfriend.
Are they worried that your boyfriend doesn’t respect you? Are they concerned about the way he talks to you? Do they think that he’s controlling? If this is the case, these may be serious concerns to consider.
 While you may want to talk back to your parents, and provide criticism about their choices, this will not help you get any closer to having your parents like your boyfriend. Being overly defensive will likely make them even less approving of your relationship with him.Avoid putting your parents down or stating that their views are wrong.
Tell them that you love them. Explain that you came to them for support rather than judgment.
Focus on being calm even if they make you upset.
 Your parents or family history may be rooted in certain traditions or norms. It may seem like they are outdated in their views or don’t understand your perspective. While there may be differences, focus on keeping a positive relationship with them. Even if you and your parents disagree, that doesn’t mean you should be rude and disrespectful of their concerns.
If you are kind, mature, and respectful, they are more likely to take your relationship seriously, and try to find the positives in your boyfriend.

