 One of the keys to cooking frugally is using what you already have, instead of just buying more. Make it a goal to use up almost all of your pantry or refrigerator before you go shopping, and you will find yourself wasting less food that goes off after its expiration date.


This may mean you need to be more creative with your cooking. However, you will find that many websites, like Epicurious, Real Simple or Cooking Light allow you to search by ingredient. You can even find phone or tablet applications that let you select an ingredient and give you recipe options.;
, For many families, meat is the easiest way to get protein to their family. Choose pork shoulder, cube steaks, chicken thighs, or whole chickens or turkeys, which are more likely to be cheaper.
 Water is free from the tap, and excluding other drinks from your shopping list is 1 of the best ways to save on your cooking bills., Slow cooking is the best way to make a meal out of cheaper cuts of meat. Many slow cookers come with recipe books, or you can look online, for the best way to cook anything from steak, to whole chickens, to chili, just by dropping some simple ingredients in the pot and letting them slowly cook for 4 to 8 hours.
 The following are ways to reduce waste while you shop and cook:


Buy smaller fruit. While fruit is essential for fiber and nutrients, most people buy apples, pears, bananas, and other fruit that are too large for what your child or you want to eat. Instead of throwing the excess away, you can save money when you buy smaller fruit by weight.
Have a leftover night. Cooking for a family often means leftovers. Plan out a menu, like you are at a restaurant, and everyone can have all or part of their favorite meal from the week.
Pay attention to what your family throws away after meals or snacks. Adjust their portions accordingly, so you are giving them what they usually eat. They can always ask for a second helping if they are hungry.
Freeze leftovers if they will make a whole meal, but you don't have time to eat them within the next few days. This is a great plan for soup, chili, cooked potatoes, casseroles and more. You will appreciate that extra meal when you find yourself without time to cook.
 Many websites and magazines post recipes for what is in season. The following ways can help you save money on your meals:


Buy what is in season. After a run through the produce section, it should be obvious what is in season and what isn't. A pineapple can cost $1.99 and be a dessert, where a small packet of blueberries is $6. Shop at a local farmer's market, and you will save money by paying attention to what is in over-abundance at the time.
Serve fruit as a dessert. You can make parfaits with yogurt. You can serve strawberries with cream, or you can just sprinkle a small amount of sugar on top to entice a family that is used to baked goods. This is healthier and cheaper.
Add leafy greens and cans of beans to your stock. Dark green lettuce and beans are cheap and they add a great amount of nutrition to your diet. Learn to make creative salads and add beans to casseroles and stews.

