 Although some bowling balls have no finger holes at all, most bowling balls have 2, 4, 5, or, most commonly, 3 finger holes.The distance between the thumb hole and the other finger holes determine which kind of grip the ball has been drilled for.


The conventional grip is the most common pattern for drilling the ball holes, and is the form of grip most house balls are drilled for. It places the holes for the middle and ring fingers of the bowling hand closer to the thumb hole than the other two grips, and is designed to help new bowlers and those with physical challenges develop a feel for the ball.
The fingertip grip places the middle and ring finger holes the furthest from the thumb hole, and the finger holes are usually shallower than the finger holes in the conventional grip. The fingertip grip is designed to give the experienced bowler more control over the ball, allowing the bowler to hook or curve the ball into the pins to knock them down more easily.
The semi-fingertip grip is a compromise between the conventional and fingertip grips, in that the distance between the finger holes and the thumb hole is less than that for the fingertip grip but more than that for the conventional grip. It is designed for professional bowlers who need to dampen the action of their balls or for experienced bowlers with physical challenges who want to want the control of a fingertip ball.
The Sarge Easter grip is also a compromise between the conventional and fingertip grips, but it achieves that compromise in a different way than the semi-fingertip grip. The thumb and index finger holes are placed as in the fingertip grip, but the ring finger hole is placed as in the conventional grip. This grip reduces the ball’s rotation and hooking ability, as well as the stress on the ring finger.;
, While the thumb and finger holes are meant for gripping the ball when you’re aiming it toward the pins, they aren’t meant for casual lifting of the ball. Place your hands on either side of the ball, perpendicular to the tracks of the ball return unit, and lift the ball evenly.
, This is a commonly accepted practice that helps you set up your grip properly.Your fingers should apply only light gripping pressure to the sides of the holes.


If your ball is drilled for a conventional grip, your fingers should be inserted to the second knuckle.
If your ball is drilled for a fingertip grip, your fingers should be inserted to the first knuckle.
If your ball is drilled for a semi-fingertip grip, your fingers should be inserted to halfway between the first and second knuckle.
If your ball is drilled for a Sarge Easter grip, your index finger should be inserted to the first knuckle and your ring finger should be inserted to the second knuckle., Regardless of the grip your ball has been drilled for, your thumb should go to the second knuckle in the thumb hole. As with your other fingers, your thumb should grip the sides of the thumb hole with only light pressure, lighter in fact than the finger holes.Keep the pressure constant and consistent as you swing the ball backward and then forward.
 Releasing your thumb just in advance of finishing your swing imparts the rotation that causes your ball to hook when it nears the pins.


At the moment your thumb releases the ball, it should be pointing in the direction the ball will go when you release it completely.,