 Atomic mass, the mass of a given atom or molecule, can be expressed in standard SI mass units - grams, kilograms, etc. However, because atomic masses, when expressed in these terms, are incredibly small, atomic mass is often expressed in unified atomic mass units (usually shortened to "u" or "amu"). The standard for one atomic mass unit is equal to 1/12th of the mass of a standard carbon-12 isotope.Atomic mass units tell the mass of one mole of a given element or molecule in grams. This is a very useful property when it comes to practical calculations, as it allows easy conversion between the mass and moles of a given quantity of atoms or molecules of the same type.;
, Most standard periodic tables list the relative atomic masses (atomic weights) of each element. This is almost always written as a number at the bottom of the element's square on the table, under its one or two letter chemical symbol. This number is usually expressed as a decimal rather than as a whole number.


Note that the relative atomic masses listed on the periodic table are average values for the associated element. Chemical elements have different isotopes - chemical forms that differ in mass because of the addition or subtraction of one or more neutrons to the atom's nucleus.Thus, the relative atomic mass listed on the periodic table is suitable as an average value for atoms of a certain element, but not as the mass of a single atom of that element.
Relative atomic masses, as listed on the periodic table, are used to calculate molar masses for atoms and molecules. Atomic masses, when expressed in amu, as on the periodic table, are technically unitless. However, by simply multiplying an atomic mass by 1 g/mol, a workable quantity is obtained for an element's molar mass - the mass (in grams) of one mole of an element's atoms.
 As has been noted, the relative atomic masses listed for each element on the periodic table are average values of all of an atom's isotopes. This average value is valuable for many practical calculations - like, for instance, calculating the molar mass of a molecule comprised of several atoms. However, when dealing with individual atoms, this number is sometimes insufficient.


Because it's an average of several different types of isotopes, the value on the periodic table isn't the exact value for any single atom's atomic mass.
The atomic masses for individual atoms must be calculated by taking into account the exact number of protons and neutrons in a single atom.

