 A helpful autism organization is one that cares about autistic people and their opinions.Here are some examples of language they dislike:


"Autism epidemic""Tragedy," "burden," "disaster," "urgent crisis""High-functioning" or "low-functioning,"especially when used as a silencing tactic. The "functioning" of an autistic person can vary from one hour to the next depending on many factors.
"Person with autism" or "has autism" instead of "autistic person" or "is autistic""Awareness," "light it up blue"
"Inspiring, "gift," "treasure," etc., despite their "affliction", Besides language used,


Excessive sympathy for parents of autistic children as heroically bearing a terrible burden. Sympathy for parents who murder or talk about murdering their autistic children.
Focus on autistic children and ignoring adult autistics and their needs.
Personifying autism, e.g. as the Grim Reaper, or a miasma that "steals" children., This is not a perfect indicator, but can give you an idea of the website's focus and attitude. Child-centered imagery suggests that autistic adults are probably sidelined and silenced, and despair-ridden photographs suggest that the site amplifies autism stigma.


Puzzle piece or highly childish imageryFocus on white cisgender boys, ignoring other autistics
Images of crying, forlorn, or trapped children/parents as a metaphor for autism

, Is this organization frequently described as evil, exploitative, silencing, or a hate group?Are autistic people organizing protests or boycotts against it?Does it undergo frequent criticism regarding ethics?


Does the organization partner with organizations that the autistic community considers a hate group?

, Autistic people should be the primary voices in the autism conversation.An easy way to find this is to notice if the organization declares itself to be run partially or completely by autistic people, or if its leaders' bios mention that they are autistic.


Parents of autistic children are not the same as autistic adults.
 Do they promote compassionate and evidence-based therapies that do not have ethical issues (such as extinguishing stimming and other harmless symptoms) or cause Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder? Has anyone died from the therapies or ideas they promote?


Anti-vaccination messages from Autism Speaks and other groups have caused preventable disease outbreaks., A helpful autism organization should address the clear human rights problems, such as abusive aversives and restraints, discrimination, caregiver murders, sufficient funding, and other issues.Be wary of any organization that states that ending child abuse is too political,or that murder is understandable., Groups that stigmatize autism will describe autism as a life-destroying tragedy, and focus on how "difficult" it is for parents of autistic children. This can hurt the self-esteem of autistic children and adults. A group that advocates acceptance will include autistic voices, improve the self-esteem of autistic people, and focus on making the community more accepting and inclusive as a whole., Some groups support eugenics, torture, and abusive therapy. The material may be graphic, and you may experience nightmares or difficulty keeping it out of your thoughts. Assume that when someone says content is highly disturbing, they mean it.


When reading a trigger warning, stop for a moment or two to assess your emotional state. If you feel that you are in the frame of mind to deal with it, then continue.
Some articles about restraint and seclusion, the Judge Rotenberg Center, compliance therapy/ABA, and aversives may contain graphic photographs of burns and wounds on adults and children.

