 Green areas in a desert or plains area can indicate the presence of water.A line of trees or some foliage low on the ground may also hint at a creek bed or some other body of water.;
, Water moves toward the lowest point possible, so these places are prime locations for finding a lake or stream.


Rainwater may collect in these areas.
If you are in a mountainous area, check for water at the foot of cliffs.
 Circling birds can sometimes indicate a water source nearby, but you might also follow animal tracks. Water is a basic need for all animals, and the tracks you follow will likely lead you, eventually, to a watering hole., Mosquitoes in particular are an indication that water is nearby, as is the presence of flies, which tend to remain about 325 feet (100 meters) from water. Generally, most insects do not stray too far from water sources.


Keep your eyes peeled for bees as well. Bees build hives three to five miles away from a water source.
 If you are in an arctic area, or an area that receives snowfall, you should collect snow that has a bluish look to it. This will prevent you from consuming frozen water that his high in salt content, which could contribute to your dehydration.


Frozen water that has a higher concentration of salt will appear gray or opaque.
 There are many ways you might melt your ice into water that will quench your thirst. In extreme situations, you may have to find a container and then cuddle it, using your body heat to melt the snow. In other cases you may be able to use a match, lighter, or other heat source. Once the snow has melted, you may purify the water using several different methods, such as:A water purifying tablet to cleanse the snow, now turned to water, for consumption.
A filtration device, like a water purifying straw, to drink your thawed snow.
Using your heat source to bring the melted snow to a boil. Allow it to boil for a least a minute to guarantee the water has been purified.
 If you notice water begging to puddle at the bottom of your hole, you're in luck.
 Instead, you seek water in vines, cacti, and roots.Cut a notch in the plant and wait for liquid to seep out. In the case of cacti, break it open and suck moisture from its pulp, being careful not to eat any of the cactus, as it could make you sick.Generally, you should avoid drinking plant sap that is:Thick
Colored
Sour or bitter
Sharp or unpleasant in odor

, Drinking water that is poisonous, contaminated with parasites or bacteria, or is tainted by human waste can cause serious health complications.This can be a threat to your survival in an emergency a wilderness experience. Illnesses associated with contaminated water include:Dysentery
Cholera
Typhoid

, Sweat will make you dehydrate faster, so you should avoid activities that may make you sweat while looking for water. You should also:


Stay in the shade, if possible.
Avoid eating anything while thirsty.
Damp your clothes in hot conditions to cool yourself in hot climates.
Carry materials, like a plastic sheet, to make water collection devices., You can do this simply by bringing water to a boil over a fire, though this might not always be an option. To ensure you don't end up drinking water potentially tainted with parasites or bacteria, you should consider:


Carrying water purifying tablets.
Purchasing a simple water filtration device, like a water purifying straw.
 Flowing water will not be stagnant, and stagnant water is an ideal breeding ground for many disease-carrying insects and parasites. When deciding on whether or not a source of flowing water is safe to drink, keep in mind:


The location of the nearest human settlement. The downstream area of rivers can easily be tainted by human activities.
The mouth or origin of a water source will likely be safest for drinking.