 You will get this ending by playing a regular New Game and defeating the Time Devourer without using the Chrono Cross.


After the battle, this will simply roll the credits after the Devourer is absorbed into a portal above the Darkness Beyond Time, thus ending the game without any special scene.;
, Opposite to the first one, you will get this ending if you used the Chrono Cross to defeat the Time Devourer.


Schala will break free and quote a long speech concerning the struggle of evolving organisms.
She will then tell your character that she will find him someday; after that, you find yourself awake on Opassa Beach, where your character seemingly loses his memory.
 If you have defeated the Time Devourer before Serge crosses the dimensions, this ending will commence. All the major developers populate Viper Mano, and hilarious exchanges and notes about the game are provided to you.


Regardless of rumors, there is no special key item to be had here, and neither can Kid be ushered to pickpocket a man in one of the rooms.
Kid still changes uniforms to her orphanage outfit under certain conditions.
 This ending is available after you cross the dimensions, but make sure you didn't break into the Viper Manor, and then defeat the Time Devourer. The ending will then commence.


Serge, your character, has become a fisherman in Arni while Kid loses her patience waiting for him. She breaks into Viper Manor alone, takes down Lynx, and receives the Frozen Flame, which is actually the dragon tear in this scenario.
Kid then wishes herself Lord of El Nido and creates the Acacia Empire by vowing to conquer the Kingdom of Guardian and then Porre.
 To get this ending, defeat the Time Devourer after Kid is poisoned and you wake up in Guldove. When Korcha drops you off in Termina, go straight to Opassa Beach and use the Time Egg.


The ending shows Serge working in Termina at Lisa's Element shop, and a biting exchange takes place between Lisa and Leena.
Later, Kid is seen working in Viper Manor as a spy with Norris, who gave her the Hydra Humour.
Afterwards, Solt, Peppor, and Pierre are seen surmounting Fort Dragonia, the latter member of the group afflicted with stomach problems. Before they enter the sanctum, they begin a game of rock, paper, scissors in order to see who goes in first. Pierre loses and complains for a rematch. The game then reveals that they were never heard from again.
 To have this ending, defeat the Time Devourer after Kid's been cured and before you enter Fort Dragonia.


The True Hero is the forming ending, saving Kid in good health; the Korcha marriage dialogue will occur.
Instead of Kid working in Viper Manor, she enters Lisa's Element shop after Leena is insulted for not qualifying for a beauty pageant in Termina.
Korcha enters the shop and attempts to reforge his wedding vows with Kid, but ends up proposing to Macha, who enters as Kid leaves.
 This ending occurs if the Time Devourer is beaten after Serge receives Lynx's body.


In the ending, Lynx now lives in Marbule with Harle and the villagers adore him; the Sage of Marbule then asks him to take his position in a few days.
The ending cuts to Radius, Zappa, and Fargo in the Pearly Gates. They confront Lynx and vow to make him pay for his crimes, but Kid appears and promises that they won't have the chance.
 Before going to Hermit's Hideaway, defeat the Time Devourer right after rescuing Riddel to have this ending.


The Acacia Dragoons are all assembled in Viper Manor, and Viper decrees that they will fight Lynx's army. The Dragoons eventually cornered Lynx, but he nevertheless taunts them with pride.
The scene then cuts to Lynx and Harle, who are still living in Marbule; Kid accosts them at their house, and Harle prepares to fight her.
 This ending will be available after Harle leaves the party. Have Lynx and Kid enter Chronopolis. Lynx proceeds to the Frozen Flame while Kid stays behind to deal with Harle, who is trying to stop the duo.


The scene cuts to Arni, where an old man is consulting the Records of Fate. It turns black, and the old man rushes out to get the chief. The scene returns to Lynx after that, who muses that he can now finally become FATE.
 You can get this ending if you defeat the Time Devourer after Dario is fought but before the Terra Tower rises.


The ending scene occurs in the Viper Manor; the kids of the orphanage stands before the General Viper, who instructs them to work hard and play hard.
An Acacia Dragoon talks to Dario and suggests a Dragoon youth camp; the two laugh as they formulate a plan to provide funding.
Lynx, Harle, and Kid appears as well, arriving in Termina. They enter the Dragon's Tail bar, which is now staffed by the Devas and Lucia. They ordered drinks.
 This is available when you defeat the Time Devourer while the Terra Tower is still in the sky.


In the ending, the Sage of Marbule, the Dwarf Chieftain, and the Dragon God meet at the top of Sky Dragon Isle. The Dragon God instructs them to begin wiping out humanity in El Nido with their respective forces. The Dwarf is eager while the Sage questions this course of action. Nonetheless, it is carried out and demi-humans now populate the islands.
Harle walks around Arni, overhearing conversations concerning how filthy the humans were, and then she picks flowers and lays them on a grave at Cape Howl, Serge's gave to be exact.

