 It could be hazardous to your health if you use soap making equipment for handling or preparing food. Copper and aluminum products will have a negative chemical reaction with lye. Choose products made of tempered glass, enamel, or stainless steel. Lye can also melt some plastics so be sure to check what works best.Styrene plastic or silicone soap-only spoons are best for this project.;
, Choose from a variety of soap molds at your local craft store or have fun with silicone baking pans that can be purchased at your local baking goods chain. Choose silicone products to easily peel off the soap from its mold.
 In addition to mixing bowls and spoons, you will need a pint and a quart canning jar, a stainless steel thermometer that can read between 90 - 200 degrees Fahrenheit, newspaper, and an old towel on hand., Protect yourself with goggles, gloves, and with newspaper to cover your work area from the lye. Wear a mask to protect yourself from the fumes produced by the chemical reaction created as you mix the lye with water. Pour water into your quart canning jar. Scoop ¼ cup of lye and slowly pour it in with the water making sure to stir it until the mixture is clear. Allow the mixture to sit.Use cold distilled water. Purchase distilled water at your local grocery store or pharmacy.
Purchase lye online or at your local drug or craft store.
 Mix your oils together as you pour them into the pint jar. Heat the pint jar once you have mixed your oils for about a minute if you are using a microwave. You may also heat in a pan of water on your stove until the oils reach 120 °F (48.9 °C).Use olive or coconut oil if you want to make a mild or hard bar of soap that produces a good lather. Grape-seed oil, safflower oil, almond oil and sunflower oil also produce similar effects.
 The lye and oils should cool around 95° and 105° degrees Fahrenheit. Do not allow them to cool below this temperature or they will be coarse and may crumble easily. Stir in the lye with your hand slowly once they have reached the right temperature. Stir the oils and lye for about 5 minutes in a mixing bowl.If available, use an immersion blender so that as much soap touches the lye as possible. Trace is when the soap looks and feels like vanilla pudding. It should be thick with a light colour. Once you have trace you are ready to add your essential oils and herbs.Wait until the lye reaches a thin trace before mixing the coconut milk with the water. Add coconut milk that is slightly warm., Stir thoroughly and pour ¾ of the mixture into your soap molds or silicone baking molds.
 Mix the petals into the remaining mixture. Create a zig zag pattern by pouring the new flower petal mixture over top the mold.To ensure the coloured soap reaches throughout the mold, change the height from which you pour the remaining flower petal mixture. Raising the soup bucket and lowering it will allow the petal mixture to penetrate the white soap base at different depths., Swirl the soap into a marble pattern or create other details before storing the shea butter soap., Allow residual heat to warm the mixture by covering with a towel. The saponification process will be started with this residual heat.The process that turns your base ingredients into soap is called Saponification.
 Check your soap after a day or 24 hours. If it still feels soft or slightly warm, wait another day or until it is firm and cool. Remove it from the wrap and allow it to cure for about a month. Be sure to turn it over once a week or place it on a baking rack to expose the entire surface to air.