 Many people eat out of boredom, or because they feel stressed, tired, or anxious. If you eat when you’re not hungry, you may be an emotional eater. Emotional eating is often related to overeating, because emotional eaters are not eating for nutrition or because they are hungry.Learn to handle stress in positive ways. When you are stressed out you crave high fat, high sugar and processed foods that can lead to overeating by triggering release of insulin. Utilize deep breathing techniques, meditation, or journaling to manage stress.
Try taking notes on what you eat and how you are feeling emotionally. If you notice a correlation between feelings and eating, you may be an emotional eater.
Check your fullness level. When you notice yourself reaching for a snack, stop and ask yourself if you’re actually hungry. If the answer is often “no,” you are probably engaging in emotional eating.
 Before you scarf down your entire sandwich, stop for a moment. Put down your food and take a breath. Ask yourself if you’re still hungry. If so, how hungry are you? If you’re surprised to find that you’re actually satisfied but had planned to finish your meal, you may be used to overeating.You can rate your hunger level on a scale of one to 10. Let one be ravenously hungry and 10 be sick from overeating.
Remember your number rating for this meal. If you notice that halfway through most meals you’re rating your hunger level at a seven or higher, you may be used to overeating.
 Once you’ve checked in halfway through your meal, check in again a bit later. If you’ve eaten half of the food on your plate at your first check-in, but are still hungry, eat half of what is left. Once you’ve eaten that half, check in again.If you now feel satisfied, stop eating. Notice if you still have the urge to finish your food, even though you’re not hungry. If you do, you may be used to overeating.
 Eating due to boredom is another form of emotional eating. When we eat because of boredom, we rarely notice what or how much we’re eating. For example, you may open a bag of chips and not even notice how many you’re eating until you’ve finished the bag.It’s perfectly okay to snack, but stay aware of what you’re eating and how much. Put a specific number of chips on a plate and eat them consciously.
If you have the urge to eat because you’re bored, stop yourself. Think of something else you could do instead. You could do the dishes, take a walk, brush your teeth, read a book, or chat with a friend. Many activities can take the place of eating simply because you’re bored.
 This can be difficult to learn if you’re not used to it. If you don’t know when you’re full, ask yourself a series of questions to determine what your body needs.Has your hunger subsided?
Does the food still taste good? Is the taste the only reason you’re still eating?
Will you be able to get up from your meal and comfortably walk around?
Do you feel tired from how much you’ve eaten?
Have you eaten enough to last until your last meal?

, If you’re not sure what your body is telling you, try listening to your waistband. If the waistband of your pants begins to feel tight or uncomfortable, you are most likely full or even overly full.