 We create much of our own stress. We start to have negative thoughts when we are faced with potentially stressful events.

When we substitute our negative thoughts with more positive ones, we can change the way we feel. You can expose distorted thinking by asking yourself a few questions:


Am I assuming the worst? There are usually multiple possible outcomes to a situation, but we tend to focus on the worst, even if it isn't the most likely.

Am I creating unnecessary limitations? We often create ideal scenarios, with guidelines or rules about how to achieve that success. When circumstances change, we often apply those rules to new possible solutions, without realizing we set them arbitrarily to begin with. We will then dismiss possible solutions that don't fit the originally established guidelines.

Am I ignoring potential resources? It's easy to get caught up in our negative thinking patterns and start to feel the situation is hopeless. When we feel hopeless, we tend to give up. Commit to looking for additional resources, and you may be surprised by what you can find.
 Once you've recognized your negative thinking patterns, start to change them by focusing on the positives. Look for silver linings, even in the most difficult situations. Humor is a good way to turn the negative into something more positive.If you struggle to find any benefit at all, focus on the fact that nothing lasts forever. It will soon be the past and your struggles will be nothing but a memory.
For example, social rejection can be devastating, but the social circumstances of high school usually don't extend beyond graduation. Social groups generally break up in adulthood.
 Even if you have failed, don't allow yourself to feel defeated. When one door closes, another door opens.

Think about how you can take what you've learned and become something better. If the stressful situation doesn't resolve in your favor, you will find what other things you are then free to pursue.
For example, if you are not accepted to the college you've spent your entire high school career preparing for, you are then free to apply to and explore other colleges, other majors and other career paths. By being open to possibilities, you may find something far more rewarding than what you intended.
 We focus on our perceived weaknesses, but we can choose to focus on our strengths and abilities.Try thinking about how a weakness might actually be beneficial in some instances. Maybe this weakness can somehow be turned into a strength.
For example, if you are shy, you might be a really good listener and considerate of others' thoughts and feelings. Shyness may be perceived negatively, but thoughtfulness is positive.

