 Don’t be too intense, though. That can look like you’re trying too hard. Also keep your face relaxed without too many animated expressions. If your face is going a mile a minute in everything she says, that can be distracting.;
, Girls usually have lots of feelings about things, and this gives her a chance to express them versus keeping them bottled up inside. If you sense that a situation was frustrating, difficult or upsetting, let her know. Even if she doesn’t say anything, she’ll notice and appreciate it.


It’s okay to not understand every aspect of a situation but don’t say that her feelings are wrong because feelings can never be wrong. Be careful to not blame her either when she shares something with you. Strive to be empathetic, not judgmental or overly harsh., Turn your cell phone off. Don’t look around the room or at other people. Listening well is an art form, and many people are poor listeners. Go the extra mile here. It will pay dividends in making her feel good.


Females secrete a feel-good hormone when expressing their feelings. By sharing things with you, she can’t help but also feel good about you. The more comfortable she is in talking to you, the safer she will feel, too, in opening up.
 Along with eye contact, show active listening skills by nodding your head and saying things that confirm you hear her like “I would feel the same way myself” or “I can see why you would feel that way.”


Don’t interrupt. Many people also find this difficult when listening to others. You will go far in making her feel good by waiting until she’s completely finished before commenting. This also goes both ways. When it’s your turn to talk, she’ll listen better to you, too., This can be challenging because it’s natural to want to immediately try and solve matters. First and foremost, though, she needs to feel heard. Jumping in with what you think is best could make her feel that you don’t trust her in solving them. So let her express herself and ask what she thinks is best. This will boost her confidence in situations, and she’ll appreciate this quality in you, too.


The more you understand where she is with an issue, the more she will trust that you can help her solve it. But wait until she asks before automatically giving your opinion. When you do give it, be thoughtful about it. Think what it’s like to be in her shoes before commenting.
 Sometimes what people say or how they say it can be humorous to the person listening. Pay attention to her body language. If she’s serious, then trust that it’s a serious matter. If you’re condescending, she could think you don’t understand her at a deeper level, not just that situation.

