 There are a few big risks for getting cataracts that depend upon your lifestyle, age, and diet. Additionally, previous eye injury can make you more likely to get cataracts.While some risk factors for cataracts can be prevented, others are inevitable with age. If you're at an advanced age, you'll want to get checked for cataracts on a regular basis.
Some risk factors for cataracts can be prevented. A change in diet, management of diabetes or blood pressure, or ceasing drinking or smoking can minimize your risks for diabetes.
 At age 75, nearly 70% of all people have cataracts. With age, your eyes become less flexible and more prone to the accumulation of protein that causes cataracts.Our eyes' lenses become thicker with age, making them less transparent and less flexible. This can lead to cataracts due to protein build up.
Cataracts are pretty common in older people. If you're over 40, it's important to get checked for cataracts on a regular basis.
 Sunlight exposure can also damage your eyes and cause cataracts later in life. Stay out of direct sunlight without UV protected sunglasses to protect your eyes.Since one of the major causes of cataracts is cumulative exposure to sunlight, a simple precaution is to wear sunglasses that block UV rays. Wearing a hat with a brim can decrease exposure by 30 – 50 percent.
High altitude can also contribute to cataracts due to overexposure to sunlight. If you live at a high altitude, it's especially important to keep your eyes protected from the sun.
 Since all three issues deal with protein creation, excessive proteins in the eye can create cataracts later in life. If possible, manage any of these issues to minimize cataract development.Diabetes can cause a number of eye-related illnesses. High blood sugar creates the conditions for cataract development.Obesity or high blood pressure can also cause cataracts. Losing weight and taking blood pressure medicine can potentially reduce the risk of cataracts later in life.
 Both activities dramatically increase your likelihood of developing cataracts. While an occasional drink will not severely increase your chances, excessive drinking or smoking can cause major problems.


Smoking cigarettes can double your chances of developing cataracts. Additionally, the longer you smoke, the worse your risks are for cataracts. More than two drinks per day can potentially increase your risks for cataracts. However, moderate drinking can actually reduce your chances.

