 Ice cream makers come in lots of different shapes and sizes, but they almost always have a large, removable bowl that can be removed. Put this bowl in a plastic bag, then put the bag in the freezer for about 10 to 24 hours until it is completely frozen. The bag helps prevent freezer burn.This is important because there is a layer of liquid coolant between the inner and outer surfaces of the bowl. Letting it freeze completely ensures the bowl will stay cold as you make the ice cream (since you can't run the machine in the freezer).;
, Use both the whites and the yolks. Beat them with the whisk for about two minutes. Stop when you reach a uniform pale yellow color and a light, fluffy texture.
 Add a little at a time over about one minute as you whisk continuously. When the sugar is distributed evenly, you can proceed.
 Use a spatula as needed to get all of the Nutella out of the measuring cup. Continue whisking until the spread is blended evenly with the egg mixture.


If Nutella gets stuck to the whisk, use a fork or spatula to pull it off.
 Add each of these a little at a time, whisking as you go. Stir to combine evenly.


After this, put your mixture in the fridge while you proceed through the next step. You want your ingredients as cold as possible when you make your ice cream.
 For most models, this just means taking the bowl out of the freezer and putting it in the machine. You may also need to attach the stirring paddle to the machine or make other connections — consult the ice cream maker's directions for specifics.You shouldn't waste time here — you want to finish before the bowl starts to warm up. A wasted minute or two won't hurt you, but you'll want to move on as quickly as possible.
 Add your chilled ingredients to the mixing bowl, shut the lid (if your machine has one), and turn the machine on. The mixing paddle will begin to turn, churning the liquid ingredients.


Now, let the machine run for 20-30 minutes without interrupting.
 After 20-30 minutes, check on your ice cream. By this point, it should have gained a semi-solid consistency. If you want soft serve-style ice cream, you can serve it as soon as the ingredients reach a smooth, soft texture. Turn off the machine and spoon into cones or bowls and enjoy.
 If you want a more traditional ice cream, transfer the soft serve to an airtight container and store it in the freezer until firm (usually about eight hours).If you've recently finished a carton of store-bought ice cream, you can just rinse and dry the container and use it to store your ice cream.

