 In addition to aggravating the cold sore, touching it can transfer the HSV-1 virus responsible for cold sores to your fingers. This makes it easier to spread the virus by accident due to other contact. The virus can infect the skin cells with which it comes in contact even when they’re skin cells on another part of your own body. Avoid this complication by avoiding contact with the cold sore as much as possible.
 Even when mindfully trying not to touch a cold sore, people often poke at them without thinking. Wash your hands often, especially after realizing that you have touched the cold sore or the general area around your lips and mouth.


This is especially true before and after eating.
 The virus can continue to live on surfaces such as toothbrushes. To avoid potentially spreading the area in which you get cold sores, start using a new toothbrush as soon as you feel symptoms coming on, and throw it away when the cold sore has healed.


As an additional safety measure, ensure that your toothbrush does not come into contact with the opening of the toothpaste tube when applying toothpaste., Avoid sharing towels, razors, eating utensils, or washcloths with anyone. Make sure you wash anything that has potentially come into contact with your cold sore with hot, soapy water.
 One of the known triggers for cold sores is sun exposure.By using a sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher, you can help the cold sore heal by minimizing the damaging effects of the sun.


Consistently using sunscreen around the area even without an outbreak will help to minimize the recurrence of future cold sores as well.
Remember to wash your hands both before and after applying the sunscreen.
 You can apply a tiny dab of petroleum jelly or propolis with a Q-tip. Organic moisturizing products that contain lysine are also helpful, such as Basic Organics Lysine Ointment or 100% Pure Lysine + Herbs by Ariva.


Propolis is a natural, nutrient-rich resin made by bees.
 If you prefer to know exactly what goes into your natural moisturizer, you can make your own at home with propolis and essential oils. A 3% propolis ointment has been shown to reduce the pain of cold sores.To make the ointment, take 0.5 ounces of propolis (equal to one tablespoon) and add 48.5 ounces of pure coconut oil, which works great as a moisturizer.From there, add one drop of each of the following:


Camphor oil, which helps with pain reduction
Echinacea oil, which is an antiviral herb that can help boost the immune systemLicorice oil, which has effective properties against HSV-1Andrographis oil, which has both antiviral and anti-inflammatory propertiesSage oil, which also has antiviral properties to help dry out a cold sore and it a good alternative if you have trouble finding andrographis oil