 Most crime is prosecuted at the state or local level. However, there are also federal crimes which the federal government is responsible for prosecuting. The most common federal crimes are:The manufacture, sale, and distribution of drugs.
Fraud, such as using the mails in interstate commerce to perpetrate a fraud.
Firearm offenses.
Immigration offenses.
The possession, distribution, or creation of child pornography.
 As best as you can, you should gather whatever evidence you have that the crime has been committed. Write down your descriptions of the suspect and your reasons why you suspect the person of committing the crime.


If you suspect child pornography, then don’t copy the image. Copying itself is illegal. Instead, shut down the computer until the FBI can look at it.
 You can report a federal crime to the nearest office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). You can reach the FBI toll-free at 1-800-225-5324.If you don’t know whether a crime is federal, then report it to your local police. They can forward information about the crime to the FBI.


If you have been the victim of Internet fraud, then you should visit the website of the Internet Crime Complaint Center, which was created by the FBI and the National White Collar Crime Center.You can also report suspected child pornography to the CyberTipline, which is run by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.They may be reached by phone 24 hours a day at 1-800-843-5678.
 To help fight federal crime, you should make yourself available to testify against the accused. If the government can’t convict and punish people, then these people are free to continue committing crimes against the public. To testify effectively, remember the following tips:Speak clearly. You want the judge and jury to be able to hear you. Speak loud enough and slowly enough so that people can understand you.
Treat the occasion seriously. Don’t make jokes or laugh, no matter how nervous you are.
Always tell the truth and never exaggerate. If you have to provide an estimate, then clearly state that you are estimating.
Listen closely to every question. If you don’t understand something, ask the lawyer to rephrase or repeat the question.

