 It can be tempting to think that adding cushioning behind baby’s head will prevent a flat spot, but the risks outweigh any potential benefits.

Items like pillows introduce a smothering hazard and can increase the possibility of SIDS.Additionally, pillows, cushions, wedges, etc., make head movement more difficult, thereby limiting muscle development in the head and neck area.Babies should always sleep flat on their backs on a fairly firm surface, and if they are being temporarily propped up on a pillow or similar item while awake, must be constantly supervised.
 Have your baby's head face the foot of the bed one day, and reverse position the next. This encourages your baby to look in different directions.


This can help if your baby tends to tilt his head to one side or the other while sleeping to look toward a window, for instance. Some babies develop flat spots on one side or the other because they stare out in the same direction all the time.Changing the view by repositioning within the crib also increases visual stimulation.
 In addition to moving baby around within the crib, you can change up the surrounding view from time to time. Anything that helps keep her interested in looking around will help prevent flat spots and promote eye and muscle development.


Try putting the crib in another area of the room to give the baby a new viewpoint. This can keep the infant from regularly looking in the same direction.Relocate mobiles or other sources of visual stimulation as well. Make sure they are always properly installed and not in danger of falling or being pulled down into the crib, however., This will occur naturally if you are breastfeeding, but do the same if you use a bottle as well.


Switching sides regularly keeps pressure on the back of the head from occurring in the same spot all the time.Switching sides also aids in the equal visual development of both eyes, as each eye will have a turn with the dominant view of the surrounding area.
 While in most cases this is plagiocephaly, some head shape deformities are caused by craniosynostosis, which is a serious condition that requires surgery.If your child is diagnosed with positional plagiocephaly, your doctor may advise taking the above steps and waiting to see if the condition improves. Most flat spots do become rounded in time.
Regular physical therapy is also an option.
More serious cases may require remolding of the skull using a custom-made corrective helmet or band.

