 Oil paints or acrylics are the most common choices for canvas. If using poster paints, mix them with white glue before you begin.

Watercolor paints will not stick to the canvas surface.;
, Before you paint the sky, make sure to save some areas for the clouds, and of course the sun itself. Leave these blank, or paint them very lightly. If you like, use light pencil sketches to outline these areas and mark the horizon line., A late evening sunset typically has a blue background. Pick a blue without a dominant purple undertone, and pick several shades of this ranging from dark blue to sky blue. The start of a sunset can also use blue if you want to increase the contrast between sun and background, but an orange and yellow sky is another option.

If using acrylic paint, start with Prussian blue or another dark blue. Dilute it in stages as you paint to achieve different tints. You can dilute more than you would for paper, since canvas will not soak or tear. That said, eventually the paint will fail to stick, especially on treated canvas.
Some evening skies include reddish or purple undertones. If this is what you're going for, use magenta, Prussian blue, and crimson.
 Start with the darkest color at the top of your canvas. Paint in downward strokes, and gradually move on to lighter shades (or more diluted paint) as you approach the sun. Blend together the shades using water (for acrylic paints) or thinner (for oil paints).

If painting an orange sky, make the area around the sun a reddish orange. Lighten to a yellow sky as you move farther out, then dab and blend in reddish orange here and there throughout.
 If painting a blue sky, put a little of the darkest blue on a piece of cloth or cotton. Dab the edges of the canvas very lightly and blend it into the lighter shades., Dip a bristle brush in white paint and squeeze out the excess. Hold the brush upright and punch it against the canvas to create clouds.

This technique may damage paintbrushes with synthetic hairs.
 Here's one approach you could use:

Paint a dark yellow base coat using a large brush, painting with rough, short strokes.
Gradually add orange in short strokes, scattered throughout the sun.
Outline the circle in red with a small brush.
Dab the wet, red paint with a tissue to blend it into the rest of the sun.
 Remember, any objects in front of the sun should be much darker than they would be in the daylight. Depending on position, some may even be silhouettes. Others may be shaded on on side and cast long, angled shadows., Use the same hue of paint you used for the sun. Blend these highlights into the clouds on the side facing the sun. Add highlights on the foreground as well, especially if you are painting a sunset over water.