 Bring only what you need for that day. Ask your teacher at the beginning of the day for that day, or at the end of the school day for the next day. It might be a good idea to bring a piece of paper, your student planner, or your assignment notebook along with you so that you can jot down the books to bring. By doing this, you are limiting the amount of books that were required for you to bring.;
, Keep books that are for homework or other classes in your locker unless you have to attend that class immediately after the class before, and you are not allowed to go to your lockers in between classes. Just bring what you will need for that class period. Always bring a book for you to read in case you complete the assignment, this way you will not just be sitting there, many teachers assign punishments for that, so always bring some kind of reading material in your classes. This may require more room, but it can be a life-saver.
 Or, you could use one extra large binder and get subject dividers to separate each class. You could also have two normal sized binders, one in the morning and one for the afternoon. Keep the morning one in your bookbag for all of your morning classes, and keep your afternoon in your locker until the end of the day, when you might need it most.
 Don't carry a stapler and 50 pencils. Have a small, sturdy, fabric pencil case that holds all of your supplies. Supplies include; pencils, pens, small tape roll, small stapler, staples, highlighters, crayons, markers, etc., these things can easily fit into a small pencil case. Carry all of your supplies (pencil case with smaller supplies, notebooks, binder, folders, textbooks, workbooks) in your book bag. This will make sure you do not have to hold ANY supplies what-so-ever, and give you more arm-space.
 Things like folders, spiral notebooks, etc can help you when in your binder. This can lighten the load for you, because it will easily fit into your book bag, and you can purchase a pencil case that clips right into your binder, so then all you would need to remember is your packed up binder for each class!

, Store books in your locker in the order of which you will need them, such as, if this was your schedule: Math, Science, P.E, Lunch, Social Studies, English; your English books would be on the bottom of the pile, and your math books would be on the top. This will help you get the books easier each day. Make a locker schedule, the same way you would make a homework schedule. You should only really need to access your locker 4 times each day; once in the very beginning of the day (for your morning classes), once right before lunch (for your lunch bag/box and to drop off the morning books), once right after lunch (to drop of your lunch bag/box and to get your afternoon books), and once right before you leave (to get your homework books, pick up your things to get home, and to drop off the afternoon's books that you don't need for that evening's work).
 This may seem silly, but many students have trouble in school just because they are not organized. It may help if you read other wikihow articles on the subject. Many teachers appreciate organized students, and to become organized is very simple. Clean out your desk, locker, book bag, and binder. Make sure all trash is thrown away, and all old papers are put in your folder to bring home. Here are a few wikihow articles that may help you become organized:

