 Remember that shot goes for several hundred yards, and slugs even farther. Gun clubs and shooting ranges are the safest bet to start out with and learn the basics. Shoot some clay to get familiar with your shotgun before taking it into the woods.


If you're going to hunt, make sure that you're not on private property, that it's the appropriate season, and that you follow the laws and regulations in your area.
 First, make sure the safety is on. If you have a "break action" shotgun, meaning that the barrel and the butt hinges open to allow for a shell to be inserted, flip the break-level, which will usually be on the top of the gun near the back hand grip. The gun will hinge open, so you can insert a shell into the barrel. Firmly snapping the gun back closed loads the shotgun. Leave the safety on until you're ready to shoot.


For semi-automatic shotguns and pump-action shotguns, you'll take a shell, orient it so that the brass end is facing the rear of the shotgun, cup it in your hand, and lift it up into the loading port directly ahead of the trigger guard. You should be able to load 3-5 shells into these types of shotguns."Pumping" the shotgun will load it. Alternatively, you can pull the pump back, opening the sliding shell-ejection port and insert one shell at a time. Moving the pump back forward will load the shotgun.
Only load your shotgun when you're in position to shoot. Make sure the safety is on until you're ready to shoot.
 With your shotgun pointed at the target and the gun in firing position, the butt firmly in your shoulder, flip the safety off and squeeze the trigger as if you were giving the grip a firm handshake with your firing hand.


Closing your eyes at the moment of firing or jerking the shotgun up by pulling the trigger abruptly is a common mistake when you're just starting out. Keep both of your eyes open to give yourself good "sight picture," meaning that you can focus on the moving target you're trying to hit and maintaining good sight-alignment (the sight post in the aperture). The kick of the shotgun is more significant than most rifles, so it can take some getting used to.
 The difficult thing about shooting clay is that you have to compensate for the speed of the target, which means that you're shooting ahead of the target, not at it. Also, you have to compensate for the "spread" of the shotgun, which is the range of the shot in each shell. They have a fairly wide range, which means that you're aiming for the neighborhood of each target, and that you don't have to be directly on it. For this reason, you need to make sure you've got plenty of space with nothing behind it in which to shoot. Gun clubs are the safest bet.


Let the target to pass before you mount the gun onto the line of the target, swinging the gun along its line of travel. Get to the front edge of the target, and squeeze the trigger. Keep swinging and the gun will go off ahead of the target. Focus on the target, and follow through, hold the gun in position for a breath before you lower it, safety it, and check your shot. The whole process is similar to hitting a golf ball: eye on the ball; a good swing and follow through.

