 When you first learn that a friend or loved one is self-harming, see if she is ready to seek professional help from a psychiatrist, psychologist, or counselor. These professionals have special training to help people combat behaviors in their lives that are bringing harm. If your friend insists that she is not crazy, agree with her. Tell her that people see mental health professionals for many life issues, and many times for self-growth. If your friend is worried about the stigma of seeing a mental health professional, suggest she see someone who is not right in town. It is a valid and helpful service that can truly help her with her problem. Professionals are better equipped to help her understand why she harms herself and what she is trying to accomplish with the behavior.The involvement of mental health professional is vital if you are serious about the recovery of your loved one. There is always a stigma associated with seeking help from a mental health professional, but it is essential to convince your loved one to seek treatment.If she is not ready for that, offer to help her research self-harm and triggers. There is an abundance of information on the internet about many topics, and self-harm is no different. Make sure you find information and literature from credible sources, such as psychological foundations or helpline websites. Some content can be misleading and could work against helping your friend or loved one get better.
 A support group is the coming together of individuals who have the same issue, have similar concerns, face similar challenges, and undergo similar experiences. Although you act as a one person support group for a while, she may need companionship from someone who understand exactly what she is going through. After some time with you, she may gradually muster enough courage to meet with people like her in order to know their stories, their disappointments, how they succeeded in overcoming cutting, and learning how and why they failed.She might be hesitant or unwilling to be a part of the support meant for people who cut themselves. To encourage her, you could accompany her to give her the strength and support she needs to make that final step.
 Dialectical behavior therapy is one effective ways to treat a person who cuts herself. This is a modified version of cognitive behavioral therapy. In DBT, the therapist carries out a thorough analysis of the person resorting to the cutting behavior. Apart from working with the person seeking treatment, the psychiatrist also makes an effort to involve the family of the person, which will help them to understand and identify the situations and experiences that could have led to the behavior. The psychiatrist also tries to incorporate healthy and acceptable coping skills in the person., Interventions are carried out under the guidance of a professional interventionist. These are one of the most effective approaches to open up a discussion between the person cutting and the people considered to be important in her life. It can also be difficult because, at an intervention, the painful feelings and emotions associated with the cutting behavior are kept in the open for all the significant people in her life to see. While it help them to understand without having to worry about hurting each other, it can be difficult to hear.


The professional interventionist has a major role to play in getting rid of the cutting behavior in their loved one. Get a professional interventionist to arrange an intervention for the person cutting and her loved ones. You could also be one of the participants since you care about her as well.