 The following traps can all be improved by using bait. Most bait is simple sugar and yeast in the form of rotting fruit, sugar water, corn syrup, or alcohol. While most traps will get a few insects without it, insect bait will significantly improve your collection.


Overripe fruit, fermented foods (like beer-soaked bread), peanut butter, and sugar will attract many insects.
Rotten meat will attract carrion like maggots and flies.
A mixture or fruit, rum or beer, and sugar will attract many nocturnal insects.
If you're serious about collecting insects, you can buy pheromones online or in major garden stores to attract males insects., Simple and effective. All you need is a plastic jar (like a peanut butter jar) or a soup can. Punch 4-5 holes in the bottom of your can. Dig up a hole the size of your can, then put the trap in so that the top of the can is even with ground level. Fill the trap with some dirt, leaves, and bait (optional), then wait for non-flying bugs to fall right in., A funnel trap requires little more than some scissors/knife and an old bottle. To make one, start with a soda bottle. While one liter is usually the easiest to work with, anything will do. Note, however, that this trap is not very effective in the rain. To make one:


Cut the top of the bottle off, starting just where it begins to taper in towards the cap.
Discard the cap, cutting off the small neck of the bottle.
Turn the tapered end (that you just cut off) upside down and place it in the bottle, forming a funnel. Adhere with tape if needed.
Place bait at the bottom of the trap and wait. Bugs fly into the funnel but use the walls to escape, making it impossible to leave again through the center hole., This trap, though it seems simple, will capture a fair amount of insects, especially when used with bait. All it requires is a plastic bottle and a sharp knife:


Cut a small "U" in the side of the bottle, with the uncut side nearest to the cap.
Pull the flap upward, so that there is an opening in the bottle shielded by the "door."
Place bait in the bottom of the bottle and wait. Most insects cannot find the door to get out, especially if you use sticky bait like sugar water or corn syrup.
This trap is effective in the rain, as the door prevents water from getting in., You can make your own flypaper with ease. Insects will be attracted to the sweet smell but unable to free themselves after landing. You can place the traps on the ground, though they are more effective when hung.


Take an old paper bag or piece of cardboard and lightly wipe the surface clean.
Mix equal parts sugar, water, and corn syrup on the stove until blended.
Cool the sugar mixture for a few minutes.
Spread the paste on the bag or cardboard to finish the trap., The idea is simple -- you place a collection device (a pan, inverted umbrella, box, old sheet, etc.) under a tree or bush. Then you shake it. You can then collect the bugs that fall out with your hands or tweezers.This works best on smaller trees, or locations you know that there are a lot of small, flightless bugs.

