 Many construction contracts include a clause that requires any contractual disputes to be submitted either to mediation or binding arbitration for resolution.


This clause typically can be found toward the end of the contract, within the document's miscellaneous provisions.
If your contract has an ADR clause, it typically will lay out the exact procedure to be followed. Use the contract procedures to avoid being accused of being in breach yourself.
Your contract may specify mediation or arbitration. Mediation is a voluntary process in which the two parties sit down and negotiate a resolution to the dispute with the help of a neutral, third-party mediator. The mediator is trained in dispute resolution and can facilitate your discussions.
In contrast, arbitration is more like a trial. You and the other party present your cases to an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators who then decide who's right and who's wrong.
Arbitration may be binding or non-binding. However, if you and the other party create a written agreement embodying the terms of the dispute resolution, that agreement becomes a legally binding contract.
 If the contract does not specify a particular organization or group to use, you'll have to find an accredited mediation or arbitration service nearby that is willing to handle your dispute.There are a number of national mediation and arbitration groups that specialize in construction contract disputes. The professionals who work for these groups have expertise in construction law and understand the challenges and nuances of construction projects.
You also can find ADR organizations by contacting the local court or bar association. Typically they will have lists of accredited and approved ADR organizations.
You want to choose a mediator or arbitrator approved by the court system in the event you later have to file a lawsuit.
 If you plan to engage the ADR clause in the contract, you typically must provide written notice to the other party within a specified period of time before the date of the ADR appointment.


Look to your contract for details about what must be included in the notice. If your contract doesn't specify, you should include the name, date, and location of the proceeding, as well as a summary of the issues to be considered or discussed.
Attach to your notice any application or form you filled out requesting mediation or arbitration.
You also should include any information from the ADR provider. Some ADR providers may require the parties to submit written arguments or evidence prior to the appointment.
 Your ADR provider typically will give you and the other party information on how to prepare for the appointment and whether you can bring evidence or witnesses along with you.Rules regarding the admission of evidence in an arbitration proceeding are somewhat relaxed, but still follow the basic rules of evidence in the court system. Witnesses take the stand and are asked questions under oath.
Although not required, you typically are allowed to have an attorney represent you in an arbitration proceeding.
In mediation, the rules are more informal. You typically can bring along whatever you want that supports your side of the dispute. Witnesses can speak to the mediator and present their testimony directly.
 Your role in the ADR proceedings typically will vary depending on whether you're using mediation or arbitration. Mediation proceedings tend to be more informal, while arbitration hearings work a lot like a court trial.At a mediation proceeding, the mediator typically will meet with everyone and go over the rules, then the parties will move to separate rooms.
The mediator goes back and forth between you attempting to resolve the dispute by helping you better understand the other side, but he or she does not make a decision regarding who's right and who's wrong.
With mediation you have more control over the outcome because any compromise reached will be a resolution created by you and the other party.
In contrast, arbitrators are more like judges. They hear both sides of the dispute and then render a verdict. If you are in binding arbitration, the arbitrators' decision controls the outcome of the dispute – even if both you and the other party hate it.
 Whatever resolution of the contracting dispute comes out of ADR should be in writing and signed by both parties so its terms will be legally enforceable to the same degree as your original contract.


If you reached a compromise through mediation, the mediator may write up the terms of the compromise for you. Both you and the other party still should review this written agreement before you sign it and make sure it reflects your understanding.
In the case of an arbitration hearing, the arbitrators will release to you a final resolution which is similar to a court order. Unlike mediation, you have no control over the arbitrator's final decision because you already agreed to be bound to it when you signed on to binding arbitration.

