 Chemicals coating the skin are not contributing in any way to its health and well-being. If you want your skin to be healthy, don't undermine it by giving it the equivalent of junk food every day. No wonder people's skin looks tired in the morning, it's been up all night trying to process all that rubbish and get rid of it all, and you wake up with the skin equivalent of a hangover.;
, The problem is that when it comes to reading the ingredients list, most people don't actually know what any of the words mean. Don't just take everything at face value, because the words 'natural' or 'organic' have been pretty misused and abused. Countless companies are eager to jump on the 'organic' buzzword band-wagon - without the integrity to match. If products have plant source ingredients, they can call it 'organic' even if it's been grown with pesticides. It's difficult to find products that are completely natural. As for 'natural' or 'organic' what do those words really mean now days? In short? If it's not 'certified' organic , then it's not organic or natural. But even though your favorite 'organic' cream contain certified organic ingredients, it doesn't mean the entire product is. Watch out for those companies who only list 'key ingredients' - you're not being shown the whole story. Nasty emulsifiers and preservatives have probably been dropped off the list. If you are not sure about whether the chemicals/ingredients are safe or not, feel free to ask a legal guardian, parent, or even expert for more advice.
 Organic Certification. Australia, the United States, and Canada each have official labels for organic certification. They can be found on personal care products and as well as on food products.
 Research has shown that the average woman who wears face creams and makeup on a daily basis absorbs over 2kg of chemicals through her skin every year. Of the 7000 cosmetic ingredients available to manufacturers, more than 1000 have known harmful effects and a further 900 are potentially cancer-causing.


Parabens (a preservative in most skincare products) have been found in breast cancer tissue and, in a recent study by the Environmental Working Group (a non-profit environmental research organisation in Washington DC), babies treated with common baby lotions, shampoo and powder had a high concentration of phthalates in their urine (chemicals linked to allergies, sex organ deformities and eczema). The umbilical cord blood of 10 babies born in US hospitals in 2004 contained a staggering 287 chemicals - of which 180 are known to cause cancer in humans or animals, 217 are toxic to the brain and nervous system, and 208 cause birth defects or abnormal development in animal tests. That to me is really horrifying.
 When scientist repeated the experiments with a cream lacking several suspect ingredients - including mineral oil and sodium lauryl sulphate - cancer rates dropped.

