 You can brush any grime off with a moist rag or a stiff brush. If the hooves are especially dirty, wash them. Pat the hooves dry if you get them wet.


Use a horse pick on the bottoms of your horse’s hooves. A horse pick is a small device which can remove mud, rocks, and small objects which may have become lodged in the grooves of your horse’s hoof.
Check the hoof for loose horseshoes. Have your horse reshod if you see loose nails or objects lodged between the hoof and the shoe. Loose nails might also be sticking out the top of the horse’s hoof.
If your horse’s hoof is punctured, do not pull out the sharp object. Contact your vet immediately for an evaluation.Signs of abscess, thrush, or punctures should be brought to the attention of a qualified vet. Cracks should be monitored. If they lengthen, your horse might need to see a farrier or vet.
Never apply oil to a dirty hoof; this will seal in dirt.;
, A hoof oil brush is a small brush with hard bristles.It resembles a paint brush and is used to apply hoof oil to the hoof. You can obtain a hoof oil brush online or, possibly, at your local pet store.


Some brushes come with a cover to keep the brush clean and prevent oil from dripping on other items in your horse-care kit. If your brush does not come with a cover for the tip, wrap it in a clean cloth when not in use.
Rinse your brush out after use. Always keep your brush and other grooming tools clean and organized.
Some hoof oils come with a brush attached to the inside of the lid. These are convenient in that you do not need a brush or a pan to pour the oil into.
 Every hoof oil is a bit different. Some are good for horses that spend most of their time in the field and are groomed infrequently, while others are primarily for well-groomed horses that spend more time in the stable. Some are better at keeping moisture in, while others are used more often for keeping moisture out. Dressings, conditioners, and other variations of hoof oil contain different ingredients. With any hoof oil, though, ensure you are using a type which meets your specifications and always follow the directions.


Consult a vet, farrier, or other expert on horses with hoof concerns.
Shake the hoof oil bottle before use to ensure it is mixed evenly., Dip your brush in the hoof oil and lift it out. Allow the brush to drip out a bit into the bottle or a small, clean pan. When the brush has slowed its dripping, begin applying the oil. Starting at the top of the hoof (where the hairline ends), move the brush across the hoof in vertical stripes. Coat the whole hoof with a thin, even coating of hoof oil.Some people who participate in horse shows like to apply horse oil to the top of the hoof just before a show in order to give the hoof a polished look. However, using hoof oil for cosmetic purposes is not recommended.
 Face the opposite direction as your horse and turn slightly toward it. With the hand that is closest to the horse, lean against its flank. With your other hand, reach down and squeeze the ankle slightly. Your horse should lift its leg up. After getting the leg up, use your hoof oil brush to cover the bottom of the foot in hoof oil.


Well-trained horses are quite compliant, but if your horse is not, stop applying the hoof oil and let it rest its leg before trying again.
Hold your horse’s foot at about the level of your knee. If you hold it too high, you’ll throw the horse off balance; hold it too low, and it will make the horse think you are done, and he or she might pull away from you.
Do not let the oil pool in the hoof, but ensure the entire surface of the sole is covered.
Hold each hoof up for a minute or two after applying the oil to ensure it dries properly.
If your horse is wearing horseshoes, cover as much of the hoof’s bottom as you can with the hoof oil. Try to apply the hoof oil when your horse is getting its shoes changed to ensure complete coverage.
There is no regular frequency with which you should apply hoof oil to keep your horse’s hooves properly dried. Use hoof oil when you notice your horse’s hooves becoming soft or spongy. Check them regularly for their texture and talk to a farrier if you have any concerns.

