 When you're planning on restarting your running regimen after a break, it's a good idea to plan out your schedule. This can help make sure you slowly reintroduce your runs without overdoing it.


Sit down and write out your schedule for a week at a time. Look through it and see when you could set aside some time to fit in a few runs during the week.
You might want to consider picking days when you can spend more time on your runs (like fitting in a warm-up, cool down and stretching routine) instead of squeezing it in before work.
You might want to consider using a training plan or schedule as well. You can find these from running coaches, athletic/personal trainers or from running resources like magazines or books.A training schedule will give you several weeks of runs at one time in addition to telling you how long to run, how often to run and what cross training exercises you should be doing as well.;
, Another important thing to do when restarting your runs is to go on a trial run. See how it goes and how you feel. This will determine what you can and cannot start doing.After you've set up a week or two of your running schedule, head out on your first run. This should be your trial run.
During this run, really pay extra attention to how you're feeling. How's your pace? Your do your legs feel? How is your breathing and heart rate?
If your run goes OK, that's great. You can continue with your training schedule. This doesn't mean you should advance to a faster pace or longer mileage.
However, if this run feels overly difficult or if you're overly sore afterwards, you may need to cut back on the total mileage or slow down your pace. You may have overestimated how well you would do. Cut back a little and give yourself more time to get back into the swing of things.
 Regardless of how long you're planning on running or what pace you're going to aim for, you should always start slow. It's better to be safe with a slower, shorter run, than come up with an injury after your first run back.


If you've just been released to restart running or you've found your motivation to hit the pavement, its important to harness that excitement a bit. Jumping right back into wherever you left off could cause an injury or a lot of muscle soreness.Start with just a few days a week. Also choose a shorter distance and run slower than normal. If this ends up being too easy, that's OK. You can also increase the time or length on your next run.
In general, most fitness professionals (especially running coaches) will recommend that you only increase your run length by about 1 mile (1.6 km) per week. So even if that first run is easy, don't increase by more than 1 mile in total.
 The first six to eight weeks of your new running program are key. Although you may want to run every day or run several days in a row, this isn't recommended.In general, most fitness professionals will advise you to plan to have a rest day in between days that you're running.
Rest allows your body to recover and your muscles to regenerate. This, in the long-term, will support better performance and progress.
You don't have to avoid all activity on your rest days. You can do lighter, lower impact activity like using the elliptical, swimming or cycling.
 When you restart your running program, its not only important to focus on your actual runs. You also need to build back strength in certain muscle groups to help you run more efficiently.Although total body strength training is important, focusing on working your lower body and core is essential for runners.
Having a strong core and strong leg muscles help keep you stable as you run and provide the strength you need to propel your body off the ground.
Include one to two days of strength training during the week. Focus on your core, back, quadriceps, hamstrings and glutes.
 Going slow, taking your time and scheduling in adequate rest is essential. In addition, you also need to focus on being patient and positive as you get back into running.It can be hard to restart your runs. You may find it frustrating that your pace is slower, you need to take more walking breaks or you can't run as long as you used to.
However, feeling a little setback is normal. Don't expect your body to perform exactly how it did a few weeks, months, or years ago. Be patient as your body gets used to running again and you rebuild your endurance.
Also stay positive. Your first run may go great, but your second run not so much. That's OK. Not every run (especially when you're restarting) will go well. Focus on your overall progress and performance. The occasional difficult run is normal and OK.
 When you plan your first run, run for a short distance. This may differ for everyone, but aim for the lower end of your experience.


Taking it slow overall is important. But distance is key. If you run too long, you're more likely to cause an overuse injury. Don't set yourself back with an injury right off the bat.Choose a short distance to begin with. For example, if the last run you did was 7 miles (11.2 km), aim for a 3 to 4 mile (4.8 to 6.4 km) run. If the last runs you were doing were 3 or 4 miles, aim for 1 to 2 miles (1.6 to 3.2 km).
In addition, increase your mileage slowly over the first six to eight weeks. Consider following the 10% rule. This is where you increase your total weekly mileage by 10% every week.For example, if you run 10 miles (16 km) the first week, aim for a total of 11 miles (17.7 km) the next week. This slow increase helps your body adapt to longer distances with a lower risk of injury.
 Even though you've done a lot of running the past, if you've been off for a while, pay extra attention to your form. Poor running form and posture can cause injuries.


Although there is no perfect running form that will fit everyone, there are some basics to follow and to note.For starters, make sure your body, in general, is relaxed. You don't want your neck, shoulders or arms tense. This should all be lose and relaxed.
Also focus on using a smaller stride. Over-striding and overextending your legs can cause injury and unnecessary soreness.
 Another option you can consider is joining a running group. There a variety of benefits to these groups that might help you get back into the routine of running.When you have to meet others for a workout, you're less likely to cancel your workout. This can help keep you consistent as you push through those initial stages of restarting your running routine.
Also, running with someone who is just a touch faster than you can help encourage you to work a littler harder and improve your performance faster.
Many running groups offer members a variety of options. They might meet for shorter runs during the week, longer runs on the weekends and training session or speed work as well.
 Stretching, like strength training, is essential to proper running form and recovery. Include a stretching session after every run to help prevent injury and keep your body limber.


Performing stretches after you run helps your body cool down, but also maintain or even improve on flexibility. This is essential as when you first start running again, you might feel a little tight or sore.Perform your stretches after your run and not before. Your muscles are warmed after your running and are more flexible at this time.
Aim to stretch to the point of just mild discomfort. It shouldn't be painful. Hold the stretch for at least 30 seconds and make sure not to bounce while you're stretching.
Stretches to try include: hip flexor stretch, calf stretch, quad stretch, hamstring stretch, inner thigh/grin stretch, and IT band stretch.
 When you just restart your running routine, it's important to choose different terrains — especially softer terrains. This helps lessen impact and can reduce your chance of injury.If you've taken time off due to an injury, it's a good idea to choose a softer terrain. It absorbs more of the shock of your feet hitting the pavement and makes it easier on your joints.
Also, coming back to running after a break sets you up for some initial soreness. Decrease your post-run discomfort with softer terrains.
Best options for a softer surface include: grass, dirt, a treadmill or a track. If you can, run on these for the first few weeks and then transition to asphalt if you'd like.
 Before you start back with running, make sure you check your shoes as well. If you've been off from running for a while, or just have some old shoes, you may need to replace them.


Old shoes that are worn out or don't fit well are one of the leading causes of injuries in runners.Take a look at your shoes to see if they have a lot of wear and tear. Also try to think of how long you've had them and how much use they've gotten.
It's better to be safe than sorry — you don't want to start off with any injuries. If you think it may be time for a new set of shoes, head out to a local running store and get fitted for a new shoe.
 In this careful time of restarted running, you need to take extra care to pay attention to your body and how it responds to your newly added activity. Look out for signs that tell you to slow down.


Depending on how long you took off from running, there may be some initial aches and pains from restarting activity. A little soreness or tightness is normal and to be expected when you restart exercise after a break.
However, some aches and pains may signal an injury, a need for a break or a doctor's trip.
Watch out for symptoms like: chronic, lasting ache in your joints or muscles; swelling in a joint or muscle; increase pain with continued running; and decreased strength or speed.
 If you've taken a break from your running due to an injury, your integration of a new running routine needs to be done carefully.


Your doctor or physical therapist should be dictating when you can restart running, how long you can run for, how fast you can run and how often you can run.
Follow the directions of your physicians exactly. Doing a little too much too quickly can cause you to re-injure yourself or slow down your healing process.
Also, continue with cross training and physical therapy if it has been prescribed. Just because you're allowed to run, doesn't mean you shouldn't als0 focus on exercises that are meant to help rebuild your strength.

