 Hormonal contraception methods regulate a woman’s fertility cycles to prevent pregnancy. The most common type of hormonal birth control is often referred to as "the pill" and is taken orally every day. When taken correctly and regularly, hormonal birth control is 99% effective. If you're interested in hormonal birth control, talk to your gynecologist or general care provider about a prescription.Always take hormonal birth control correctly. Hormonal birth control is incredibly effective, but only when taken properly and consistently. You need to take your pill at the same time each day, and avoid smoking, which can increase your blood-pressure and other cause dangerous health concerns.
Pay attention to how your body responds to the hormones, and discuss any concerns. It sometimes takes some experimenting to get the right medication.
Set an alarm on your phone to remind you to take your pill and do it at the same time each day.
 Other hormonal methods are also available and quite reliable, up to 99% effective. Hormonal patches, the NuvaRing, and implants can last for weeks or several years and are quite effective.


The Depo-Provera shot is another option, administered every few months. Intrauterine devices/systems (IUDs or IUSs) are also options to consider.
Use both birth control and condoms to reduce the risk of pregnancy and STIs. Using other kinds of contraceptives in addition to condoms is the best way to practice the safest kind of sex. You can have fun with your partner in a more worry-free environment.
 The following methods offer no protection against the transmission of HIV and other sexually-transmitted diseases, but are somewhat effective at preventing pregnancy. Diaphragms, contraceptive sponges, and cervical caps are placed over the cervix and should be used together with a spermicidal gel. These methods of contraception are typically worn for at least six hours after intercourse.


At most, these methods are about 90% effective, on average, making them somewhat less reliable than other methods of birth control. The fact that they offer no protection against STIs and are typically more difficult to obtain than condoms makes them a less recommended, but still a useful method.Ask your doctor to fit you for a diaphragm. You can purchase sponges at most drug stores. Make sure to follow the directions very carefully.
 If you are a female who is sexually active, it is possible that you could inadvertently become pregnant. Part of having safe sex is knowing what you will do if you have an unplanned pregnancy. Think ahead and know where you can find resources.Be aware that the counselors at Planned Parenthood can talk to you about options that include terminating or continuing with your pregnancy.
Talk to your partner. If you are in a serious relationship, say, "What would we do if we became pregnant?"
Make use of emergency contraception. Drugs like Plan-B, Next Choice, and ella can decrease the possibility of pregnancy after unprotected sex when no contraceptive is used. Most don’t require a prescription, though some do have age limits that vary depending on the country and state.

