 If have children or other pets, you will need to make sure that they get along with your Eskie puppy. Supervise all interactions until you are satisfied that the puppy understands how to interact with the others in the household.



Introduce dogs while they are leashed outside. Reward them both with treats if they act friendly towards one another. Afterwards, you may take them into your home. Separate them with a baby gate until they are used to each others' presence.If you have a cat, you should keep the two separated for a few days until they are used to each others' scent. When you first introduce the two, watch the puppy carefully. If the cat ignores the puppy or acts friendly towards the Eskie, you should praise the cat.Teach your children how to properly handle the puppy before the Eskie comes into your home. Inform them that if the dog nips or growls, it means that the puppy does not want to be touched or played with. Do not let the children play with the puppy unless you are there to watch them., Puppies require constant supervision, especially when they first come home. For a social dog like the American Eskimo, you should make sure that the puppy’s first days home are spent with the family. Make sure that the whole family plays and interacts with the puppy. This will begin their socialization training, and it will help them settle more easily into their new home., One of the most common behavioral problems in American Eskimos is a fear of strangers. While Eskies are loving around their family, they can act shy or aggressive when new people come too close. While your Eskie is still young, you should introduce strangers into the home to let them get used to new people. Supervise these meetings carefully., Your puppy should not be confined to your home or else they will grow overprotective of their family and territory. Bring your Eskie outside into public as often as you can while they are still a puppy. Being around people and other dogs in public will let them get used to the sights, sounds, and stimulations of new places and reduce their anxiety as an adult.


While you should never leave your dog alone in the car, you can bring your Eskie out on car trips to expose them to a wide variety of sounds, sights, and places.