 Just because you have logically gone through the process doesn't mean it's right for you. If you don't have the enthusiasm and drive, it isn't going to get you all the way you need to go.;
, Normally you should do some sort of research to indicate that you have a market. The speed dating industry is definitely a growing industry as many more people want to meet face to face.
 Will you require staff to run the event or will you be running it yourself?

, Travel around your local area looking for places that would suit.


Some speed dating meeting venues are set up in night clubs, where they can serve a glass of champagne at the beginning of the evening; a licensed venue is required to serve alcohol. Also, some of these venues are not used on weekday evenings, which is when its the best time to hold speed dating evenings.
Do you need a licensed venue? There may be other venues in your area that are licensed that would permit you to hold your speed dating venues there as well, for example, lawn bowling clubs. Perhaps you could even go no alcohol?
Serve savories after one hour; find out what catering facilities are at the venue.
 Sit down and go to each venue at the same time of the night and week where you plan to hold and run the venue. Things to consider include:


Is it really suitable for speed dating?
Do they have individual tables or do people have to sit in a long line?
Will your clients be listening to the conversation on the table next door or be able to easily concentrate on each other?
How comfortable will people feel in this venue?
Can the lighting be dimmed a little to make it more intimate?
Is the floor clean?
Does it smell?
Will you provide tablecloths, or are they provided? If so, are they clean?
What about table ornaments, will there be a red rose or is something else suitable?
Is it noisy?
Is it easy to get there?
Is there plenty of parking?
Will people be walking in through a dark car park?
Is it safe? And so forth.


If the venue isn't nice, then you are not going to get repeat clients so really take care of your clients, they are single and sensitive and so want to feel comfortable. Plus if it was a great experience for them, then they will tell their friends. A bad experience usually means they will tell even more of their friends the bad news. So make sure that it is all good.
 You need to work out how much it will really cost both in hiring the venue, supplies and marketing.
 You will need to find out:


How much it is to hire the venue
The cost of the champagne or wine
Catering costs. The evening break is usually only 20 minutes or so, so not a lot of catering is required for this time.
 Marketing can be largely ignored but is one of the most important parts of your business. You need to do marketing to get your clients. How are you going to do this?


Will you have an online website?
Is paying for advertising online too expensive in your area?
How much will the website cost?
Who will maintain it?
Will Yellow Pages online and other directory sites that rank higher in the search engines get you a better position for less cost?
Can you advertise in the papers?
Is there a free paper in your area that goes into every household?
Have paper cups made up and offer them to coffee shops for free?

, The bottom line is to think from the perspective of how are you going to get into your clients face so that they know about your business in order to encourage them to come along.