;
,


Download the DVDx archive file (see Sources and Citations for the link) to your computer as DVDx_2_20_setup.zip.
Open it and double-click on "DVDx Setup."
Complete the installation of DVDx.
Ensure you have Xvid (and/or DivX) drivers by installing AutoGK or downloading codecs separately.
Download the latest DivX free software (see Sources and Citations).
 Alternatively, if your DVD is saved as files on your computer, you can rip from there.
, Choose File and choose Open DVD root as one of the options in the drop down. Select the DVD drive connected to your computer in the Explorer window that appears. You can also open DVD files which have been previously saved to your hard drive by clicking "Open IFO" to select your hard disk files as source. In the folder selection box, select the file VTS_01_0.IFO in the DVD target directory on the hard drive. The movie files you selected are then set as input for the ripping process, and the Input Setting dialog automatically opens.
 If you have more than one movie on the DVD, select the file that shows up in the popup box and then choose which movie you wish to encode by selecting it from the pull down menu in the upper left corner. You will have to choose root menu and file for each one on the DVD, if there is more than one movie on the DVD. Ensure that the correct audio track and angle are selected. Its recommended to leave the default setting for the other options. Click OK to proceed.
 Specify the encoding options for your rip in the output setting panel. Here you can choose output options such as movie format (AVI or MPG).


AVI with DivX for video and Lame MP3 for audio are recommended.
To rip movies without splitting the last few minutes into another file, set the maximum file size to infinite in the Output Settings. This is in the "Volume Don't exceed" drop down.



For widescreen monitors(size ratio 16.9) choose 720 x 576. Multiple of 16 are acceptable.
For normal screen monitors choose(size ratio 4:3) choose 720 x 544. Multiple of 16 are acceptable.
 Make sure you press this button for each new DVD movie or DVD file you choose.
 You can also find the Destination button next to the red Record button at the bottom right of the screen. Enter the file name, and click OK.
 Rip time depends upon the specifications of your system and the size of movie file. Once it's finished, you can find your ripped file in the specified directory.

