 Rather than buying a floral headband, making your own is quick, easy, and inexpensive. For this DIY project, you will need:1/2” thick elastic (can be found at any craft store)

An elastic headband can be used if you already own one


Fake flowers (can be found at any craft store)
Hot glue gun (E6000 or super glue can also be used)Scissors;
, Wrap the elastic around the top of your head. Once you find the right length, hold the spot with your fingers. Unwrap the elastic from your head and use scissors to cut the elastic at the spot marked by your fingers.








If you already have your own headband, you can skip this step.
The headband can be any color you like; both dark- and light-colored headbands look nice.
 Use your glue gun (or other type of glue) to dab some glue on one end of your elastic. Bring the other end of the elastic to the dab of glue, and place it on top of the glue.Press the two ends together for about 10 seconds. When the glue is dried, you have your headband.









Be sure that the elastic isn’t twisted when you connect the ends with glue. It will make the flowers twist and be uneven when you glue them on.
 Pull the artificial flowers off the stems. You should easily be able to pluck them off the stems. At the bottom of the flower, there will be a small, green stem (used to hold the flowers to the longer stems). Cut off the smaller stem under the flower so the bottoms of the flowers are flat.








You can either leave the flowers whole, as they are, or pull the flowers apart to expose the different layers of petals.
 If you leave the flowers as they are (whole), apply glue onto the back of the flower using the hot glue gun.Then place the flower onto the headband and hold it in place for about 10 seconds. If you pulled the flowers apart to expose the layers of petals, it may be easier to place a small dot of glue on the headband, and then stick the petal layer onto the glue.Press and hold the petal layer down for about 10 seconds. Space the flowers out as evenly as you want. Continue to add flowers to the headband until you are satisfied with the headband.









If you are using any glue other than a glue gun, consider first applying glue to the flower, then placing it on the headband.It will create less mess.
 If you used a hot glue gun to attach the flowers to your headband, your headband will be completely dry after about 30 minutes. If you used E6000 or super glue, let the headband dry for at least a day so nothing falls off when you try to wear it.








