 Booty bouncing can really depend on the type of booty you have. Bigger booties may be the easiest to bounce, but smaller butts can still be bounced too. However, toning up your booty or changing your diet can always be helpful because you will have more muscle to bounce rather than fat. Fat may jiggle better than muscle, but muscle will look sexier and more sensual.Toning your butt will also give you more endurance when booty bouncing. Because booty bouncing often involves some form of squatting, toning up your legs and butt muscles will help you squat for longer, thus allowing you to booty bounce all night long.
If you want to make your butt look bigger, you can exercise but you may also try eating more. If you are exercising, you will likely be burning more calories, so your body will need more calories in order to keep up. If you already have a big booty and want to tone it up for a better bounce, consider cutting some calories out of your diet and eating more fruits, vegetables, and protein. Also, make sure to drink lots of water!If you are trying to gain more booty, focus on strength training. If you are trying to lose booty, focus on cardio.
 There are many ways to tone your glutes, but one really effective way is by doing a glute bridge. Lie down on your back and place your feet on the floor about a foot away from your butt with your knees bent. Slowly lift up your butt from the ground until your knees and thighs make a straight line. Then, lower back to the ground and repeat.For the most effective workout, do this to an entire song. Your butt and glutes are going to burn, but it will really help strengthen and build the muscles in that area, resulting in a bigger looking booty.
 One of the most obvious ways to build up your leg and inner thigh muscles is by doing squats. Since that's a big part of booty bouncing, squats are the perfect exercise for you. Place your feet hip width apart and bend your knees while lowering your butt to the ground. Go as low as you can while still keeping your back straight and upper body lifted. Then, lift yourself back up and repeat.To target more of your inner thighs, place your legs farther apart and do plié or sumo squats. This will still work out your legs, but will really target your booty, glutes, and inner thighs.
 Some of the best butt exercises are donkey kicks and fire hydrants. Get on your hands and knees, and lift one leg up, with your foot towards the ceiling and your knee bent at a 90 degree angle. Then, pulse that leg up for 12 reps and repeat with the other leg. If you can, try to do three sets of 12 reps on each leg, or do each leg for one minute at a time.For a fire hydrant, stay in the same position, but lift your leg out to the side, with your knee bent (imagine you are a dog relieving himself on a fire hydrant). Then, bring your leg back in, keeping your knee bent, and lift it back out again. Do 12 reps and repeat on the other side.

