 You've finished your last GCSE, this is a brilliant achievement and you should feel very proud and happy. Put your feet up and reflect for a bit on how well you've done.;
, This is, without doubt, the best way you can use your time off. Not only will it be something to write on your CV and University application, it is also something to do. It will give you routine and a new experience.
 Write a book, make a huge collage, start a YouTube blog. It could be anything! This will give you something to focus your mind on and something to look forward to doing and completing. Make sure it doesn't become a chore though.
 Rent some from Blockbusters or do a swap with some friends. You can play each others games and discuss them.
 Hop on the bus or train and see those grandparents or aunts you've been promising to see for a while. You may not particularly look forward to it, but it will certainly brighten up their day and you may even enjoy it while you are there.
 Save your parents or guardian some time and chip in a bit more with the housework. You could try a spot of gardening, wash the dishes or clean your room. There's a lot of jobs around the house and you've got a lot more time than your parents to do them.
 Keep in close contact with all of your friends either through text or social networking. Organize plenty of activities and fun things to do, you could take it in turns to choose something or take it in turns to host mini house parties.
 There will be hundreds of fellow bored sixteen year olds in your area, so get out the house and meet them! You could try joining a club or sports team or even just hang out at your favorite place and try to tag along with some groups.
 You could start running or writing for example.
 You could check out some university websites or visit some places that you'd be interested in working.
 During the time that you are off, some universities will be hosting 'open-days' even though you may think that it is ages before you join one it's good to get a feel for them so you aren't too taken aback by the shock of the size of them.

