 In order to truly learn about and understand the history of Ancient Rome, you also need a basic understanding of historical theory. Knowing historical theory will enable you to put everything you learn into the proper perspective and have framework to understand it.


The history of Rome taught today is an approximation of what occurred in the past.
History is not just events, names, and dates, but also ideas and concepts that help people understand “facts.”
There are no laws that explain everything in history. Historical events are driven by complex causation and by the actions of individual actors. For instance, Rome did not fall because it completed the cycle from democracy, to republic, to dictatorship. It fell due to a variety of reasons including but not limited to environmental degradation, and changing population and economic trends., Before you delve into learning about Roman history, you should understand that interpretations will vary from historian to historian. This is important to realize, as most historians acknowledge that there is no way to truly know the past the way it was lived by the people during the time.


Historical interpretations change over time.
Different historians will frame the same events and people in different ways.
 After you understand that interpretation varies from historian to historian, you should familiarize yourself with some of the best known scholars of Ancient Rome. Ultimately, by familiarizing yourself with the work of many historians, you’ll have a much more complete view of the history of Rome. Consider:Reading the work of Livy and Tacitus, Roman historians who wrote during the first century C.E. These historians focused on questions of political power and growth of empire. In many ways, their work reflects the power of Rome during the time in which they lived.
Reading the work of Edward Gibbon. Gibbon’s work reflected late eighteenth century British interest in empire and imperialism.
Reading the work of Géza Alföldy. Alföldy’s work reflects late-20th century interest in social history, which was a departure from the focus on politics and power., An important part in learning about Ancient Rome is knowing and understanding the central questions that historians have focused on in their studies. Knowing these questions will give you an analytical framework and a point of departure as you educate yourself about Rome.


What factors contributed to the rise of Rome?
What led to the fall of Rome?
What was the impact of Rome on western (and global) civilization?