 If you're representing yourself, you may want to hire an attorney for the specific purpose of taking any depositions you may need. Depositions can get complicated, especially if the person you want to depose is represented by an attorney.Check on the website of your state or local bar association to find out if there are attorneys you can hire solely to conduct a deposition, but who don't represent you in the case as a whole.
You also may be able to consult an attorney for a reduced flat fee and take the deposition yourself. Your attorney advisor will help you prepare and work on questions you should ask.
 If you're taking a deposition, it's your responsibility to provide sufficient notice to the other party and potentially have a subpoena issued if you need to depose a third-party witness.When you schedule the deposition, you typically must send written notice to the other party at least a couple of weeks before the date the deposition is scheduled.
If you're taking the deposition, it's your responsibility to hire a stenographer or court reporter to produce a transcript of the proceedings. Ask the clerk of court or check the court's website for more information on how to hire these professionals.
If you are deposing a third party, you must send them a written notice accompanied by a subpoena issued by the clerk of court. These documents must be served on the witness, typically by a sheriff's deputy.
 You must engage in extensive preparation before you take a deposition, including researching the case documents and other information you have on the person you plan to depose.First identify the purpose you're taking the deposition. Maybe the person will be a potential witness at trial and you need the deposition because you might need to impeach their testimony if they later say something in court that contradicts their deposition testimony.
You also may have a deposition purely for discovery purposes, because the person has information important to your claim or defense that you want to learn about and the most efficient way to do that is to depose them.
Once you've identified the purpose of the deposition, create a general outline of the topics you want to cover over the course of the interview.
Take care not to create an outline that's too detailed or to write questions you want to ask verbatim. If you stick too closely to an extensive outline you run the risk of missing out on important information because instead of listening to the witness you're focused on what your next question is going to be.
 At the start of the deposition, you must request that the court reporter swear in the witness so all responses will be under oath and on the record. You also may be expected to explain to the witness what will take place during the course of the deposition.If the witness is represented by an attorney, they likely have already gone over the rules of a deposition and what to expect. You might ask the witness to confirm that they've discussed with their attorney what will happen.
Ask the witness if they have any questions about the deposition or the procedure before you begin. Make sure any discussion about the nuts and bolts of the deposition procedure stays on the record.
 A deposition is essentially an interview conducted under oath, so once the witness is sworn in it's your job to begin asking the witness questions using your outline as a guide to organize the discussion.Try to keep the deposition as much like an everyday conversation as you can. Ask simple, straightforward questions and encourage the witness to keep talking.
In most cases, you want to ask open-ended questions and get the witness talking, rather than asking narrow yes/no questions that won't produce much usable information in response.
Never interrupt the witness when they're talking, even if you feel they've misunderstood your question or they're rambling on about something that's irrelevant.
Keep in mind that the more you get the witness talking, the more comfortable they'll feel talking to you – and the more comfortable they feel, the more they'll let you know.

