 You can adjust your app-wide notification settings from your iOS device's Settings app. You can find this app on one of your Home screens.


If you can't find the Settings app, swipe down on your Home screen and search for "Settings.";
, This will open the settings for notifications for all of your installed apps.
 This will display Instagram's notifications settings.


If Instagram is not appearing, you may need to wait until you've received a notification from someone.If Instagram is still not appearing in the list, even after receiving a notification in the app, uninstall the Instagram app, restart your phone, and then install it again. When you launch the reinstalled app, select "Allow Notifications" when prompted, and Instagram should appear in the Notifications section of the Settings app., When notifications are turned off, you will not receive notifications of any type from the Instagram app.
 The Settings app on your Android will allow you to adjust notification preferences for your Instagram app. You can find the Settings app in your app drawer.
 This will load a list of all of the apps installed on your Android device.
 This will display your Instagram app settings.
 Unchecking this box will prevent Instagram from showing any notifications. Enabling it will allow the notifications you've chosen in Instagram to appear.


If you don't see this box, tap the "Notifications" button instead and then toggle "Block" on or off.
 Enabling post notifications will ensure that you never miss a post from a user. You can enable these on a user-by-user basis so that you can customize who you get them from.
 You can be notified every time a specific user makes a new post as long as you are following them. If you aren't following the user first, you'll receive an error when trying to turn on post notifications.


To follow someone, open their Instagram profile and tap the "Follow" button.
 This will open a new menu with several options.
 You'll see a small system pop-up indicating that you've enabled post notifications for that user. You'll now be notified whenever that user makes a new post. You can later turn off specific user notifications using the exact same method.
 You can adjust the settings in the Instagram app to customize the notifications that you receive.
 This will open your profile page.
 This will open the Options page.
 You'll find this in the "Settings" section. Your notification settings will be displayed.
 There are many different notification types. Each of these has individual settings for notifications, along with an example of the what the notification will look like. Make sure to scroll all the way to the bottom to see all of the categories.


The different categories include Likes, Comments, New Followers, Accepted Follow Requests, Friends on Instagram, Instagram Direct Requests, Instagram Direct, Photos of You, Reminders, First Photo, and Product Announcements.
 Go through each category and turn each one on or off. Depending on the notification type, you may be able to select between people you follow and everyone. Some notifications, such as Product Announcements, only have On and Off options.Your new settings will be saved automatically.

