 FIV causes your cat’s immune system to become weak, which means that it is very susceptible to other illnesses, like cat flu. Because of this, it's important that you get your cat vaccinated against illnesses every year.


Talk to your vet about which vaccines to give your cat, as some diseases are more common in certain areas than others.Your vet will most likely suggest that you get your cat vaccinated against feline distemper and other cat viruses.
 A FIV-infected cat’s body is less likely to handle infections well. FIV-infected cats also need all the nutrients that they can get and many parasites will rob your cat’s body of those nutrients. You need to treat your cat for both internal and external parasites.Control worms (internal parasites) with milbemax (containing milbemycin.) This wormer is effective against all classes of worms. Indoor cats should be dosed once every three to four months. Cats allowed outdoor access, especially those that hunt rodents, should be wormed monthly.
External parasites such as fleas and ticks can also compromise your cat’s health. Vets often recommend Stronghold (UK)/ Revolution (US). This external parasite medication combats all external parasites in the same way that milbemax fights internal parasites.
 It is a good idea to boost its immune system with vitamins. You can give your cat vitamin E, vitamin A, vitamin C, selenium, and zinc.Talk to your vet about the proper dose for your specific cat. Your vet will most likely recommend something along the lines of 3 to 5 ml of LC-vit daily or 5 ml of Nutri-Plus Gel daily.
 If your cat is very weak and has a hard time eating, you should consider giving him or her injectable vitamins to boost its health. Again, it is always important to talk to your vet before giving your cat any supplements or medication.


An injectable supplement that is often recommended by vets is Coforta, which is injected at 0.5ml to 2.5 ml per cat once a day for 5 days during a single treatment period., L-lysine is a supplement that can help prevent flare-ups of infections that are common in FIV-positive cats. L-lysine aids in protein synthesis and is involved in tissue repair and maintenance. The recommended dose is generally 500 mg daily mixed with food.


Talk to your vet before giving your cat supplements.
 In interferon therapy, your cat is injected intravenously with interferons, substances that are part of the immune system and help to fight viral and bacterial infections. By increasing the number of interferons in your cat’s body, your cat becomes more resistant to infections, which means that it has a better chance of living a long, happy life.Interferons are speciality medications that are veterinarian administered. They can be costly, but studies have shown they have minimal side effects in cats., FIV-positive cats have a much harder time fighting off infections and other illnesses. Because of this, it is best to take your cat into the vet as soon as you notice that it is sick, rather than waiting to see if the situation will resolve itself. Generally, your cat will simply need to be put on antibiotics to help his or her body fight the infections. You should always be on the look out for signs that your cat is feeling unwell, including:


Coughing.
Sneezing.
Runny eyes or nose.
Decreased appetite.
Increased thirst.
Vomiting or diarrhea.

