 Wall covering retailers can help you calculate how much wallpaper you need, but here's a quick guide to a good calculation. Get a notepad and measure the room's height and width by wall section. For example, two walls 12' wide x 8' high, and two walls 11' wide x 8' high. The math is:


12x8=96, 12x8=96, 11x8=88, 11x8=88. 96+96+88+88 = 368 sq. ft.
Now you are thinking to yourself, "what about doors and windows? I must subtract for that, right?" Wrong. A certain amount of "waste" paper is necessary for calculated mistakes, so don't worry about counting out empty spaces.;
, Get your tools and remove all wall switch plates, metal air vents, towel rods, toilet paper holders, etc. Take down any wall mounted light fixtures (turn power off a breaker first). To avoid losing the screws or having to keep track of them, screw them back in their respective locations after the plates and covers are removed.
 Wallpaper has a difficult time sticking to dirty or greasy walls, so wipe down yours with a damp cloth. Patch any holes in the walls, and give time for both your patches and water on the walls to dry.


If you are wallpapering over pre-painted walls, add a coat of primer first.
If your walls have wallpaper already on them, take the time to remove it before adding your new layer of paper. This will guarantee a longer lasting application.
 Common advice is to start in the most inconspicuous corner of a room. For example, in a bedroom, this is usually in the corner behind the door. In general, don't start your wallpaper on a central wall, unless you're doing an accent wall. Choose an area to the side that won't be viewed first.


If you are hanging wallpaper in a bathroom, doing so behind an existing toilet can be difficult and tedious, so you may want to consider hanging those pieces first (most toilets will impact two strips of wall covering in one way or another) while you have the most energy and patience.
Put yourself in a good position to have a full length or two of wall covering to hang before you have to start addressing corners and obstacles if at all possible.
 Measure your first piece from ceiling to floor. Typically, in a house with 8 feet (2.4 m) ceilings, your measurement will be about 92 inches (233.7 cm) since most everyone will have a base board at the floor. Roll out your wall covering on a table or floor, pattern side up. Double-check all your measurements so that you don't make a mistake in cutting your paper. The goal is to keep your paper in as big of sections as you can to create a more seamless look.
 Take a measuring tape, 2 feet (0.6 m). level, and pencil and go to the starting point in the room. You want to establish a plumb line to ensure the first piece is hung perfectly straight up and down. Measure horizontally the width of the wallpaper strips from your starting point. Subtract 1/2 an inch from this, and draw a vertical line at this point.


Work your way around the room and create a similar plumb line at corners or new walls. This will ensure that your wallpaper is always hung in line.
Don’t use ink pens to create the plumb line as the adhesive will cause the ink to run and bleed and ruin the wallpaper.