 A Candy Crush addict plays at odd and ungodly hours. Every waking moment, you’re playing Candy Crush on your Facebook and on your mobile devices. You sleep late or don’t go to sleep at all, just so you can continuously play the game.;
, You’re impatient and constantly beg for lives and tickets. Once you run out of lives, you bug your friends to give you lives. You send them requests via the game, and text or call them to remind them to respond to your requests.


You don’t care that it may sound ridiculous that you’re impatient for a game. You may even bug them when it’s inappropriate, thinking that they may be up and playing Candy Crush too.
 You start building up a credit card debt when you’re addicted to the game. Candy Crush by itself is free to play. You can get far with the proper combination of strategy, patience, and lots of luck.


However, the developers of the game also built several aids to help you in the game for a price. For a few bucks, you can get some extra moves on a level you’re close to completing or equip some boosters to help you complete a level much easier.
Once you start paying for these things, it will be hard to stop. You’ll just be surprised when you see how much you owe your bank for all the Candy Crush bills you’ve accumulated.
 When you’re a Candy Crush addict, you live and breathe Candy Crush:


You dream of candies and combos. When you do get to sleep, you end up dreaming of crushing candies and making all those special combos. You dream of your strategies for the levels you’re currently on. You dream of catching up with your friends’ high scores and levels. You get nightmares composed of chocolate and tornadoes.
You see everything in candy shapes and colors. Even when you’re not playing the game, it would seem that you still do. Everything you see are candies. You may even be afraid to walk into a candy store or even the candy aisle in your supermarket.
 The most basic and simplest way to stop your addiction is to put down the game. You don’t have to delete it just yet. You just have to control when and how your play it.


Use your lives, and stop when you’re out. Wait for people to respond to your requests without bugging them. Play some other game to take your mind off it.
 If you find that you cannot control yourself, go ahead and delete the game permanently. Restrain yourself from re-installing it. Out of sight, out of mind. Forget about the game.
 It would be hard to keep your focus if others keep on sending your app invites and requests from Candy Crush. Have Facebook block these so you won’t see them anymore.


Refer to this article for details on how to do this.
 Call a friend to act as your sponsor. Every time you feel the urge to play Candy Crush, call him or her right away. Just make sure your sponsor isn’t a fellow Candy Crush addict.
 This may be a hard cure to follow, but this is the best one. If you’re a Candy Crush addict, most likely it has affected your job, family, and relationships. Not to mention financial situation. Go back to your life before you met Candy Crush.


Focus on your work or school. Rebuild your lost relationships with your family and friends. Get out and leave your mobile devices at home.

