 You can purchase whole roasted beans or ground coffee. Look for Arabica beans in light to medium roasts.


Some specialty coffee stores and online sellers offer Arabic coffee blends with spices included. While this doesn't allow you to adjust the ratio to your taste, it may be a convenient way to get the flavor of Arabic coffee.
Alternatively, you can buy unroasted Arabica coffee beans and roast them yourself.;
, You can use the grinder at the grocery store or use your own at home.


While some suggest using a coarse grind, others recommend making a very fine, powder-like ground.Experiment and see what suits your taste.
 You can use a mortar and pestle to do this, or the back of a spoon.
 Take the seeds from the pods and put them in a coffee grinder. Grind them into a fine powder.
 If you plan to serve the coffee from a thermos, as is traditionally done in the Middle East, preheat it now by filling it with boiling water.
 Use all 3 cups of water and bring to a boil on medium heat.


If you don't have a dallah, you can use a saucepan or Turkish cezve., Let it stand and cool just slightly.


Meanwhile, reduce the heat on the burner to low.
 You do not need to stir the coffee at this point, since the boiling itself mixes the grounds in the water.
 After 10-12 minutes, foam will start rising to the top of the pot.


Do not let the coffee boil, as this will burn the coffee. If it begins to boil, remove the dallah from the stove. You may also want to reduce the heat slightly before returning the dallah to the burner., If you have an electric stove that is slow to cool, remove the pot immediately.
 Once the level of the foam has lowered, add the cardamom.


You can also add a few cloves at this point, if you're using them., This process will create the same foam as shown in prior steps.
 The grounds will settle to the bottom.
 Empty the boiling water used for preheating. If you are using saffron and/or rosewater, add them now to the empty thermos.
 Once you see grounds in the coffee, stop pouring. A small amount of coffee with grounds will remain at the bottom of the dallah.


You can pour the coffee through a strainer if you wish. This catches the spices and coffee sediment, but is not a necessary step., For a traditional presentation, use small cups on a serving plate.


Traditionally, the small cups are filled no more than halfway.While Arabic coffee is traditionally made without sugar, it is served with something sweet, like dates.
Milk is not added to Arabic coffee. If you prefer adding milk to yours, keep in mind that light roasts in particular are best without milk.
 It is considered rude to drink with your left hand., A guest should always accept at least one cup, and it is customary to drink at least three over the course of a visit.
 This lets the host know you're ready for more.