 In order to address your issues with over communicating, you need to accept that there's a problem. Take responsibility for the fact you sometimes talk too much.


If your habit of chattering is due to nerves or anxiety you have difficulty controlling, you may feel you cannot control the issue. However, need to accept you at least have some control over your symptoms. Try to be aware of the fact you talk too much due to anxiety.Ask for honest feedback from friends and family members. Ask people you interact with frequently whether you talk too much and how that affects them during conversation. Pinpointing where to improve can help.;
, A lot of nervous chattering is less about having a big ego and more about a nervousness around others. If you have underlying issues with social anxiety, addressing these issues can help you better interact with others.


Social phobias and anxiety disorders are defined as having increased anxiety over a variety of social situations. You may have a heightened fear of judgment, be very nervous during normal interactions like making small talk or speaking on the phone, worry for prolonged periods over events that occurred at parties or get togethers, and experience physical symptoms like an increased heart rate and sweating during social interactions.Social anxiety disorder can be treated through a variety of medications as well as therapy. It is usually some combination of the two, as people taking any kind of antidepressant or anti anxiety medication require close monitoring by a professional. You can find a therapist by seeing what's covered by your insurance provider, asking for a referral from your general practitioner, or going through your college or university if you're a student., Anxiety due to social situations is varied. For some people, talking at parties is no problem but talking over food causes heightened anxiety. Identifying which situations trigger your anxiety, leading to nervous chattering, can help you better address the issue.


Keep a journal where you write down daily social interactions. These can be big interactions, like a date you had, or small interactions, like making small talk with a co-worker before a meeting.Be as detailed as possible when recording these interactions. Do not just talk about what happened. Discuss how you felt. Did you feel nervous? What situations prompted most anxiety? Did you think about the interaction afterwards with guilt or shame? Did you feel like you were talking too much? What physical symptoms accompanied your anxiety?, Simply slowing down your speech when talking to others can help greatly in reducing your tendency to talk too much. Try to consciously work on slowing down the tempo of your speech during social interactions. This way, you'll pay more attention to what you're saying and be more aware if you're repeating yourself, rambling, or otherwise taking over the conversation., Try to be aware of how long you've been talking in a social interaction. Taking stock of time on occasion can help you gauge when you've been talking too much.


In general, the first 20 seconds in which your speaking are a sort of green light. Your listener will be most engaged with you during this time and willing to listen to what you're saying. Try to convey what you want to say within this time frame.The following 20 seconds are a "yellow light" period. The person might lose interest if you go on much longer, but they're still engaged. Try to spend the following 20 seconds, ideally less, wrapping up your thought and giving the listener an opportunity to contribute and share.After 40 seconds have passed, you're at a red light. You should let the other person speak. Talking on for longer than 40 seconds is a good sign you're rambling. Your listener may get bored or otherwise frustrated with the situation. You should find a way to quickly wrap up if you've gone over 40 seconds.Another way to stop yourself from going overboard is to practice the "one sentence" rule. If someone asks you a question, try to answer in a single sentence. You'll know you're not taking up too much time without having to explicitly measure the seconds., As anxiety is triggering you to talk too much, working out an hour or so before a social event can help. Exercise has a positive impact on anxiety, lessening feelings of stress overall.


Some studies indicate regular exercise 3 times a week or more work better than some medications when it comes to helping one's mental health. A particularly vigorous exercise session, in fact, can alleviate symptoms for hours. Planning a somewhat intense work out, like aerobics or running, prior to a big event can help you alleviate anxiety associated with social situations.It's important to find a form of exercise you enjoy. If you can't stand running, you're unlikely to be motivated to keep doing it. If you're not one for exercise in general, however, playing songs you like on an iPod or listening to an audio book can help you enjoy the activity more. You can even try to watch television or a movie if you're using at home equipment like a treadmill or stationary bike., Trying to shift focus to the other person in the conversation can help you avoid talking too much. Practice active listening skills in the presence of others. This can lessen over communication.


Give your full attention to the speaker. Provide non verbal cues, such as nodding and smiling at appropriate moments, that indicate you're paying attention.When there's a pause, repeat some of the speaker's words back to him or her to make sure you fully understand. For example, if the speaker has just said, "Tutoring my niece in algebra made me interested in pursuing a career in education," say something like "So, you learned you enjoyed teaching through your niece?" While it may sound a little odd, usually the speaker will respond well to this and take it as a cue to share more details., In a social situation, certain cues from your listener may indicate you're talking too much. Pay attention to how a speaker responds to what you are saying.


If there are a lot of phrases like "uh-huh" and "yeah," you might be going overboard. Oftentimes, people respond in these disinterested ways in order to subtly disengage from a dull conversation.Do people tend to want to exit the conversation? If someone is feeling bored, they might make a hurried excuse and say something like, "I'm getting a call" or "My friend just got here" and then make for the exit., Oftentimes, when we talk too much we end up talking about ourselves. Without information or topics offered by our listener as a conversation guide, we fall back into discussing our own lives. If you've been going on for more than a minute about your childhood dog or your first job, you may be dominating the conversation. This is a sign you're talking too much., People who talk too much have a tendency to not allow others to finish sentences. Be very conscientious when another person is speaking as to whether or not you actually hear the end of his or her sentence. If you feel like you're constantly speaking over the last few words of another person's sentence, you might be nervously rambling.