 Don't choose anything too loud, annoying, disturbing; keep it chill. Try to aim for the light pop music and possibly R&B; but not anything that is stressing such as today's Top 40 radio.;
, You'll be happy to have them for those awkward silences that typically happen in conversations between new friends. (For example, "Wasn't that Spanish test hard?" or "I saw your performance in the school play. Do you sing a lot?")

, It can be weird if you actually call with the sole purpose of talking. (For example, "I'm calling to thank you for inviting me to your party," or "Can you tell me what the homework was?" or even "Did you see that episode of Supernatural?")

, Think of all the reasons they will be happy to hear from you.
 Inhale through the nose for seven counts, hold for four counts, and exhale for eight counts. Do this three times.
 Make sure you do it slowly and concentrate.
 What's up?" This gives them a chance to tell you it's a bad time.
 It can help spark conversation. (For example, "Thanks for inviting me to your party. What gifts did you get?" or "Can you believe what Summer did on The O.C.?")

, Ask any possible question that pops into your head. (For example, "Thanks for inviting me to your party. What gifts did you get? Who gave that to you? What was your favorite? Were you hoping for anything else? I have one of those...")

, A little preparation can go a long way.
 People love to talk about themselves and this is sure to be a big conversation starter. (For example, "You are a great soccer player. Do you play outside school? How long have you played? Do you watch soccer on television? What's your favorite team? What position do you play? Do you play any other sports? Is soccer hard? Do you train a lot?") Or just start telling your life story, but don't make it a five hour long life story.
 Enjoy your conversation rather than thinking about what you're going to say next. With enough practice, it will just come to you.
 Hang up the phone.
 What topics sparked interest? What did you find out about this person? How long did you talk? How did you feel? Think of any ways you could make it easier to call this person again.
