 Using a serrated knife, cut the meat into evenly sized 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes.When making classic hot dogs, you'll need to cube both the pork shoulder and beef chuck.
For all-beef hot dogs, you'll need to cube the boneless beef short ribs.;
, Pass the meat through the smallest plate of the meat grinder. Once all the meat has ground once, pass it through the same plate again.


Grinding the meat twice isn't strictly necessary, but it should create a finer ground meat than you would typically find in stores. A finer grind will make it easier for the cure to spread throughout the meat.
When using two different meats, alternate the meats as you grind them to create a more evenly combined mixture.
 Add the kosher salt and meat cure to the ground meat. Use your hands to mix the entire mixture until everything appears evenly combined.


For the classic hot dog recipe, use any standard #1 cure or Prague powder.
When preparing the all-beef hot dogs, opt for pink curing salt instead.
 Cover the ground meat mixture with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator. Let it cure for 24 hours.


You should be able to safely cure the meat up to 48 hours.
If you're in a hurry, you can skip the prolonged curing and refrigerate the mixture for only 30 minutes. This may weaken the resulting flavor, but only slightly.
 Remove the meat from the refrigerator and add all of the seasonings to the mixture. Use your hands to thoroughly combine everything.


For the classic hot dog recipe, add the paprika, garlic powder, dry mustard, black pepper, coriander, mace, cardamom, non-fat milk powder, and liquid smoke.
For the all-beef hot dog recipe, add the dry mustard, paprika, ground coriander, ground black pepper, and garlic powder.
 Pour the corn syrup into the meat mixture. Use your hands to evenly mix the corn syrup into the rest of the mixture.


Once you add the corn syrup, the meat mixture should become notably easier the mold without separating.
 Spread the meat mixture onto a clean baking sheet and freeze it for approximately 30 minutes.


The mixture should be somewhat flat after you spread it over the baking sheet, but you don't need to worry too much about how thick it is.
Freezing the mixture for 30 minutes should get it adequately cold, especially if you intend to stuff the links using the traditional casing method. If you plan to prepare the links without casings, however, you may wish to freeze the mixture for roughly 3 hours, or until it feels semi-frozen.
 Transfer the mixture to the bowl of a food processor. Add 1/2 cup (125 ml) ice water to the meat and process the mixture until it becomes smooth.Continue adding water as needed until the mixture develops the consistency of mousse. You can add up to 2 cups (500 ml) for the classic recipe or 1 cup (250 ml) for the all-beef recipe.
Emulsify the meat in small batches. Adding too much to the food processor may make it difficult to process effectively.
 Submerge the casings in lukewarm water for approximately 30 minutes. Change the water at the halfway point to keep things sanitary.


Ideally, you should do this while the meat mixture chills in the freezer.
Sheep intestines measuring 1-1/8 to 1-1/4 inch (2.8 to 3.8 cm) are recommended, but you can use similarly sized hog intestines, as well. Collagen casings will also work., Slip one end of the casing over the nozzle of the sausage stuffer. Carefully work the entire length of casing over the nozzle, continuing until you reach the opposite end.


Make sure that the casing stays wet while you work it over the nozzle. It will be slippery and might be hard to maneuver, but ultimately, the water will help prevent the casing from sticking to the nozzle.
 Load the meat mixture into the tray of the sausage stuffer. Wait for the meat to come out of the nozzle, then guide it into the casing.


This portion of the process may take some practice to perfect. As the meat flows out, gradually slide small sections of casing over it. Clamp down on the end of the casing and allow that section to fill until it becomes completely stuffed before moving onto the next section.
 After stuffing the casings and using up the entire meat mixture, detach the end from the nozzle and twist the links into 6-inch (15-cm) lengths.


Twist both open ends closed, as well.
Cut or break the links at the center of the twisted portions to separate them.
 Place the hot dogs in your refrigerator and allow them to sit for at least 30 minutes.


You can let the hot dogs chill in the refrigerator overnight, if desired, but doing so is not necessary.
 Unroll a large sheet of plastic wrap and spread it out over the kitchen counter.


Work carefully to avoid letting the corners of the plastic wrap overlap and stick together.
If you have difficulty working with a large sheet of plastic wrap, you could opt to work with several small sheets, instead.
 Evenly spread roughly 1-1/2 inches (3.75 cm) of the meat mixture over the long side seam of the plastic wrap.


Try to keep the meat mixture 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) away from the edge of the plastic wrap, and spread it out in an evenly sized, straight line.
 Bring the end of the plastic wrap over and around the meat mixture. Continue rolling the meat mixture into the plastic wrap, working in the same direction.Use as much of the plastic wrap as possible to ensure a secure hold. Using too little may allow the meat mixture to slip out of its plastic wrapping.
 Tie off 6-inch (15-cm) lengths of meat using kitchen string. Tie off both open ends, as well.


Do not separate the links yet. Keep the hot dog links in one long chain.
 Place the hot dogs in your refrigerator and chill them for at least 8 to 12 hours.
 Fill a large stockpot with water and set it on the stove over medium-high heat. Bring it to boil.


You need enough water to cover the entire batch of hot dogs by at least 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Place the hot dogs into the boiling water and reduce the heat to medium-low, or until the water drops to a bubbling simmer. Cook the hot dogs for 10 to 15 minutes.


You'll need to test the internal temperature of the hot dogs before you remove them from the hot water. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest link and wait for the internal temperature to reach a minimum 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).
 Remove the hot dogs from the hot water and immediately transfer the links to a large bowl of ice water.


Let the links sit in the ice water for approximately 10 minutes. This should stop the cooking process, thereby preventing the meat from over-cooking.
 If you made the hot dogs using the non-casing method, remove the plastic wrap from each link at this time. The links should retain their form without these wrapping.


Note that you should not attempt to remove the casings from the hot dogs if you used the standard link-making method.
 You can place the hot dogs in an airtight container and refrigerate them for up to 1 or 2 weeks if you aren't ready to cook them immediately.


The hot dogs are technically fully cooked after you finish poaching them, but just like commercially packaged hot dogs, you'll need to take a few extra steps to make them more appetizing prior to serving.
 Pour 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 ml) of vegetable oil into a large skillet. Set the skillet onto the stove burner over medium-low heat.
 Place the hot dogs in the warm oil and let them cook for about 10 minutes, turning the links periodically using tongs.Wait for the hot dogs to become crispy on all sides before removing them from the stove.
 Once the hot dogs are crispy and warm throughout, place them on a bun and add any desired condiments. Enjoy them while they're still hot!

