 You may apply for rehabilitation only if 5 years have elapsed since the completion of your sentence.Individual rehabilitation is the only option available for those whose crime carries a sentence of 10 years or more in Canada. You cannot be deemed rehabilitated at a port of entry unless the sentence is less than ten years.
If you have 2 or more summary convictions, then you may apply after 5 years if you have had no other convictions., The application requires that you provide basic information about yourself, explain your conviction and the events that led up to it, as well as provide a statement on why you feel that you have been rehabilitated.


If you have a legal representative help with the form, you also need to fill out the form specifying that. It is included in your packet.
 You must complete a checklist of documents and attach them to your application:


copy of the pages in your passport showing name, date of birth, and country of birth
copies of court judgments, which show the charge, the section of the law under which you were charged, the verdict, and the sentence
text of non-Canadian statutes you were convicted under (contact local police)
a criminal clearance from all countries (including Canada) where you have lived for at least six consecutive months for the last 10 years
if from the United States, a criminal clearance from every state in which you have lived for 6 consecutive months since turning 18, as well as a federal clearance from the FBI
documentation on sentence, parole, or pardon, which clearly show when the sentence was completed; as well as judge’s comments, probation/parole reports, and letters of recommendation
if a juvenile offender, a letter showing that your country has special measures for juvenile offenders.You should get this from the Court you were convicted in.
Be honest. If you lie on your application and conflicting information turns up, you might never be allowed entry.
 You should submit it early. Expect to wait about a year, though decisions have been made within six months.
 In order to file for Rehabilitation certification, Canada can impose an application fee from $200 to over $1,000.The amount you will pay is tied to the seriousness of your conviction.


Submit at least $200. If more is required, you will be invoiced.
Do not send cash. If paying with a credit card, complete an authorization form, which comes with your application packet.
 After receiving the application, an immigration officer will review it. The reviewing officer will make an initial recommendation and will then forward the application to the authority who can approve or refuse applications for rehabilitation.


For less serious offenses, the manager of the local office usually has the authority to approve or refuse.
The Minister of Citizenship and Immigration makes the decision for more serious offenses.
Among the factors considered are your number of offenses, as well as the circumstances and seriousness of each offense; and your behavior since committing the offense.
Additionally, the officer will examine your explanation of the offenses and of why you are likely not to reoffend; your present circumstances; why you think you are rehabilitated; and any support you receive from the community.