 To become a Dancer, you have to be an Archer with a job level 40 or higher. When you're ready, head to Comodo and approach the male NPC named Bor Robin by the Kafra employee. Bor Robin will grant you entry into the Dancer Quest area.;
, Once inside the building, you’ll find Aile at the left side of the stage. Talk to her to start your first quest.
 To be signed up as a Dancer candidate, Aile will ask you to bring one of the following sets of items. Return to her once you have them so you can proceed to the next step. The NPC will not actually take these items after you report to them.



First Set. 1 Sandals (can be bought from Armor Dealer), 10 Black Hair (from Sohee at Payon Cave), 20 Jellopy (from Poring at Prontera Field), 5 Yellow Potion (purchasable at Tool Dealer), 2 Clam Shell (purchasable at Comodo Souvenir Merchant), and 10,000z.

Second Set. 1 Shoes (purchasable at Armor Dealer), 20 Sticky Mucus (from Poporing at Prontera Field), 3 Jellopy (from Poring at Prontera Field), and 5 Red Potion (purchasable at Tool Dealer).

Third Set. 1 Boots (can be bought at Armor Dealer), 5 Earthworm Peeling (from Hode at Sograt Desert), and 10,000z.
 After completing your gathering quest, Aile will then ask you to talk to Bijou for your second test. Head to the right side of the stage to find her. When you're ready, talk to Bijou to start.


Should you fail the exam, just talk to her again for a retake.
 The quiz involves a simple Q&A session. Get 80% correctly to pass this part of the exam. For your reference, below are the questions as well as their answers:



Question Set A

What is the effect of the skill Dance Lesson? (Answer: Increases the effect of dancing skills)
What dance uses shoes designed to make sounds as the dancer rolls her feet and taps the ground to create a rhythm? (Answer: Tap Dance)
Which of the following is not a characteristic of a Dancer? (Answer: Uses Two-Handed Swords)
Which town has the most Dancers? (Answer: Comodo)
Of the following, who dances the most beautifully? (Answer: Bijou)
What is the Dancer better at than the other job classes? (Answer: Dancing)
Who is the manager of the Comodo Casino? (Answer: Moo)
What item cannot be equipped by a Dancer? (Answer: Two-Handed Sword)
Do you think you can say this quiz is frustrating and annoying? (Answer: No)
Which of the following is not a Jazz musician? (Answer: Elder Willow)



Question Set B

What is the effect of the combined skill Mental Sensing? (Answer: Increases Experience)
Which is considered bad etiquette on the dance floor after a dance? (Answer: Criticize your partner)
Which is not an appropriate response when someone makes a mistake while you’re dancing together? (Answer: Point out the mistake)
In which town can you change jobs to a Dancer? (Answer: Comodo)
How many dungeons are directly connected to Comodo? (Answer: 3)
Which of the following is not a Cute Pet monster? (Answer: Argiope)
Who is the most graceful dancer? (Answer: Bijou)
What is the exact name of the Kafra in Comodo? (Answer: Western Branch)
What is my name? (Answer: Bijou)
What is the effect of Lullaby? (Answer: Casts the Sleep Effect on the area)



Question Set C

The Dancer's dance, Lady Luck, increases which of the following? (Answer: Critical Attack Rate)
Of the following, which can you not consider to be a dance? (Answer: Lightning Bolt)
Which of the following best describes a Dancer? (Answer: A person who dances)
Which of the following cannot be associated with Comodo? (Answer: A lot of thieves)
What is the name of the region North West of Pharos Lighthouse? (Answer: Comodo Beach)
Who is the most beautiful dancer? (Answer: Bijou)
Of the following, who can perform together with a Dancer? (Answer: Bard)
Which of the following is not a specialty of Comodo? (Answer: Shining Stone)
Who is the manager of the Comodo Casino? (Answer: Moo)
Who accepts the Dancer job change applications? (Answer: Aile)



, After passing your written exam, Bijou will send you to the stage to dance. At this point, make sure that you equip a bow and some arrows, and then head behind the stage to meet another NPC with a Waiting Room chat window above her head. Entering the chat room will put you on queue for the trial. Wait for your turn until you're automatically teleported to the stage., The exam is a simple test of movement and quick responses. At this point, you must put your Arrow Shower or Double Strafe skill in your hotkey, including Improve Concentration. At the end, a Poring will appear that has to be killed with a bow.
 The Dancing Pattern is as follows: Back, Front, Left, Right, Center, Pose (remain on the tile), Improve Concentration, Left, Front, Right, Pose (remain on the tile), Left, Center, Right, Back, Right, Left, Center, Front, Back, Left, Center, Front, Back, Front, Left, Center, Kill the Poring.


For those who are having problems with the pattern, an effective way to pass this exam is to perform only the first and last steps for sequences with more than two steps, rather than hitting all the tiles. For example, instead of doing "Left, Center, Right, Back," just simply go from "Left” to “Back."

, Accomplish that by talking to Aile again after the Dance Exam. She will reward you with either a Line (for job level 50) or a Rope (for any job level below 50). You will then officially be a Dancer!

