 Make sure that you're aware of important upcoming events that your child participates in. Keep a calendar of important birthdays, anniversaries, and family get-togethers. Attending significant events shows that your family is just as important as your work commitments.Talk with your spouse or partner about upcoming events in the next three months. By planning ahead, you're less likely to miss out on important times with your family.
If you can't make it to an event, make sure to set aside time to be with your family afterwards. For example, let's say that a last-minute business trip conflicts with attending a dance recital with your child. See if someone can record the event, and then watch it with your child and family afterwards. Turn it into a special event at home by watching it in the living room together.
 Some companies are more accommodating than others. It may also be a matter of your negotiating skills. If you've been traveling awhile for business, this may give your leverage to negotiate and see if your family can attend.Even if the expenses of travel cannot be paid in full for your family while on business, see if there may be hotel accommodations or plane airfare that can be included for them.
Consider ways to negotiate for a plane ticket for your spouse, but not the children. Your employer may be more willing to assist with this fare.
Be assertive and have a clear case as to why helping with family expenses is good for the company. Consider discussing about company values of work-life balance as part of their mission.
 Even if your company can't pay for your family's expenses, give your family an opportunity to travel and explore in the same way you do. Find ways to add-on family time while you're away on business by having a short family vacation after you're finished with your work.Let's say you travel to different places for work-related conferences. Consider bringing your family with you. While you're at the conference, they can explore the city. You can also have time with them in the evenings or after the conference is over.
If you travel frequently to the same destinations each year, consider taking them to one of the places you visit that's family-friendly. Help them to understand what you do when you're away. They may feel more interested in what you do for work if you take them along from time to time.

