 Visit your doctor to determine what is causing your vertigo. Vertigo is often related to two inner ear disorders known as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) and Méniére's disease, but it could be a number of other conditions. Don't try to treat yourself for BPPV or Méniére's disease unless you've received a diagnosis and are certain that's what you have. Treatments for these disorders won't work to mitigate vertigo caused by other underlying issues. Here are a few other conditions that may lead to vertigo:Other inner ear disorders such as vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis
Head injuries and ear injuries
Migraine headaches
Decreased blood flow in the arteries that supply blood to the vein
Brain tumors
Stroke
Complications from drinking alcohol or taking medications;
, You'll need to figure out which ear is causing the problem, since the treatment you get may be different depending on which side is affecting you.


Pay attention to when you get dizzy. If you get dizzy when you roll to the right in bed, then it's probably your right ear that's affecting you.If you can't figure out which ear is causing the problem, ask your doctor.
 The Epley maneuver is a series of head movements that return the crystals that have come loose in your inner ear to the right place.The Epley maneuver can be easily performed by a physician without any special equipment. The Epley maneuver is an effective treatment for BPPV when it is performed properly.


Once your doctor shows you how to do the Epley maneuver, you can do it on your own at home next time you get vertigo. You may watch videos online to learn the different head adjustments to make.
Stabilize your neck for the 48 hours after doing the Epley maneuver.
Don't do the Epley maneuver if you aren't sure you have BPPV. If you have an underlying problem, you need to make sure you get the proper treatment., You can relieve symptoms and decrease the frequency of episodes of vertigo caused by this inner ear disorder by controlling your body's fluid retention. Try the following methods for doing so:


Limit salt consumption and foods with MSG.
Consider taking diuretic medication that reduces fluid retention.
Look into taking betahistine hydrochloride. This drug is said to reduce the frequency and severity of vertigo attacks by raising blood flow around the inner ear.It is primarily used in the treatment of Méniére's disease. Ask your doctor for more information about this treatment.
 If nonsurgical treatments are ineffective, there are surgical procedures that can cure vertigo caused by certain inner ear disorders.If your vertigo is caused by one of the following disorders, it can be cured with surgery:


BPPV
Ménière's disease
Vestibular neuronitis
Chronic labyrinthitis

, The most common type of vertigo, BPPV, happens when tiny calcium carbonate crystals in one part of your inner ear float to another part of your inner ear, disrupting your equilibrium and triggering the uncomfortable dizzy sensation of vertigo. The crystals can get dislodged during the night when you move your head in certain ways, and sleeping with your head slightly elevated will prevent this from happening as often.Sleep on your back instead of your side or stomach, and prop your head up with an extra pillow while you're sleeping.
 If you have BPPV, motions like this can dislodge the crystals in your inner ear and lead to vertigo.It can help to become more aware of your body movements and take measures to avoid bending over.


If you need to pick something up, bend your knees to lower yourself down instead of bending at the waist.
Don't do exercises that require being upside down or bending forward.
 The movement you use when you extend your neck, as when you're reaching for something, can cause the crystals to get dislodged, too. Try not to stretch your neck upward. When you do stretch your neck, move your head slowly; don't let your head bob around.
 Any jerky movements you make that cause your head to move about can lead to vertigo, especially when you're particularly prone to getting it. Avoid activities that put you in a situation in which your head might move around quickly.


Don't ride roller coasters or other rides that cause your head to whip back and forth.
Avoid sports that put you at risk of sudden head movements. Stick to swimming, walking and jogging instead of high-impact sports.
 This cure-all superfood treats numerous ailments, including some instances of vertigo.Take ginger capsule supplements on a daily basis, or eat some of the food by itself. Ginger is a common successful treatment for many vertigo-sufferers.
 Smoking tobacco has been shown to decrease the efficacy of treatments for vertigo.Cut back on smoking and using other tobacco products so you'll have fewer episodes of vertigo as well as less severe symptoms.
 Dizziness spells can be much worse with poor eyesight.Make sure your eyes are in the clear with regular checkups at your optometrist. Make sure that you have working glasses or contacts in an accurate prescription as well.

