 You can use several tools in place of the suggested tools to create a wood bow, but be sure you are using proper safety precautions. Here is a list of suggested tools:62" section of 3/4" PVC pipe
12" section of 1" PVC
2-4" sections of 1/2" PVC pipe
2-4" of PVC pipe end caps (optional)
62" of 550 paracord 1/2" thick
Saw
Rubber mallet
Electrical tape
Tape measure
Paint;
, If you did not purchase PVC fiberglass pipes that are already the required measurements, you need to cut them. Use a PVC pipe cutter or multi-tool saw bit to cut the main bow pipe to 62" long. Then, cut one 12" section of 1" PVC and two 4" sections of 1/2" PVC fiberglass., Fist, insert one 4" PVC pipe into the main bow pipe. Use a rubber mallet to hammer it in. It will be a tight squeeze, so you may need to use a lot of force. Force it all the way in until the tops of both pipes are flush at the end. After the first one is in, do the same with the second 4" pipe on the opposite end., Cut the 1" section of PVC pipe down the middle on one side. This will help you slide it over the main bow. Once you have it cut and placed in the center of the main bow, use the electrical tape to secure it on. Try overlapping the tape to create one sturdy layer.Face the side with the cut on the outside of the bow away from where the string will be. This is important because when you bend the bow during use, the cut may open and close. If the cut is facing the wrong side, it may pinch your fingers or rip the tape.
 You will need about 62" of paracord to tie onto your bow. This length is a couple inches longer than you need, but you will lose some length as you tie the paracord onto the bow. Measure out 62", and carefully cut the paracord straight across with sharp scissors.Seal off the ends with a flame. You can use a lighter or a match to lightly burn each end of the paracord. This will keep the ends from fraying.
 Use a hacksaw, or a saw of your choice, to create a 1/2" wide groove that sits at a 70 degree angle. Angle the groove towards the back of the bow so it goes the same direction as the paracord as it is pulled. This angle helps the paracord stay secure, and a 1/2" groove allows the paracord to fit snugly so it does not slip out., Start on one end, and when you have a firm knot secured, bring the string up to the other end and tie a second knot. There should be enough tension in the string so you can pull it with your finger, and it will snap back., To help finish the look of your bow, and protect the paracord on each end, consider placing on PVC caps. The 4" inch caps should fit snugly onto each end. Do not glue the caps on because you want to easily remove them in case a string breaks, and you need to restring the bow., If you want to decorate your bow with some color, try using spray paint. Lay your bow down on a piece of cardboard outside, and spray directly onto the bow. Be sure to remove the paracord and PVC caps before painting, and allow the paint to fully dry before using your bow.Follow the directions on the label for the paint you decide to use.

