 Finding friends on social media can be a positive thing, especially if you are shy and struggle with meeting new people. But cultivating friendships in person can often lead to deeper and more meaningful connections. You should try to seek out others in person and build friendships by spending time together in real life, rather than just online.If you are shy and find it hard to make new friends, you may start by communicating with others on social media. You may start conversations on social media or follow certain users to connect with them that way. Over time, you may feel comfortable taking the online conversations into real life and spend time hanging out one on one.
 You can also expand your friend circle by putting yourself in new, exciting situations. Maybe you take a class on a hobby or activity you’ve always wanted to get better at or join a club that focuses on something you are passionate about. You could then connect with others who share similar interests with you and build meaningful friendships with them.

For example, you may have an interest in video games and want to connect with others who share your interest. You may join an online video game group and play with new people. You could then build friendships over time and spend time doing other things, like hanging out one on one or going to see a movie together that you will both enjoy.
 You can also meet new people and build positive friendships by volunteering for a cause or an organization you believe in. Volunteering is a good way to meet people who share the same beliefs and goals as you, which could then lead to strong friendships.

For example, maybe you want to volunteer at an event for your local Women’s Shelter. You may spend time volunteering with a group of people who are all supporting a cause you believe in. You may connect with certain individuals and spend time after volunteering talking over a cup of coffee or a drink. This could then lead to a friendships with someone who you know shares the same values and beliefs as you.
 You may have a work acquaintance that you would like to turn into a friend or a mutual acquaintance with your partner that you would like to get to know better. Turning an acquaintance into a friend can be a good way to transition an existing relationship into a more meaningful one.You can try to turn the acquaintance into a friend by inviting them out for coffee or for dinner one on one where you can get to know each other on a deeper level. During the meeting, you should ask thoughtful questions and be a good listener to show the person that you can be a good person to get to know and hang out with.

