 Australian cattle dogs are highly intelligent dogs, and they require consistent and strong leadership to be trained. If you do not enforce consistent rules in the household, the dog may misbehave. Obedience classes can help teach you how to keep your cattle dog in line while teaching them basic rules.


For puppies, there are special classes that will instruct them from a young age. No puppy is too young to begin training, although many training schools will require your puppy to have certain vaccinations before they can attend.
For working cattle dogs, lessons with an experienced cattle dog trainer is advised.
Some people find that clicker training works well with cattle dogs., Certain basic commands will help you communicate with your cattle dog. These commands include “sit,” “come,” “lay down, and “stay.” Show your dog the proper behavior, and reward them when they successfully do it. Soon they will associate the word with the command.If you are training a working dog, you may also need to teach them special commands such as “come by,” “away to me,” and “look back.”For cattle dogs, the ability to herd is instinctual, and they may only need commands to make them perform certain actions.
 Cattle dogs are extremely loyal to their families, but they can be shy or aggressive towards strangers. As early as possible, expose your cattle dog to strangers and other animals.


Take your cattle dog on as many car trips as you can. This will let them experience a variety of sights, sounds, smells, and people in a safe environment.Leashed walks can also help your cattle dog grow used to other people and animals.
Once your cattle dog has been exposed to a few other dogs without incident, you can try taking them to a dog park, where they can run and play with other dogs.
While cattle dogs can be very protective and loyal to children in their family, they may not react well to stranger’s children., Australian Cattle Dogs have an instinct to nip livestock as they herd them. In a household, this means that your cattle dog may try to mouth you. While this is natural behavior, you should discourage it.When your cattle dog nips you, say “no” and walk away. Ignore them for a few minutes before returning. They will soon learn that nipping is a bad behavior.


If your dog starts mouthing you, give them a chew toy instead. This will teach them to get their urges out on the toy and not on you.Do not hit or yell at your dog for nipping. By responding aggressively to natural behavior, you are only teaching them to fear you.

