 Google (and especially Google Books) are excellent resources for finding citations. Citations provide evidence that the word is in use and show how it is used.;
,, This will help you write the right definition. Recall these basics:



Noun: A person, place, or thing: Utah, minivan, moon, grocer, January. Nouns can also be ideas, such as "confidence" or "hesitation".

Pronoun: A word that takes the place of a noun. He, she, it, they.

Verb: An action word. Go, jump, harangue, grill, gaze, ponder, hurry.

Adjective: A word that describes, or modifies, a noun. A red hat, a slow train, a precarious ledge.

Adverb: A word that modifies a verb or an adjective. He landed painfully and rose slowly. The train was ridiculously slow.

Conjunction: A word that joins two independent clauses. In English, these include and, or, for, nor, but, yet, and so.

Preposition: This describes the location of something. On, above, under, to, into, at, during, inside.

Interjection: An exclamation, often with no grammatical relation to the rest of the sentence. For example: Wow, hey, yikes, abracadabra, ouch, hmm, oh boy!

, If you wish to be thorough about the grammatical function of this word, further determine whether a noun is countable or uncountable, whether a verb is transitive or intransitive, and so on.
 One good way to go about this is to consider how you would explain this word to a small child or a person who is just beginning to speak the language. Avoid using descriptive words that are more complicated than the word in question, unless you also explain their meaning.
 What other words seem similar? What words are close? What is the difference between this word and other related words? What distinguishes "fragile" from "weak" from "flimsy"?

, Some of these can go into the definition, if they are appropriate.
 While it's perfectly all right to include synonyms in the definition, a definition composed entirely of synonyms may not be as helpful as it could be. Thus, try to be as descriptive as possible.


If the word has a range of meanings, you'll need to address each one separately.
 Compare:


moxie - Gumption; pluck; chutzpah.
moxie - Bold determination; strength or fortitude.
 Phrases such as "This word is used to..." or "Describes a situation in which..." may help to get you started, but edit them out of your final definition.
 Verb definitions will contain many verbs; noun definitions, many nouns.


Most verb definitions will begin with the word "to". For instance, a definition for the verb "pause" might read, "To stop briefly or temporarily; to interrupt a process or activity and later resume it."
Noun definitions may begin with the words "a", "an" or "the".
,