 Another way you can make your teen feel included is to incorporate their interests in your family. When you meet your teen, talk to them about their likes, dislikes, interests, favorite foods, and favorite television program. Make an effort to incorporate their interests just like you do everyone else in the family.


For example, make their favorite foods once a week like you do for everyone else in the family. Set aside a night to watch their favorite television programs as a family, and allow them to choose the movie when it's their turn.
Let your adopted teen have a turn choosing the weekend activities.
Make sure their interests are included into the family. Don't just expect your adopted teen to like and do everything your family does and give up what they like.
 One way you can help your adopted teen start to build a life and feel like they belong is to help them get involved. This may take many different forms. Finding an activity helps them meet people, have a purpose, and pursue their interests. Let them choose the activity, or let them try a few different things if they aren’t sure what they want to do.You may help your teen join a sports team, sign up for dance or karate lessons, or help them volunteer.
 Your adopted teen may want to learn independence and demonstrate mutual trust between the two of you by getting a job. This job may be a way for them to earn extra spending money or to have some structured time to themselves.Encourage your child to look for jobs in places they think they’d like to work. If possible, they can find jobs that align with their interests, like at farms or animal clinics.
Discuss transportation to the job. If your teen has a car, they can drive themselves. If they are going to borrow your car, lay down rules about using your car, such as putting gas in it and letting you know where they are taking it.
 Setting goals and making decisions are important skills for teenagers to develop. An adopted teen should feel that they can make their own decisions, while being encouraged to set goals and accomplish tasks. Help them come up with goals, but let them have the final say for the goals and make the decisions. Don’t make the goals for them.For example, suggest that your teen make goals in different categories, such as school, personal interests, and social life. Your teen may then set a goal to do better on their next history test, try a new activity each month, and spend more time with their new friends.
 When your adopted teen comes home, have a room ready for them. However, let the teen decorate it themselves. This will help them feel like the room is theirs and that they have a place that is their own now.Encourage them to choose the paint color, the bedding, and the decorations. If you can afford it, you can allow them to pick out their own furniture.
If you have to give your teen a price limit, that is okay. They can still have control over their room without spending too much money. You may say, “You can decorate however you want, but I only have this much to spend.”

