 Butter lettuce is a great choice for a breadless sandwich and requires little preparation. Choose a piece that doesn’t have too many holes, give it a rinse and then dry it in a salad spinner or with a clean towel. Throw your sandwich ingredients in the middle and then wrap it up., You can get green swiss chard or a rainbow swiss chard, which will add beautiful colors like yellow, orange and pink to your sandwich. Show off your healthy sandwich by choosing rainbow swiss chard. It also tastes great and, like lettuce, can be used raw. Throw your ingredients inside, wrap and enjoy., If you choose a sturdy green such as collards, kale or cabbage, it is best to blanch it first. Throw it in hot water for thirty seconds and then dunk it in cold water. You want to choose a leaf that looks fairly intact and doesn’t have too many holes., The next time you grill up a burger, try using portobello mushrooms instead of the bun. You will boost your fiber and eliminate the simple carbohydrates. Chop off the stems of the portobello mushrooms, wash and then throw them on the grill with your burgers. You will need two mushrooms per burger., If you are trying to cut carbohydrates from your sandwich, try using slices of jicama instead of bread. Jicama tastes like a potato but is slightly sweeter and has more water. Wash and then peel the jicama. Slice it into quarter inch slices and replace each piece of bread with one slice of jicama.If you are making tacos, you could use Jicama instead of the tacos. Instead of slicing the jicama, scoop out the middle and then throw the taco ingredients in the middle., Wash, peel and slice up a cucumber. You should cut the cucumber into quarter inch slices. Replace each piece of bread with one piece of cucumber. Since there is a fairly small surface area, you may need to make a couple cucumber sandwiches for each of the bread sandwiches you had planned to make., Decide which protein you want to use for your breadless sandwich and then prepare it. If you use cooked, shredded chicken breast, you can go right ahead and throw it on your breadless wrap. If you choose a can of tuna or salmon, you will need to drain it and then mix it with a teaspoon of mayonnaise, salt and pepper. Beans will need to be drained, and then can be added directly to the wrap., Remember that most substitutes for bread will absorb less moisture, so you may need to adjust your usual condiment choices. For instance, you may want to avoid condiments with a lot of water content, since they may make a bit of a mess. Choose thicker condiments like tahini, as opposed to watery condiments like greek dressing., You will want to be a bit conservative in terms of the amount of ingredients you throw inside, which should be proportional to the size of the leaf. Start by throwing in your protein. Next, choose a crunchy vegetable or seed such as shredded carrots, slivered almonds, sprouts, cucumber sticks or shredded carrots. Then, you will want something creamy such as yogurt or tahini. Finally, throw in something to boost the flavor a bit such as mustard or hot sauce. Finally, roll up the wrap like you would a burrito. Roll it horizontally, moving away from you.