 If adults can choke on rib bones, the danger is even greater for dogs and infants who haven’t learned careful eating conventions yet. It’s much better to save leftovers in the refrigerator than it is to give them to your golden retriever., This is a good practice after you eat in any case, but it’s especially good if you have just been eating food covered in sugary sauce! Excuse yourself to the kitchen or bathroom, then thoroughly wash your hands.Wet your hands with warm water.
Add soap. This can be bar, powder, or liquid soap. It doesn’t need to be antibacterial, but it does need to be plentiful enough that you can see multiple bubbles.
Massage the soap around for twenty seconds, or the time it takes to sing “Happy Birthday” twice. Get the fronts and backs of your hands, between your fingers, and under your nails.
Rinse thoroughly with warm water.
 If you’re in the bathroom already, make use of the mirror. Are there smudges of barbeque sauce along your cheeks, like contoured makeup gone terribly wrong? Do your teeth look like you’re the star of a documentary about Tasmanian devils? Clean yourself up with water and toilet paper, and dental floss if you need it., If you’ve accidentally gotten sauce on upholstery or clothing, it’s best to get it off now, before it sets. A detergent pen is one of the best ways to do this, but if you don’t, dab (don’t rub) the stained side of the fabric with a wet cloth. If it’s possible, hold a dry cloth on the other side of the fabric to absorb the sauce., If you’re eating off china plates at your own or a friend’s house, make sure they get to the kitchen as soon as possible after the meal! This will keep the sauce from congealing, which makes it more difficult to get off. Obviously, it’s much easier to get rid of paper plates--do this in a timely fashion as well, as scraps of meat can start to smell quickly., Ribs are a glorious gift to be treasured. Whether you ate at a friend’s house or in a restaurant, thanking the chef is an excellent thing to do. Say something enthusiastic and sincere, like “Thank you for the ribs, and your company! They were the highlight of my week.”