 This includes cedar, pine, red oak, redwood and mahogany. Tannin is an acidic compound found in plants, including trees.


Woods that are harder and darker have more tannin. Soaking dark woods in water or weathering them will leach the tannins from the surface, lightening the surface of the wood.;
, Unless your project requires extremely uniform look, you can search for cast-off wood that is cheaper. The aging process will make beauty of the wood’s imperfections.


If you want to use wood that is pristine, you can beat it up with tools, such as a bag of screws or hammer. Hit it repeatedly or drag the sharp ends across the wood’s surface. , The baking soda aging method will work best on untreated wood or, at least, wood that has not yet been varnished.
 For wood that has been previously painted once, you may be able to sand off the top layer. For wood that has been painted more than once, you may want to try a chemical stripper.


Wear safety goggles, long-sleeved work clothes and gloves when you use a sander or chemical stripper.
Work in a ventilated area, such as an open shop or garage.
The care you take with the stripping or sanding the wood should depend upon the look you want to achieve. If you want your project to look older and more distressed, you can leave some paint on portions of the wood.
 Exposing the wood to direct sunlight during the aging process will speed up the leaching process.
 Try to expose the entire top surface of the wood, including the sides, if you want them exposed. You can always repeat the process on the other side of the wood.
 The amount you mix will depend upon the size of your project. You will want to liberally apply it to your wood.
 Make sure it is covered with a thick layer of baking soda and water.
 If possible, let it sit for 6 hours, so that it has a chance to leach the tannins from the wood.


If you do not have access to direct sunlight or 6 hours to spare, spray the surface of the wood with vinegar after you have applied the baking soda. Let it sit for 10 minutes.
 Tannins, extra finish and part of the wood may come off with the brush.
 Repeat the process the next day, if there is too much color in the wood.
 Apply it with a paintbrush. Then, keep a wet cloth nearby to remove excess stain. For an even lighter look, you can wet the wood lightly, apply the stain and wipe off a portion of the stain.
 This will give off a light sheen, but it will not be as shiny as varnish. A shiny finish may ruin the distressed look of the wood.
 If you are going to use the wood for a project, you should wait until the project is completed to apply the furniture wax.

