 Gas is commonly produced by the digestion of food, and some foods are worse than others. Beans, onions, cabbage and other cruciferous vegetables, and whole grains are all notorious for producing gas. Avoid these foods or eat them with digestive aids if you are having issues with chronic bloating.Other foods that cause gas include fibrous fruits like apples, peaches, raisins, and apricots, vegetables like garlic, cucumbers, brussel sprouts, and legumes. Foods that don’t tend to produce gas include meat, fish, eggs, poultry, and carbohydrates like rice.Eat probiotic yogurt. Yogurts with active bacterial cultures can ease digestion and reduce the amount of gas you produce. Taking a digestive enzyme like Beano can work similar results.
Eat smaller bites or portion sizes, and avoid sucking on hard candies, drinking through straws, or chewing gum. These activities all lead you swallow air and will increase bloating., Water and other non-carbonated drinks can help to reduce gas and bloating, flushing out the system.Many people find that warm water particularly relieves their symptoms.


Drink slowly to avoid swallowing more air. Also, make sure that your choice of beverage is non-carbonated. Otherwise, you may end up more bloated.
 There are many home remedies that purport to relieve gas and bloating, called “carminatives.” These herbs work by soothing the lining of the digestive system, regulating and coordinating its functions – in other words, helping you to expel gas.Try some of these carminatives to see whether they work for you. For instance, teas made from peppermint, anise, and ginger – all carminatives – are thought to relieve bloating.Foods that contain carminative herbs and spices allspice, clove, juniper, bergamot, sage, thyme, basil, cinnamon, and nutmeg may also relieve symptoms.
You can purchase carminatives at natural health stores or many grocery stores.
 Occasional gas and bloating is natural. However, if you find that your symptoms are persistent, there may be an underlying issue like stress, food intolerances, gastrointestinal disorders, or poorly fitting dentures.Take note of any correlation between your diet and gas. For example, lactose intolerance, the inability to digest milk products, can cause flatulence, bloating, and abdominal cramps.Talk to a doctor if you are frequently uncomfortable and cannot determine the cause.

