 Often we might complain that no one seems to be there for us, but we don’t actually make requests of loved ones. If you are guilty of wishing friends or family would reach out to you, but never taking the initiative, it’s time to change that. Don’t expect others to read your mind. If you want company, ask for it. If you need a hug, tell someone.


You can simply say to a friend, “Jessica, I’ve been feeling very lonely and unloved lately. Can we make plans together this weekend to hang out? I could use some company?”, If you are always pointing out the differences between yourself and others, then you are making it hard to belong. When you stop paying attention to differences and focus on common ground, you will find more people with whom you can potentially connect.Find your tribe by challenging yourself to get out more. Join a book club based on your favorite genre. Participate in a local Meetup of singles in your age group. Take a Pilates class at your community gym.
When you enter these social situations look for similarities between you and others. Then, point them out to start conversations. You might say, “Ooh, I love your gym bag! It matches my leggings! Where’d you get it?”

, Empathy is basically the ability to experience what another person is experiencing, or walking in their shoes. When you are able to adequately understand the feelings and perspectives of others, you will feel more connected to the larger whole of humanity.Instead of simply focusing on feeling unloved, strive to show more love and compassion to others through empathy. Start by improving your listening skills. Too frequently, we listen to reply rather than understand.
When you are engaged in a conversation, orient towards the other person and make occasional eye contact. Eliminate distractions and fully focus on the other person’s message. Try to imagine what they must be feeling based on their words.
Mirror their emotional state by saying “Hmmm” or “Aww” as is appropriate. Then, summarize what you heard by saying “It sounds like you had a really rough time…” After attending to their emotions and clarifying that you received the intended message, you may share your own response.
 There is no better way to feel a part of the bigger picture than when you are lending a helping hand to those in need. In addition to allowing you to gain a sense of belonging, volunteering also gives you the chance to make a difference in your community. Community service also lifts your mood, helps you forge connections with others, and helps you spend your time in a meaningful way.Overcome your feelings of rejection and being unloved by spreading love to others. Sign up at a local civic center, church, nursing home, or school to help those in need.

