 You won't find your ideal tone until you know what all the options are! Furthermore, the meaning of a "good" flute tone depends on the music you're playing, and skilled musicians know how to vary their tone color (rich, bright, mellow, sweet, intense, haunting, etc.) to suit the mood they want to create. To practice this, pick a note you can play comfortably, hold it, and explore the following movements. As you play, notice how the sound changes, whether it seems more or less pleasing, and what types of musical moods it might evoke. Over time you can learn to pick the tone color you want and immediately find the position of your lips, jaw and body to produce it.

Move the end of your flute higher and lower. This changes the angle of the air across the embouchure hole. Many flutists let their right arm drop too far for optimal tone and this exercise will show you if you're one of them.
Move the end of your flute forward and backward. This also changes the angle of the air stream. Listen for the place where it sounds the most focused.
Tilt your head left, right, forward and back. Feel what's most comfortable and sounds clearest.
Roll the mouthpiece in and out. This changes how much air enters the flute and also affects pitch (whether you're flat, sharp, or just right).
Direct your airstream higher or lower by moving your jaw forward and back. This affect can be similar to rolling the mouthpiece in or out.
Make the muscles in your lips, cheeks and jaw more relaxed and less relaxed.
 You may be surprised. The acoustics of our own bodies and the space around them mean that your tone will sound different when heard by you as you play, someone standing a few feet away, and someone sitting in the back of a large concert hall. There are professional flutists with very bold tones that can border on abrasive if you're standing next to them, but they carry beautifully during a solo in a large hall.

Conversely, a delicate, sweet tone that sounds lovely to the player's own ears may seem weak and uninteresting from across the room. It can be very helpful to record yourself from various distances to understand how you'll sound to others. Of course, unless you have high quality recording equipment this doesn't work perfectly, but even a video on your smartphone is better than nothing.
 As many music teachers like to say, "Practice doesn't make perfect. Perfect practice makes perfect." Unless you spend a lot of time trying to play with good tone, you won't reliably develop it. One way to do this is to spend part of every practice session on long tones. This is often done as part of your warm-up. Moyse's "de la Sonorité" book is a classic resource for this, but you can also find many online resources describing long tone practice techniques.

Use vibrato on longer notes. Vibrato is a technique in which the player pitch bends very fast. Act like you are whispering "ha, ha, ha" and try to play a note.It might sound unnatural at first, so practice until it is natural and even. Vibrato is a good technique that will create interest on longer notes and mask tuning inconsistencies as well. The speed of the vibrato depends upon the effect a flutist is trying to achieve; a faster vibrato often portrays a more intense feeling, while a slower vibrato is more soothing.
 As you become more familiar with lower and higher notes on the flute, your tone will improve on them as well. Don't just assume that time will solve everything however. It takes practice too!, They all play with reasonably good tone or they would not have made it as professionals, but you may also notice you like some better than others. Think about what characterizes the tones you like the best, and experiment with trying to imitate them as you play.