 Filing your nails in a back and forth motion can create tiny tears in the nail and this may lead to breakage. To prevent this from happening, make sure that you file your nails in one direction only.Apply gentle pressure to your nail with the file. Then, move the file in one direction. After you reach the end of the file, take the file away from your nail and return it to the starting point.;
, Cutting your cuticles can introduce bacteria into your nail beds. These bacteria can cause an infection in your nails.This may irritate your nails and even lead to nail loss.


Instead of cutting your cuticles, try pushing them back with an orange tipped cuticle stick. Apply some cuticle oil to soften them first and then use the tip of the orange tipped cuticle stick to gently push back your cuticles.
Soaking your cuticles in a little warm water will also help to soften them and keep them healthy.
 Part of the reason why mails break is because people use them to do things that they are not suited for, such as opening cans of soda. To prevent breakage, avoid using your nails as tools. Use the right tool for the job instead.For example, if you are trying to open a package, don’t use your nails to peel off the tape. Get a pair of scissors and use them to cut open the package instead.
It is also a good idea to wear vinyl or latex gloves whenever you wash dishes, clean, or do other things that might expose your nails to water and chemicals., In some cases, the best way to rehab your nails is to let them breathe for a while. Try going without any nail polish or other products on your nails for a few weeks (or months, depending on how damaged your nails are).This will give your nails a chance to repair themselves.


While you are letting your nails breathe, you can buff and file your nails to keep them looking neat and clean.
Try rubbing a drop of olive oil into each of your nails for a natural shine.
 Rounded edges are less likely to break than square edges, so try to maintain a rounded edge while you are growing out your nails.To create rounded edges, file your nails with a curving motion, as if you are tracing a half-circle around the tip of your nail. Keep filing in this manner until you have rounded out the tips of your nails.

