 A good training plan will indicate exactly how you will accomplish your goals. You should indicate how long training will last, how many sessions will occur, and what will happen during each session. Make sure that the steps align with your specific and broad objectives.Create a training topic outline. When conducting training on productivity software, for example, your topics may include creating files, formatting text, copying and pasting text and saving files.Break down the topics into specific titles. For example, formatting text might be divided up into 3 separate lessons: formatting fonts, paragraphs and tables.
 Include in your training plan a list of lessons complete with lesson objectives, specific activities and assessment plans, which may include pre- and post-tests, class discussions, or group activities. Figure out the length of each lesson. Determine whether you will need additional materials or resources for the individual lessons.Determine the best training modality. You might deliver the training via online files, video conferencing, in person instruction or audio files. Choose the method based on the objective. For example, software navigation may be best taught in person or via video, whereas delivering information about safety procedures may be adequately communicated through web-based files.
Engage participants to engage in the training activity. Puzzles, problem-solving exercises, questions, and writing activities are ways to keep trainees focused on tasks.
Participation can help the trainees more effectively absorb the material.
Accommodate a variety of learning styles. Watching video demonstrations, listening to audio and participating in hands-on exercises are ways to diversity activities.
 In your plan, offer specifics about all of the methods you will use in training. For example, if you plan to use a variety of modalities, such as Skype and in-person sessions, make that clear from the outset. It is also useful to explain your objectives for using a variety of methods.For instance, explain that you will use one-on-one training for detail-oriented tasks. Some tasks are best learned by observing and actively doing them across a substantial period of time. In this case, one-on-one training delivered in the form of shadowing an experienced person might be best.
You could also note that you will train people in small groups for tasks requiring interaction. Teaching customer service skills, for example, may be done in small groups using role-play and problem-solving activities.
Utilize large group training for overviews. Delivery of information and overviews can be done in large groups. Break the large group into smaller groups, if necessary.
 To master new skills, trainees might need to meet 1 hour each day for several weeks. If they must be trained by a certain date, include these requirements in your training plan. Indicate whether current employees will need to add this to their additional duties, or if she will need to ask a coworker to help cover responsibilities while she is training.


Establish a timeline for making all preparations. For example, you might hire a trainer a month in advance, book a meeting space 2 weeks in advance and inform all trainees of the training location and requirements several weeks in advance.
 Your training plan should be a comprehensive document that will make it simple for others to follow your instructions. Therefore, you should indicate exactly how to prepare for training sessions. Be as specific as possible, so that other trainers will have a clear idea of how to accomplish the goals.Include a list of resources in the training plan. Trainers may need presentation tools, a computer or chalk. Trainees may need workbooks, training guides, video players or other equipment.
Review the list of resources prior to the training. Consider each step of the training to ensure that all equipment, materials, and tools are accessible and functional.

