 They're usually mild and develop within a few minutes to an hour after consuming soy:Tingling in the mouth






Hives, itching or eczema






Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat, or other parts of the body







Canker sores






Wheezing, runny nose or trouble breathing






Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting






Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting





;
, This is a severe, life-threatening reaction that's more common in people who are asthmatic or have other food allergies (e.g. peanuts). The following symptoms require emergency treatment:Constriction of airways, including a swollen throat, that makes it difficult to breathe






Shock, with a severe drop in blood pressure






Rapid pulse






Dizziness, lightheadedness or loss of consciousness







, In the US, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires manufacturers to list soy as an ingredient in plain terms, but they are not required to state if the product was processed in a facility that also processed soy. Soy is also used in meat products and meat substitutes, baked goods, candies, ice creams and desserts, condiments, and butter substitutes. Additional food items to be careful with are listed in the Tips below. Ingredients to watch out for are:Hydrolyzed vegetable protein (HVP)
Textured vegetable protein (TVP)
Lecithin
Monoglyceride
Monosodium glutamate (MSG)
Guar gum
Vegetable oil
Vitamin E
Natural flavoring
Natural Flavors
Vegetable broth
Vegetable gum
Vegetable starch

, While most often these products are petroleum based, soy-based versions are sold as an alternative to petroleum based products.
 With soy allergies becoming more common, you can connect with others on the Internet and compare notes on which foods have soy and which don't (or how much they do contain). You can also take action as a group in the interest of people with soy allergies, such as encouraging stricter labeling laws.
 If your reaction to soy is mild, you may be able to consume soy products in small quantities with tolerable effects, especially with the help of oral antihistamines.
 No matter how hard you try, there is a chance you'll eat a product with soy in it, so be prepared.

