 It’s never a good idea to take yourself off of medication without consulting your physician first. You may experience unpleasant withdrawal symptoms that can be severe. Call your prescriber immediately if you are uncomfortable taking medications and tell the staff what is going on. You may be able to get an answer over the phone from your doctor as to whether or not you should continue the medication — they may advise you to stop.Say to your physician, “My medication appears to be affecting the way I feel and I want to stop taking it. Here’s what’s going on.”;
, If you feel like new changes in your mood may be related to your medication, schedule an appointment with your prescriber and let them know your concerns. If the symptoms are bothering you, don’t wait it out or hope they will go away. It’s likely that your prescriber can make some changes to help ease the symptoms.


Call your prescriber as soon as possible. If you’re feeling miserable, let them know so that changes can be made.
Say, “I’m noticing some changes to how I feel and wonder if it could be due to my medication. Is this common for this prescription? What can we do?”
Before your appointment, make a list of all the ways in which you think you have changed. This could include the onset of new symptoms or experiencing a sudden absence of something you normally feel or experience.
 Some medications appear to increase thoughts of suicide, such as varenicline (Chantix) and some antidepressants.If your medication makes you feel increasingly suicidal, call your prescriber right away. They will likely discontinue medication and suggest you seek some kind of support.


You can call a suicide hotline (in the USA: 1-800-273-8255; Australia: 13-11-14; UK: 0800 068 41 41).
Call a friend to come help you or call for an ambulance to take you to the emergency department.
You can also call emergency services.
If you are feeling depressed but not suicidal, you might want to tell any family living with you or trusted friends so that they can check in with you on a regular basis.
 Sometimes, depression can make someone feel isolated, alone, or withdrawn from others. Spending time with people you care about is one of the easiest ways to reduce stress and feel better and more balanced in your mood. Spend time with friends and family in person as much as you can. While technology makes texting or emailing easy, you’ll benefit more from seeing someone face-to-face.Have a weekly get-together with friends or family over dinner. Meet your friends for a workout class or for coffee.
You may find that socializing wears you out more quickly when you're depressed. It is okay to rest and have alone time afterward, just make sure that you are socializing regularly and not isolating yourself.
 Exercise is a great way to beat stress, feel energized, and balance your mood. In some studies, exercise is just as effective as medication in treating mild to moderate depression.Schedule your exercise during a part of the day when your energy is highest. This may be first thing in the morning or during your lunch break. If you don’t like going to the gym, focus on other physical activities that you enjoy.


For example, take a morning walk with your dog or start attending karate classes.Don’t be afraid to start small. Even 10 minutes each day is better than nothing.
 Feeling relaxed can help you cope with the symptoms of depression, deal with stress, and increase your feelings of well-being. Spending time relaxing can help you work through stress and help to stabilize your moods.Aim to do a relaxing activity for 30 minutes each day. Watching TV doesn’t count!


Find relaxation methods that feel good to you. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.
 Feeling depressed can make you isolate yourself and withdraw from activities you enjoy. Do something you enjoy or try a new hobby and stick with it, even when you dread leaving the house. Doing something you enjoy can help boost your mood and increase your self-esteem. Creating something (like woodwork or sewing) can bring satisfaction.Try painting, planting a garden, or learning a new language.
If you feel like skipping the activity, try telling yourself you will just go for 20 or 30 minutes and then you can leave if you're still not feeling it. You may find that, once you get over the hump of getting out, you will enjoy yourself and want to stay.
 The foods you put into your body can affect how you feel. Avoid substances such as tobacco, alcohol, caffeine, and sugar, as these can affect your mood. Focus on eating several small meals throughout the day in order to maintain your energy levels. Pay attention to your nutrition to make sure you are eating healthy, balanced meals that contribute to your health, not take away from it.If you struggle with eating healthfully or have dietary restrictions, consider working with a dietician to help you eat better.
 The more you can tell your physician about the changes in your mood, the better they can pinpoint and address the symptoms related to your medication. Tell your prescriber about any changes that have affected your mood, sleeping, or thoughts since taking the medications. Talk about how the symptoms came on, whether gradually or suddenly. Keep a record of any changes in your mood throughout the day and how they may be related to medication.Generally, drug-induced depression means that symptoms begin to occur within a month of starting or stopping medication.
Recognize the symptoms of depression such as feelings of sadness or hopelessness; loss of interest in normal activities (sex, work, hobbies, sports, etc.); sleeping too much or too little; changes in appetite; unexplained physical problems (backache, headache, etc.); feelings of anger or frustration, even over small things; or difficulty concentrating, thinking, or making decisions.Remember to tell your physician about any supplements or over-the-counter medications you are also taking, as these can interact with your prescriptions. Also be sure to mention any major life changes or stressors as these may contribute to your depression.
 If you’re having problems with one medication and another is available, your prescriber may recommend a different medication.This is often the easiest solution if it’s available. If the new medication is as effective as your current medication yet does not carry a risk of depression as a side-effect, your physician may recommend this as the first response to treatment.


Ask your prescriber what options are available to you and what carries the smallest risk of depression as a side-effect.
You may be able to switch medications right away or slowly over time. Talk with your physician about how to transition safely.
 Sometimes, symptoms of depression may go away once your prescriber lowers your dosage. If you’ve noticed changes in your mood alongside changes in your medication dosage, ask your prescriber for a different dosage.This can be a balancing act of attaining an effective dosage of one medication yet experiencing the least amount of side-effects.
 If you cannot take a different dosage or medication, your prescriber may treat the depression with another medication.Especially if medication has worsened an already existing diagnosis of depression, starting medication for depression may help ease symptoms.People with a history of depression may have worsening symptoms with certain medications. For this reason, starting antidepressant medication may be beneficial.
 If you’re feeling increasingly depressed without any sense of relief, therapy can help you learn to cope better and more effectively. Ongoing symptoms of depression can interfere with your life and therapy can help you cope with the serious side-effects you experience. Many people experience symptoms of depression and therapy can be a great way to learn skills and effectively cope with these symptoms.Especially if your depression is pre-existing and worsening after medication, therapy can be a great help.


Stressors may feel even more stressful if you’re depressed. A therapist can help you work through your thoughts and feelings and find more adaptive ways to approach stressful situations.
Call your local mental health clinic or insurance provider for a referral. You can also ask for a recommendation from your general practitioner, family, or friends.

