 This section details each question.;
, According to car experts, considering what you like and dislike can help to narrow down your choices. For instance, if you like sports car, then look for sports car. There’s no need to waste your time and energy searching for SUV’s, etc.
 in the car. If you like a sports car but this sports car will not fit your needs, scratch the sports car. If you are planning on building a big family, opt for bigger cars unless of course if you have the money to afford to buy many cars, then it would be fine.


If you are a construction worker and need space to transport logs and huge pieces of wood and stuff, then a pickup truck will be right for you.
 This is especially important for those who have a big family who have kids with them on car seats. More space is needed if you are carrying your whole family with you so a car with more space inside is preferable.


If only you are going to drive that car, and you are not going to transport more than one person somewhere, a two-seater should be fine. Consider, however, that a smallish back seat adds little or nothing to the cost and fuel consumption of the car, allows the passenger seat to recline more, and greatly increases cargo capacity (sometimes with the seats dropping and connecting to the trunk). A two-seater is more for extreme compactness, style and handling than lack of need of a rear seat.
If you usually transport 3-4 people but don't need that much trunk space, a compact to mid-size should be fine.
If you usually transport around 4 people and need lots of trunk space, then you should get a full-size sedan, a minivan, or an SUV. A minivan is roomiest of these and more efficient than the SUV; some have a stretched nose to look less minivan like. A full-size sedan is most comfortable, particularly a factory-stretched long-wheelbase version such as a Lincoln Town Car Executive L or Signature L, and often designed for strenuous limousine service. An SUV often has four wheel drive and is good, at low speed, for poor road conditions.
If you have a large family and/or regularly transport about 5-6 people, get a van or minivan. A minivan can be safer in that it has a low center of gravity almost like a car.
 Before going to the showrooms for test drives and car checks, have a primary budget in mind. This will help you to remain reasonable about the choices and not give in to a car you really cannot afford. If you're on a Suzuki or Hyundai budget, it'll help you not to tiptoe toward an Audi or Mercedes.
 If you need a fuel-efficient car, a hybrid will be right for you. You'll want to consider however whether it is worth it or not. If you have a commute longer than thirty miles to work daily, or if you spend a great deal of a short commute in traffic every morning, then hybrids are a great option versus economy sized four cylinder cars. Extra cylinders and displacement greatly decrease fuel economy overall, and extra frontal area greatly decreases fuel economy at speed. A long, low car such as a big sedan or wagon with a relatively small, cheap engine can be stylish, comfortable and safe.


For a personal, urban car, petrol or gas is best over diesel.
 This can be directed by your budget and also your common sense. In some cases, used cars offer better value but they do require careful checking by an expert, especially to certify that the car hasn't experienced an accident, or has been properly repaired if it has been in one.
 Checking a relevant local car review website (or several) will give you the lowdown on the features, appearance, performance stats and other vital information. You'll be able to see what other people and experts have been thinking about the cars in question and also see what potential issues there might be.


Reviews from owners are more realistic and honest than those from the salesroom are likely to be. You'll learn the disadvantages as much as the advantages.
 If the car has only just been released, avoid being an early adopter. Wait for a few months or so to see what happens to its on-road value and to read reviews from the owners.
 Add in the information gleaned from the website searches too. You will be able to see, at a glance, what the benefits and drawbacks of each car type is.
 They'll have their own ideas and preferences to take into account too, especially if the car is to be shared and driven by more than just you.

