 Dark green leafy vegetables, such as kale and spinach, actually provide more iron per calorie than meats do. If you have a healthy serving of leafy greens at every meal, you typically can get sufficient iron from non-meat sources.A spinach or kale salad is a good way to incorporate these iron-rich vegetables into each meal.
You also might consider mixing them with other vegetables for variety, or munch on spinach or kale chips as an iron-rich snack between meals.;
, Many of the non-meat sources of iron also are sources of protein. If you're getting enough protein in your vegetarian or vegan diet, you're likely also getting enough iron.Peas and broccoli are two vegetables that are rich in both protein and iron.
Apart from vegetables, beans, nuts, seeds, and grains also are high in both protein and iron.
Don't just think in terms of what you eat. Drinking a glass of soy milk with every meal also gives you an additional boost of protein and iron.
Have a handful of almonds as a snack, or mix almonds and dried fruit into a morning bowl of oatmeal.
 Many breakfast cereals and oatmeals have iron added. This can be a way to get additional iron into your diet, particularly if you don't find the idea of leafy vegetables at breakfast very appealing.If you're following a vegan or gluten-free diet, read the labels carefully to make sure there aren't ingredients in the cereal or oatmeal you buy that might conflict with your dietary restrictions.
Use soy milk if you aren't consuming dairy products, which will provide an additional boost of protein and iron.
 Soy is one of the best substitutes for meat, as it includes many of the same nutrients that you would otherwise get from meat and poultry. Many soy products even can be made to taste something like meat depending on the seasonings used.You'll find many soy-based food products, such as soy burgers, that are designed to mimic common meat preparations.
Because soy is so versatile, it can be relatively easy to incorporate it into every meal. This can help ensure that you're getting the protein and iron that your body needs despite a vegan or vegetarian diet.
 You typically need to eat more fruits and vegetables to get the requisite amounts of iron and protein than if you were eating meat. Include a variety of fruits and vegetables with every meal.It may be better for you to eat a smaller meal every two or three hours than to have three larger meals each day. This makes it easier for you to include enough variety and make sure you're getting enough nutrients and that they're being absorbed properly.
A single portion of any fruit or vegetable is 80 grams (roughly 3 ounces) – about the same amount as would fit in your palm.
Keep in mind that fruits and vegetables also are good sources of fiber, which will improve your digestion.
 For foods with nutritional labels or even those without, you might consider looking up the iron content of what you eat to ensure that you are getting enough iron. For example:


One cup of cooked lentils has 36% of your daily iron intake.
Broccoli has 3% of your iron intake per cup.
Peas have 11% of your iron intake per cup.
Soy milk has 8% of your iron intake per cup.
One eggs has 3% of your iron intake.
 For best results, you should eat your iron-rich foods along with other foods that are rich in Vitamin C.For example, you might have a kale or spinach salad that includes almonds and orange slices.
A fruit smoothie made with fresh fruits and soy milk also is a good way to combine Vitamin C and iron.
Keep in mind that you also can take a Vitamin C supplement to enhance your body's absorption of iron from your food. Unlike iron supplements, there are very few risks associated with Vitamin C supplements.
 Potatoes and grains are good sources of iron, and also are a good source of other nutrients important to iron absorption. The starches and healthy carbohydrates will keep you full and give you steady energy throughout the day.Typically you want starches to make up 50% of your diet. You can easily accomplish this by including a slice of whole-wheat toast with your breakfast, and whole wheat pasta, potatoes, or beans with other meals.
If you're on a gluten-free diet, be sure to check labels and make sure the grains you're getting meet your dietary restrictions. Oats typically are gluten-free and will provide the starches and carbs you need.

