 Soak a clean, soft rag with hydrogen peroxide. Wring excess peroxide out of the rag over your sink. Position the rag so its peroxide dampened parts directly touch and cover the stain. Keep the rag on the stain for several hours or overnight.Avoid using this technique if your marble is dark colored. Hydrogen peroxide on dark colors can lead to lightening.Less serious stains may only need 15 minutes to a half hour of time before the stain can be wiped away. Check less serious stains at regular intervals for this reason.
If, at a glance, you can tell the stain you are working on will require heavy-duty techniques, you may want to skip the peroxide treatment and move straight to mixing a heavy-duty cleaning solution.
 Fill a cup or small bucket with cold water. Pour water onto the treated area of the marble. Use a clean, dry, soft cloth to wipe up standing water and any dirtiness.


Heavy-duty stains may remain after cleaning the surface with peroxide, in which case you’ll need to mix a heavy-duty cleaning solution., In a medium sized bucket, combine ¼ cup (59 ml) baking soda, ¼ cup vinegar, ½ cup (118 ml) ammonia, and 8 cups (1.9 L) of hot water. Agitate the mixture with a kitchen implement, like a spoon, until the ingredients are consistently blended. The mixture will foam slightly.Although this cleaning solution is made with household products, it can be harsh on your skin. Wear gloves when using this solution to prevent dry skin and irritation.
 Douse your rag in the heavy-duty cleaning solution. Wring out excess solution over the sink, then lay the saturated rag on the stains. Wait roughly five minutes for the stain fighting action of the solution to go to work, then wipe away remaining liquid with a clean, dry, soft rag.


Some stubborn stains might require a longer soak time. However, soaking your marble too long in this solution may be harmful to its finish., Rinse the cleaned area with cold water in the same fashion as previously described. Wipe up water remaining on your marble and any dirtiness with a clean, dry, soft rag. Your cultured marble should now be clean.