 In a small glass bowl, combine the tonkatsu sauce, Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, and mirin. Whisk for 30 to 60 seconds, or until evenly combined.Set the sauce aside once you finish mixing it. If you plan on preparing the rest of the yakisoba immediately, it should hold at room temperature.
Alternatively, you can save time by using commercially prepared yakisoba sauce instead of making your own. When using commercially prepared sauce, you may need anywhere between 8 and 12 Tbsp (120 and 180 ml) total.;
, Cut the onion, carrot, cabbage, and green onion into small, bite-size pieces.


Slice the onion into long strips and the carrot into julienned strips. The green onion should be chopped into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) pieces, and the cabbage should be chopped into 2 inch (5 cm) squares.
The vegetables used in this recipe are among the most commonly used for yakisoba, but many yakisoba recipes also include other vegetables. As you get more comfortable making the dish, consider adding some other vegetables to your own version, too. Good options worth considering may include red bell pepper, green bell pepper, zucchini, broccoli, snap peas, baby corn, bean sprouts, and water chestnuts., Cut the pork or chicken into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces.


If using pork, the meat should be thinly sliced before cutting it into 1 inch (2.5 cm) lengthwise pieces.
If using chicken, cut each chicken breast into 1 inch (2.5 cm) cubes.
Pork and chicken are the most common meats used in yakisoba, but you can experiment with other options, as well. Thinly sliced steak is fairly popular, as is chopped shrimp. Treat these other meats the same way you would treat pork or chicken in this recipe.
 Pour the vegetable oil into a large wok and heat it on the stove over medium-high.


Allow the oil to heat up for 30 to 60 seconds before adding any of the ingredients to it. The oil should be hot enough to easily glide over the surface of the wok.
If you don't have a wok, use a large, heavy-bottomed skillet with relatively low sides.
 Add the pork or chicken to the hot oil in the wok. Cook at medium-high, stirring frequently, until you can no longer see any visible pink from any side.Depending on the thickness of the meat, expect to spend 4 to 7 minutes browning it.
Don't worry about checking the inside of the meat. It will continue to cook as you add the remaining ingredients, so as long as you brown all sides during this step, it should be safely and thoroughly cooked by the end of the recipe.
 Add the sliced onion to the meat and oil. Fry over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until the onion softens and wilts.


Note that if you choose to use any other hard vegetables, you should add them to the wok when you add the onion. Other hard vegetables you may end up using include broccoli, baby corn, and water chestnuts.
Generally, you'll need to cook the onion and any other hard vegetable for 1 to 2 minutes during this step. These vegetables only need to start wilting at this point in the recipe. If you allow the onions to become translucent now, they might become too soggy or brown by the end of the cooking process.
 Add the carrot, cabbage, and green onion to the wok with the onion and meat. Continue cooking and stirring the contents of the pan over medium-high heat until these vegetables soften.


Any other soft vegetables you decide to use should be added at this time, as well. Other soft vegetables you may end up using include sliced or chopped bell pepper, diced zucchini, snap peas, and bean sprouts.
You'll need to cook these vegetables for roughly 3 to 4 minutes during this step. Aside from getting soft and wilted, these vegetables should also begin release water.
 Sprinkle ground black pepper over the meat and vegetable mixture in the wok. Drizzle with 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of your prepared yakisoba sauce, as well.


Toss the contents of the pan lightly to help distribute the pepper and sauce.
 Place the yakisoba noodles in a colander and hold them under hot running water for 15 to 30 seconds.


Running the noodles under hot water should help separate any that were stuck together in the package. If the water alone does not separate the noodles, gently separate them with your fingers.
Note that most yakisoba noodles are actually chukamen noodles, a type of Chinese-style egg noodle. These noodles should not be confused with standard soba noodles, which are made from buckwheat flour.
If you do not have yakisoba noodles, you could technically make this dish with standard dried spaghetti. Boil the spaghetti according to package directions until it is "al dente." Do this immediately before cooking the rest of the yakisoba ingredients, then add the noodles to the wok and treat as yakisoba noodles from that point on.
 Lower the heat to medium, then add the noodles to the meat and vegetable mixture currently in the wok.


Do not dump the entire pile of noodles directly into the pan. Instead, use your hands or tongs to grab small portions of the noodles and add them to the pan a little at a time. Continue until all the noodles have been added.
 Stir the noodles into the rest of the yakisoba mixture. Work continuously to prevent the noodles from burning and sticking to the bottom of the wok.


The yakisoba noodles should already be soft when you add them to the wok, so they should cook quickly. Essentially, they only need to remain in the pan for a total of 3 to 4 minutes at most, or until they are heated throughout., Pour the remaining yakisoba sauce over the contents of the wok. Using tongs, toss the ingredients to distribute the sauce evenly.


You may wish to add more or less sauce depending on the number of ingredients you end up using. Ideally, the sauce should coat all of the ingredients without much (if any) excess puddling beneath them.
 Divide the yakisoba, transferring it to individual serving plates. Sprinkle the dried green seaweed powder and red pickled ginger over each serving of yakisoba.


Add only as much of each garnish as you would prefer according to your own tastes. If you aren't familiar with either garnish, start with small amounts. More can be added later if you realize you would prefer a stronger flavor.
 The yakisoba is now ready to eat. You should enjoy it while it is still hot for the best flavor and texture.

