 Since tinnitus may trouble your sleep, you certainly don't want to have more troubling things or thoughts on your mind.;
, This could be anything or anyone as long as you enjoy thinking about it or them. Create a story and consider visualizing it all, because that will definitely help you focus even more. See it or them as important as it is to breathe. And remember, it can be anything.
 Rule number one for those with tinnitus is to not start The Loop. The Loop is a vicious circle that works with the following two mechanisms:


1. The more attention you give to your tinnitus, the louder it gets. (What happens is, you are telling your brain “This sound is important/threatening, I need to hear it more clearly”.)
2. The louder your tinnitus is, the more it attracts your attention, which in turn makes it even louder, and so on.
If you start thinking about your tinnitus you should immediately focus on something else, or else you start the loop and make your tinnitus louder.
 At this point you must do whatever it takes to focus on something else. Read a book, watch a movie, do anything that keeps you from staying inside The Loop.


Keep telling yourself: "If I let myself focus on my tinnitus, it will just get louder and even harder to ignore." The Loop is something you should always keep in mind not to start.
The Loop will be significantly worse if you are in a silent room (like when you go to sleep) so it's even more important not to start the Loop then.
 Noise masking means having another noise like any type of white noise or something like a fan, a TV, or a white noise website to cover up your tinnitus.


Online, you can find a bunch of customizable noise generators for sounds such as wind, a waterfall, fire, rain, static, slow ocean waves, and a ton of other generators. These are made for noise masking, and the best part about them is all the customization you have available to create for each noise (and you can even save them!).
 Ignore any irrelevant images or thoughts that appear in your mind, as those will only make you lose your focus. Same thing goes for The Loop if you happen to start thinking about your tinnitus.

