 While you probably can't change your vision with diet alone, you can make sure your eyes have all the nutrients they need. Try to incorporate these foods into your meals:Leafy greens (such as kale, chard, collards and spinach) are great, as well as carrots.
Omega-3 fatty acids (found in fish like salmon and tuna) are great for your body.
Citrus fruits and juices (such as oranges, lemons, limes and grapefruit) are also good for your body.
Non-meat protein sources (like bananas, beans and nuts).
A vitamin supplement that contains omega-3 fatty acids, lutein, zinc, and vitamins C and E.
 Smoking can lead to macular degeneration later in life, as well as cataractsFind a support group to help you quit, or enlist the help of a psychiatrist who applies medical treatments to addiction.
 Like smoking, too much exposure to ultraviolet light can lead to macular degeneration and cataracts.


Make sure your sunglasses block UVA and UVB rays.
Wrap-around glasses are ideal, since they'll block light from the sides of your eyes as well as the front.
Try to wear sunglasses whenever you venture outside.
 Like any other muscle, the muscles around your eyes can start to feel fatigued and painful if you strain them too much. Try these tricks to cut back on visual fatigue:


Practice the "20-20-20" trick. If your work involves staring at a screen for long periods of time, take a break every 20 minutes, and focus on a point 20 feet (6.1 m) away for at least 20 seconds.
Turn down brightness. If you're looking at a computer or television screen, turn down the brightness to the lowest possible level. You should still be able to see, but you shouldn't feel like you're staring at a bright light.
Make text bigger. If you're reading on a computer, use your program's zoom function to make the text larger. Or, if reading small print in books is a problem, invest in a reading magnifying glass or buy larger-print editions.
Do not forget to blink. We tend to blink very less while using computers/laptops. That induces dryness on the surface of the eye which sometimes causes irritation and burning sensation. The normal blink rate is around 12-15 times/minutes. We should try to maintain that while working on the laptops.

