 To sell a product, you must be able to feel what your customer feels and then adjust your sales strategy. While you may enter an interaction with a specific sales pitch, you must adjust your pitch if a customer is not responding as you hoped.Pay attention to your customer’s body language and facial expressions. If the customer is folding their arms, not making eye contact, or fidgeting a lot, you may need to try a different approach.


When you show empathy, acknowledge whatever concern the customer has and let them know that you are on their side.For example, if a customer is saying that your product is too expensive, you may say, “I understand that. I know that price is an important factor, and you are looking for the best value that suits your needs.”

, Do not blame other people when you are unable to make a sale or meet your numbers. If you have made a mistake, take responsibility and come up with a solution to the problem that you face. Also be open to any criticism or suggestions you receive about your work.For example, you should never say, “It’s not my fault that people aren’t interested in the product.” Instead have the attitude that says, “Why aren’t people interested? What can I do to change my approach?”, As a salesperson, you will get turned down a lot. Think of rejection as just part of your job. Remember that the customer is not rejecting you as a person, but the product that you are selling.Think of rejection as an opportunity to try out a new strategy or go back to the drawing board.
Use your failures as a learning tool. Keep a written record of your sales approach and the associated outcome. This will help you figure out which strategies work best.
 Most successful sales people have an ego. They strive to be the best at what they do and are self-motivated. Set performance goals for yourself and do whatever it takes to meet them.For example, a goal may be to speak with 5 new customers a day or make a new sale once a week.
If you work on a sales team, try to be the top performer. If someone is doing better than you, try to step your game up.
Being competitive is good, but do not sabotage your coworkers or lie to customers to get the job done.

