 When your silk plants have accumulated small amounts of dust and dirt, rely on traditional dusting methods to efficiently clean and revive your faux foliage. There are several dusting methods to choose from:


Run over the leaves, flowers, stems, and pot with a feather duster.
Attach a cleaning brush to your vacuum and suck up the dirt, dust, and debris.
Remove dust from your plants with a blow dryer set to low heat.
Wipe away grime from your silk plants with a dry microfiber cloth., Remove moderate dust accumulation from all the nooks and crannies of your silk plants with a simple, yet effective, salt-cleaning method.


Pour ½ cup salt into a plastic bag—the size of the bag is dependent upon the size of your silk floral arrangement.
Place the silk floral arrangement inside the plastic bag and seal it shut.
Shake the bag vigorously for 1 to 2 minutes. The salt will act as scrubbers, removing dust, dirt, and debris from the surface and hard to reach places. Repeat the process as needed.Open the bag. Turn the silk arrangement upside down with in the bag and shake it once or twice to remove the salt.
Remove the arrangement from the bag and return it to its container.You may substitute cornmeal or rice for salt., When checking for colorfastness, you are trying to determine how resistant the dye in a fabric is to removal.Prior to applying large amounts of water or a cleaning product to your silk flowers, always test an inconspicuous spot to see how it affects the color.


Spray, dab, or wipe a minuscule amount of cleaning product onto an inconspicuous part of the silk flowers and observe the spot for changes. If the color was negatively affected, do not proceed to use the product; If the color did not change, the product is safe to use., When your silk foliage is coated in grime, revive your faux bouquets with various cleaning products. Before applying these products, place your arrangement in a sink or outdoors.


Refresh your faux foliage with a silk flower cleaner, which come in spray and aerosol varieties. Coat the entire arrangement with the silk flower cleaner. Follow the instructions provided on the product.Fill a spray bottle with 50/50 water and white vinegar mixture. Spray the entire arrangement with the water-vinegar mixture—don’t forget to spritz the backside of leaves and petals. Dab the arrangement dry with a clean cloth.You may substitute rubbing alcohol for white vinegar.In a clean 3-gallon bucket, combine 2 gallons of hot water with 1 tablespoon of white flaky soap. Fill a spray bottle with this mixture. Coat the entire arrangement with the water-soap mixture. Dry the arrangement with a clean cloth. If your silk flowers require additional cleaning, you may then apply 1 to 3 coats of non-aerosol silk flower cleaner to your arrangement—allow the silk flowers to dry completely between coats., Easily remove a thick coating of dust from your silk arrangements with cool water and dish soap.


Fill a small basin with cool water—never use hot water, it will melt the glue used to hold the flowers together.
Squirt a small amount of dish soap into the water and mix.
Dip one stem at a time into the cool, soapy water flower first. If necessary, rub the foliage lightly to remove grime.
Remove the stem from the water a blot dry with a clean cloth.
Repeat on the remaining stems.
Once clean and dry, rearrange the flowers and return them to their container.