 Altering your personality to gain the approval of a girl can work in the short-term, but eventually she will find out who you truly are. In the meantime, you’ll feel fake and unhappy. Know who you are. Own up to your thoughts and feelings in life. This makes you appear genuine and certain of yourself, which is appealing to girls.Avoid becoming overly generous or aggressive in an attempt to win her over.Put less attention into pleasing girls, too. Appreciate your flaws and don’t let them distract you.
If you like yourself and become comfortable with who you are, then you will be more comfortable around other people. And if things don't go well, it won't matter as much. Only you can make yourself happy, and if you like yourself, that's the most important thing.;
, Maintaining proper hygiene makes you look and feel better. Take a shower in the morning. Wash your hair. Put on deodorant and clean clothes before you go outside. It’s better than having to worry about how you smell when you’re around a girl.


You may choose to put a little perfume or cologne on your neck and shoulders. If you do, use it sparingly.
 If possible, go out and find some clothes that are right for you. They don’t have to be expensive, but they should fit well and feel comfortable on you. Clothes that you like wearing make you feel more confident and able to focus on girls instead of your appearance.Try observing those around you for ideas on what’s fashionable, but remember that a good outfit is one that is customized to you.
Ask store employees for feedback. Many can guide you to a proper fit.
 You can have fun with girls doing what they want to do, but remember to take time out for yourself. Go out and continue to do what makes you happy. If it’s watching science fiction and reading comics, do it and don’t be embarrassed. This makes you happier and appear more genuine because you don’t have to feel ashamed of your interests.


You may find yourself getting absorbed in a girl you like. Remember to take a step back some days and give yourself some space.
 Being tense around girls makes them tense too. If you’re looking around trying to figure out what to say or how to escape the situation, you aren’t focusing on the girl. Breathe deeply before approaching and when not speaking. Repeatedly tell yourself that nothing bad will happen. Stay present, focused on the girl instead of an anxious feeling.Most people aren’t out to hurt you, are absorbed in their own lives, and will forget your mistakes., Starting out befriending a girl you’re interested in is a good idea, but if you have feelings for her, don’t hide them. Work towards starting a relationship, paying attention to her. If you hide your feelings, she won’t know how you feel and can feel betrayed or in a bad position when she does find out. Conversely, don’t lead on a girl if you only want to be friends.Remember to respect her boundaries. Don’t push your feelings upon her if she doesn’t return your interest.

