 If you know your child is frustrated or angry, say, “I know you are frustrated, and you want that toy.” You may also say, “I know you are mad,” or “I know you are very angry.” Then show your child an appropriate action to take such as punching a pillow, jumping up and down, ripping up paper, or making an angry face. Choose a behavior that is acceptable for you.If your child is not talking yet, you can teach sign language or gestures for words like “help,” “stop,” “no, “ or “mine.” , A teething toddler may bite to relieve the pain and communicate irritation at the same time. Provide your toddler with something safe to chew on. Cold drinks and topical anaesthetics help with teething pain, too.


Let your child’s caregivers and teachers know that your child is teething.Provide snacks on a regular basis. If your child is biting to signal hunger, offer your child more snacks. Crunchy snacks such as carrots, pretzels, and crackers are ideal for teethers and hungry biters., If your child is biting for attention, do not have a big, emotional reaction. Your reaction signals that biting is successful. Instead, tell your child, “Stop. Do not bite me,” and then act disinterested. Tell your child other ways to get your attention such as:Tapping you on your shoulder
Saying “excuse me,” or “I need you”

, Biting often occurs when toddlers are playing together and do not want to share. Play with your child and show them how to take turns, ask for toys, share toys, and ask for help. Play with your child one-on-one and during playtime with other children.If your child is playing with other children, try to coach them during the session. You may say, “Sally wants to play with cars too. Let’s show Sally where the other cars are.”
If your child wants a toy that someone else has, teach your child to ask before grabbing a toy from another child.
Reinforce your child when they share or express their feelings.
 There are many children’s books about biting. Read the book with your child and discuss the different characters in the book and how they feel in certain situations. If your child is older, you can have your toddler help you read. Ask your toddler to explain what is happening in each picture.Popular books about biting are “Teeth Are Not for Biting” by Elizabeth Veridck, “No Biting” by Karen Katz, and “No Biting Louise” by Margie Palatini., Toddlers cannot change any behavior after one reminder or one day. Consistent, repeated reminders about appropriate behavior will eventually become a change in that behavior. If you change your response each time, it will be confusing for your child.It is important that all of the adults in your child’s life know that you are dealing with biting and to respond when your child bites.


Even if it does not seem like it is working at first, keep going and don’t give up.
 If your child is biting due to anxiety, a regular schedule and predictability will help your child deal with this. Children appreciate having set routines for breakfast, bedtime, nap time, and playtime. If your child knows what to expect from most of the day, they'll be more able to deal with new circumstances.If there will be changes, talk to your child about it and explain things.
 If your child continues to bite or the amount of biting increases, see your pediatrician.A pediatrician can determine if the biting is a result of a medical problem. You can also request an assessment by a child development specialist. A specialist can identify the cause of the biting and help you develop an effective strategy. Check with a pediatrician to make sure there isn't a medical problem.


Biting usually stops around 3 or 3 ½ years of age.If your child attends day care, ask if they can refer you to a professional who deals with biting issues.

