 Use three sheets of 8.5" x 11" construction paper. On the sheet of paper to become the base of your basket, draw a horizontal line 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) from the top and another one 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) from the bottom. These lines will help when laying out the base. Then cut the paper lengthwise into strips .5" wide.









Choose one sheet of a neutral color of construction paper like brown, black, or white. This will be the base of your basket. The other two sheets can be any color of your choice. This will form the decorative sides of your basket.;
, Lay out 8 strips of paper (the color you've chosen as the base) next to each other so that the lines on each strip are face up and form one continuous line. Starting at the top line, weave another strip of the same color through the strips you've laid out, over one strip and under the next. Center the strip horizontally with respect to the strips you laid out. Using another strip of the same color, weave it through the strips in the opposite way from the first one, so that this one will go underneath the strips that the first one you weaved went on top of. Then slide the strips together, making sure the edges line up.









Repeat with a total of eight strips.
The finished base should have a 4" x 4" woven square that fits just inside the lines you drew on each strip. In other words, you should have a square that has eight strips sticking evenly out 3.5" on each side.
 Each side should come up to the same height.









It can be helpful to put a 4" x 4" box or block of wood in the center of your basket and fold the strips up against this block. This will make the next steps easier.










You will need to use approximately one and a half strips to make it all the way around the basket. You can simply tape or glue the two pieces together. Try to place the connection so that it comes on the inside of the basket and is hidden by a strip from the base. This will give your basket a clean, seamless look.
Weave the strip all the way around the basket. When the two ends meet, tape or glue them together, hiding the tape in the same way.
 Make sure to alternate between going under and on top of strips, so that you create a checkerboard pattern with the strips from the base.









Keep repeating until you reach the top.
 Tape or glue the ends of the base strips to the top woven strip. Then tape or glue a slightly wider strip of the base color to the top of the basket on the inside, laying it on top of the vertical strips. Add a similar panel on the outside of the basket, securing it to the inside one as well as the outside of the basket.









If you want to add a handle, simply tape or glue each end of a long strip of paper to opposite sides of the basket before you add the top panel.
