 Lightly grease the inside of three, round, 9-inch (22.86 centimeters) cake pans, then dust them with flour. Shake out any excess flour., Make sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl to ensure that everything gets mixed evenly. Keep whisking until everything is completely smooth, then set aside., Make sure that the bowl is big enough to fit the rest of your ingredients. You will be mixing the final cake batter in this., Beat the ingredients together with a whisk until the egg yolks break, and everything is evenly combined. There should be no streaks of unmixed egg yolk., Pour the buttermilk mixture into the flour mixture first, and stir with a whisk until evenly combined. Pour the chocolate mixture in next. Keep whisking until everything is smooth and evenly combined., The cakes are ready when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean. Set the cakes aside when they are finished baking to cool., Don't let them cool completely, however, or you'll run into the chances of them sticking. If you used spring-form pans, you can simply open up the pans and take the cakes out. If you used basic pans, run a knife along the inner edges of the pan, then invert the cakes onto a plate., Melt the chocolate first, either in the microwave or over a double boiler, then fold in the rice crispy cereal using a rubber spatula. Keep mixing until the cereal is evenly coated with the melted chocolate., If you use the round cake pans, the rice crispy cakes will match your sponge cakes perfectly. If you choose to use a large pastry pan, you will need to chop it into smaller pieces in order to get it to fit on the round sponge cakes.

If you are using two cake pans, consider setting some of the rice crispy mixture aside on some wax paper, and then chopping it up. You can use it as a garnish later on.
 If you used the round pans, simply dump them out, and set them aside on wax paper. If you used a square or rectangular pan, dump the rice crispy out, then chop it up with a knife.

If you set some rice crispy mixture aside for the garnish, be sure to chop it up as well.
 In an electric mixer, combine the butter, melted chocolate, icing sugar, and milk. Start on a low speed, then gradually increase to a medium speed setting until the frosting turns light and fluffy.

If the frosting is too dry, add more milk. If the frosting is too wet, add more sugar. Beat the frosting well after each addition.
 Place the first cake down on a plate, and spread ¾ cup (45 grams) of frosting on top using an off-set cake decorating spatula. Top it off with the chocolate rice crispy. Repeat the cake, frosting, and rice crispy layer. Finish off with a final cake layer.If you chopped the rice crispy into chunks, you will need 1 cup (225 grams) per layer.
Trim the tops off of the cakes to make them flat, if desire. Save the excess cake to make cake pops, or eat them.
 When you get to doing the sides, consider spreading just a thin layer first, letting the cake sit in the freezer for about 15 minutes, and then spreading on the rest of the frosting. This thin, "frozen" layer is known as the "crumb coat," and will help keep any loose crumbs in place.If you have any leftover rice crispy mixture, use it to garnish your cake.