 Set the frame down so that it lies flat on your working surface. Make sure that the back of the frame faces you and the glass front points downward.
 Some frames of this style have a back dust cover made with flimsy paperboard. Remove the cover by slicing it away with a box cutter or craft blade.Slide the point of the blade in between the paperboard and the frame itself. Carefully move the blade around the entire perimeter of the frame until it comes free. Working in this manner protects the contents of the frame while also making it possible to reuse the paperboard.
If you don't wish to reuse the paperboard, you could remove it by slicing into the cover from above it. Press as lightly as possible so that you just barely slice into the paperboard without touching the contents beneath it. You can either cut away the entire cover in this manner or tear away the paperboard by working from the hole you just created.
 Locate the brads along the sides of the frame. Bend the brads up or turn them in place until they no longer cover the backboard.


The number of brads will vary depending on the size and quality of the frame. Small frames may only use one brad on one or two sides of the frame, but larger frames will have brads on all four sides. Some may even have multiple brads on each side.
Test the brad to determine how you must remove it. Flimsy brads that do not rotate should be bent backward and away from the cardboard backing. Sturdy brads that do rotate should be rotated away from the backing.
Note that some brads might seem too sturdy to bend but too stationary to rotate. Carefully loosen the screw holding these brads in place by twisting it once or twice with a flat-head screwdriver. Once the screw is loose (but not removed), you should be able to rotate the brad away from the backing.
 Once the brads have been cleared away, you should be able to lift the backing straight out using only your hands.


Any existing picture can be lifted straight out, as well.
If you choose to do so, you can also remove the front glass or plexiglass through the back opening of the frame at this time.

