 When writing a letter of complaint, your best chance of success will come from directing the letter to the customer service department of the company. The customer service department is accustomed to dealing with complaints and your letter is likely to be processed efficiently and effectively.Try to find out the name of the customer service manager or director and address your letter to them personally. Begin your letter with Dear Mr, Mrs, Miss or Ms followed by their surname. If you cannot find the name of the customer service manager, simply write Dear Sir or Madam.You should be able to find the address of the customer service department on the company's website, on any of the company's promotional or advertising materials or product packaging or labels., The very first line of your letter should clearly address why you are writing the letter and what your exact complaint is. Give as many pertinent facts as possible, including the date, time and location where you made the purchase or received the service, along with any relevant serial or model numbers.


The recipient of the letter should be able to identify the point of the letter in under five seconds, so avoid any long, rambling intros.
You may provide further detail or explanation of the situation in the paragraph following your opening sentence, but the first line should draw attention to your complaint as succinctly as possible.
For example, your opening sentence might read: "I am writing to complain about a faulty hair dryer that I purchased from your company on the 15th of July at your location on First Street, Exampletown."

, If you want a replacement, a refund, a repair, or some other form of compensation, state this clearly in your second paragraph. This will help to avoid receiving a form letter or other stock response, and give the recipient something to work with on their end.


Try to be as constructive as possible in your comments, suggesting a way that you can move forward and continue your relationship with the company. If you demand a refund or some other form of compensation, while simultaneously informing them that you plan on taking your business elsewhere, they will have little incentive to try to resolve the problem.If you would like the company to correct a broader problem, state that in your letter as well, but recognize that such a thing may take time.
Do not threaten legal action in your first communication. It may be the solution you ultimately require, but send your complaint letter first and await a response.
 These may include receipts, guarantees, warranties, copies of checks you sent and, if appropriate, photos or videos. All documentation should be included with your letter.


Make sure that you send copies of any documentation you wish to include, not the originals. That way, there's no chance of this key information being lost or mislaid, should you need to provide evidence to someone else.
Also make sure to state in the body of the letter the exact materials you are including. For example: "Please find attached a copy of my original receipt, along with a copy of the hair dryer's guarantee and information regarding the serial number."

, It is helpful to provide an exact time period within which you would like the issue to be resolved. This will give you peace of mind and will help bring the issue to a speedy conclusion.


Providing a time limit will also help to prevent the possibility of your letter becoming lost or forgotten about, which may lead to further awkwardness and resentment between you and the company.Just make sure that the time period you provide is reasonable. A week or two is usually sufficient, though this will vary depending on what your requests are.
 Thank the recipient for their assistance, and let them know how and when they can reach you to resolve the matter. This will make their job a lot easier, resulting in a more efficient outcome for you.



Sign off the letter with Yours sincerely, if you know the name of the person you are writing to, or Yours faithfully if you referred to them as "Sir" or "Madam". Avoid informal closings such as "Best," or "Yours truly."