 The first thing you want to do when taking your dog out is to call him and leash him up. You need to get him ready to go outside safely.


Decide whether you'll use a leash or harness/gentle handler. If your dog is still not properly leash trained, a harness or gentle handler, which leashes up around the dog's muzzle, might be a better choice. Younger dogs or dogs who haven't had much experience on a leash might pull and this can cause neck strain with a leash.Make sure your dog has all the proper licenses required in your area. It's a good idea to have a license with identifying information, such as your dog's name and your phone number. Some states require dogs have tags indicating when their last rabies vaccination was.Double check to make sure the collar is securely fashioned to the leash. It can be dangerous if dog's get off their leashes especially if your live in an urban area.;
, Once your dog is securely leashed, you can take him outside to poop. It might take a bit for your dog to go, so if it's cold make sure you have the proper outerwear.


Decide whether you're going to use the backyard or take your dog for a walk around the block. If you have a big backyard, you might let your dog go there. It's a good idea to designate a certain portion of your backyard for potty time.
 If your dog is still potty training, make sure to praise him for going outside. Always praise your dog the second he eliminates. You might want to provide a reward as well, like a small treat., If your dog eliminates outside, clean up after him. In many states, you will actually get a fine if you do not remove your dog's feces. Make sure you have bags with you before you take your dog out. You can buy doggy bags at most pet stores or supermarkets., If it's raining or snowing outside, your dog might not want to go out. Make sure you have a game plan in the event of poor weather conditions.


Create an ideal potty area. If your dog dislikes going on wet or snow covered ground, create an area in your yard for him to eliminate. Shovel out snow in a portion of the yard or have a small hut in place to prevent rainwater from falling on the ground.Try to make potty time fun. If weather conditions are poor, try to make bathroom time a fun experience for your dog. Take him for a long walk instead of just around the block. Take him on an exiting new route. If your dog is enjoying himself, he'll be distracted from the negative weather conditions.