 There are many ways to ask someone to be your bridesmaid. If you are good at making crafts, or just want to create a special, unique way to ask your bridesmaids, try creating an artistic proposal.For example, you can place your question or phrase in a fortune cookie. Decorate the fortune cookie with white chocolate and metallic sprinkles.
Take bottles of wine, champagne, or sparkling cider and attach labels asking if they would be your bridesmaid. You may also place labels on candles in the colors of your wedding or in scents that remind you of the bridesmaid.
 You may want to surprise your future bridesmaids with a card in their mailbox or sent to their work. The outside of the card can ask the question, while the inside can contain a personalized note from you.You can choose to make your own cards from cardstock. You can print designs from a computer program, or you can decorate the card by hand with ribbon, glitter, flower petals, or other decorations.
Some companies sell cards specifically geared towards asking someone to be your bridesmaid.
 Put together a scrapbook of photos featuring fun times you have had with your potential bridesmaids during your friendship. If you don’t want to do a whole scrapbook, just do a photo album. On the last page, you can ask the question.If you have mementos, you can add copies to each scrapbook. This might include movie or concert tickets, receipts, or notes.
 Go to a craft store and buy frames for each bridesmaid. Decorate the frame with their name. You can also draw something on the frame if you are artistic, paint something using a stencil, or add decorative accents. Along the top, write “BRIDESMAID.”Don’t forget to add the picture on the inside.
 Jewelry is never a bad way to ask someone to be your bridesmaid. You can buy them rings, bracelets, or necklaces that feature bows since you are tying the knot. If you already know the theme for your wedding, you can choose jewelry in the design of your wedding theme.Many online sellers sell bridesmaid-themed jewelry on sites like Etsy.

