,,, You can find the charging port located at the bottom of the calculator indicated by a USB symbol.
 Once the batteries are in place, you may now turn on the calculator. At the bottom left corner, there is a button that says "On." Go ahead and press it to begin using the calculator.

The basic layout is comprised of white colored buttons for the numbers, and gray colored buttons for the basic operation symbols. All the black color buttons are for programs and other operations such as log, natural log (ln), and the trig functions.
At the top, there is a blue color button labeled "2nd." This feature will let you use any of the subscripts labeled above every button. For example, if we want to use the π icon above the "^" button, we would have to press the "2nd" key and then the "^" key for the calculator to display a π symbol on the screen.
 To solve the expression, "2+5," you would have to press the appropriate buttons that would show "2+5" on the calculator screen before pressing enter to get the answer of "7" to appear on your screen. For a negative number, we would have to use the (-) symbol down by the enter button.


For example, you know that negative two multiplied by negative five is ten. To enter this into the calculator, you would press the (-) symbol and use parentheses before pressing the other appropriate buttons for "2x5" and enter to see the answer -10 appear on the screen. In order to use parentheses (found above the "8" and "9" number buttons), you would type the open parentheses first and the close parentheses after whatever expression intended to be calculated inside of those parentheses
For practice, solve the problem, six divided by two raised to the third power. You would type (6/3)^3 and then press the enter key after, in order for the calculator to accurately solve for the value of this expression.
 To use the graphing feature, we have to press the "y=" button located at the very top left of the calculator. This option lets us write in our function. Almost any kind of function will work if there is no syntax error when writing in the equation. To write the unknown variable, use the x button located next to alpha (labeled as X,T,theta,n).


For example, write in the equation, x^2+x-2. To see the graph, press the graph button located at the top right corner. The calculator will graph out the function, and you can scroll around the graph by using the left and right arrow buttons.
If you want the calculator to tell you where the graph is at zero, you can press "2nd" and then "trace" for it to give you a list of options to calculate values on the graph. Now scroll down to where it says zero. This will take you back to the graph and allow scrolling towards different values where one is positive and one is negative.
 By pressing "2nd" and then "graph," the same function will now be presented as a table of values. You can scroll up and down to see what values you would need.
 Piece-wise functions are functions with varied conditions. For example, this piece-wise function shows three different parts but is defined as one function. Y=x^2 if x<2.  Y=6 if x= and Y=10-x if x>2 and x is less than or equal to 6.


The idea behind graphing these kinds of functions is similar to graphing regular functions, but now you have to include more parentheses in our function. Graph Y=x^2 on your calculator. You would add parentheses to your function and your conditions. Now write on y1, "(x^2)(x<2)." To write the greater than or less than button, press 2nd math, and a list of commands will appear. Now, do the same thing for other three conditions.






Y2=6 (x=2) and y3=(10-x)(x>2)(x >or equal to 6)   Once they're all in place, they can be shown on the graph and table.

