 For a variety of reasons, wearing braces may be difficult for you. In this case, you may want to look into alternatives. A retainer, a removable device used to correct crooked teeth, may be an option.


Typically, retainers are used after braces are removed to correct crooked teeth. However, if you only need a small amount of correction, ask your dentist or orthodontist about the possibility of a retainer instead of braces.Retainers are typically inexpensive and sometimes only need to be worn during certain parts of the day; you typically wear them for long periods of time, such as while you sleep. Your dentist might recommend a special toothpaste or mouthwash to clean and rinse your retainer., Clear aligners, such as invisalign, are clear and removable braces that need to be worn for certain intervals. They are a popular alternative to braces for adults.Clear aligners can correct major structural issues and also minor crookedness. If you need a tooth gap corrected, aligners are a good option as correction is minimal.For your first pair, you'll have to wear them 20 hours a day for two weeks. After this, you'll be fitted with a different pair. Your dentist will tell you how long you need to wear your new pair determined on the problem you're correcting., Veneers are primarily used to treat gaps between teeth, cracks, chips, or even severe discoloration. They are porcelain caps inserted into your teeth, onto the "vestibular surface," or the area of your teeth that is visible when you smile, to correct damages and imperfections.Your dentist will remove a thin layer of tooth enamel and then fix veneers to your teeth.Veneers are often considered cosmetic rather than medical, so your insurance may not cover them., There are ways to fast track orthodontic treatment that can minimize the time you have to wear corrective devices like braces.


Most fast-tracking treatments use a system called micro-osteoperforation that weakens your bones to the point your teeth move under pressure. This allows braces and other devices that to remold your teeth to work faster.This can easily be used with other braces alternatives, such as retainers and clear aligners. The treatment, however, can be quite expensive and may not be covered by insurance.