 Memory loss is one of the most common signs of Alzheimer’s. Be especially aware of memory loss that disrupts daily activities and causes confusion. Short-term memory tends to go before long-term so pay attention to failure to keep track of where things are, times, dates, and appointments.Try telling the person several pieces of new information and then ask them to recount that information about 10 minutes later. If they can’t remember, try it multiple times to determine if they may have Alzheimer’s.;
, People with Alzheimer’s often leave their belongings in strange places and have difficulty retracing their steps. This will usually start with objects that they don’t use regularly but will progress to everyday objects remote controls and cell phones. This forgetfulness often results in a pronounced irritability and a lack of critical reasoning as to where the object is. People with Alzheimer’s also have a tendency to accuse others of stealing their belongings when they can’t find them.Ask them to tell you where they have placed essential personal belongings that they use every day, like their wallet, keys, or phone. Consistent inability to locate these items may be a sign of Alzheimer's.
 Inability to follow a plan, solve problems, or work with numbers are all hallmarks of Alzheimer’s. Early stage Alzheimer’s patients will have trouble understanding complexities and multi-step problems. They often spend a long time calculating basic math and determining to-do lists.If you are in a car with them, ask them how to get to a local grocery or drug store.
Ask them to solve an algebraic or long division math problem. These math problems require multiple steps to work out and will do a better job of demonstrating their problem-solving ability than addition or subtraction. Try to choose a relatively easy problem as algebraic or long division math problems could be could be difficult for anyone.
 It is common for people with Alzheimer’s to lose track of time and dates. They often excessively check their watches or the date. They can also misjudge lengths of time and lose track of where they are and how they got there.Ask them what month it is or what season it is.
 People with Alzheimer’s often lose track of a conversation they’re having or struggle to follow along. They may also mangle common words or phrases or repeat themselves. Watch out for slurring, using incorrect words, or random, strange pauses in conversation.Give them a series of relatively long words with many syllables that you would expect them to know like “magnanimous,” “unencumbered,” and “perfidiousness” and ask them to repeat them back. If they slur or are unable to pronounce the word, this may be a sign of Alzheimer’s.
 If you are concerned that a loved one may have Alzheimer’s disease, then it is important to take them to see a doctor for a Mini Mental Status (MMS) Examination. This is the primary diagnostic tool for dementia, and it can also help to identify Alzheimer’s disease. Even with advances in neuroimaging there is still no way to assess cognitive function without some diagnostic test. Psychiatrist and Neuroscientist continue to rely on the MMS as a means to examine mental function and neuropsychiatric testing.

The goals of the MMS are to determine normal for abnormal cognition, dementia from delirium, and to diagnose primary psychiatric disease.
The mental status examination evaluates problems with arousal, concentration, memory, language, visual perception, executive functioning, mood, thoughts, praxis, and calculations.
A score of less than 24 out of 30 is significant for some form of cognitive deficit., People with Alzheimer’s often lose interest in their hobbies, friendships, work, or social activities. This may be caused by the difficulties of their condition or a general blasé attitude toward their interests. These changes in attitude should be assessed overtime.If you know they follow sports or politics, ask them about their favorite team or what they think about current events. If they are uncharacteristically out of touch, this may be a sign of intellectual withdrawal associated with Alzheimer’s.
 Alzheimer’s often causes abrupt changes in their mood and relationship with others. Look out for irregular expressions of confusion, anger, suspicion, depression, fear, or anxiety. Pay particular attention to how they behave when they are around new people or otherwise outside their comfort zone., People with Alzheimer’s often show poor judgement and decision-making ability. Watch out for a tendency to spend money unwisely or give money to telemarketers. They may be overly trusting or overly skeptical of people. They may also keep poor hygiene and an unkempt appearance., The early stages of Alzheimer’s may see only a minor decline in cognition or change in personality. It will be more difficult to decisively determine the person has Alzheimer’s but there are still some basic signs to look for. Ultimately, you’ll need a CTE scan from a doctor to confirm.Look for a tendency to fumble over words, trouble remembering names, gaps in short-term memory, and trouble organizing thoughts.
 The middle stages of Alzheimer’s usually last the longest and will require some level of assistance to care for the person. Periods of anger, odd behavior, and changes in their hygiene or appearance usually occur. Their forgetfulness will likely start to extend from short-term memory into longer-term aspects of their personal history. There may also be troubles with bladder and bowel control., The later stages of Alzheimer’s come with serious consequences that will require round-the-clock assistance for their personal care. They will often lose their ability to relate with their surrounding environment and memorize even basic aspects of their personal history like their name. They often lose the ability to perform core physical activities like walking and even swallowing.