 Life changes — like a car accident or winning the lottery — can “happen overnight,” but your adjustment period won’t. Think of a major life change as akin to dipping into a swimming pool. At first, the water feels freezing cold and you want to get right back out. After a bit, though, you get used to the change and can enjoy a relaxing, comfortable wade or swim.Major life changes require a “psychological metamorphosis” on your part. And, like a butterfly, the transformation takes time. Try to visualize the stages of your metamorphosis and imagine the end of the process, when you have adjusted to the new circumstances., While you want to visualize the big picture and see yourself happily adjusted to the major change occurring, you also need to focus your energies on the here and now of the adjustment process. Accept that your are in the midst of your adaptation to the new reality that faces you, and take note of your progress and your roadblocks.For instance, if your beloved pet dog has died, try not to obsess over asking yourself “When am I going to get over this?”. Instead, focus on small steps in your adjustment process: putting away the dish, leash, and chew toys; being able to pass the dog park without tearing up; and, eventually, feeling that urge to check out the puppies at the animal shelter.
 Adjusting to changes is not often a one-way street. Sometimes, you’ll take two steps forward, and one step back. And that’s normal and healthy. Don’t judge yourself too harshly for slip-ups or backslides; rather, keep yourself focused on the positive steps you have made and will make next.For example, if your fiance has run off with someone else and left you shattered, don’t be surprised if your first few attempts to get back into the dating game end up as disasters. And don’t be too hard on yourself if you find yourself in tears, clutching a meaningful item from your relationship. So long as you are also making positive steps in your transition process, you can remind yourself that you’re doing just fine.
 There are general concepts to keep in mind as you face any kind of major life change. There are also more specific strategies you should employ dependent upon the nature of the actual change you are facing. To name a few examples:If you’re starting a new job, try to prioritize completing tasks that complement your existing skills (so you can feel good about doing them well), and allow you to build a rapport with your new co-workers.
If you’re facing a serious illness, allow yourself to grieve for what has been lost (your independence, certain abilities, your long-term future, etc.), and don’t discount the coping powers of a hearty laugh and a shoulder to cry on.
If you’re moving to a new town, view it as an open-ended adventure — do research on your new home, plot out your “visit,” and talk to strangers for advice and tips on how to eat, play, and live like a “local.”

, Looking for opportunities to exert control may also help you to adapt to change. Try thinking of all of the little things that you can control in your daily life, such as what you have for dinner or what you do on your days off from work.


You can also look for ways to feel more in control with the change that is coming your way. For example if you are moving to a new place, then research it as much as possible before you move to find out about the area. Look into little things like what stores are in your neighborhood, what activities are available, and other things that will help you to ease into your new environment.
 Change can be frightening, but it is important to avoid making decisions that are based in fear. Try to address your fears about the changes coming your way rather than avoiding them.For example, if you are feeling fearful about moving to a new city for your dream job, this is normal. However, the fear of the unknown should not prevent you from making this move.
Try making a list of what you fear about the changes you are facing. Then, look over the list and determine if these fears are things that you can do something about. For example, if you are fearful of going to a new city because you think you will be lonely, then start looking into social opportunities, such as a special interest group. For example, you could join a running club if you enjoy running, a knitter’s circle if you like to knit, or a church if you are religious.

