 Before you start setting up links to your own content, your users need to understand who you are in your bio, and what your main topics of interest are. Begin posting photos, links to news articles, thoughts about your profession on daily tweets for a few weeks, before asking for followers.


Make sure your profile is set to "public." This means people do not have to ask for permission to see your content and follow you. You want people to see, read and recommend your content freely.
Remember to include your website in the bio section, and in 1 of your first few tweets. You should refrain from posting it every day, but you should give people access to it, in case they are researching you on their own.;
, Most people receive alerts when someone new is following them. They may look at your site and decide to follow you in return.


Do not make the mistake of following 1,000 people the first week. Many people use directories like Twellow.com to find people who fit in their demographic, and then they try to follow everyone at once. This looks like a sales tactic. In the end, you will get repeat users to your content if people recommend you on Follow Friday or re tweet your content.
 This Twitter directory can help you stay on top of the newest trends, so that you are posting things that are relevant to that day's topics. Twitter is constantly being updated, so it pays to spend the time getting to know what topics are hot.
 If you are simply posting your blog entries every day or your products, you are giving the impression that you are selling, not that you are part of a conversation with potential clients or readers. Try posting some of the following things as well as your own content:


Post links to educational articles or share your expertise. Helpful educational articles about your newest article topic, or up-to-date professional training articles show that you are helpful and interested in sharing your knowledge with the community.
Ask questions in your Twitter posts. Try to start meaningful discussions about big news topics and reply to your friends and followers who answer.
Re tweet other peoples' content. An occasional sharing of content that you like creates goodwill with your followers. It also shows your personality, by what you choose to be important enough to re tweet. Telling other people about smart, interesting people won't necessarily divert attention, but make you part of the conversation.
Engage in Follow Fridays, with the hash-tag #ff or #followfriday. Recommend people who you think have similar interests, or who enrich your Twitter conversations.
 Sometimes customized tweets and attention to detail make all the difference to your followers. The following ways can be used to creatively post your content:


Post links to the "Comments" section of your blog or website. If users have started an interesting discussion, keep it going on Twitter. Ask Twitter users to respond on your website, if they have something to add.
Brand yourself with regular Twitter-based promotions, lists or content. Give users a reason to check back every Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday. Many bloggers create trends by starting a weekly ritual of posting content. This can be anything from a website coupon to a list of the 10 best articles of the week. The more creative, the better.
Create your own hash-tags for events or successful trends. When a good number of people start commenting on your trend, then it's time to brand it. Make it short but memorable, such as "#10best." If possible, include part of your website name in the hash-tag.
Advertise Twitter-only content. If you are spending the time personalizing your Tweets, then let your followers know that every week you feed them something tailored to them.
 Post Twitter badges on your website, printed materials, email blasts and more. Some people may not know you are on Twitter, and an invitation through 1 of these channels may help them to look at your content more often.
 Many people ask for re tweets, Stumbles (for StumbleUpon) or a suggestion to friends. Be careful not to overdo it and it may show how much brand loyalty you have created.

