 Before you use any home remedies to treat warts, confirm that any skin condition you suspect may be warts are actually plantar or mosaic warts. An accurate diagnosis can help you to develop the best care plan and help ensure that you don’t damage your skin with unnecessary treatments.A doctor will diagnose the warts by examining them.;
, Plantar warts will often disappear on their own without treatment.If your mosaic warts are not painful, consider leaving them to heal without treatment.Mosaic warts, which appear on the feet, are often very painful and you may want to treat them as soon as possible.The only way to ensure that you do not experience a recurrence of mosaic warts is to ensure that they are completely removed.If you decide to not treat your wart, it’s important to understand that you can transmit them to other people. Plantar warts are very contagious., Salicylic acid, which is the active ingredient in aspirin, is an over the counter treatment that is applied to the wart to remove it. Salicylic acid comes in different forms such as gels, liquids, or even patches.You can get salicylic acid treatments for plantar warts at most drug stores and many grocery stores.
Apply salicylic acid every day after soaking your foot to soften the warts.The treatment shouldn’t cause you any pain.Salicylic acid treatments can take weeks to work and remove the warts.Only use salicylic acid on your skin. If you get it on your eyes or in your nose or mouth, rinse it off with water right away.Salicylic acid is not a good treatment option for those with neuropathy, as the numbness makes it difficult to determine tissue damage.
 Although doctors are not sure why this home remedy works, covering your warts in duct tape can help treat and remove mosaic warts. In between treatments, you should file off the dead layers of the wart with a foot file.Apply the duct tape directly over the wart and leave it there for six days.When you remove the duct tape, file off the dead wart layers with a foot file or pumice stone, which you can get in any drugstore.Expose the wart to the air for 12 hours after filing off the layers of dead skin. Reapply the duct tape after this.Continue this treatment of duct tape and filing until the wart is completely gone., Cryotherapy, or using a freezing treatment, can also effectively treat and remove warts. This over the counter medication can be painful and comes with other dangers.You can purchase freezing treatments at most drug stores or some grocery stores.
Freezing is a safe treatment for warts if used according to the package directions. There is minimal risk, though freezing treatments can cause pain.Freezing treatments can be flammable and shouldn’t be used near any fires, flames, heat sources such as curling irons, or lit cigarettes.Freezing treatments are not ideal for treating warts on children, as the process can be too painful.
 Getting rid of the dead or dying skin on a wart may help it to heal faster, especially if you opt to forgo other treatments. Use a pumice stone, emery board, or foot file to gently remove the layers of dead or dying skin from a wart.It’s important that you gently file off the skin on a wart or around it. If you don’t you could damage your skin and potentially spread the warts to other parts of the affected area.
 Grind up 4-5 Vitamin C tablets and make a paste to apply to the warts. This very acidic mixture can help dissolve the warts and fight the virus that causes warts.You can get Vitamin C tablets at most drug and health food stores.
Mix the ground up tablets with distilled water and dab the paste onto your warts. Cover the area with a bandage or duct tape., Soak a cotton ball or bandage in vinegar and administer to your skin with a band aid or elastic tape. Using this treatment daily may help to dissolve your wart.You can use any type of vinegar, though many sources suggest using apple cider vinegar.Leave the compress in place for one to two hours daily., One of the best ways to treat warts is to not get them. There are several options to not spread the virus from wearing proper shoes to not picking at warts.Avoid direct contact with your plantar warts as much as possible and wash your hands after applying treatments.Clean and dry your feet and change your shoes and socks daily.Wear shoes or sandals to places such as pools or gyms, where the risk of contracting warts is high.Don’t pick at your warts, which may spread the virus that causes them., In the case that your mosaic warts don’t heal or get worse with home treatments, consult your doctor. You may need a stronger treatment, such as a laser procedure, to completely remove the warts.