 Think about a time in your life when you felt bullied, afraid, powerless, humiliated. This memory is probably something you don’t want to go through again. Remembering that time can help you understand how the person you are bullying feels, which can help you stop.How did you feel about yourself when this was happening? Try to remember the exact feelings you had. For example, did you feel worthless, uncool, unlikable? These are some of the feelings the person you are bullying may feel because of what you are doing.
How did you feel about the person who made you feel this way? Were you angry with him? Were you afraid of him? That's how the person you are bullying probably feels about you.


Imagine that you are the person you bully. Think about how it feels in the moment that you are being bullied. Taking her perspective helps you stop bullying by making you consider the negative feelings your actions cause at that moment.Think about how the person feels when she sees you coming. Dread? Resignation? Do you think she has had to change her habits (what time she or arrives or leaves, which route she takes, etc.) just to avoid interacting with you?
Consider how she feels as you are in the act of bullying her. Think about the emotions she experiences, as well as the impact those emotions have on her.
How does she feel after your interactions? Shaken? Angry? Hurt? Scared? Relieved? How hard is it for her to continue what she was doing?

,

Although you may have thought about how the person feels when you are bullying him, think about the serious impact your actions can have on that person in the future. This will help you understand just how much harm you can do. Taking a long-term perspective of your behavior can help you stop bullying.

1/3 of people bullied later start doing things like cutting themselves and other forms of self-harm.80% of youth suicides are because of bullying.Many people that have been bullied have problems with their school and work performance over time.,

Although bullying might make you feel better at the time, in reality, you know that nobody likes a bully. Take the perspective of other people that know you (and even those that don’t). What impact is your bullying behavior having on how people perceive you?

Do people avoid you or automatically treat you like they expect you to bully them?
Even though you may have a reputation for being mean and a bully, you can change this.

