 Studies have shown that walking 45 minutes a day created positive brain activity. This brain activity helps the neurons of the brain survive. Scientists believe it’s related to the influx of additional oxygen during the exercise. Further studies have shown executive level skills like planning and scheduling were also improved by the walking program. Additionally, the actual size of the brain, particularly the frontal lobe where cognition occurs, increases with exercise.Add some weight to your walks. Some research has shown that a small amount of weight has significant positive effect on brain health. Put on ankle weights before the next walk for a mental health boost.Work in the garden.
Leisurely swim a few laps.
Clean the house from top to bottom.
Rake some leaves.
 Studies have shown that exercise that requires some mental steps has greater boosts in mental health. Something that requires coordination like an aerobics class engages both the muscles and the mind. A team-building obstacle course provides an outlet for not just the physical activity, but also strategy. The key is that simple physical exercise has less of an impact on mental health than exercise including mental demands.Try counting your steps during a run.
Add up the total weight lifted when doing strength exercises (e.g. 3 reps of 20lbs would be 60lbs).
Sign up for an instructor led class that will challenge you to memorize a routine.
 Improving coordination and balance is a sure-fire way to avoid potential head injuries related to poor mental health and degraded mental cognition. By practicing something like Tai Chi, the muscles used to balance are strengthened and stabilized, and there is less chance of falling or head injury.Doing some squats will strengthen various balance muscles in your legs.
Try balancing on one leg. You’ll wobble at first, but with enough practice, you’ll begin to stabilize.
 Head trauma has been connected to an increased chance of Alzheimer’s, and recent research in athletics has linked it to chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). CTE is a degenerative disease caused by multiple head injuries, including concussions.Whenever engaging in physical activities that provide safety measures, always use them properly.


Wear a helmet whenever riding a bike or skateboard.
Always buckle your seatbelt when available.
Avoid contact whenever possible in contact sports.
 Dementia-related illnesses are diagnosed via an assortment of tests like brain imaging and blood-work.Some drugs, or particular doses, may have a negative affect that exacerbates poor mental health. Research has shown early diagnosis of symptoms related to mental impairment can help reverse potential cognitive impairment.One study has shown that 80% of people with Alzheimer’s also have cardiovascular issues. Take preventative measures by improving your cardiovascular system, lowering blood pressure, and lowering cholesterol, and you’ll improve your chances against Alzheimer’s.If you are forgetting more often, having trouble with instructions, words are getting jumbled, or you're losing things often, you may need to see your doctor to see if these issues are related to Alzheimer’s.