 Before beginning the snowball fight, clarify to the children participating that they still need to be respectful of property and avoid playing around breakable items, such as glass cabinet doors or mirrors. You should move smaller fragile items out of the way; put breakable valuables in a cabinet or closet until the fight is over.Hide delicate items including vases, before the snowball fight starts.
 Depending on the ages of the children involved in the snowball fight, it may be most effective to divide the children into two opposing teams. Each team can have a “home base.” For example, one team can start in the kitchen and the other can start in the living room.


If you’re playing with younger children, this may be too complex for them. You could have younger children all start in the same room, and structure the snowball fight as more of a “free-for-all” if they’re confused by the concept of teams.
 If you’re dealing with young children, you could give each team a laundry hamper or clean storage bin full of “snowballs.”Encourage them to throw these “snowballs” at the opposing team or individuals before picking up already-thrown snowballs from the floor.


If the children involved prefer not to play on teams, but would rather each throw snowballs at all of the others, you could provide each child with a smaller amount of snowballs in a bin or hamper.
If you’re facilitating a snowball fight for older children, add an element of strategy by making a rule that participants can only hold two “snowballs” at a time and, after throwing them, must return to hamper full of “snowballs” to pick up two more.
 Once the teams have used up their respective portions of “snowballs” and the fight has run its course, you can conclude the snowball fight by announcing the victorious team as the winner. If you’re playing with younger children who did not form teams, don’t worry about deciding who won or lost—make sure that the kids had fun, and praise everyone for having participated.


Once the game has wrapped up and the children have started to calm down from the excitement, ask all participants to find and pick up all of the “snowballs” that were thrown.
If you store the “snowballs” in a specific location (for example, in a large plastic bag), ask the kids to help you put the “snowballs” away.

