 If you cannot remove the pillow insert, make sure that the cover is washable. If it is not washable, you will need to spot clean the cover instead. Click here to learn how to clean a non-removable pillow cover., If you do not have one, pick one of the following ingredient sets below. Put everything into a plastic spray bottle, shake to mix, and then spray the mixture onto the stain before continuing.


2 parts 3% hydrogen peroxide and 1 part dishwashing soap.2 parts water, 1 part hydrogen peroxide, and 1 part washing soda.2 cups (475 milliliters) warm water, 2/3 cups(160 milliliters) dishwashing soap, 2/3 cups (160 milliliters) ammonia, and 6 tablespoons baking soda., Make sure that there is enough water to completely submerge the pillow. Also, try to use a detergent intended for hand washing; they tend to be gentler. When adding the detergent, follow instructions on the bottle in regards to amount.If you cannot find a mild "hand washing" detergent, use a regular washing machine detergent. Decrease the amount you are using, and put on a pair of rubber gloves. You can also try using dish soap or baby shampoo.
 Depending on how large your pillows are, you may be able to fit more than one in your tub. If your pillows are very dirty to begin with, you might want to wash them one at a time.
 Not only will this force the pillow underwater, but the repeated pressing motion will force the water into it. The soapy water will help flush out any dirt and dust.If your pillow is very dirty, you may need to replace the water. Just remember to add more detergent to any water changes.
 Drain the water first. Once the water is all gone, press down on the pillow to squeeze out any excess water. Don't worry if the water coming out of the pillow is dirty—just make sure that you get it all out.
 If necessary, press down on the pillow so that it fills with water and sinks. You want it to be completely submerged—and stayed submerged. If the pillow won't stay down, place a couple of heavy jars on top of it.
 Keep doing this until the water runs clear. Alternatively, you can empty the tub of all water, and rinse the pillow under running water. A shower with a removable head would be ideal, but the water spout would work for smaller pillows.
 Once the water draining from the pillow is clear, it is time to start drying the pillow. Press down on the pillow in various spots to expel any excess water. Keep doing this until no more water comes out of the pillow.
 Do not try to dry the pillow in the dryer; the heat may cause the pillow to melt. Instead, set the pillow down on a clean towel in the sun, and wait for it to become completely dry.


If you were unable to remove the cover and are concerned about the fabric fading, set the pillow down in a shaded, but well-ventilated, area.
 Once you think the pillow is dry, take a paper towel and press down hard on the pillow. Make sure that you are pressing down hard enough to compress the pillow. Lift the paper towel away, and inspect it. If it feels wet, the pillow needs to dry more. If it feels dry, the pillow is ready to be covered and put back on the couch.
 If your pillow is only dusty, and not heavily stained, you might just have to vacuum it using the upholstery attachment. Try to use a lower suction setting so that you do not damage the foam., If you've washed your pillow and it still smells, sprinkle baking soda liberally over it, and leave it outside in the sun. After a few hours, bring the pillow back inside and vacuum the baking soda up. The baking soda will have absorbed any foul odors.

Be sure to use the upholstery attachment and a lower suction setting on your vacuum cleaner so as not to damage the foam.

