 Even if you're going to jump straight up into the air, adding a couple of lateral steps into your jumping routine can help you put some extra hop in your step. The energy developed in those steps can help generate additional upward lift that can put an extra inch or two into a vertical leap.A vertical jump is highest off two feet. Use the power of both your legs to push off the ground, even if you're taking a few steps before you hop.;
, To get the most power out of your legs and the most height into your jump, you need to bend your knees. For many people, it's helpful to imagine sitting in an imaginary chair, just before you jump. Your feet should be about shoulder-width apart, and your hips should be flexed at 30 degrees, knees bent 60 degrees, ankles flexed 25 degrees in order to generate the most power without injuring your knees. You should be able to lift your toes up and down while sitting in this squat form, balancing on the balls of your feet.Be careful that your knees don't point inwards in a "knock-knee" position, with your toes pointed inward. Keep your knees as straight as possible, ideally positioned vertically over your toes.Have your arms at your sides.
Keep your back very straight while you're jumping. Practice in front of a mirror dropping into the imaginary chair and keeping your back straight to avoid injury.
 Spring off the balls of your feet, swinging your hands up into the air, towards the ceiling, for additional momentum. For some jumpers, it's effective to picture pushing through the floor, or trying to push the ground away from your body, trying to extend your legs with as much power as possible. The power and the height of your jump will come from the power you put into this step.









Properly done, your feet should roll forward, from your heels to your toes as you jump off. You should feel pressure on your heels moving up your feet towards your toes as you come back to a standing position, normally, and in a jump you'll do the same thing much more quickly. You must roll all the way to your toes when you are actually jumping.
Keep your arms parallel to each other and move them just behind your rear. Swing your arms forward while straightening your whole body, as though you were uncoiling a spring.
 Just as when you lift weights when you're doing a rep, it's important to exhale while you're pushing off into a big vertical jump. While this might not necessarily help you jump higher, it's more comfortable and fluid to exhale as you approach the leap. Think of it as one big motion.
 To avoid landing hard and hurting yourself, it's important that you land on the balls of your feet and roll back onto your heels. Landing flat-footed is a good way to twist your ankle. When you land, you should take care to land in such a way as to keep the kinematic chain going in a single plane from the ball of your foot through your ankle into your knee and finally through your hip joint.









Bend your knees slightly before you end to soften the impact on your knees. Let your knees absorb the momentum, falling into a partial squat, not past 90 degrees, to absorb the shock. Straighten up from the squatting posture.
By bending your joints when you land, you transfer the force of landing into your muscles and tendons, which are built to absorb and dissipate force like this. You can even briefly store and release this energy elastically by propelling you into another jump.

