 Make sure everything is functioning as it should, the gun has been cleaned well, and all pieces are together as they should be., These include, as mentioned above, exsanguination, pithing, or a rapid IV injection of potassium chloride or magnesium sulfate. The latter is done by a veterinarian, and the other two require a very sharp knife, or a steel rod that fits into the hole made by the cap-bolt gun, respectively., Excellent restraint will be needed to perform this procedure, using a head-gate and squeeze chute, or a medina gate with a head-gate attached. The restraint is so that the stunned animal does not harm you or the person handling the cap-bolt gun, or itself beyond collapsing with the stun.

Restraining by halter and lead is not enough, as this can pose significant risk to both you and the animal. If you are using a cap-bolt to euthanize, then avoid using a halter at all times.
The squeeze or medina gate must be able to open to the outside to easily access the animal with a tractor or skid-steer. It is extremely difficult to extract a euthanized animal through the head-gate due to both weight and body shape.
 An animal that enters the squeeze may be a bit afraid and panicked, so its best to wait until the animal has calmed down before proceeding with this method of euthanasia., The muzzle should be flush with the animal's forehead, and perpendicular with the angle of the animal's face itself.

It may help you to draw that X on the animal's forehead with a Paintstik® or Producers Pride® livestock marker crayon to ensure you are targeting the right spot.
 The firing mechanism in the cap-bolt will engage, sending the rod into the brain tissue of the animal through the skull. You will feel a sudden jolt, like firing a revolver, which means the gun has done its job. The rod will not stay in the brain tissue but come back into the gun via spring-action, and it's that rod that stuns the animal into unconsciousness.

This step and the one before must be done in quick succession and without hesitation. If you keep the muzzle of the gun to the animal's head for just a little too long, the animal may swing its head up suddenly and cause you to miss the shot should you fire at the same time.

Thus, if you're certain you're on the right spot, then immediately take the shot.
 This step is very important and must be performed within a few seconds--not minutes--to ensure death of the animal while it is still unconscious. The following secondary euthanasia methods and how to perform them are:


Exsanguination: Using a very sharp knife, like a 6-inch hunting knife or boning knife, insert the blade fully behind the point of the jaw and draw downwards until blood is freely flowing. The carotid artery and jugular vein must be severed for this to work effectively.

Another method of exsanguination or blood-letting is severing the brachial vasculature. Lift one of the forelimbs (one most easily accessible, as the animal will be laying on its side), and insert the knife deeply at the point of the elbow and cut the skin and vasculature until the limb can be laid back against the chest of the animal.
Chest-sticking is done to severe the vessels that extend from the top of the heart, like the vena cava and aorta. It is probably the most effective method of exsanguination because all blood flow to the head is stopped once these vessels are cut. A long blade (~6 to 8 inches, as mentioned) needs to be used; Insert fully into the chest in the mid-line where the brisket joins the ventral neck. Use a sideways slicing action in one direction and then the other to ensures that the vessels are severed.A third method is transecting the terminal aorta via the rectum so that blood pools in the abdominal cavity. This should only be done by a trained individual, like a veterinarian.



Pithing: Insert a pithing rod or similar tool into and through the entry site, and manipulate the rod deep into the head of the animal to destroy both brain stem and spinal cord tissue attached to the brain to ensure death of the animal.

Lethal IV Injection: A rapid injection of a saturated solution of either potassium chloride (KCl) or magnesium sulfate into the blood vessel will induce cardiac arrest. For most mature cows, an injection of 250 mL of KCl is appropriate, but the exact dosage for any animal may vary due to size of the animal. Solution must be given until death is confirmed.

Magnesium sulfate is delivered similar to KCl, but is approved for use only in anaesthetized animals, and results in much slower death.

Cattle must be unconscious or anaesthetized before this particular method can be used. It's also recommended to have a veterinarian perform this secondary euthanasia procedure.
 Depending on the secondary euthanasia method of choice and the state of the carcass, disposal is more flexible than when using barbiturates. If an animal does not have any drug residues in its system (from either euthanasia or prior attempted treatments), there is a possibility it can be butchered for meat. Check with your vet to be sure.