 A soft diet minimizes any pain you may feel from chewing. Foods should be blended so you are able to sip them through a straw. Continue to eat a balanced diet. Even though you are not able to chew, your body still needs all of the same nutrients.Remove skins, seeds, and peels before you blend them.
Cook meat and vegetables before you blend them.
You can add juice, broth, or gravy to thin out a mixture.
Avoid blending foods with small seeds such as blackberries and strawberries.
Don't blend raw eggs. Use powdered eggs instead.
You can continue to eat many of the foods that you liked before. For example, if you like spaghetti and meatballs, prepare the dish and then put it in a blender.
 You may be losing weight because of your soft diet. If this is the case, add extra calories to your food. Foods that you may add include:Powdered milk and protein powder
Sweets such as honey, ice cream, molasses, or sugar
Extra fats such as sour cream, cream cheese, nut butters, cream, and half-and-half.
 Brush your teeth with a soft bristle brush. Use your finger to pull out the cheek on the side that you are brushing. Then gently brush in a circular motion. In addition to brushing, rinse your mouth with warm salt water (1 teaspoon of salt in 8 oz of water).A child sized toothbrush may work better until your jaw heals. The head of the brush is smaller, and it will be more comfortable than an adult toothbrush.
Good oral care will prevent tooth decay, food buildup, and bad breath.Your doctor may prescribe a special mouth rinse for you to use. Always follow your doctor's instructions if this is the case.
Once you have finished brushing apply lip balm or Vaseline to prevent dry, cracked lips.
 Do not smoke, drink alcohol or participate in any strenuous activities (e.g. running, contact sports, etc.) while your jaw is healing. Smoking will dry out and irritate your mouth and gums and slow healing. Alcohol can cause dehydration and nausea. Strenuous activities cause your jaw to move and will prolong the healing process.Ask your doctor what activities are okay for you to engage in.
Walking after surgery is encouraged and is usually a safe activity.If you have surgery, avoid water related activities like swimming because it will be difficult to remove water from your nose and airway., You may experience some complications during your healing process. It is important that these complications are handled quickly so you can continue heal properly. Pay attention to any changes that you experience. Reach out to your doctor as soon as possible if you experience any of these:Trouble breathing, swallowing, or talking
Red streaks in your jaw area
A fever
Pus draining from your jaw
Your mouth is bleeding
Your jaw does not seem to get any better

