 If you are seriously injured and decide to go to the ER department, consider bringing a friend or family member who understands your situation and can clearly communicate to the staff. This is particularly important if English is not your native language and/or there is a good chance of losing consciousness. Clear, precise, polite communication will save precious time when dealing with hospital registration and ER medical personnel.


Head injuries often lead to confusion, loss of consciousness, dizziness and severe headaches — all of which hamper your ability to think and communicate clearly.Hospitals often employ people who are multilingual, but don't rely on the ER department being able to accommodate your native language or understand your cultural customs.;
, The vast majority of ER departments insist on inputting your personal information and registering you before you can see a nurse or doctor for medical attention. This approach is often an inefficient method for people with life-threatening injuries, but you can make the process smoother and quicker by having your identification, relevant medical history and health insurance information (if applicable) ready or handy to show.


Be prepared to fill out some forms and write legibly. If your writing hand is injured, then you may have to rely on a friend or family member for assistance.
To save time, bring your own pen.
Interestingly, it's not uninsured Americans who are the greatest ER users — it’s Medicaid recipients who show up five times more often than adults with private insurance (2007 data)., Despite being in pain, stressed and/or potentially frustrated with waiting times, refrain from being rude, verbally abusive or overbearing to the ER staff. Hospital staff is trained in how to deal with people who are injured or sick, but they only have so much patience. If you turn the ER staff against you with your negative behavior, that might trigger an increase in your waiting time or reduce the quality and/or quantity of medical attention you receive. Use respect and be courteous at all times.


ER departments can't turn any life-threatening situation away by law, but sometimes human nature isn't always empathetic or sympathetic.Remember, ER personnel see a high volume of extremely graphic human injuries. They are here to treat you efficiently — this does not always include sympathy.
Make sure to sit as close to the registration desk as you can while you wait (without being annoying) so you don't miss your name being called. Have your advocate stay on the alert for you if you are too injured to do so.
 Due to the increase in computer/cellphone usage, digital communication and wireless networks these days, online scheduling for various business appointments is gaining popularity and it has the potential to significantly reduce ER waiting times also.As such, research if your local ER department is set up to take online booking, and then consider making an appointment when an emergency arises. For the truly life-threatening conditions (such as heart attack or stroke), don't bother with this and call 911 or go straight to the emergency room.


Online scheduling may be most practical for people who need to travel long distances to an ER department.
If and when "ER booking apps" become widespread, then that will likely greatly increase online scheduling.
Technologies can be deployed in hospitals that monitor and report on ER room waiting times, which could be accessed by patients online. That way, you could view wait times before deciding to go to the ER.
If your local ER department isn't set up for online booking, then try to simply call ahead. The hospital may make an appointment over the phone much like a restaurant takes a reservation for dinner.
In the case of life-threatening emergencies, ask a level-headed advocate call the ER to alert them of the incoming situation. The ER can prepare for your arrival and make sure you get immediate attention. Be sure this person gives the staff an estimated time of arrival.

