 The best, most eco-friendly option is reuse. Replacing old cabinets adds potentially harmful finishing chemicals to landfills, so consider repainting, replacing just the doors or refinishing your cabinets with low volatile organic compound (VOC) products.;
, It helps to see the materials first hand when choosing cabinetry, instead of simply researching online. Many eco-friendly materials are fairly new to the market, so you may not have come across them before.
 These are the traditional ways that new cabinetry is sold.


Stock cabinets are sold as-is. Although you can order in a number of dimensions, the frame, design and colors are set and not customizable. This is usually considered the least expensive option.
Semi-custom cabinets allow you to make some choices that are customized to your room, such as adding cabinets with tambour doors or covering large appliances with cabinet doors for a unified look.
Custom cabinetry is usually provided by a carpenter. You choose the material and work with the carpenter and/or an interior designer to decide how you will maximize your cabinet space. The time, design and personalization of the cabinets means that this is usually the most expensive option.
 There are a number of environmentally conscious choices out there. However, your budget and your interior design may establish which choice is best for you.


Pick sustainably forested local wood. Wood that grows in your state or nearby supports your local economy and saves on the carbon footprint of the material associated with trucking wood over long distances. Look for wood that is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). This private non-profit supports responsible sustainable forestry and supports wood that is sustainably forested.
Choose recycled wood. Recycled or refurbished wood can be taken from previous construction projects and used anew in your home. You can often refinish the wood. There are extra costs associated with procuring enough wood for your project, hiring a carpenter and refinishing the wood.
Pick cabinets made with medium density fiberboard (MDF). This common construction material can be made from 100 percent recycled materials. Inquire about the recycled content of the MDF before settling on your choice. This is often a less expensive option, because it is not made from raw wood.
Order wheatboard cabinets. One of the newest eco-friendly cabinet materials on the market, wheatboard is made of recycled wheat chaff. It is a sustainable, renewable resource.
Choose alternative materials to wood, such as recycled metal. Although metal is used more infrequently, sheets of scrap metal are an excellent eco-friendly choice, especially when made locally.
 Make sure no urea-formaldehyde was used, as it is a known carcinogen that can emit gas when heated and lower your indoor air quality. Look for models with low VOC.


Be extra cautious about VOC if you are choosing MDF or wheatboard products. Formaldehyde is naturally found in wood; however, urea-formaldehyde is commonly added to the resins and sealants that hold this material together. Research companies that state they have not added extra formaldehyde during the manufacturing and finishing process. If the company does not specify, it is likely that they use potentially toxic urea-formaldehyde formulas.
 Go to greencabinetsource.org to see a list of cabinet manufacturers that carry the ESP seal. There are over 150 cabinet manufacturers that carry this seal.
 Although this might be a more expensive option than ordering online, buying locally saves on transportation and carbon emissions. Inquire about where your local cabinet companies acquire their wood, to ensure they are using local sources instead of trucking the materials in.
 Buying cabinets that are more expensive, but last longer, will save you money on renovations in the future. It is also a greener option, since fewer used cabinets will make their way into a landfill.
 Inquire at building re-use centers around your area, or ask local cabinet companies if they have a cabinet recycling program.

