 You can get over the counter vapor rub from Vick's to help your fungus. A study showed that daily application of Vick's VapoRub for 48 weeks can be as effective as topical treatment options such as Ciclopirox 8% for nail fungus.To treat nail fungus with Vick's VapoRub, first make sure your nail is clean and dry. Apply a small amount of Vick's VapoRub on the affected area daily with your finger or a cotton swab, preferably at night. Continue treatment for up to 48 weeks.


Your infection may go away before 48 weeks, but continue for a few weeks after signs of your infection go away to ensure it is cured.
 Tea tree oil is a natural anti-fungal. One study showed that tea tree oil may be effective for nail fungus. 18% of patients who used tea tree oil twice daily for 24 weeks were cleared of the infection.To treat nail fungus with tea tree oil, use a 100% solution because lower concentrations have not been proven to be effective for this particular infection.Make sure your nail is clean and dry before application. Apply a small amount tea tree oil solution with a cotton swab to affected area twice a day for up to 6 months.
 In a study that included 110 people, snakeroot extract was shown to be about as effective as topical treatment options. To use this method, apply the extract every third day for 4 weeks, twice a week for the next 4 weeks, then once a week for the next 4 weeks.


Snakeroot leaf extract is not commonly available in the US. It is a traditional Mexican remedy and is more commonly found in Mexico., There are many situations that make you more at risk for infection. You are at a higher risk if you are older, have diabetes, have an impaired immune system, or have poor circulation. If you are at high risk, you should take extra care to prevent infection. Preventative measures include wearing shoes or sandals when you are at damp public areas such as swimming pools or gyms, keeping your toenails clipped and clean, making sure your feet are dry, and drying your feet after you shower.


You should wear clean, absorbent socks. Wool, nylon, and polypropylene are materials that help keep your feet dry. You should also change your socks often.
You should discard old shoes after you get rid of your fungus. They can contain remnants of the fungi. You can also wear open toe shoes to help reduce humidity.
Do not share nail clippers or tools used for manicures and pedicures. Choose nail salons carefully.
Use antifungal powder or spray to help reduce your chances of infection.
Avoid wearing nail polish or using artificial products on your nails. This can trap moisture and provide a damp area for fungus to grow.