 Crayons and paper are art supplies that many parents already have lying around the house. They are a great way to teach your toddler shapes. Sit down with your toddler and draw a shape, such as a circle, on your piece of paper. Ask your toddler to draw a circle on her piece of paper.
 Painting with sponges is a fun way to teach your toddler shapes and make art at the same time. Cut a cheap sponge into multiple shapes. Have your toddler dip the sponges into kid-friendly paint and stamp shapes on paper. Ask them to stamp particular shapes to help them learn the difference between them.If you already have foam shape blocks lying around, you can use these instead of cutting or purchasing your own sponges.
 Some toddlers might not be ready to use a paintbrush, but their fingers are the perfect tools for learning shapes with paint. Use a heavyweight paper that is glossy on both sides as this will prevent the paper from absorbing the paint. You can purchase this along with nontoxic, kid-friendly finger paint from most discount retailers, online merchants, and even some grocery stores. Ask your child to paint different shapes using their fingers., There’s a good chance you have a chalkboard in your house. This is a great opportunity to help your toddler learn shapes. Take a piece of chalk and draw a circle on the chalkboard. Tell your toddler that the shape is a circle. Ask her to draw her own circle beside yours.
 Use cardboard to make circle cutouts in several different sizes. Help your child trace circles onto different colors of paper using the cardboard cutouts. Punch a hole through the center of each colored paper circle. Create a circle necklace by putting a piece of yarn through the middle of each colored circle to create a rainbow circle necklace., Using construction paper, draw and cut out a large triangle to serve as the base for the triangle tree. Then help your toddler draw lots of small triangles on other pieces of construction paper. Cut out these triangles. Finally, help your toddler paste the small triangles on the larger one to make a triangle tree.

