 The main difference between this creamy peppermint pie and the traditional one is that the creamy version doesn’t use gelatin. This means the consistency is more like mousse, and it doesn’t set like the traditional pie. Moreover, this particular pie uses a ganache garnish instead of whipping cream, but you can substitute any garnish you like. Along with your ingredients, you'll also need:Small bowl
Medium bowl
Electric beaters
Mixing spoon
Plastic bag and hammer
Nine-inch pie plate
Food processor

, Place the cookies and butter into a food processor and pulse until the cookies become fine crumbs. Pour the crumbs into the pie plate and pack them into the bottom and sides of the plate to make a pie shell.

Bake for seven to eight minutes at 350 F (177 C) to allow the shell to set.
Remove the pie crust from the oven and let it cool completely before filling it.
If you don’t have a food processor, place the cookies in a sealable plastic bag and crush them with a hammer.
 Place the candies in a plastic bag and use the hammer or a rolling pin to crush them into small pieces.
 Add the cream cheese and sweetened condensed milk to a medium bowl. Mix with the beaters until the mixture is fully incorporated and smooth., Gently fold the whipped topping and peppermint candies into the cream cheese and milk mixture. Stir just to combine.Avoid stirring too much, or the whipped topping will lose its air and become runny.
 Pour the mixture into the pie shell and use a spoon to spread it around evenly. Refrigerate for several hours, until the filling becomes firm., Add the chocolate chips and heavy cream to the top portion of a double boiler. Fill the bottom of the double boiler with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Heat over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the chocolate chips have melted.

When the chips are melted, stir in the corn syrup. Refrigerate the ganache until it has cooled and thickened slightly.
Before serving the pie, spoon the ganache into the center of the pie and spread it around in a circle, leaving at least an inch of pie filling showing all around the edge.