 Most baked goods that you buy already baked, prepackaged, or in ready to make mixes contain trans fat. This includes crusts and frosting. Read the label to make sure, but cutting out processed baked goods is one of the best ways to significantly reduce your trans fat.Baked goods with trans fat include cookies, cakes, pies, donuts, muffins, croissants, breads, and biscuits. You should also be careful with canned biscuits, canned cinnamon rolls, and frozen pizza crusts.
Many people think making their own baked goods is healthier, but many commercial cake and muffin mixes contain trans fat. Make sure to check the label or for products that state they have no trans fat or hydrogenated oils.
 Many snack foods that you can buy in the store contain trans fat. Many are cooked or fried in hydrogenated oils or shortening or use trans fat to help maintain flavor. Choose brands with better ingredients.Potato chips, corn chips, tortilla chips, crackers, pudding cups, and popcorn are snacks that contain trans fat. Many frozen snacks, like pizza rolls or mozzarella sticks, also contain trans fat.
 Deep fried foods often contain trans fat. This includes foods that are deep fried and then frozen, or fried foods that you buy in restaurants. Instead, choose baked or grilled foods.French fries, fried chicken and other meats, fried vegetables, and fried baked goods all commonly contain trans fat.
 While dairy products like milk and butter don’t contain trans fat, many dairy replacement foods do. Nondairy coffee creamers often contain partially hydrogenated oils. Stick margarines and some soft margarines also contain those ingredients., Fast food staples commonly contain trans fat. French fries and onion rings are usually fried in hydrogenated oils. Fried fish and chicken used in sandwiches, chicken tenders, or fish sticks also are usually contain trans fat., Baked goods and donuts aren’t the only things you get in restaurants that contain trans fat. Milkshakes, creamy coffees, hot chocolates, and ice cream-based drinks can contain high amounts of trans fat., Jerky and other meat-based snacks may contain protein, but they also can contain multiple grams of trans fat. Try to cut out processed meat snacks, which can also contain unhealthy amounts of sodium and other additives.