 You should only consider buying earthquake insurance if you live in an area prone to relatively frequent or potentially dangerous earthquakes. While most of the United States is susceptible to earthquakes, a lot of these areas encounter only minor or incredibly infrequent ones. In addition to considering your geographical location, you should also consider the type of dwelling you live in. Some buildings are more prone to damage than others.


California has the most frequent damaging earthquakes and Alaska has the largest earthquakes. In general, but not always, earthquakes occur west of the Rocky Mountains.
Buildings made of brick, wood frame homes, and homes with multiple stories are most susceptible to damage. In addition, older homes tend to be more dangerous.
You can assess a number of these factors by visiting the United States Geological Survey website. You can access the site at http://www.usgs.gov/. There you will encounter information including hazard maps and maps of fault lines.;
, Insurance coverage generally covers certain types of damage while excluding others. When you are looking at different plans, it is also important to understand deductibles and premiums.


Earthquake insurance generally covers your dwelling, your personal property, and sometimes additional living expenses (ALE coverage). Dwelling coverage will include damage to your home, up to a certain amount (called the limit). Earthquake insurance usually does not cover landscaping, pools, fences, or separate buildings on your property. Personal property coverage usually includes items such as your televisions, furniture and your computers. It does not usually cover china or crystal. ALE coverage helps with the cost of being displaced while your area is evacuated or while you are repairing your home.
Every insurance policy has exclusions, which are things the policy will not cover. It is not uncommon to have an earthquake policy that excludes fire damage, land damage, vehicle damage, and flood damage. All of these things are usually covered in other types of policies.
Every policy will have various deductibles, which is the portion of the damages you will be responsible for paying. Usually, you will have different deductible for different portions of your coverage. For example, you may have a deductible for dwelling damage that equals 10-15% of your limit. A deductible for personal property may be hundreds or thousands of dollars depending on your coverage limits.
Premiums are your yearly costs for having the coverage. You will usually be billed twice a year for your policy. So long as you keep up-to-date on your premiums, you will most likely have coverage when you need it. Your premium will depend on various factors including the age of your home, what it is built out of, its location, the type of soil it sits on, the cost to rebuild it, and the deductibles., In a state like California, if you have homeowner's insurance, your insurance company must offer you earthquake insurance periodically. If you rent, you may need coverage for your personal belongs and ALE coverage. If you own a condo, you may need coverage for your personal belongings and ALE coverage, as well as coverage to cover any home association assessment fees.


If you live in California, shopping for insurance is relatively straightforward. The California Earthquake Authority (CEA) provides a majority of the coverage. While you do not buy directly from CEA, you will buy from CEA member insurance companies. These companies only offer CEA policies.If you live outside of California in a state prone to earthquakes (e.g., Alaska, Hawaii, Nevada, or Washington), you can shop for insurance by contacting your state's department of Insurance. For example, in Nevada and Alaska, you can download an insurance guide from each state's government website. The guides will help you understand where and how to get earthquake insurance., You can determine the cost of coverage by contacting your broker directly or by using an online calculator. If you are contacting your insurance broker, sit down with them in person so you understand exactly what protection you are getting for what price.


If you live in California, the CEA offers a premium calculator on their website. You will follow the on-screen prompts and answer a series of questions. When you are done, the CEA calculator will show you what your premium might be., If you cannot afford earthquake insurance, there are a number of things you can do to minimize the potential damage to your home, and therefore your costs of repair. The most common alternative is retrofitting. When you retrofit your home, you make it safer and stronger. You can retrofit your home by bolting it to the foundation, bracing the chimney, bracing the water heater, putting in automatic gas shut-off valves, and using plywood to strengthen cripple walls.Aside from retrofitting your home, you can also:


Secure breakable items using museum putty;
Use latches on cabinets;
Bolt tall furniture to studs in the wall; and
Tie down computers and televisions., After an earthquake occurs and if you suspect or see damage, contact your insurance agent as soon as possible. When you contact your insurance company, they will open a claim immediately.


A claim is your request to have the insurance company cover certain losses or damage.
When you talk with your insurance agent, they will likely ask you general questions about what happened and what was damaged.
In California, you have one year to start a claim or the insurance company can deny it. Make sure you start your claim as soon as possible after you find the damage., Once a claim is opened, your insurance company will assign you a claims adjuster. This person usually works for the insurance company and is responsible for assessing damages and losses and estimating costs. The claims adjuster may also be an independent contractor.Work with the claims adjuster's investigation and meet with them when they come to assess the damage.However, be aware that it is their job to minimize the amount payable to you by the insurance company. While they must do this within certain legal limits, be careful they assess your situation fairly and completely.
 Before, during, and after you are assigned a claims adjuster, document the damage yourself. Take pictures and videos of cracked walls, damaged foundations, and broken personal property. Do this as soon as possible after it is safe to assess the situation. Keep everything in place when you are documenting the damage and do not move anything unless you have to. You can also keep a list of all of the personal property that was broken or damaged during the event.


This information can help the claims adjuster make a decision on your payment. It can also help you if you disagree with the claims adjuster and you need to dispute a decision.
 If you do not agree with your claims adjuster's determination on the amount of damage incurred or the payment to be authorized, you should request to have your own inspection done. You should be able to get a contractor to your property and have them give you estimates regarding how much it would cost to have your property repaired.This information can be a great resource if you have to dispute your claim results in the future.
 Whenever you talk with anyone at the insurance company, including people they contract with, you should keep detailed notes that include who you talked to, when you talked to them, and what the conversation consisted of. If you are in contact over emails or other written correspondence, keep copies of those documents., When the claims adjuster has done their job, they will compile their notes and determine what damage is covered and what is not. While this will be done by the insurance company and their personnel, it is important you check their work. Pull out your insurance policy and carefully determine what type of damage is covered and what is not. You should also evaluate the amount of your deductible in order to determine whether following through with the claim is even worth it.


For example, if your policy does not cover fire damage and your basement was severely burned due to a broken gas line that caused a fire, that damage may not be covered by your policy.
In another example, assume your policy covers dwelling damage up to a limit of $100,000. The deductible on your policy is $10,000. If your dwelling only sustained $4,000 of damage due to an earthquake, it is usually not worth it to follow through with a claim. Assess these things before making any final decisions.
 Your payment will come in the form of a check and will be sent to you by the insurance company. Along with your payment will be a detailed description of what the damages were and what is covered and what is not. If you claim payment is larger than your deductible, the insurance company will subtract your deductible from their payment.For example, if your claim payment is $30,000 and your deductible is $10,000, you will receive a check for $20,000 ($30,000 - $10,000).
 If you do not agree with your insurance company's final decision regarding their payment to you, start by discussing your concerns with your insurance agent. Show them your independent assessment, which will include your independent inspection, your photos and videos of the damage, and all the correspondence you kept between yourself and the insurance company.


You should always ask for a written explanation regarding their decision. They will usually give this to you when you receive your payment. Analyze their reasoning carefully and question things that don't make sense.
You should also check your policy for an appraisal clause if you disagree about the value of your claim. An appraisal clause allows either party to the contract to request that the property and damage be appraised by a third party. The clause will then dictate how the appraisal will be handled after it occurs.Your insurance company might also have an internal review process. If so, file a formal complaint with your insurance company and wait for a response.
 If your insurance company is unresponsive to your concerns, you can contact your state's department of insurance for help. In California, this is the California Department of Insurance (CDI). To file a complaint with CDI, go to their website and click the link for filing a "Consumer Complaint Online."


Once there, you will be able to choose the type of insurance coverage you are complaining about.
You will then have to insert your personal information as well as the insurance company's information. You will also be able to describe your complaint and attach any supporting documentation you have.
Once you file your complaint, CDI will investigate it and send you a determination letter spelling out their decision., If every other avenue has failed, you may want to consider suing your insurance company. In general, you will sue on a theory of breach of contract, violations of consumer protection laws, or a violation of "bad faith" law. These types of cases can become fairly complicated and can involve multiple parties. Therefore, if you are thinking about suing your insurance company, you should hire a qualified attorney to help.To hire an attorney, visit your state bar's website and use their lawyer referral service. For example, in California, you can talk to an individual who will ask you general questions about your case and they will get you in touch with qualified attorneys in your area.