 Even if you have already increased the thickness of your typical moisturizer for the winter months, you may find partway through the season that even a thick cream is not enough to prevent your skin from feeling tight or itchy. That is a good indication that you need to increase the heaviness or thickness of the cream.


The marketing terms used on facial moisturizers can give you a clue as to the level of hydration they provide. While there are no industry-wide regulations on the use of the terms, products labeled "serum," "lotion," "cream," or "oil," tend to contain increasing amounts of oil. That is to say, a serum is mostly water based, a lotion contains mostly water with some oil, a cream contains more oil, and a face oil tends to be mostly oil, although it often contains other ingredients as well.You can use more than one product for extra moisturization; just be sure to start with the product that is more water-based first, so it can absorb into your skin before applying the next product.
 Even if you have been diligent in applying lip balm all winter, extreme environmental conditions like winter sun and wind and dry indoor air might still result in flaky, peeling, or even cracked and bleeding lips. Treating them properly can keep the problem from escalating, and prevent future problems.


Try a medicated lip balm such as Carmex or Blistex. These medicated balms contain ingredients like camphor as an analgesic, dimethicone to treat dryness, and a sunscreen to prevent further issues.
If your lips continue to be irritated despite using lip balm regularly, consider that you might be allergic to the balm itself. Many people experience irritation using natural and plant-based oils in their lip products (like beeswax and shea butter). Try using a petroleum-based moisturizer, like Vaseline or Aquaphor, which will provide a protective layer to your skin., These specialists will be able to diagnose your skin care needs and provide a personalized plan for treatment through the winter months, taking your area's weather into account.


If you have severe winter skin issues like eczema or psoriasis, you might need a steroid prescription, which is only available from a doctor.
A sore, dry, or irritated patch on your face or lip that will not heal despite continued treatment can be an indication of an underlying problem, including skin cancer. Be sure to visit a dermatologist and have any such issues assessed to rule out the risk of cancer.