 To begin your morning sun salutation, stand at the front edge of a yoga mat, palms pressed together in front of your chest in prayer position. Breathe deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.Your heels should be slightly separated with the edges of your big toes touching each other. You may want to meditate for a moment in this position, focusing on your breath and clearing your mind.
On an inhale, extend your arms outward and raise them over your head. Bring your palms together and lift your eyes to focus on your thumbs.
Keep your shoulders neutral, pulling them away from your ears.
 On exhale, lower your arms to your sides and fold forward over your legs. This motion is similar to doing a swan dive into a pool of water. Move slowly and deliberately, focusing on your breath.Press your fingertips to the floor in line with your toes. If you can't reach that far, you can bend forward with your palms pressed together in front of your chest, rest your palms on your shins, or place a yoga block in front of you and rest your hands on it.
As you inhale, flatten your back and lift your gaze. However, if you cannot flatten your back comfortably, then do not attempt this move. If you need to put your palms on your shins so you can fully flatten your back, do so. Focus on keeping your back very flat and straight, as though your back were a table.
Do not attempt this motion if you have osteoporosis or an arthritic spine.
 As you exhale, plant your palms firmly on the floor and jump or gently step back into plank position. Your shoulders should be aligned above your wrists, and your back should be flat. You should be able to draw a straight line from the top of your head down to your heels.If you can't hold the plank position, you also can lower to your knees rather than keeping your legs straight and being on your toes.
Inhale while still in plank – you can take several breaths if you feel like you need to, breathing into the position. Focus on lengthening your spine and firming up your core.
 On exhale, lower from plank so that your knees, chest, and chin are touching the floor. Your elbows should be bent, squeezing against your ribs. Focus on keeping your hips and thighs off the floor.There is a more advanced version of this pose in which you keep your entire lower body off the floor while still bending your elbows along the sides of your body, much like your position when you're doing push-ups.
If you're trying to do the more advanced version, lower to your knees if you start to get tired or stiff – don't force yourself to hold this position if it becomes painful.
 On inhale, drop your legs to the floor and push forward, raising the front of your body into the low cobra position. Try not to press too deeply into your hands, instead thinking of the motion as lifting up.Bend your elbows outward slightly so you can roll your shoulders away from your ears, then straighten your arms to raise your upper body into an upward facing dog position.
Your legs should be straight behind you with your knees and thighs off the floor. Make sure your palms are pressed firmly into your mat directly below your shoulders, with your fingers pointed forward.
 On exhale, push backward, raising your hips and rolling over your toes to reach downward facing dog. If the single movement is too difficult for you, add an intermediate step of coming to your hands and knees first.Your heels should be raised slightly off the floor, your palms firm and flat in front of you. Spread your fingers and make sure your back is straight and flat.
Downward facing dog is a good resting pose. If you need to rest at this point, you can stay in this position for several breaths, focusing on lifting up toward the ceiling, away from your wrists, and pushing down through your heels.
 On an exhale, step or jump your right foot forward, then bring your left foot forward as well. Your feet should be just behind your hands, in the same forward bend that you were in at the beginning of the sun salutation.If you decide to jump forward, bend your knees on an exhale and propel your lower body forward, aiming to land your feet just behind your hands with your toes pointed toward your fingertips.
As you inhale, raise to a flat back and lift your chin to gaze forward. Keep your shoulders rolled down against your back, pulling them away from your ears.
Breathe through the pose, focusing on keeping your back as flat and long as possible.
 On an inhale, stand tall and reverse the swan dive you did at the beginning of the sun salutation, bringing your arms out and up. Press your palms over your head, lifting your eyes to gaze at your thumbs.On an exhale, firm up your legs in mountain pose and lower your arms, bringing your palms together in front of your chest in prayer position.
You can consider this the end of your morning stretching routine, or you can do several sun salutations in a row.
For a more challenging and invigorating routine, you might consider doing five sun salutations with a breath for each movement, flowing through the routine at a brisk pace without stopping. Only go at this speed when you're comfortable with each of the poses and know you can do them with proper form and don't need any intermediate steps to move from one pose to the next.

