 Use scissors or a box cutter. You want a nice, clean cut so the bottles can be taped together cleanly and straight.Cutting off the cap end of the bottle will make the rocket more aerodynamic and durable. A rounded end is also softer so it will do less damage to any objects if the rocket hits something when it lands.
 It will act as the firing chamber that will hold the water and pressurized air. It will also be attached to the launcher, or other bottle.
 Feel free to personalize the two bottle rocket with any logos or patterns. Be creative!

, You can use Play Doh, similar to the procedure for the one bottle rocket, or kitty litter. Kitty litter is cheap, heavy, and when wet, will stay in place well.To put in the kitty litter, tip the cut bottle and pour in about ½ inch of kitty litter. Then, add enough water to wet the kitty litter completely. Add another ¼ inch of kitty litter and soak it again.
Avoid dumping in too much kitty litter as this can create a dry layer of kitty litter than could get loose and scatter when the rocket is launched. Too much kitty litter, or weight, in the rocket, can also cause the rocket to hit hard when it comes down.
Dry the inside walls of the bottle and use duct tape to help hold the kitty litter in place.
 Line them up so that the cut bottle is on the bottom of the intact bottle. Press the bottles together, so that the edge of bottom, cut bottle goes over the intact bottle and tape them together with duct tape., These will be the fins of your rocket, so try to cut them at perfect right angles. This way, they will hold the two bottle rocket straight and make sure it coasts smoothly.


Place the fins on the lower part of the cut bottle.
Bend “tabs” into the sides of the fins so that they can attach to the rocket body more easily. Then, tape or glue them on.
 Ensure the hole is the same size as the valve of your bicycle pump valve.
 You can also wedge it in with pliers for a tighter fit.
 Make sure it fits into the cork tightly.
 Hold it by the neck of the bottle and place it onto the bicycle pump valve.
 Make sure you are in an open, outdoor area. The rocket will shoot up quite fast and high so remove any obstructions and warn anyone around you before you launch it. To launch the rocket:Pump air into the bottle. The rocket will go off when the cork can no longer withstand the pressure building up in the bottle.This is usually at around 80 psi.Release the bottle. The water will shoot out everywhere when the bottle rocket takes off, so be prepared to get a bit wet.
Be cautious once you start pumping and do not approach the rocket, even if it appears that nothing is happening with the launch, as this can lead to injury.