 If you don’t have square paper, take a rectangular piece of paper and fold one corner down and align the edges. You will have a triangle shape with your fold and a rectangular portion left over. Remove the rectangular portion to end of with a square.Lay your paper on the table with the colored side facing down and the white side up.
If your paper has two different colored sides, note which one is facing up and which one is facing down. If your paper is the same color on both sides, make a small mark or draw a design to identify the two sides. For example, mark the bottom side facing the table. This mark will help you know which side of the paper is currently facing you. The side or color that starts facing the table will be the side or color that you will see when the bird is complete.
 Fold your paper in half, first on a horizontal fold. Then unfold and fold it again this time on a vertical fold.


Unfold your paper so it’s laying flat again. You should have two creases that look like a cross. If you marked the bottom, the marked side will be facing the table.
 Now fold the paper on a diagonal so that you create a diagonal crease. Unfold and repeat with the other side.


You will now four creases in your paper. Two diagonal ones, one vertical, and one horizontal. If you marked the bottom, the marked side will still be facing the table.
 Fold the bottom of the paper up away from you on the horizontal crease. The bottom marked side will now be up facing you.


Then rotate the paper so the two open flaps are facing you.
 You will now have a triangle with a flap overlaid onto a square portion of the paper. Fold the triangle in half bringing the flap over to the left.


You will already have crease lines so follow those and fold on the creases.
The inside flaps of your folds will be the none marked side of paper that was originally facing up.
Repeat this with the other side of paper until you have four triangular flaps. Your paper should look like a triangle with two flaps on each side.
 Take each of the two top flaps and fold inward to align the inner edges to the center crease.


You will now have a diamond shape made up of two flaps over the base flaps of your paper.
Fold the top flaps in half on a backward fold. Now take the flaps you just folded and fold each one backward, aligning the outer edges.
You will now have three layers of folds.
 Lift each flap up from the inside edge. Bring it over to align with the center crease.


As you bring this flap over to the center crease you will be creating another crease and expanding the outer edge of your top flap.
The outer edge of the top flaps will be aligned with the crease from your previous fold.
You will still have three layers.
 Now take the flat flaps which are the layer of paper on the table and fold each side in to align with the outer edges of your last fold.


Your paper will now resemble something like a stealth bomber paper airplane with four points at the bottom and one point at the top.
 Keep your previous folds intact as you lift up the center of your paper.


Pull back the two flaps that make up the tail to reveal a flat portion of paper below. Pull the flat portion of paper up through your two flaps.
Keep the folds you made for the tail intact by folding on the creases, but in the reverse direction. This will allow you to flatten the layers of folds.
You will now have a piece of paper that is standing up and looks like a shark fin. The outsides of the fins should be the same color and side that you've marked. The inside is the plain color.
 Take the edge of the shark fin and flatten it on top of the other layers of folds.


You will now have a triangular shape which fits in between the inner edges of your wings.
You will now have a total of six layers of folds if you look at the back of your bird.
 After the wings are flat you will see a diagonal crease line in the center of each wing. Keeping the center folds intact, pull out on the top layer of the wings in an upward and diagonal direction until the crease line becomes the outer edge.


The bottom edge of the wings should be flat. You will now have another layer on top with a diagonal bottom edge that meets at a corner.
When you pull the paper outward, press down on the center folds of your bird and let the portion you are pulling out flatten on the creases you’ve previously made.
You want to keep the center fold and the tail folds of the bird intact.
 Fold the wings in again so the bottom edge of this fold aligns with the bottom edge of your first layer of paper.


Make sure each wing is even and that all the bottom edges line up.
 Then make a small triangle fold on each side bringing the top corners of the wings inward.


Align the long edge the triangle fold to the crease you just created from your previous fold.



Fold the wings inward keeping the small triangle folds you just made intact.
You will have crease lines to use as guides as you fold the wings back over twice on each side. The first of these two folds is the same fold you made before folding the triangle corners.
A portion of your paper on your second fold will go over the center area. The bottom of the wings should align with the tail.
 Take the tip of your paper and fold it back so the point meets the horizontal bottom edge of the center layer of paper which is just above the tail.


You will now have four points at the bottom, two from the wings and two from the tail. The top of your paper will be flat with the tip pointing down toward you.
 Fold the portion you just folded down back up in half so that the tip extends just beyond the flat top part of your bird.


You have now created a zig-zag like fold with the part of the paper making up the head and beak.
 You now need to extend the wings on each side. Pull the wings out so that the bottom edge of each wing is flat and horizontal again.


This is tricky, but you need to keep the bottom edge of the bird’s head intact while unfolding the wings from beneath.
Flatten the paper out. If the area around the bird’s head looks smushed that’s fine.
 Fold the bird in half so the wings move up and the folds you made are exposed.


Make sure that both sides are as even as possible and the edges of the wings line up.
 Leave enough room so you can grab the body like you would for a paper airplane.


You want to fold the wings down so that the top edge of the bird is flat while the wings are pointing down.
Then, pull the wings up so that each is flat on the top. Do the same for the tail.
The outside of the bird will show the marked side that you originally had facing down toward the table.
You can now throw your bird like you would a paper airplane.

