 You won't need to start a hotel or become a landlord in order to open up your house to guests. Today it is possible to list your home or other available space on-line, allowing guests to pay a nightly rate that you set. It can be a fun way to earn some money and meet new people.


Airbnb is a popular website that allows you to list your home as being open for guests.
You can set your own nightly rates.
If you are renting, ask your landlord before offering their property on any on-line service.
 If you already own your own car you might consider using it to drive others around, allowing you to act like your own taxi service. Currently there are a few on-line services that let you sign up and offer your own transport to others, earning money while doing so.


Uber and Lyft are both popular ride sharing services.
 The Internet has connected the world like never before. As a result many professionals have turned to freelancing, working directly with clients. If you have a marketable skill then you might turn to freelance work and turn that skill into an income.


Freelancing means working directly with your own clients.
Elance is an example of a popular freelancing website.
Most freelance jobs require skills such as writing, editing, programming, design or other creative backgrounds.
 If you own some valuable items you can try selling them on-line to turn them into cash. There are many websites that allow you to list the items you want to sell, making them available to other people for purchase. Selling some of your items can be a great way to make money without having any to start with.


Sites like eBay allow you to auction off your items.
Craigslist allows people to sell directly to others.
 You can earn money by starting your own blog. Bloggers are online writers that choose their own subject matter and topics, creating appealing and well written articles for their readers. Most revenue generated will be from selling advertisement space or directly recommending products or services. Start thinking of some of the key aspects of creating a good blog to get started:Think about your topic and focus. Ask yourself what you want to write about.
Create an appealing design for your blog. You want it to look attractive and uncluttered.
Write excellent content to build up trust and satisfaction amongst your readers.
Open your blog up to advertisers, write paid reviews or sponsored content to start making money from your blog.

