 Foods rich in vitamin C help to increase collagen production, which helps to thicken the skin over time.


Foods that are rich in vitamin C include citrus fruits, oranges, kiwi fruit, broccoli, tomatoes and cauliflower. The daily requirement of vitamin C is 75-90 mg.
Foods that are rich in vitamin E are olive oil, avocados, broccoli, pumpkin, papayas, mangoes and tomatoes. The daily requirement is 15 mg.
Foods rich in vitamin A include oranges, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, spinach and carrots. The daily requirement for vitamin A is 700-900 mg.
 Water helps to remove waste products and toxins from the body, therefore revitalizing the skin. It also helps to improve skin elasticity and allows it to heal naturally.


Aside from drinking water, you can also improve your hydration levels by drinking herbal teas and eating fruit and veg with a high water content, such as watermelon, tomato, beets and celery.
 Supplement your diet with borage seed oil and fish oil. These help in strengthening collagen beneath the skin and in keeping the skin hydrated.


These oils are also rich in vitamin B3, which is important for healthy skin. One form of vitamin B3 (known as niacinamide) may even help reduce wrinkles and improve skin elasticity.
The recommended daily dosage of these oils is 50 mg. taken orally, in capsule form.
 Bone broth is a traditional food which is known to boost the immune system. It is an excellent source of minerals and gelatin. Bone broth also supports the joints, hair and skin due to its high collagen content. It helps to eliminate cellulite as it supports smooth connective tissue.


To make bone broth, look for high quality bones from grass fed cattle, bison, pastured poultry or wild caught fish. Add 2 pounds of bones to one gallon of water and bring to boil. Lower heat and continue boiling for 24 hours for meat bones or 8 hours for fish bones.
The purpose of boiling for a long time is to really soften the bones so you are able to extract a gelatin-like liquid using a sieve. Drink the broth or mix with other dishes.

