 Start by going dairy-free for several days. Then choose a day to attempt consuming one specific dairy product (for instance, eat cheese that day but no other dairy). Keep track of your symptoms. This way you can determine if there are certain products that do not upset your stomach. Very few people have such severe intolerance that they cannot eat dairy at all.


Swiss, cheddar, and other hard cheeses have lower lactose and might cause fewer symptoms than soft cheese like ricotta and brie.
Some people who are lactose intolerant can eat yogurt without a problem because of the bacteria cultures in it.Low-fat and fat-free ice cream, hard cheese, cottage cheese, and yogurt contain less lactose per serving than milk. Some people who cannot drink milk can tolerate these other products in moderation.;
, Do not overwhelm your body with lactose. Try to limit drinking milk to 4 ounces at a time (118 ml) or less. Drink low-fat or fat-free milk instead of whole milk.It’s likely that you can have some amount of dairy, and just have to discover your limit. Start with a very small serving of one dairy product, and if you do not have any symptoms, then try a larger serving the next day. With trial and error, you can determine what you can eat, and how much of it, without symptoms., There’s no “cure” for lactose intolerance, but you may be able to make symptoms tolerable or even non-existent. Eliminate dairy products from your diet, and then begin to introduce them slowly. You may be able to help your body acclimate to increasing levels of dairy., You’re less likely to get symptoms if you have dairy with other food. Taking dairy with meals makes it easier for your body to digest everything, and will likely cause fewer symptoms for you than just having dairy on its own., Because lactose intolerance is so prevalent, many grocery stores carry lactose-reduced or lactose-free products. These generally do not taste any different than regular dairy products.Lactose-free products shouldn’t cause you any stomach upset; whether or not you get symptoms from lactose-reduced products depends on your body and how much lactose is still in the product.


Lactaid is a brand that sells many different types of lactose-free dairy products, such as milk, ice cream, cottage cheese, and eggnog.
 Lactase is the enzyme that breaks down lactose in your body (most people are lactose intolerant because their body doesn’t have enough lactase). You can get tablets or drops from your drug store, usually over-the-counter, which contain lactase. These products come in different forms. Some you take as a tablet before eating lactose; others are liquids or powders that you add to dairy products.


SureLac and Lactaid are some examples, but there are more.Some brands of milk even contain the lactase enzyme to minimize the lactose in the milk; look for this on the label.
Using these products can be helpful if you’re unsure of the lactose content of a meal, like if you’re eating at a restaurant.These products don’t help everyone who is lactose intolerant. Some people are lactose intolerant for a different reason than lactase deficiency., In their natural state, probiotics are tiny organisms that live in your gut and help you digest food and keep your intestines healthy. You can also get probiotics in capsule form from your pharmacy (usually over-the-counter). Taking probiotics may help ease diarrhea and symptoms of lactose intolerance, and can be tried if other treatments don’t work.Probiotics are considered generally safe, but you should still check with your doctor before taking them to make sure they won’t interfere with any other health conditions or medications you take.

