 For example, if there’s a famous sculptor with your friend’s name, you can run a search like “Friend’s name -sculptor.” This specialization will eliminate all the results that feature the sculptor and hopefully narrow the pool to find your friend.
 Perhaps your initial searches were partly or not at all successful. Hopefully there are some bits of information that you can use for additional searches.


Was there a user name that appeared to be affiliated with your friend? For example, if your friend had user name AA55 on YouTube, you might try entering your friend’s name + AA55 on Google.
 Facebook and LinkedIn are your best bets for such personalized searches, as members of these networks are required to present their actual identities.
 Click on the Facebook People Search link. On the rightside of the screen, you will be shown a series of search options, some of which will be more relevant to you than others. (i.e. Name, Hometown, Current City, High School, Mutual Friend, College or University, Employer) Input the information you have to see if you can locate your long-lost friend.


If you find your friend, click on Add Friend. (Do not send a message before adding the person as your friend; the message will likely appear in the person’s Message Requests folder and might go unread if you are not Facebook friends.) , You will be able to access a list of people who currently work or used to work for that employer. On the left hand side of the screen, you’ll be given options to narrow your search. (I.e.Relationship, City, Current Company).


There is a chance that your long-lost friend is on Facebook and/or LinkedIn, but cannot be found through the search methods above. Facebook gives its users privacy options that allows them to receive friend requests only from Friends of Friends. , meaning there’s a possibility that you might find your long-lost friend and not be able to reach them through Facebook. LinkedIn also has options to limit contacts from strangers. .
 You may run into a dead end using the most popular search services. Fortunately, there’s still hope.


Spokeo is a “deep Web” search that scours all kinds of corners of the internet that an ordinary Google or Facebook search would not uncover. You'll need the full name of your friend, their email address, their phone number, or their address. You then filter your results by location. For free, Spokeo will show the person’s name, age, closest relatives, and locations where they’ve lived. For a fee, Spokeo will unlock information like social media profiles, photo details, previous addresses, and court and historic records.
Intelius provides a similar service.For a fee, it allows users to run a background check, do a reverse phone lookup, or find someone’s email address.
Try a public records search. . If you know a state where your friend may have purchased property, or a zip code where they filed for divorce, you may be able to conduct a public records search to find your friend. Be wary of paying fees beyond those administered by the government: Do Free Public Records Searches Online


, This will produce a unique URL result for the person you are looking for which will appear in Search Engine results - you can then harness the power of the web to help find your lost friend or relative. You can find WikiWorldBook at www.wikiworldbook.com.


WikiWorldBook is not a social network; it’s an online address book in which people provide self-identifying information so that they can be located. , Hopefully your friend is not deceased, but you may want to search obituaries just in case. Legacy.com and Ancestry.com provide useful search terms.

