 You will probably be able to find your ingredients in the produce section and in the baking goods/spices aisle. All of the ingredients in the drink (which is spicy but nice) are common in other flu-fighting home remedies. You will need:


Pineapple juice -- it’s full of bromelain, which has been used as an anti-inflammatory.6 fresh lemons
1 bulb of fresh garlic
Ginger powder
Honey
Cayenne pepper;
, Mince up the garlic before you begin. Juice all 6 lemons and remove any seeds from the juice. The recipe:


The juice of 6 fresh lemons
1 clove of garlic, minced
2 tsp. ginger powder
2 tbsp. honey
3 cups pineapple juice
¼ tsp. cayenne pepper.
 Use a martini shaker or electric blender to get the best results. You can just combine the ingredients in a tall glass if you don’t have a shaker or blender.
 Determine if you’ve been tired lately due to lack of sleep or whether it might be a cold or the flu. Evaluate where it hurts. Typical signs of the flu include:Cough
Fever (often accompanied by chills)
Sore throat
Headache
Neck and back pains
Runny nose, sinus pressure

, Sometimes low grade fevers go unnoticed because they can sometimes start before the rest of your flu symptoms (such as aches and pains). And if you feel certain you have a fever, it’s good to monitor it to make sure you don’t let it get too high., Depending on your symptoms, you will probably want to get some over the counter cold and flu remedies. Early intervention is key to reducing symptoms and feeling better. Some useful remedies might be:Cough syrup (it can be especially helpful if you’re having trouble sleeping)
Pain relievers (this would be for fevers, headaches, and any body pain). Either acetaminophen (Tylenol, store brands) or ibuprofen (Advil, store brands) are good choices.
Sinus spray (good for helping to keep your nose clear of mucus)

, For some people, having the flu can severely tax an already-compromised immune system. An antiviral can help you avoid the worst of the flu symptoms, and shorten the time you are ill. If you have various other health concerns, are pregnant, or over 65 you might be a good candidate for an antiviral prescription, which needs to be taken during the early stages of the flu., Drink approximately 1 cup of the mixture four times daily until symptoms ease. Make more as necessary. Even if its ingredients are not actively helping you get better, the potion helps you stay hydrated.
 Getting enough fluids in your body while you’re sick is important -- it can help you recover more quickly. If you’re congested, try hot beverages like herbal infusions, or the classic chicken noodle soup. If you feel you still aren’t getting enough fluids, sometimes a sports drink can help restore more electrolytes and help you feel better., Rest for as long as you need. Sleeping helps your body heal and recover from the symptoms of whatever flu strain you might be suffering from. Stay away from others so that you don’t get them infected, and wash your hands often and well.