 Eggs are often used as an ingredient in homemade face masks, and you can make a face mask just using egg whites. Start by separating the white from the yolk of one egg. Place the white into a bowl and beat it thoroughly with a fork or a whisk. Aim for a foamy consistency.


Once you have a foamy egg white, you can apply it directly onto your face.
Ensure that you have washed and dried your face and hands before you apply the mask.
Leave the mask on for around fifteen minutes. When you feel your skin tightening up, gently wash it off with warm water and a soft cloth.
Apply some moisturiser after patting dry your skin.;
, You can use tissues with egg white to create a mask that also works as a peel treatment for your skin. For this method, beat two egg whites so that they become foamy and frothy. With a clean and dry face and hands, apply around half the egg white to your skin. You can use a make-up brush if you have one.


Separate a few tissues so that they are just one sheet thick, and then stick these tissues to your face with the egg white acting as an adhesive.
Paste the remaining egg white over the top of your tissue mask and leave it to dry.When you feel it has become tight on your skin you can peel it off piece-by-piece.
Rinse your skin. If you have dry skin, apply a moisturiser after this treatment.
 Egg whites work well when combined with lemon juice. The lemon juice can help loosen dead skin cells which then stick to the egg and are washed away. Start by separating three eggs so that you have the three whites in a bowl. Add approximately a tablespoon (15ml) of lemon juice to the egg whites. Beat the whites and lemon juice together until you have a foamy mixture that is beginning to show peaks.


After washing and drying your face and hands, carefully apply the mixture to your face.
Leave it to dry for around fifteen minutes, and then rinse it off with warm water.
Pat your face dry and then apply a moisturiser., For another variation on the egg white mask you can add avocado, honey and milk. Avocado is rich in vitamins that can help increase your skin's healthy glow. Mash up a quarter of a avocado and mix it in with a beaten egg white. Then add a teaspoon of milk and a teaspoon of honey. Mix it together thoroughly so you have a smooth substance.


Apply it to a clean and dry face and leave it for around fifteen minutes before gently washing it off with warm water.This mask will probably not dry and tighten your skin as much as other egg white masks.

