 One of the first signs you may get that a guy has a sexual addiction is that he is dishonest with you. Sexual addicts often have to lie in order to cover up their obsession and their behavior.While you don't have to dissect everything the guy says, you should be alert for blatant dishonesty or inconsistencies that you notice.


For example, if a guy tells you he spent the weekend doing work, but you find tickets to a strip club in the trash, it definitely suggests he isn’t being honest with you. However, keep in mind that it is rare to find this kind of obvious confirmation about a person’s lies. You may notice more subtle things, such as him spending lots of money and not having a good explanation about where it went. Or, you might find he is not where he said he would be when you go to check up on him.
 Sex addicts often do things that put themselves and others at risk for physical, emotional, and other problems because of their obsession with sex. Although it includes several different behaviors, taking sexual risks on a regular basis may be a clear sign that a guy has a sex addiction. Check to see if he has a criminal record, such as for hiring prostitutes, as a way to determine if he engages in risky sexual behavior.
 For guys that have a sexual addiction, their thoughts about sex and efforts to engage in it may result in them neglecting other responsibilities and obligations.Pay attention to how well the guy is addressing other areas of his life to get an indication of whether he is a sex addict.


For example, has the guy been neglecting or missing school or work for seemingly no good reason? Or has he been fired from his job?
Or, for instance, a guy may neglect bills and other financial obligations because of money they are spending on their obsession with sex.
 If you’re in a relationship with a guy that is a sex addict, you have to realize that his addiction doesn't just affect him. Because sexual addicts often engage in risky behavior, it puts you at risk for stress, emotional strain, financial problems, health issues, and more. Make sure you’re taking proper precautions in all areas of your life.For example, you should make efforts to avoid unprotected sex with a guy who you think has a sex addiction. It is perfectly acceptable to request that a sexual partner provide documentation that they have recently had an STD screening.
You may want to make it harder for him to access money, credit cards, or your other financial information.
Avoid putting yourself in sexual situations, or being alone with a guy that seems aggressive in addition to showing signs of a sexual addiction.
 If you do know a guy who shows many of the signs of sexual addiction, you should support him in getting help. In some cases, the guy may not see his behavior as a problem and may not want help. In other cases, though, your support could help the guy address his problems and treat his addiction.


For example, you might tell your new boyfriend, “Based on several things I’ve noticed, I think you have a sexual addiction. Can we talk about it and about getting you help?”
You might suggest he review the information about treatment for sexual addiction provided by Psychcentral.Keep in mind that you might have to have a series of conversations about your concerns as he opens up to the idea of having a problem. He may be very defensive about it at first. Give him time to process what you have to say and see if this changes.
 It can be easy to become focused on someone else's issues. But if you are in any type of relationship with this person, it's important to make sure that your feelings are a priority, too. Whether you are friends or in a romantic relationship, remember that you matter in this relationship, too.


If you feel ignored, anxious, or have difficulties expressing your feelings, your needs are probably not being met.Try setting some boundaries. Don't be afraid to say, "I need to take some time to focus on myself."

, If you are in a romantic relationship with someone who is sex obsessed, you might find yourself feeling frustrated or even angry. Ask your partner if he is willing to try couples counseling with you. This can be a great way to find solutions to relationship problems.If your partner doesn't want to seek counseling, you can go on your own. You might find it very helpful to talk through the issues in your relationship.
Help is also available through Sex Addicts Anonymous (SAA). This organization is open to people with addiction and their partners.

