
Attraction:This takes place when a person feels (emotion) a connection with a person beyond the image.
Love: This is a combination of levels of both desire and attraction which creates a certain level or depth of love.;
, This is why some relationships have a deeper bond and longevity. Marriage is considered the ultimate depth of love, and "proof positive" that your mate is irrevocably, and unconditionally admirable of you and will be with you until the end of all time. While this is a valid interpretation of marriage, the worth is only as valuable as the individuals embarking upon this type of commitment. If the level or depth of the aforementioned elements are superficial, this type of commitment will not have an everlasting bond.



Marriage is a sacred decree, (emotional), in which two individuals declare, in accordance with Gods law, their commitment and love for each other.
A wedding (physical) is a ceremony in which two individuals declare before family and friends their commitment and love for each other.
Once the man violates the decree(emotional), he is merely a participant in a wedding ceremony (physical).
 Perhaps he/she is such a person and you are as well. This can be reinforced if all parties are open and honest with this type of situation.
 Truthfully, single men can cause more drama, detriment, and unnecessary pain in your life, if their intentions are not admirable. Which oftentimes, they are not. They can mislead you for months, even years, and leave you bewildered and confused as to why they won't commit, want just a "booty call", or "friends with benefits", you know him; "THE PLAYER-PLAYER". With a married man you know he has attempted to be in a committed, monogamous relationship, and is probably a good father, provider, and a great lover, all of which we as woman consider great traits and secretly desire in a man.
 It should go without saying that having an affair with a married man is something you'll generally want to avoid. To be perfectly clear, having an affair with a married man is an easy way to ruin multiple lives, including your own. However, if it's too late to prevent, you can still do your best to ensure the affair does as little damage as possible to your life, your paramour's life, and his family members'. The best way to do this is to take measures to ensure that no one ever', ever discovers your affair in the first place. Below are just a few examples of ways to keep your secret love affair a secret:


Only contact your lover via secure channels of communication (secret cell phones are a good bet) and only when you're positive he's alone.
Never flaunt your relationship. Don't tell anyone - even your friends. Don't even make veiled hints or references to the relationship.
Don't spend time with your lover in public. You have no way of knowing when or where you'll run into someone who knows him.
 To avoid unnecessary heartbreak (which is a possibility regardless of how well you conceal your affair), you'll want to make sure that you and your lover are absolutely clear on the boundaries of your relationship as soon as possible. For instance, you may want to consider setting some of the following limits:


Neither lover will ever ask the other to compromise their relationship with their "real" partner in any way.
Neither lover will ever try to move the relationship in a "more serious" direction.
Both lovers will have the right to end the affair at any time.
 When it comes to affairs, envy is a recipe for disaster. If you're a married man's secret lover, you absolutely must be OK with him spending the majority of his time with his wife and family. If you can't come to terms with the fact that you're the "other woman", an affair is probably an even worse idea for you than it would normally be. Never, ever, ever let your jealousy get the better of you. It can lead you to make decisions that can end in catastrophe for you, your lover, and/or his family.


If you're about to make a drastic decision out of anger or jealousy, try waiting one day before you act. Never act without giving yourself a chance to cool down and consider all the consequences of your actions.
 When it comes to affairs with married men, this is the oldest piece of advice in the book. Having an affair with a married man is a very bad thing to do, but destroying his family is even worse. Mistresses should stay very, very far away from their lover's home, his family, and especially his children. Don't ever allow yourself to come into contact with your lover's family or try to position yourself between your lover and his family.


This advice is as much in your own self-interest as it is in your lover's, as, if you attempt to interfere with his family, you're essentially forcing him to choose between you and his wife, which may end badly for you (to say nothing of the damage his family might experience).

