 Adding a quarter cup of Epsom salt to your warm bath for ten or fifteen minutes will aid in relieving the inflammation and removing flakes. The salted water also acts as an antiseptic, reducing any secondary infections that may occur on the scaling patches of psoriasis and arresting the bacterial growth on open cuts.


Remember to reapply any moisturizers after finishing your bath to avoid skin dryness.
 Apple cider vinegar is an age old disinfectant used by many people. It can relieve itching of the scalp due to psoriasis, but it should not be applied on open wounds and cuts because it can cause intense irritation.
 Capsaicin, found in cayenne peppers, can reduce the itching and burning sensation caused by psoriasis. It can be purchased in cream form, and works by temporarily affecting nerves to block the pain sensation.


As an alternative to a topical cream, you may add cayenne peppers to your meals, which may provide enough capsaicin to keep the burning pain at bay.
 The active ingredients of paraffin can help reduce the spread of psoriasis plaques. Additionally, paraffin prevents loss of moisture from the skin and helps keep the plaques moist, reducing itching. You may apply soft white paraffin as often as you need each day.


Paraffin is also available over the counter as a cream.
 Applying oils can help to moisturize the skin and reduce the effects of scaling.


Coconut oil can reduce skin dryness and reduce the scaling and peeling of the skin. Coconut oil can also soothe the cracks and cuts caused by psoriasis. You may apply coconut oil 2-3 times per day to keep the itching under control.
Second to coconut oil, olive oil is the best oil to reduce dryness and itching. Olive oil is best used for the scabs and plaques of scaling.
 Applying lemon juice to the skin can remove flakes and moisturize skin when applied for about ten minutes, then washed away with warm water. This therapy can be repeated for about three weeks, or you can simply drink lemon juice throughout the day. Eventually, your skin flakes may become thinner and less rigid.
 Coal tar can reduce psoriasis pain and the size of skin lesions, by gentle exfoliating. It can be found in some shampoos, bath solutions and cream forms. However, coal tar has an offensive odor and can stain skin.
 Turmeric is a spice that has a powerful anti inflammatory effect.You can simply add it to your diet, using it on chicken, meat, or even rice recipes.


Turmeric can also be applied directly in a paste form, by mixing one teaspoonful of turmeric powder with about three tablespoonfuls of water, mixing until you have a thick paste. This paste can be applied to the affected areas for about 30 minutes then washed away.

