 Find a t-shirt, letterman’s jacket, or sweatshirt that has your name on it and give it to your boyfriend or girlfriend. Trading clothing with your name on it is a great way to be a cute couple. Trade clothing even if it doesn’t have your name on it. You’ll feel closer to each other and people will notice.


If you are very different in size, this may not always work. Small people can wear big clothes, but big people in small clothes might look silly rather than cute. If you want to wear your partner’s clothes, even if they are tight, though, go for it.
 When the school semester is dragging on, or you are bored in the hot days of summer, pick out each other’s clothes and wear what your partner chooses. Have fun styling each other in fancy or silly outfits. Make each other look good and increase your cuteness as a couple.Pick a theme for each day like what you’d wear to a fancy dinner, how’d you dress on a day off, or an unfashionable, mismatched outfit for something silly.
Make a deal that you have to wear whatever you pick out for each other. Be sure to tell people that you styled each other that week.
 Any chance you get to wear a costume is a perfect opportunity to match. Select a famous character couple from a book, TV, or movie. Dress up as different versions of the same character or theme. Be sure it’s obvious that your costumes go together.Look at costumes that people have already designed or come up with an original idea and design it yourself.
For example, you could dress up as Ash and Pikachu from Pokemon, Red Riding Hood and the Wolf, or a slice of pizza and the pizza delivery guy.
 Look through each other’s closets and find outfits that match. If you have the exact same shirt, like from a club or sports team, this always works. Choose similar color schemes or patterns that make you look great together.The main goal is to be on the same level of fanciness in your attire. If one person wears a nice dress and the other wears sweatpants, it’s not really matching.
Wear jeans and flannels, your fanciest outfit, or matching tracksuits.

