 Your rabbit's diet should consist of high quality pellets. For younger rabbits especially, pellets are a vital component of a healthy diet.Pellets should have at least 18% fiber. They should also be nutritionally balanced. You can talk to your vet about the right type of pellet for your rabbit's needs.
Younger rabbits who are still growing will generally need more pellets. If your rabbit is older, you'll want to give him less pellets and feed him vegetables and hay as a supplement to his diet.;
, Rabbits need access to hay 24 hours a day. Hay is great for nesting, and also aids in digestion. Go to the pet store and pick out a bag of high quality timothy or oat hay. Make sure there's always a few piles of hay present in your rabbit's cage so he can eat and nest as he pleases., Rabbits love vegetables, and they're also a great component of a healthy diet. In addition to spoiling your rabbit with quality hay and pellets, it's a good idea to give him fresh vegetables each day. Alfalfa, beets, broccoli, pea pods, lettuce, green peppers, kale, and carrots are some great options to spoil your rabbit.Make sure to cut bigger veggies up so your rabbit can easily eat them. Also, file down any harsh edges so your rabbit doesn't hurt his teeth or gums while chewing.
You should also pay attention to the types of vegetables your rabbit likes if you want to spoil him. If he's largely disinterested in lettuce, but goes crazy for kale, give him kale more often. Your rabbit will feel happy and spoiled if he gets to load up on his favorite foods all the time.
 High quality treats are important to spoiling your rabbit. Make sure you have a lot of treats on hand. Give your rabbit a few treats a day to make him feel valued.Fresh fruits can be a great treat for rabbits. They should not be a dietary staple, like vegetables, as they can cause weight gain. However, if you want to spoil your rabbit, give him a piece of fruit now and again.
You can also purchase rabbit treats at most pet stores. Rabbit treats come in a variety of forms, so you may have to do some trial and error to figure out what your rabbit likes. Buy a few different types of treats. See which ones your rabbit takes to, and stock up on those to spoil him.
If you want to really spoil your rabbit, try making homemade rabbit treats. This can be a fun activity that keeps your rabbit healthy and spoiled.
 Grooming your rabbit can help strengthen the bond between you and your pet. Not only can brushing help you feel close to your rabbit, it can also prevent issues like fur balls.Brush your rabbit about every 3 days. When your rabbit is shedding, brush him slightly more. You can use a slicker brush, which you can buy at most pet stores, to brush your rabbit.Brush your rabbit going in the direction of his fur. Use slow, gentle motions so your rabbit enjoys the experience.
 A massage is a great way to spoil your rabbit. It can help him relax and bond with you. It will also make him feel comfortable, promoting circulation and increasing the range of the joints in his muscles.Slowly run your fingers over your rabbit's nose, and then move them over his head and body. Work your way all the way down to his tail.
Make circling motions with your fingers over your rabbit's cheeks, as well as between his ears.
Not all rabbits like being handled extensively. If you just got your rabbit, it may take him some time to get comfortable with your touch. You may want to wait to massage your rabbit until he comes to you on his own. If your rabbit growls or clicks his teeth, you should stop massaging him.
 Rabbits are social creatures and love to play games with their owners. If you want to spoil your rabbit, schedule some time to play each day. Rabbits love to knock things over, throw things, and chew. Play games that cater to these instincts, always setting aside a small pocket of your day to play with your rabbit.You can set up miniature bowling pins for your rabbit. You can usually buy these in a department store, in the toy section. Rabbits love to knock things down, so your rabbit will love pushing over the bowling pins after you set them up.
You can provide a variety of cloth and plastic toys for your rabbit, which you should be able to find at a pet store. Many rabbits enjoy picking things up and throwing them. You can allow your rabbit to throw his toy, and then retrieve it for him.
Provide toys for your rabbits to chew on as well, as rabbits love to chew. Give them old rolls from paper towel and toilet paper, as well as boxes of shredded paper.
 Rabbits can develop very affectionate bonds with their owners. However, you need to let your rabbit come to you on his own terms. Try to get down on the floor, on your rabbit's level, and let him out of his cage. Make sure the room is closed off, quiet, and free of distractions. Wait for your rabbit to approach you and only then should you try petting and snuggling him.Rabbits enjoy different things, so it may take you awhile to see what kind of petting your rabbit enjoys. If your rabbit enjoys a form of petting, he may close his eyes in contentment and rest on the floor.
Some rabbits are more social than others. Certain rabbits may get in your lap while you're sitting down, while others may keep a slight distant. If you want to spoil your rabbit, make sure you allow him to set the rules. Allow your rabbit to come to you on his own terms, and pet and snuggle him in ways he enjoys.
Watch out for negative body language. This is a sign your rabbit is agitated. Rabbits may growl or grind their teeth when stressed. They may also kick their feet in the air while walking away from you. If your rabbit engages in these activities in response to petting or cuddling, stop. Your rabbit is telling you he does not like being handled in that way., If you want to spoil your rabbit, give him a lot of space. A large cage will keep make your rabbit happy, allow you to spoil him. Swing by your local pet store and pick up a spacious cage for your pet.As a general rule, the bigger the cage the better. Try to get the biggest cage you can safely fit in your home. You can try getting a cage separated into different compartments, allowing your rabbit to move from one space to the next.
Some people allow their rabbits to roam about their home, or have one room designated as a rabbit safe space. This can be great for your rabbit, especially if you don't have the money or space for a larger cage. However, if you make this choice, rabbit proof that area first. Make sure no electric cords are exposed without proper covering. Provide a litter box, so your rabbit has somewhere to eliminate. You should also supervise your rabbit when he's loose to make sure he doesn't dig at the carpet or chew on the furniture.
 Rabbits also need a variety of toys to stay engaged and happy. You should strive to get toys of a variety of texture. Just make sure any toys are made from non-toxic material, as rabbits are prone to chew.Things like wooden boxes, balls, parrot toys, and stainless steal measuring cups will entertain a rabbit for a long time. You can purchase these items at a pet store or supermarket.
Rotate toys every few days. Rabbits will get bored with the same toys after awhile. Every couple of days, switch out the toys you have and replace them with new ones.
 You can also make toys for your rabbit. With old material from your home, you can spoil your rabbit with a variety of homemade toys. Rabbits are big fans of materials like wood and cardboard, so reusing old materials can really spoil your rabbit.Rabbits love disassembling and chewing. Take a few old toilet paper roles and place them in an empty tissue box. Your rabbit will love removing all the toilet paper roles and then gnawing on the cardboard.
Weave leafy greens into a slinky. Then, hang the slinky from somewhere in your home or in your rabbit's cage. Your rabbit will love munching on the greens while chewing on the slinky. Make sure to supervise your rabbit when he's playing with this toy, however, to make sure he doesn't get tangled or caught.
Buy a few wooden boxes from a craft store, as well as a wooden board. Make sure the boxes have lids. Using non-toxic elmer's glue, glue the boxes onto the board. Put some vegetables, treats, or fruits inside the boxes. Allow your rabbit to rummage through the boxes in search of the treats.
 Rabbits are outdoor animals by nature, so it may be a good idea to let your rabbit roam outside on occasion. However, if you're going to allow your rabbit access to the outdoors, take certain precautions.You can set up a pen in a flat area in your yard. Make sure the area is free of any potentially toxic plants. Also, make sure any gaps in the fence are small enough that your rabbit can't escape.
A few times a week, let your rabbit play in the pen. You'll want to supervise him the entire time to make sure he doesn't get loose. Some rabbits may try to dig under a pen. If you see your rabbit digging, stop him.
You can also buy a small harness for your rabbit at a local pet store. You can take your rabbit on short walks around your backyard. However, be careful if there are any dogs or cats that occasionally roam your neighborhood. They may see your rabbit as prey.

