 If you're a total newbie, don't worry about the Custom Classes. You can explore those later. For now, you will want to practice with Lito's Preset Classes. However, if you're an experienced player (or maybe a very ambitious newbie) looking for a guide to custom classes, check below at part four.


Good guns for the beginner. If you have absolutely no experience with the game, it's recommended to pick a class like Rifleman, Light Gunner, Heavy Gunner, Submachine Gunner, Machine Gunner, or Shot gunner. These are classes with very good weapons that automatically fire (except Rifleman and Shotgunner, where you have to repeatedly click to fire the rifle). Since each map is different, each of these four classes are better on different maps (although they're all really good at close range). Decide which class you'd like for the current map, and click it to select it (you can always change it later when another map appears).;
, Now that you've picked your weapon, you will need to know the basic controls. CoR has many controls that might not be obvious to the newbie player. You use WASD and space to move and jump like in any other ROBLOX game. However, there are many other keys beside that, which will be discussed in the next few steps.
 One of the first things you want to learn is how to sprint. Sprinting is a very useful method to get across maps quickly and to avoid enemy fire. To sprint, hold down your left SHIFT (the one you usually use, right below caps lock), or double-tap W. Although sprinting only happens for a limited amount of time, there's no cooldown on it, so you can just sprint again right after you stop. It is advisable to sprint in zigzags when you know your enemy is in front or behind you, and that he has a long range weapon that can kill you in one hit.
 Another very useful thing that many players don't realize until they've played for a long time (but that you're learning right now because you're reading this guide) is how to knife or bayonet someone. Knifing can save your life in close encounters and hand-to-hand combat. To knife, press F right before you run into an enemy (you have to be touching the enemy for the knife to do damage). Knifing is an instant-kill if it hits. Bayoneting does the same thing, only that you press E (snipers and pistols don't have bayonets). Some people recommend zooming out to third person while knifing, but it's not required.
 One of the most important things you should learn is how to aim down sights. Most guns will fire very inaccurately if you're not aiming down sights while shooting them. To aim down sights on your gun, press Q. This will allow it to shoot much farther without losing too much accuracy.
 While trying to be a sniper is not recommended when you're still a newbie at the game, you can press Z to zoom in with a sniper rifle (you can then adjust your zoom with E). Alternatively, you can also press Q to get a non-zoomed-in scope. This is very useful for quickscoping.
 Killstreaks are one of THE MOST important things in the game. You can get a killstreak by killing multiple enemies before you die. Killstreaks gain you rewards; the higher the killstreak, the more rewards you get (up to a 25 killstreak). To use these rewards, press G. Some of these rewards include throwing knives, ammunition drops, landmines (called bouncing betties), bazookas, and several different kinds of artillery.



Grenades are very useful explosives that are thrown. Some grenades weigh less than others, and can be thrown farther. Most grenades explode several seconds after they're thrown. If you want to make them explode faster, simply click and hold one second before you throw them. But watch out: your own grenades can hurt you, so make sure to get away from them if you're throwing them at an enemy close to you. If you want to see a guide on where and when to use different grenades, check out part two below.
Satchel charges. Later on in the game, you might encounter satchel charges, which are a special type of explosive that you can throw and then detonate whenever you want. Satchel charges are usually found as either a perk, or as a killstreak reward. To use a satchel charge, first throw it, and then press R to detonate it. Make sure to get away from it first, though, as your own explosives can hurt you (but not your allies).
Bazookas. A bazooka is a very useful weapon that can be used to attack snipers or difficult-to-get-at enemies. You can get a bazooka as a perk from one of your classes, or as a killstreak reward. To use a bazooka, you MUST aim down sights (press Q). You can use a bazooka to deal with enemies that are charging at you, or to blow up a sniper. But remember to fire a bit above a faraway enemy, since the rocket arcs.
Throwing knives. Throwing knives are a very effective tool when used correctly. You can get throwing knives from killstreak rewards (they are the very first reward, for killing one person). Throwing knives come in sets of three, and are thrown at nearby enemies. A throwing knife will deal 30-50 damage when it hits someone in the arms or legs, 75 damage in the torso, and it will instantly kill if it hits someone in the head. A skilled player can easily kill with these, so it's a good idea to experiment with them and train yourself to use them.
 In the menu you can go to game settings and switch to mouse-lock. In Cor5, this allows you to hip-fire with ease because a small circle replaces your standard cross-hairs. This can be a fun and useful thing to learn early in the game, but please note for this to be effective the weapon must be able to hip-fire with some accuracy, so no snipers, and be a weapon that would benefit from a smaller cross-hair. (so no shotguns) This can be used well for most weapons, but is most useful with dual pistols and the steady aim perk, making you a mid-range machine in battle. This method can also be a loophole of the 3rd person patch that prevented players from zooming too far out in battle, showing the player an almost GTA like shooting mechanism on their screen. However, this will not allow you to shoot people from behind walls like you could before the 3rd person patch.
 A good gun and a bunch of grenades aren't the only things you need to win in Call of Robloxia. You also need to know how to fight. There are several basic tactics that will be discussed below, such as strafing, flanking, leading, concealing yourself, and landmining or satchel charging.
 Strafing is a basic tactic that can help you avoid enemy shots. To strafe, simply press your WASD keys in a random pattern, while jumping repeatedly. Try to make sure your pattern is random enough that enemies can't predict it and shoot where you're moving next. But don't be so focused on making your pattern random that you forget to shoot: the sooner the enemy is dead (especially if they're a sniper), the better. Strafing can be very useful when going akimbo (dual pistol) so it is smart to use this in that class.
 Say you round a corner on a building and see an enemy. You start shooting, and they disappear behind the other corner. You could try to charge to where they were and shoot them, but they will most likely be already gone. Most people will try to go around the other side of the building and hit you from behind. This tactic is called flanking, and you can do it as well. However, be prepared for the enemy to realize you're flanking, and try to flank you as well. Then it becomes a fight at the back of the building. If this happens, you can either use your pistol to shoot them, or if you're close enough, knife 'em.
 Camping is a tactic favored by snipers and occasionally people with a shotgun, but anyone can do it. When you camp, make good use of landmines (discussed below). To camp, you need to find a good place, usually a choke point like right behind the entrance of a building, or right behind an opening where enemies are likely to go through. Make sure to landmine any other entrances so enemies can't get you from behind. Then you can stay there and wait for enemies to come so you can shoot them.
 There are many different ways to snipe, but this step will talk about long-range sniping. There are two different kinds of long-range sniping: stationary, and mobile.


Stationary is where snipers attempt to hide themselves somewhere so they don't need to move to avoid being shot. Remember, you can climb and hide in some trees (especially on winter passage).
Mobile snipers don't necessarily have to hide, and rely on strafing to avoid being killed.
In either case, it's good to find a nice, high vantage point so you can see enemy players and shoot them. However, make sure not to get shot by another sniper (try to kill anyone that notices you). A good tactic is to get landmines and place them on ladders and entrances near your sniping spot, so anyone that comes to kill you is blown up.
 If you want to snipe but don't feel like camping somewhere and picking off enemies from a distance, quickscoping is a very useful way to get kills. Quickscoping does take practice to learn, but once you are good at it, you become an almost unstoppable killing machine in both long and close range combat. Quickscoping is highly recommended, as it will rack up more kills once mastered than camping. Quickscoping requires you to have a sense of where the center of the crosshairs are even without zooming in. When you approach an enemy, simple zoom in for a split second, kill them, and zoom out. Most players don't realize that a sniper has two modes of scoping: Z, for zooming in, and Q, for a non-zoomed scope. It's recommended to use Q to quickscope.
 When you equip your sidearm, you can move faster. Plus, your sidearm is designed for surprise close encounters that often happen when you're moving in an area full of enemies. If you're not fighting someone, switch to your sidearm to sprint. However, if an enemy appears too far away to use your pistol (like at the other end of an alley), use your main weapon.
 Some players become obsessed with knifing, and try to do it at every opportunity. This isn't a good idea, since if you're not careful, you can get shot to death while trying to knife an enemy. If you bump into an enemy in an alley or are about to ambush them, knifing them is a great idea since they won't have time to react. But if you miss and they're backing away and shooting you, it's better to get out your pistol and quickly shoot them. In first-person mode, knifing causes the player to look up by a slight degree when he knives.
 By now, you should know the different kinds of grenades and what they do. Not all grenades can be used in every situation. Knowing when and where to use them can get you many kills.
 Frags and stickies can be used to kill people who are hiding behind corners waiting to ambush you, or who are charging at you. They can be thrown very long distances, so if you train yourself to throw them well, you can use them to blow up snipers from far away. Stickies are even more versatile, as they can be used to stick to an enemy (who will explode and die instantly after a few seconds). If you get hit by a sticky and know you are doomed, don't just stand there and wait to explode. Find your nearest enemy and try to get as close as possible to him or her so that when you explode, you have a chance of blowing your enemy up too.
 The molotov cocktails don't explode, but they create a burning patch of fire where they land. A one hit kill is possible with the molotov, but it is not recommended to go for this as if the enemy isn't in the exact right place at the right time molotov will not prevail. While the fire doesn't kill instantly, it slowly saps the health of your enemies, making them very easy to kill. Use molotov cocktails to "block" hallways, building entrances, and other choke points where enemies are likely to come through.
 Smoke grenades explode creating a cloud of smoke around them. They can be used defensively, as most enemies won't go through them fearing that when they come out an enemy will be waiting for them. They can also be used strategically, as throwing one into a heated battle area will halt enemy fire long enough for you to reload most weapons. If paired with the reconnaissance perk, they can be used as a cheap but effective way to take down enemies.
 Special grenades, called "signal flares", are a very unique kind of grenade that doesn't explode or splatter flames everywhere. Instead, they emit bright light, which blinds anyone who gets too close to them. They are useful to force snipers to move out of their hiding spots, or to blind enemies at close range. But make sure not to get too close to them, since they affect you and your allies as well.
 Landmines, known as bouncing betties, are extremely useful and also very fun. Bouncing betties are found as a perk for some classes (like Sniper from Lito's Preset Classes), and as a killstreak reward (for killing 3 people). Strategic uses for bouncing betties include placing them at choke points (like the top of a ladder or right around the corner of a hallway) where enemies are likely to pass by. If you plan on sniping, it's a good idea to place betties at the entrance to your hideout, so any enemy that comes in will blow up instantly. However, some players leave one betty unused when camping so that when an enemy blows up, they can quickly place another one down for "prolonged safety". Another good use for bouncing betties is to place them in wide-open spaces where enemies often walk by. It is also advisable to place more of them in enemy spawn-points and strongholds and placing less within your area, although not zero if you are planning on defence against "intruders".
 Bouncy betties are not invisible - a very small yellow dot can be seen on the ground (for this reason, try to hide bouncy betties right around corners or wherever enemies aren't likely to look as they pass by). However, if not placed well, the bottom part, which is either blue or red depending on your team, may be revealed, but the betty does not lose its function. The "exposed betty" scenario can also occur when a betty is carelessly kicked around. Friendly bouncy betties have a green label above them, just like teammates do, while enemy ones aren't revealed. Try to check the ground in front of you ever so often for yellow dots, especially if you're in enemy territory or climbing ladders/stairs. When you find an enemy betty, you can shoot it to get rid of it (although this is very hard to do and requires aiming down sights for many players). If you've triggered a bouncy betty, you have about half a second to back off or jump to avoid being killed. Practice this - it could save your life. Even professional players don't usually avoid getting obliterated as betties deal splash damage.
 Artillery strikes are very useful killstreak rewards (for killing 5 people) that can be used to blanket a whole area with continuously falling bombs for a limited, but fairly long time. Good places to use artillery include enemy spawn-points and strongholds. You can also use artillery to flush out snipers from their hiding spots. However, try not to spam artillery, as some players consider covering large portions of the map with artillery to be cheap, annoying, and distracting.
 If you're a newbie, try to play on as many different maps as possible to learn their styles and hidden secrets. Different maps are tailored to different fighting styles (some are sniping maps, others are maps where everyone hides around corners and shotgun each other, and others are just "explosive action" maps). While you don't necessarily have to use the guns the map is designed for, newbies are encouraged to do so. If you're having trouble on a map, stop and consider what kind of weapons the map is made for, and adapt to the map by using those weapons.
 As you play the game and increase your skills, knowing the advantages and disadvantages of each type will really help you master the game.


Bolt action rifles. This is the first of the many custom classes. Bolt-action rifles lack a scope, and in order to be accurate at a distance, you must aim down sights to shoot faraway enemies. But if you're fighting in close combat, you can just shoot them without needing to aim down sights, as bolt actions are very accurate at close range. You can also bayonet of knife them out. Bolt-action rifles are extremely effective when used well, and can be very versatile. They do relatively high damage, at 50-70 per shot, but that can be increased to a one-hit kill with the Stopping Power perk. Good bolt-actions include the Lee-Enfield, Kar98k, and Springfield, but they all do the same damage (although their reload times are different). Most Bolt-Action rifles have a sniper variant, thus the absence of a scope.
Rifles. Regular rifles are the second class in the list of classes. These are similar to bolt-action rifles in that you don't have a scope and must aim down sights. However, regular rifles fire quicker than bolt-actions and are used just like pistols, meaning that with some mad mouse skills, one can use a rifle in the way he uses a machine gun. The damage for regular rifles varies, but Stopping Power can make them do more damage.
Sniper Rifles. Sniper rifles are different from the above two classes in that they have a scope. All snipers deal 70-90 damage and are one-hit kills if the enemy is shot in the head. However, with Stopping Power, they can become one-hit kills when an enemy is shot anywhere. Sniper rifles have two modes of scoping: Q, to get a scope without zoom, and Z, to get a scope with zoom. Alternatively, the up and down keys can adjust the level of zoom in a scope. Sniper rifles are some of the most versatile and popular guns, and can be used for many purposes besides long-range sniping, such as quickscoping.
Submachine Guns. Submachine guns are semi-automatic guns that fire when you click and hold. Submachine guns are ideal for people who like to charge. Different submachine guns do different damage, but by far the most overpowered are the PPSh-41 and MP40 with the Double-Tap perk (try not to use these constantly, as they annoy most of the other players). Other good machine guns include the M1 Thompson and the Grease Gun.
Machine Guns. Machine guns are slightly different than submachine guns, but serve the same purpose. Most machine guns fire very slowly, so the Double Tap perk is recommended. Two commonly used machine guns are the M1919 Browning and the Bar Gun.
Shotguns. Shotguns serve one purpose: kill the enemy in one shot, and at point-blank range. While not all players use shotguns for that purpose, they are designed to be extremely powerful, one-hit-kill weapons at point-blank range due to their multiple pellets, while compensating by losing accuracy very quickly due to the multiple pellets spreading out very quickly. It is also used by many as a weapon with high chance of hitting the target at mid-range. There are only two shotguns in Call of Robloxia 5: the DB Shotgun and the Trench Gun. While most players prefer the DB Shotgun for its higher damage, the Trench Gun is also a good choice since it can hold more shells without reloading, and also comes with a bayonet unlike its counterpart. The perk Stopping Power can make shotguns nearly impossible to beat, but some players consider that to be cheap and unskilled.
WWII Guns. This class mostly consists of SMGs like the MonDragon, which are good alternatives to the submachine guns found in the Submachine Gun class.
Dual Pistols. Dual pistols can only be used if you have a mouse (trackpad users find it hard or usually impossible to use them). Both pistols are fired by left and right clicking at the same time. You can also press Q to toggle between Manual and Alternate firing mode. They are very effective when used at close range, similar to shotguns. By far the best dual pistols are the 357 Magnums, although many players consider them to be overpowered and cheap. Other good duals are the Dual TT-33 and the Dual M1911.
 All sidearms are pistols. Below is a comparison.


357 Magnum. This is by far the best pistol, with a huge amount of damage and a very long range. Due to these aspects, however, it's often considered overpowered and an annoyance. It also has a huge recoil that affects accuracy after each shot.
M1911, TT-33, Walther P38, and Nambu. These are very good pistols, and most people use these. They do excellent damage, without the massive recoil of the 357 Magnum.
Luger. The luger is not that good a pistol, but it isn't terrible. Consider trying the Magnum or the ones listed above, however.
 Don't stick around Lito's Preset Classes for long when you get better - there are many better combinations of guns, sidearms, grenades, and perks that you can make yourself, using custom classes. To create one, pick Custom Classes. You will see four slots. Pick any one that you want, and click "edit". Pick a main gun, a sidearm, and perks to fit your fighting style. You can have up to four custom classes to outfit for different maps and types of fighting. You can also rename your custom slot, by clicking "rename" (or the default custom class name) at the top of the screen after you click "edit" (make sure to hit enter after you're done typing in the new name).
 Often, Lito's Preset Classes don't give you the very best of each type of gun. Use custom classes to try out new combinations of perks and guns until you find one that you like.
 Here there will be recommendations for each kind of gun, if you're looking to make a custom class. Remember these are only suggestions. You don't have to follow them, and feel free to change them at will.


Bolt action rifle layout. Get a Lee-Enfield, a Kar98k, or a Springfield. Pick your favorite sidearm and grenade. For perks, get Stopping Power, Bouncy Betties/Satchel Charges, and Reconnaissance/Martyrdom (depending on the range you want to snipe at).
Rifle layout. Get a M1 Carbine, a M1 Garand, or the SVT-40. Pick your favorite sidearm. For your grenade, a frag or molotov cocktail is recommended, but you can pick sticky grenades if you like. For perks, get Stopping Power, Bouncy Betties/Satchel Charges, and Martyrdom.
Sniper Rifle layout. Get a PTRS-41 or a Springfield. Pick your favorite sidearm. For grenade, a sticky grenade or a flash bang is recommended. For perks, get Stopping Power/Camouflage, Bouncing Betties, and Reconnaissance.
Submachine Gun/WWII Gun layout. Get a M1 Thompson, a PPSh-41, or a MP40. Pick the 357 Magnum as your sidearm, and frag or molotov as your grenade. For perks, get Double Tap, Bandolier, and Martyrdom.
Machine Gun layout. Get a M1919 Browning or a Bar Gun. Pick the 357 Magnum as your sidearm, and frag or molotov as your grenade. For perks, get Double Tap, Bandolier, and Martyrdom.
Shotgun layout. Get a DB Shotgun. Pick the 357 Magnum as your sidearm, and frag or molotov as your grenade. For perks, get Sleight of Hand, Bouncy Betties, and Martyrdom.
Dual Pistol layout. Get dual 357 Magnums or TT-33s. Pick the 357 Magnum as your sidearm, and frag or molotov as your grenade. For perks, get Juggernaut, Satchel Charges, and Martyrdom.

