 You may be able to find templates or samples of limited warranties online that you can use as guides. You also should look at the limited warranties for several other businesses in your industry to get a good understanding of the language typically used.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issues rules and regulations to ensure warranties comply with federal law. The agency also publishes a manual on its website to help businesses draft acceptable warranties.
Legal document companies offer templates for a small fee, but you can easily draft your own simply by taking a few minutes to familiarize yourself with the FTC's guidelines.
However, you can use templates to decide how you want to organize your document or choose a style that you prefer.;
, Your document should begin with a title that clearly describes the type of warranty you are offering. The title must designate the warranty either as "full" or "limited" to be in compliance with federal law.To have a full warranty, you must provide warranty service free of charge to anyone who owns the product without requiring customers to return a warranty card or register their product first.
A full warranty also offers the customer the choice of a full refund or replacement if the product is unable to be repaired.
Any other warranty is a limited warranty, and this should be explicitly stated. Your title also must contain any other essential information.
Include the item or parts included in the warranty's coverage and the duration of the warranty, if possible, in the title.
For example, your title might be "Limited Lifetime Warranty on the Way-Good Widget."
In some cases, parts of your product may be covered by a full warranty, but the product as a whole is only covered by a limited warranty. The FTC classifies these as multiple warranties, and they must adhere to additional guidelines meant to ensure customers understand how the different warranties work with each other.
 Headings that clearly describe the information contained in each section allow you to break up the text and make specific information easy for customers to find quickly. Use parallel construction so the headings flow smoothly together.Make headings that are specific about what is covered in the section, rather than using vague, general headings such as "Service" or "Conditions."
One method is to phrase your headings as questions, and then answer the question in the section. Think of the heading as a question a customer might ask, and how you would answer.
In some cases, your warranty will be more readable if you break lengthier sections into multiple parts. Try to have each section heading apply to only one fact or term of the warranty.
Make sure your heading structure matches the text in your section. Read through the entire document when you're done and make sure the section text follows from the heading.
For example, if you're using questions as headings, the section text beneath should provide a direct answer to the question.
 Most people are intimidated by thick blocks of text in small fonts that cover the page. Use a clean font in a reasonable size and arrange short sentences with plenty of paragraph breaks and white space.Choose a font that is easily legible, keeping in mind that the document itself may be folded, creased, or copied. Your font should remain clear and legible even if the paper is damaged.
Make sure you set enough space between the lines that the text doesn't look crowded on the page and the lines don't overlap each other.
Consider using boldface and italics for emphasis rather than all-capitals, which can be difficult to read (and often is interpreted as shouting).
Resist the urge to justify your text. Justified text often is more difficult to read than ragged right margins, and can cause awkward spacing problems.
 Keep your sentences short and straightforward. Active sentences (subject-verb-object) are more readable than passive writing with "to be" verbs that leave the actor out of the equation.For example, if you write "Your purchase price will be refunded ..." you leave the customer wondering who exactly will refund his or her money. "We will refund your full purchase price" leaves no room for confusion.
Throughout your warranty, use short, simple sentences to describe the terms in plain English. Avoid vague or overly complex words and legalese.
Personal style identifies the parties to the document and allows you to speak directly to the customer. Just make sure you define the pronouns the first time you use them. For example, you might write "We (Way-Good Widget Corp.) will repair or replace, at our discretion, defective or malfunctioning widgets."
If you mean to write a requirement, use "must" instead of "should." The word "should" typically indicates some ideal preference, while the word "must" tells your customers the action is required.
 The first couple of sections of your limited warranty should break down the circumstances and situations under which the customer is entitled to warranty service, and any scenarios not covered by the warranty.If your limited warranty doesn't cover any and all defects or malfunctions in your product (and most don't), you must list specifically what it does cover.
As far as what it doesn't cover, use this section to list exceptions that common sense might dictate would be included under the warranty, but which are not.
For example, if you manufacture electronics, you may want to list that your warranty does not cover water damage.
Use bullet-point lists for related items, rather than writing the series out in a sentence. This emphasizes the functionality of your document and makes it easier for customers to find the information they're looking for.
This can be especially helpful in the sections describing what the warranty does and does not cover. Using parallel construction enables customers to easily read through and compare the lists.
For a multiple warranty, consider using a chart to show at a glance what is covered by which warranty and how long that coverage lasts.
Keep in mind that your customers may not necessarily be experts in your industry. If you need to use a technical word that may be unfamiliar, define it immediately after you use it.
 Even if you included the warranty's term in the title, include a separate section that states how long the warranty lasts, including the date on which it starts.In some circumstances, the warranty may begin on a different date than the purchase date, or after a specific event occurs. If this is your intent, state it clearly in the warranty document. The default understanding is that warranty coverage begins on the date of purchase.
You also must state whether the warranty only covers the purchaser, or follows the product to a subsequent owner. Keep in mind that you can't really call it a "lifetime" warranty if it only lasts as long as the original purchaser continues to own the product.
 Write a separate section describing what you will do when the customer files a warranty claim. If attempts will be made to repair the product before a refund or replacement is offered, this is where you'll describe that process.For example, you might write that you will repair or replace defective products, at your discretion. If you offer to repair, you may want to include limitations on the types of repairs that will be attempted before the product is simply replaced.
If a refund is offered, you may need to go into detail regarding how that refund will be paid, and whether proof of purchase price is required.
If you only offer refunds in the form of a credit at your business toward future purchases, state this clearly.
This section may require you to list what you won't do. For example, warranty service may be free, but may not include labor costs. Anything the customer must pay for should be stated explicitly.
 Customers must understand what they need to do if they want to file a warranty claim, and what to expect when they elect to proceed under the limited warranty to repair or replace the product.If you have a specific phone number the customer must call, or address to which they must write, provide this information here.
You may want to put the phone number in boldface type, or put a text box around the contact information so it's easy for customers to find in the event they need it.
If you allow other stores or companies to provide warranty service for your product, let customers know which stores are approved to service the product and where they can be found.
 The laws in some states prohibit businesses from disclaiming or limiting certain implied warranties or liability for some damages. If you've included any of these limitations, you must include a statement that your disclaimers or limitations may be prohibited by state law.It isn't necessary to research warranty laws of all the states in which your product is sold. You can simply write a boilerplate statement such as "This warranty gives you specific legal rights, but you may have other rights provided by your state's law."
You also can include a statement to the effect that any statements in your warranty are void where prohibited by state law, but without affecting the rest of the warranty.
This section may include legal terms that you can't just change into ordinary words, such as "implied warranty." Add a brief description of the term in parentheses immediately after the term so your customers understand it.
 General requirements customers must fulfill to avail themselves of service under the warranty should be explicitly stated. Federal law prohibits any hidden requirements.For example, if customers can only avail themselves of warranty service if they previously filled out and mailed in a warranty registration card, this should be listed in your warranty document.
You also might want to include on any warranty registration card whether registration is required to use the warranty.
Many limited warranties include other requirements that are designed to prevent customers from getting free repairs of products that are stolen, or that they tried and failed to repair themselves.
These requirements typically include intact serial numbers and unbroken tamper seals.
 Although related to the early sections stating things the warranty doesn't cover, this section refers to specific circumstances in which the warranty is voided, regardless of what is wrong with the product.For example, many warranties on electronics have clauses stating that the warranty is voided if the customer opens the case. This requirement voids the warranty in its entirety, regardless of whether the customer did anything to the components after opening the case.
Some warranties also don't apply if the product was damaged by a natural disaster or other catastrophe such as flood or fire.
In other contracts, this clause is known as a "force majeure" clause, and excuses performance if an "Act of God" intervenes. It works the same way with warranties.
 If you want disputes under the warranty handled through mediation or arbitration rather than by filing a lawsuit in court, include a section outlining these requirements.This is another section that may require legal terms that are foreign to customers. Try to explain concepts such as damages as simply as you can, using parenthetical explanations where necessary.
If you want to include an ADR clause, it must comply with the FTC's dispute resolution rule. Include a statement that customers can sue rather than using the ADR mechanism you've described if they want. 
Your ADR clause merely states a preference to have disputes resolved through more informal proceedings.

