 There are several traditional training styles that you can choose for your tree. Some are meant to resemble a tree in nature, while others are more stylistic. There are dozens of bonsai styles to choose from, although the training container you use may limit your options.Here are some of the most popular:



Chokkan. This is the formal upright form; think of a tree growing strong and straight with branches that stretch evenly around it.

Moyohgi. This is the informal upright form; the tree has a more natural slant, rather than growing straight upward.

Shakan. This is the slanting form - the tree looks windblown and striking.

Bunjingi. This is the literati form. The trunk is often long and twisted, with minimal branches., "Training" the young bonsai tree involves gentle bending of the trunk and branches to guide their growth. Wrap the tree in wire to hold it in this position, as described here:


Use annealed copper wire for coniferous trees, and aluminum wire for deciduous trees.You'll need heavier gauge wire toward the bottom of the trunk, and finer wire for the branches.
Firmly anchor the wire by wrapping it around a limb once or twice. Do not wrap too tightly, which can damage the tree.
Wrap the wire at a 45 degree angle, using one hand to steady the tree while you work.
Trees have different wiring needs depending on the time of year and whether they have just been repotted.As time goes on and the tree grows and begins to take on the shape you have designed, you'll have to rewire the tree and continue to train it until it holds the shape you want without the help of wire.
 Use a small pruning tool to strategically clip off leaves, buds, and parts of branches to help the tree grow a certain way. Each time you prune, growth is stimulated on another part of the tree. Knowing where to prune and how often is part of the art of bonsai, and learning how to do it takes a lot of practice.When you transfer from a larger container to a smaller one, trim the roots to the shape of the pot. Don't prune the roots until the trunk has reached the desired size.
Prune in the summer to direct new growth. If you need to remove an entire limb, wait until autumn when the tree is less active. Do maintenance pruning to remove dead branches in late winter or early spring.
Over-pruning a tree can cause damage, so be careful not to clip away too much.

