 You may have been able to maintain a healthy weight in your 20s with a brisk morning walk around the block. However, as you age, the same cardio routine will become less effective.Cardio can help you lose weight – especially around your middle – while at the same time slowing muscle loss and keeping you strong.
To promote weight loss, don't walk or run with the same intensity the whole time. Intervals can step up the calorie-burning power of your cardio exercise.
For example, if you're walking for exercise, walk at a brisk pace for five minutes, then break into a light jog for two minutes, then slow back down to brisk walking for another five minutes.
If you listen to music in headphones while you walk, you can design a playlist with varying beats that corresponds to your intervals and pushes you forward.
 In your 40s, you start losing muscle mass. Building stronger muscles means you burn more calories every day – even when you're sitting at your desk doing work.Many women avoid adding strength training to their workout routine because they are afraid of bulking up or looking like a body builder.
However, strength training really isn't going to do this. Building bulk muscles involves a different type of weight lifting than the work you will do with strength training.
Basically, you can strengthen your muscles simply by adding some resistance to the exercises you already do.
Even if your exercise routine consists of little more than a walk around your neighborhood after dinner, you can add a strength training component by using wrist and ankle weights for short periods of one minute at a time. Wearing wrist and ankle weights for too long can injure your joints.
 Doing little things to stay active, such as taking the stairs instead of the elevator, can help you keep your body active and enable you to burn additional calories throughout the day.Look for opportunities to get a little exercise into your daily routine. For example, if you go to the grocery store or the mall, you might park further away instead of looking for the closest spot.
When you're shopping, carrying things in a basket or bag instead of pushing a cart is another way to sneak in a little exercise.
Even cleaning around the house can burn a few calories, while at the same time giving you a sense of satisfaction that you've made your home a neater and more comfortable place to live.
 If you stick to the same exercises day in and day out, you'll get bored after a while – and your body will too. Changing your routine doesn't just keep you mentally engaged and motivated, it keeps your muscles alert and active.If you have the time and the ability to do so, you might consider taking a fitness or exercise class to add a little variety to your exercise regimen.
Joining a community sports league is another way to add variety, and you don't need to be a skilled athlete to do so.
Many areas have adult leagues for sports such as kickball in which everybody can participate.
Your local YMCA or community center may offer inexpensive exercise classes if you don't want to join a gym just to take an exercise class.
 As you get older, your risk of injury while exercising increases. Even if you can't afford a personal trainer every day, consult an expert at least once every few months to go over your exercise routine with you.When you explain your goals to a personal trainer, they can assess your exercise routine and let you know if the exercises you've chosen will help you fulfill your goals.
A personal trainer also can suggest additional exercises or tweaks to your routine that will kick your fat-burning up a notch.
If you're stuck in a workout rut, a personal trainer can help motivate you and push you over the next hurdle to keep your weight loss on track.

