 Locate the app from your device and tap on it. The app logo carries some logos of famous restaurants, like McDonald’s, Starbucks, Taco Bell, and KFC.


If you don’t have the app, you can download it from the iOS App Store or the Google Play Store.;
, You will immediately be taken to your first restaurant logo.
 The logo of the restaurant that you need to guess is displayed on the middle of your screen. Most of the logos should be easily identifiable, especially the early ones. Think about the logo and match it to an existing restaurant.
 To help you answer the level, a set of letters are displayed on the bottom part of your screen. The name of the restaurant can be formed using the letters given. If you’re having a hard time thinking of the name for the logo, you can scramble the letters to help you find the name.
 Tap the letters corresponding your answer. As you tap each letter, it will be placed inside the box representing your answer. If your answer is incorrect, you will see a message indicating you’re wrong. If you got it right, you will be rewarded with coins and the level will be completed.
 Tap the “Continue” button to proceed to the next logo. Continue moving through the levels. If you get stuck, you can get some help.
 You are rewarded coins for every level you answer correctly. You can use these coins to buy assistance. You can also buy more coins using real money. The number of coins you have are indicated on the top right corner of your game screen.
 The letters provided to you are more than what’s needed. This means there are excess letters that can confuse you when thinking about the answer. Tap the trash can with a letter button on the right side of the screen to remove a letter you don’t need. This help costs 30 coins.
 If you don’t have any idea what letters you really need, you can use the next help to put a correct letter into the answer box. Tap the letter with a pen button on the right side of the screen to do so. This help costs 60 coins.
 If you really have no idea what the answer is, you can just skip the level and proceed to the next one. Tap the fast forward button on the right side of the screen to automatically fill up the boxes with the right answer so you can continue. This help costs 300 coins.

