 Trace around your palm, wrist, and arm on a sheet of paper. Start tracing at the top of your knuckles, and finish anywhere you want on the arm. Lift away your arm. Connect the gap at the top of your tracing with a straight line. Connect the gap where your thumb is with a curved line.Make sure that the thumb line curves into the tracing.
Leave some space around your arm, especially if the fabric you'll be using is not stretchy.
 Be sure to leave a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) gap allowance all around the pattern. This will give you enough fabric for a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) seam allowance., Stack two layers of fabric, right sides together, then pin the pattern on top. Trace around the pattern. Flip the pattern over, re-pin it, and trace around it for the other glove.You can use any type of fabric you want. Fleece and t-shirt material are great choices because they don't fray.
 Try to cut through both layers of fabric for each glove. This way, your pieces will be even. You do not need to add seam allowances because you already added them for your original pattern., Pin the pieces together first. Sew up the left and right sides using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. If your fabric is stretchy, or if you want tighter gloves, sew using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance instead. Do not sew across the top or bottom edges or the thumb hole.If you are sewing fleece or t-shirt material, use a stretchy stitch or a zigzag stitch.
 Fold both of the top and bottom edges down by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Pin them in place, then sew the hems down.You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting thread color.

If you are using fleece or t-shirt fabric, you can skip this step. If you choose to hem them, use a stretch stitch or a zigzag stitch.
 Fold the edges of the thumb hole down by about ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter). Sew it down by hand using a running stitch. You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting one.

If you are using fleece or t-shirt fabric, you can skip this step.
 They are now ready to wear!