 To open an existing template, click File then New. Here you will find folders with existing Microsoft Office templates. Select Announcements and find one that is for baby showers or could easily be made into a baby shower invitation.If you don’t find a satisfactory template already on your computer, you can download new ones online. Go to the Microsoft website to browse the templates they have to download and find one that you like and matches your vision for a baby shower invitation., Simply click the existing text boxes to enter them, delete the existing text, and type your own. Be sure to include the guest of honor, date, time, location, RSVP info, and gift registry information.
 Highlight the text you’d like to change. Then select the font, font size, and color you’d like. These options are under the Home tab at the top of the screen.If you like the font or color, you can keep it as is. However, if you had a specific color or font in mind, feel free to alter the font to your liking.
 If there are images you don’t want, select them and press “Delete” or right-click and choose delete. To insert new images open the Insert tab, then click Clip Art which will have a lot of stock image and cartoon options. If you want to insert a photograph, select Picture then find the photo’s location on your computer.


Once your picture is added, you can choose to center it at the top of the invitation, or place it anywhere you wish.
 To change the color of the background, or a border, select the object, then open the Format tab. Change the “Shape Fill” or “Shape Outline” as you see fit.
 Make sure everything is correct. Then save the invitation by using the "Save as" option, so you will have it for future use, if needed.


It's a good idea to set your invitation aside for an hour and then proofread. This will help you catch errors better. You can also have someone else proofread for you.
 Cardstock paper between 80lb and 110lb works best as it will make sturdy invitations. If your template only takes up half the page, you will need to cut your invitations in half.

