 To make a coiled flower, you first need to create a strip that you will coil up and form into a flower. Start by making a chain of 30 stitches. This will be your foundation chain for the strip.To make the first chain, yarn over your hook twice and pull the first loop through the second loop. Then, loop the yarn over the hook again and pull it through the other loop. Keep doing this to continue making the chain.;
, After you have made your chain, do a double crochet stitch into the first stitch in your chain.To double crochet, loop the yarn over the hook, and then insert the hook through the stitch and loop the yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the first stitch, then loop the yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the next two stitches, and then yarn over again. Pull through the last two stitches to complete the stitch., For the next chain, double crochet twice into the same stitch. This will help to expand the strip so that the petals will fan out after you coil them., Keep going back and forth between double crocheting once and double crocheting twice all the way to the end of the row. When you reach the end, your strip is complete., To finish the strep and prepare it for coiling, cut the yarn several inches away from the last stitch. Then, pull the end of the yarn through to secure the stitch and tie the two ends together. Thread the ends through the eye of a darning needle., Starting with the end finished on, begin rolling the strip like a jelly roll. Roll the strip so that the edges stay even and the coil is tight, but not so tight that it is stretching the yarn. Keep coiling until you reach the end of the strip., After you finish coiling the strip, take the needle and insert it through multiple layers on the back side of the flower. This will be the side that does not fan out. It will look more like the base of a flower.Sew through all of the layers using several stitches and then tie off the yarn once the flower is secure.
You can leave the excess thread if you plan to use it to attach the flower to something, or you can cut the excess thread if you do not plan to use it.
 To add a finishing touch to your flower, you can sew some beads into the center. Or, you can also sew a decorative button into the center. This will make your flower look more flower-like and add a nice touch of shine or color., If you want to accent your flower even more, then try making a couple of crocheted leaves. You can sew these onto the edges of your coiled flower to make it look even more like a flower.

Use green yarn to make your leaves.
 You can leave your coiled flower around as a decorative piece or you can attach it to something. Try sewing your flower onto a hat, sweater, or scarf. Or, you can use hot glue to attach the flower to something as well.