 Arguably the most important thing you can do in preparing for your first day is making sure you have all of the equipment you need. The types of materials you'll need will vary from class to class. A lot of high school classes will have some sort of online webpage that will post the recommended materials you should bring. Print off a copy for each list of materials and take them to an office supplies store. Certain things, like pens and paper, will be used for virtually all classes, so you can buy a single stack for use throughout your school year. Here are some things you'll almost certainly need for your first day:

A backpack with comfortable shoulder straps
A sturdy binder, filled with ruled paper
Pens (red and black) and HB pencils
Spiral-bound notebooks; one for each class you're enrolled in
A pair of scissors
A scientific calculator and graphed paper, if you're doing mathematics
A small vial of hand sanitizer
A portable USB drive, for saving computer work.;
, Choose the clothes you'll wear for the week and ensure that they're cleaned and prepared for wearing, including ironing if needed. Polish your shoes and check that you've got fresh underwear as well. It can speed things up to decide ahead of each day what you'll wear if you don't have a uniform., Make the parts of your lunch that you can make the night before and place in the fridge. The next morning, take the made things from the fridge, add these and any packaged things to your lunch bag and finish up the last things needed. This will speed up time for you each day. (Don't expect your parents to keep making your lunches, you can definitely do it and in doing so, can decide what you'll be getting!), Depending on what time your school starts, when your bus comes, or when your parents have to leave, wake up about an hour and a half beforehand to prepare yourself. Example: Your bus comes at 7:00 and you have to be there 5 minutes before it comes you should wake up at about 5:30. Yeah, it's early, but it's worth it.
 Once you wake up, go and eat a good breakfast. Have eggs, toast, cereal that's not too sugary, etc. No toaster pastries, but do not skip breakfast. you'll regret it all day.
 After that, go to the bathroom and shower, if you didn't the night before. If you did, quickly freshen up by putting deodorant on. And body spray, or perfume, or whatever. Make yourself smell nice. If one day you forget to shower and don't have time in the morning, at least rinse your hair some and maybe try "dry shampoo" spray.
 Don't skip this. Do you really want people to smell morning breath? Everyone has it. Brush for at least 3 minutes for that extra whiteness. It will make your smile much more flattering and approachable. If you want to whiten up your smile a bit try mixing lime or lemon juice with baking soda and scrub your teeth with it, then brush your teeth, but only once a week, or else it will weaken your teeth.
 Some great hair ideas are the classic ponytail, curled pigtails, waves, French braids, or just simply wear your hair down. Curl, straighten, part...the possibilities are endless. Do not overdo it. But don't under do it either. Make it look like your hair required effort. And please, if you do shower in the morning, dry your hair before you leave. Wet head = bad impression.
 Ahh, clothes. Make sure everything thing you want to wear is clean and set out the night before.


Pick out the bottoms. Jeans are cool, slacks say serious, shorts say laid back, a skirt says girly, and a dress says Wow, someone tried hard this morning.






Shirt. Not a long sleeve, it is likely too hot, because no matter where you are, students typically start school in August or September. So short sleeved, or tank top if the school allows it. Make it a good one,






Shoes. They should complement the colors in your outfit and share the same "style".






Accessories. Don't overdo it, just a few pieces of jewelry. make them coordinate with the outfit.
 If you are allowed to and like wearing makeup go easy on it. Put on some mascara and lipgloss for a very light look if you want to you can put on a little it of eyeliner (don't look like a raccoon) and some foundation or powder. A tip if eyeliner makes your eyes look small, don't use the eyeliner on the inner corner of the eye. Starting on the outside corner, draw a line only 2/3 of the way towards the other side. When you completely surround your eye with eyeliner on both top and bottom, you close it up and it looks smaller.
, Act confident. Be nice and say hi to everyone and do your best. So many opportunities are lost when you are shy.

