 Before you become too attached or involved with the girl in a relationship, ask yourself what you're hoping to achieve. Do you want to simply become good friends because you think you have a lot in common? Or are you looking for a romantic relationship? Since the girl is in a relationship, you need to figure out:If you're willing to wait for her current relationship to end
If you can move on emotionally if she remains in her current relationship
If you'd be fine with looking for a different girl who's available to date

, If you've become good friends, you may be wondering whether or not to move the relationship forward. If she's still in a relationship, avoid asking her out. Since she's in a relationship, she's already made her choice. If she's broken up with her partner, you could prepare to ask her out or wait and see if she asks you out.If you do decide to ask her out, plan how you want to do it. Figure out in advance what you want to say and how you'll ask her.
 Keep the stakes low and ask her out for a date. Avoid jumping straight to asking her to be your girlfriend. If she just ended a relationship, that may be too much pressure. Be confident and hopeful when you ask her. You should also give her a few choices.For example, you could say, "I know you like Thai food. Would you like to try the new Thai restaurant in town with me tomorrow? Or maybe we could go to a concert this weekend?"

, If she says no, don't get upset, argue, or keep asking. She might not be ready or interested in starting a relationship with you. Be mature and calm if she refuses you. Chances are, she feels bad about turning you down, so there's no need to be mean or rude to her.


If you don't know what to say, say "Ok, maybe another time, I totally respect your decision." This shows her that you like her, but also that understand how she feels.
 If the girl is still in another relationship, don't lie to yourself about her feelings for you. You might be good friends, but if she's still in the other relationship, it's because she's choosing to remain. Don't tell yourself that she's secretly in love with you or is just waiting for you to ask.


Part of being honest with yourself is knowing when it's time to move on. If you think you're more than just friends but the girl doesn't want to leave her relationship, you may need to consider seeing someone else.

