 Simple carbohydrates, or foods we usually turn to for comfort can give you a spike in energy which may seem to elevate your mood, if only momentarily, but are usually followed by a low peak and then a crash.This will not only likely make you feel worse, but create a cycle of overeating the wrong foods to sustain high energy. Eating for the energy level you need is especially important if you have difficulties with depression, which can make you feel fatigued. Instead turn to foods, such as complex carbohydrates, that will give you a more natural and slower burning energy and mood increase.

Whole-grain flour
Hearty vegetables (kale, collard greens, or mustard greens)
Proteins (lean fish, beans, or nuts)
Starchy vegetables (potatoes, corn, or pumpkin)

;
, High caffeine drinks are the same as high sugar foods - they pick you up quick. In addition to the spike and drop, caffeine can also cause various emotional problems and difficulties. Watch your caffeine intake and try and keep it as regular and minimal as possible regardless of how you are feeling emotionally.


If you are struggling with depression or low mood, a pick-me-up may sound great, but there is usually a crash which follows.
Additionally in times of stress or anxiety, too much caffeine can cause you to be jittery, or going completely without can cause withdrawal symptoms.
Caffeine can also affect your sleep cycle, which can increase certain emotional problems like worsening depression or problems with interpersonal relationships due to irritability and anxiety.
 Spicy foods such as ginger, chillies, tumeric, cinnamon and garlic can be good alternatives to the typical comfort foods when you want a warming pick-me-up. In addition to the benefit in flavor, spicy foods provide you with an emotional boost of intensity and adventure, as well as an increase in imagination and activity. , While salt is a natural preservative, some highly processed foods can affect your mood and your physical health in various ways. Processed foods also contain a lot of trans and saturated fats which are considered “bad fats.” A decline in your physical health can in turn affect your emotional health.


Avoid foods with “hydrogenated” in the ingredient list, and try to cut back on the use of salt.
Try hydrating with water or sports drinks, or eating crackers to supplement.
 Berries, lemons, oranges, and grapefruit can help with your emotional functioning in various ways. In general, increased consumption of fruits has been linked to a more positive mood and calmer feelings. Blueberries contain a phytonutrient called anthocyanin, which aids in brain health, and can help if you are struggling with frustration from memory issues or cognitive functioning. Grapefruit can curb depression, and just the sent of oranges can be useful in the reduction of stress and anxiety. Vitamin D rich foods, such as fortified orange juice (and non-fruits like fish, milk, and tofu), are excellent sources of Vitamin D known to have benefits to those suffering from depression and other mental health issues as well as chronic physical illnesses. , Your body will usually tell you what it wants. Feeling sad? Chocolate and ice cream may seem like great ideas. Anxious? Fried foods like french fries might just fit the bill. Listen to your body and then feed the cravings the right way. High carb and high fat foods are not ideal when you are feeling anxious as they can increase nausea. Likewise, they are not good for depression because these foods make you feel slower and heavy.
If you want a chocolate fix, make hot chocolate drinks from cocoa, fat reduced milk (or water) and honey which has less fat. Add vanilla or spices like cinnamon, or nutmeg for more flavor.
If you are craving salty foods, try nuts or kale chips.
If you are just hungry for, go for high protein filling foods like peanut butter.
Consider that your cravings could be filled by activities instead of food items. If you are craving sweets, engage in an activity you enjoy for 30 minutes instead.

