 Seeing where someone is with their problems, and the steps they’re taking to rectify the situation is a good start for trying to help them out financially. You can share strategies you’ve used in similar situations before immediately jumping to give them money.For example, you might say something like, “I’ve struggled to pay my bills before and what helped me the most was getting help with things like buying food and paying my gas bill. Did you know that these kinds of resources were available?”

, If the person really needs money, they might just be too proud to ask. However, the person might accept money if you offer it in a sensitive way. When you offer them money, if you feel it is appropriate, you can let them know you don’t need to be repaid. For some this will be a relief. For others, it will feel like you’re pitying them.For example, you might say something like, “You have helped me in the past when I have been struggling, will you please allow me to help you now?”
If the person says that he or she wants to repay you and you do not want to be repaid, then you can just say something like, “Don’t worry about that right now.”

, If the person is too proud to take money from you straight out, then you may need to offer to loan them the money. This has some drawbacks though, as it can add financial pressure to their already strained wallet. Try your best to alleviate those fears by negotiating terms in a way that favors them but still allows them to pay you back. It can be difficult even so, so don’t push them.For example, you might try saying something like, “This is a loan, but you don’t have to worry about paying it back right away. Just focus on you for now.”

, This is an especially good tactic for those who are reluctant to take even a loan, as it obligates them to pay it forward in some way, but relieves them of the obligation to think about paying it back immediately. It will be something they can do once they’re back on their feet.For example, you can tell the person, “You don’t have to repay me, just promise that you will help someone else someday if you can.”

, Giving the money anonymously may save the person from feelings of embarrassment or shame, which are likely if the person is too proud to ask for help. It may also prevent any awkwardness between the two of you because of a loan or gift of money.You can leave a money order for the person in his or her mailbox. If you’re a part of a religious organization, then you can talk to your religious leaders to see if you can anonymously forward the money to them.
 You can also help the person by offering to help with tasks that they would usually need to pay for, such as by offering free childcare, lawn care, or personal services. This is an especially good option if they’ve helped you out in any of these ways before. The person will feel less like he or she is receiving charity, but they’ll have a bit of relief.Try saying something like, “Hey Karen! I wanted to pay you back for watching my kids last week. Can I watch your kids for you sometime when you need a babysitter?”

, If the person in financial need is unemployed or underemployed, then you could also offer them a job. Make sure that you pay them the same amount that you would pay anyone else. Do not pay more or less.For example, if the person is a contractor, then you might hire the person to do some repairs around your house. If the person is a teacher, then you might hire the person to tutor your kids.

