 If your dog pulls, zigzags, or engages in any other type of undesirable behavior on walks, a halter might help. Halters are designed to redistribute pressure. When your dog pulls or veers off course, the halter pulls your dog's nose down and towards you to discourage uncooperative behavior.Halters fit over the bridge of the nose and around the back of the head. They're easy to put on and they can make walks with your dog much easier.
A halter will not hurt your dog. It simply makes it slightly uncomfortable if your dog tries to behave badly on a walk.
You can buy a halter at most pet stores or online.;
, Harnesses work similar to halters, but they strap around your dog's chest rather than on the head. There are several different types of harnesses, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. You can buy a harness at most pet stores or through an online retailer.


Back-clip harnesses are not very effective at controlling or breaking behavioral issues. However, they are comfortable for dogs and won't injure the neck like a leash could if the dog pulls too hard.Front-clip harnesses work much like back-clip harnesses, except they make it easier to control the dog's movement. The downside to front-clip harnesses is that they may cause your dog's legs to get tangled on walks.Tightening harnesses can help control your dog's movement very well, but they won't actually train your dog to behave on a walk. Some tightening harnesses can be painful for dogs, so make sure you read reviews online and try it out on your dog before a walk., Collars typically fall into one of two categories: regular collars and aversive collars. Aversive collars, like choke chains and pronged collars, use pain or discomfort to try and break dogs out of bad behavior. Talk to your veterinarian or a professional trainer before using an aversive collar, as simple training may be more effective.Flat collars are the standard strap-style collar most dogs wear.
Martingale collars can be helpful for dogs that are able to slip out of a normal collar.
A choke chain is a chain made of metal links that slips over the dog's head and tightens when your dog pulls. Choke chains are sometimes considered inhumane, as they can cause a dog to choke or sustain injuries to the neck, trachea, or esophagus.
Prong/pinch collars work like a martingale collar, but they're lined with blunted metal prongs. Like choke chains, these collars are often considered inhumane.

