 In general, foods high in fiber cannot be digested or absorbed by the body easily and therefore help in reducing blood sugar levels. Beans in particular contain high concentrations of fibers, potassium, magnesium, and, of course, plant proteins. This fulfills your protein needs without having to eat red meat with its harmful fats.


Green, leafy vegetables, such as spinach, lettuce, and kale, give you many vitamins with few calories; non-starchy vegetables are also healthy, such as asparagus, broccoli, cabbage, carrots, and tomatoes. All are good source of fibers and vitamin E.;
, Fish should be a mainstay in your diet now due to its high levels of omega-3 fatty acids. Salmon and tuna, in particular, are very rich in them and are very light, healthy choices, too. However, most fish are safe and good to eat. Mackerel, herring, lake trout, and sardines are good as well.Nuts also are a good source of omega acids, especially walnuts and flaxseeds. Adding them in your diet (try on your salad) is a great way to increase your omega acid intake. What's more, increasing your fish intake reduces your intake of red meat, lowering your fat and caloric consumption.
 Milk, yogurt, and cheese are all good choices if they're fat free – you can still get all their nutrition, calcium, magnesium, and vitamins without the harmful fats by choosing these varieties.


This isn't to say that all fats are bad. Your body needs some good fats in the form of natural, unsaturated fats like the ones found in olive, sunflower, and sesame oils.
 Substitute your carbohydrate intake of white flour, bread, pasta or rice with whole grains. They contain much higher amounts of magnesium, chromium and fiber. Even white potatoes can be switched out for sweet potatoes.


This also means that you'll need to stay away from fried food, as the battered coating is often mainly white flour. Instead, learn more recipes for grilled or baked food. You’ll be amazed to find the same foods more delicious and juicier, too.
 You can find sugar in many sources: fruits, sweetened drinks, ice creams, desserts, and sweet breads. Instead, use products with artificial sweeteners such as saccharin or sucralose as they provide you the sweet taste you want without glucose breaking up in your body and elevating your sugar levels.


Sweeteners like Splenda can easily be added to your food or drinks. What's more, plenty of products now advertise that they're "sweetened with Splenda" (or a similar sugar substitute). Read the labels while you're at the store to see what options you have.
You can eat some fruits like apples, pears, berries and peaches, once in a while. Avoid other fruits that contain high amounts of sugars such as watermelon and mangoes.
 It's important that you not only get the right amount of calories, but that you get the right kind of calories too. Every person is different – your doctor should recommend a diet that will be determined depending on your insulin dose, your overall health, and the progression of your diabetes.


General recommendations for dietary therapy are 36 calories/kg (79 calories/lb) for males and 34 calories/kg (75 calories/lb) for females. A normal diet should generally consist of about 50-60% carbohydrates, 15% protein, 30% fat, and a restriction of salt intake.
For patients with type 2 diabetes, the main goal is weight loss of about 5-10% of body weight. Calories should not necessarily be limited, but carbohydrate and fat intake should be reduced.
 Perform an exercise tolerance test to alert your physician to certain exercises you shouldn't incorporate into your routine. He'll see what intensity and duration of exercise is appropriate for you and construct a schedule that can help you lose weight and stay on track.


Exercising, in general, can improve the health of diabetes patients in such a way that the disease could actually improve if it hasn't sufficiently progressed. Performing regular exercises will also aid in reducing your weight, which will have a great effect on lowering your glucose levels, blood pressure and cholesterol levels. This is a great goal to achieve to slow the progression of the disease, keep your condition steady, and even improve your general health.
 Aerobic exercising increases insulin sensitivity and controls body weight for obese patients. To get cardio into your day, try brisk walking, jumping rope, jogging or playing tennis. Ideally, cardio activity will be a part of your schedule 30 minutes a day about 5 times a week. If you’re an exercise beginner, start with a rate of 5 to 10 minutes and increase it gradually with patience. Anything is better than nothing!


One of the easiest exercises that doesn’t require any equipment or going to gym is walking. Though it doesn't seem like much, walking every day can improve your health, breathing, thinking, mood and lower your blood sugar, blood pressure, and anxiety levels. Biking and swimming are also two enjoyable, don't-seem-like-work exercises you could consider incorporating into your routine.
Cardiovascular evaluation is important in patients with a previous history of any cardiovascular disorders, the elderly, or patients with diabetes complications. Be sure only to start an exercise regimen under the supervision of your physician.
 Strength training is your next step after aerobics. This builds up your body – when your muscles get stronger they burn more calories, resulting in weight loss and blood sugar management. Recommendations say to perform strength training along with aerobics twice a week.


You don’t have to go to the gym – even lifting water bottles at home is a very good idea. What's more, home cleaning or hard garden work can enter in the strength training range, too.
 Most patients are encouraged to lose weight and to aim for an ideal Body Mass Index; this is especially true in obese patients, typically afflicted by type 2 diabetes. BMI is measured by the weight (mass) of the patient in kilograms divided by the height in meters squared.


The ideal BMI is 18.5-25; therefore, a BMI of less than 18.5 means that you are underweight; a BMI of above 25 means that you are obese., Make sure to make a schedule for yourself to adhere to that makes it as easy as possible. Everyone needs motivation to force themselves to stick with exercise. A partner, friend or family member supporting and encouraging you, reminding you of the benefits of your training program, may be just the motivation you need.


You also can always make a reward for yourself (not with a chocolate bar!) when you achieve your goal in losing a certain weight, for example. All these things will give you extra power to show yourself that you can hit your goal and improve your quality of life.
 There are three basic types of insulin: short-acting, intermediate-acting and long-acting. Though insulin is more prevalently used in cases of type 1 diabetes, it is used to fight both types. Your doctor will decide on what type of insulin is best for you. For the record, injection is the only route currently available for insulin administration.


Short-acting insulin is where the blood glucose level drops at a very fast rate. Available insulin preparations are “Actrapid” or Humulin R, which has a rapid acting effect with a fast onset of 20 minutes, lasting for about 8 hours. This can be given subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously through an IV.
Intermediate-acting insulin is where the blood glucose level drops gradually. It is called “Monotard” or Humulin N, which has an intermediate acting effect; the onset of action is two hours and lasts to almost one day. It’s also called Neutral Protainne Hagedron (NPH) and is given only by subcutaneous injection.
Long-acting insulin is where the blood glucose level drops even more gradually. It is called “Insulin Ultra lente” or Insulin L; it has a very slow onset of action at about six hours and lasts up to 2 days. It is also given by subcutaneous route only.
An example dosage of insulin is Humulin R at 20 international units, three times a day.This is given with food to ensure that the required level of blood glucose is achieved.

In type 2 diabetes, adequate diet and proper exercising can be sufficient to control your condition. If not, oral hypoglycemics will be prescribed.
 Other formulas of insulin are insulin mixtures such as “Humulin Mixtard” or Initard 50/50 which is a mixture of the fast-acting and intermediate-acting types of insulin. This, quite clearly by design, has immediate and longer-lasting effects.


This, while seeming like the best of both worlds, is only advisable in certain situations. Your doctor will know which type of insulin (and how much) is best for you and your health.
 A multiple dose insulin injection device such as a “Novolin pen” or insulin pen can save you time and frustration. It can be adjusted to match your treatment therapy plan and it’s less painful than regular needles. It's easily carried, too, when you're on your way to work or going out.


Regardless of whether you're using pens or needles, human insulin is much preferred than animal derived sources as it’s less antigenic and won’t be triggered by the body as a strange substances, insulin normally increase the glucose uptake by the cells to be able to use it, stimulate glycogen storage, and decrease gluconeogenesis (glucose production).
 All insulin preparations should be kept in the refrigerator and not in the freezer; however, though drug companies have produced insulin pens to be stable at room temperatures, studies have shown that insulin pens should be kept in the refrigerator before the first usage.After your first dose with it, you should keep it outside the refrigerator and in room temperature to avoid insulin crystallization.
It has been also reported that refrigerated insulin that takes on the cool temperature of the fridge could be more painful when injected than the one kept at room temperature.
 All people with diabetes need to ensure that they monitor their blood sugar levels at home. This is important because it helps in the regulation of medicines given to control the amount of glucose in the blood. If you don't, you may get hypoglycemia, where there is reduced blood glucose in your blood, leading to many complications such as blurred vision and dehydration.


Take note of your levels half an hour before and after eating because after food is ingested, blood sugar levels are altered. This will also help in lowering the risks of micro and/or macro-vascular and neuropathy complications.
It is generally advised to take the samples from the side of your finger, not the tip, to reduce the pain as it’s less innervated than the finger tip. You should record your readings in a special personal notebook in order to be easily rechecked by your doctor as a medical calendar for you sugar levels.
 There are unfortunately some problems during insulin therapy that patients must be aware of. The most common issues are the following:


Hypoglycemia – especially if the patient didn’t have an adequate meal prior to his dose or due to an overdose of insulin.
Insulin allergies may happen if the insulin is from animal sources. Your doctor should then substitute it with human insulin, adding some topical steroids or antihistamines to reduce the allergic reaction, itching, swelling or pain.
Insulin resistance may occur, which is more likely to be accompanied by other diabetes complications. If this happens, you should seek medical help as you may need to increase your insulin dose or alter your therapy plan accordingly.
Weight gain and feelings of hunger, especially in patients with type 2 diabetes that were taking oral hypoglycemics and then started to take insulin in addition.
Insulin lipodystrophy, which is hypertrophy of the fatty tissues in the subcutaneous layer of the skin at insulin injection sites, is also a common issue.
 These drugs lower the blood sugar by inducing the pancreas to release more insulin that is needed to regulate the blood sugar. The blood sugar levels lower at such a rapid rate they need to be taken while you are eating to maintain insulin balance. This prevents you from having a very low blood sugar level that can lead to hypoglycemia.


An example of this hypoglycemic drug is tolbutamide, or Diamol, with a dosage being between 500 and 3000 mg daily. It is available in tablet form and can be used safely in those with renal diseases and in the elderly.
Another form is chlorpropamide, or Pamidine. The daily dose of this drug, in tablet form, is up to 500 mg. Pamidine can cause hyponatremia (low sodium concentration in the plasma), however.
Second generations of this drug are as glibenclamide (Daonil, one 5 mg tablet per day), gliclazide (Diamicron, one 80 mg tablet per day); safe with renal disorders), glipizide (Mindiab, one 5 mg tablet per day), and glimepiride (Amaryl, available in 1, 2, and 3 mg tablet form).

This drugs contain sulfa. If you're allergic, consider other oral hypoglycemics. It should also be used with caution in those with renal diseases and the elderly.
 This drug works by increasing the release of insulin from the pancreas. This variety acts within one hour after being taken. They are usually given around half an hour before meals to reduce the risk of the possibility of a hypoglycemic episode.


This drug is used to reduce the sugar in the blood as metabolism takes place. The dose is given as 500mg-1g once or twice a day depending on the level of glucose in the patient’s blood., These lower glucose absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and the glucose production by the liver, and they also work on enhancing insulin resistance and raising glucose anaerobic metabolism. They are often used with sulfonyl urea as additional therapy in obese patients. However, they have some side effects such as stomach upset and diarrhea and patients with hepatic or renal disorders may develop lactic acidosis.


Examples of biguanides are metformin (Glucophage, available in 500 and 850 mg tablets) with a daily dose up to 2000 mg, repaglinide (Novonorm, 0.5 or 1 mg taken before each meal), and pioglitazone (Glustin, 15 / 30 mg once daily).
 Pancreatic transplant can be done where the patient has severe complications from diabetes. This involves implanting a pancreas that is healthy – i.e. one that is able to produce insulin regularly. This is only advised when all other routes have been exhausted.


This can be taken from a patient who has just passed on or a partial pancreas that is from another person who is still alive.
Your doctor will know if this is a treatment that could be applicable to your situation. For most, insulin therapy and diet and exercise will be enough to manage the condition.
 For this test, you must fast from any food or drinks except water for about 6-8 hours beforehand to get accurate results. Fasting normal values are between 75-115 mg/dl; borderline results, like 115 or 120 mg/dl, should undergo further tests, such as the oral glucose tolerance test, or OGTT.


Post prandial (“PP”) blood sugar tests are usually given after two hours from starting to eat, or after two hours of a 75 mg glucose intake. Normal values are known as <140mg/dl; readings of PP with more than 200 mg/dl is a confirmed diagnosis of DM.
 This is usually performed in cases with borderline readings, in suspected individuals, or in case of gestational diabetes. With this test, the patient should consume a normal diet for at least three days, then a fasting venous sample is taken and the glucose level is identified. The patient is then asked to empty their bladder before taking the sample.


Then the adult patient eats 75 mg glucose orally; for pregnant women, a 100 mg tablet of glucose is given to them. After that, blood and urine samples are taken at time intervals like of half, one, two and three hours.
It’s said to be normal when having fasting results of <126 mg/dl, pp <140 mg/dl and having a peak for results not exceeding 200mg/dl.

However; some abnormalities are seen with OGTT, like impaired glucosuria, or a flat response. This is when the difference between the fasting and your peak is about 20 – 25 mg/dl. This can happen due to absorption abnormalities or over insulin production.
 The most important thing when it comes to diabetes is patient education. You need to fully understand how to use your medications, their mechanisms of actions, why you're taking this drug and why your doctor selected it for you, in addition to the hazards, interactions, and side effects.


This step, along with diet control and performing exercises, will lead to greater success in managing the disease and suppressing the progress of the complications process, leading to enhancing your lifestyle and keeping you healthy.
 During a visit to your doctor, report any signs of a complication or new symptom that you have experienced. Your doctor will physically examine you to evaluate your neurological state, examine your feet and legs for any sign of a diabetic foot, ulcers or infections, and do all periodic tests that should be performed, like blood, urine, lipid profile, renal and hepatic functional tests and serum creatinine levels.


Your doctor should talk to you about the risk of having a diabetic foot and how to control it with early antibiotics treatment. Taking care of yourself with personal hygiene to avoid the progression of gangrene is effective, too.
 Upon its onset, diabetes has a few, barely noticeable symptoms:



Frequent urination. This is where the patient passes a lot of urine during the day or night. This occurs because the blood glucose levels are high and increases the absorption of water into the blood stream. This in turn increases the urine that is passed.

Increased thirst. This is where the patient intakes a large amount of water – more than eight glasses per day – and this does not quench his/ her thirst. This occurs because the amount of urine passed is increased and this leaves the patient dehydrated, increasing thirst.

Increased hunger. This is where the patient consumes more food than their usual portions. This is because there is lack of insulin that is required for the glucose in blood to be transported to the cells where it is used to provide energy for the body. When there is no insulin, the cells in the body lack glucose and this leaves the patient feeling starved.
 As this disease progresses, it slowly takes on more serious symptoms:



Passing of ketones in urine. This is where there are inadequate carbohydrates and sugar in the body because there is increased sugar in the blood. The body breaks down the stored fatty acids and fats for provision of energy and this process leads to formation of ketones.Fatigue. This is where the patient becomes tired very easily. This is because of the lack of insulin that helps in transporting the glucose in the blood to the cells where it is used to provide energy to the body. This leaves the patient with reduced amounts of glucose in the cells therefore, resulting in less energy.

Delayed healing. This is in cases where the patient has a wound; it takes much longer than usual for healing to take place. This is because of increased sugar levels in the blood. Blood transports the nutrients needed for healing, and when glucose is in excess, nutrients are not appropriately carried to the site of healing thus causing delay.
 Certain people are at higher risk for diabetes due to circumstances that are often out of their control. The risk factors for diabetes include:



Obesity. Diabetes is common in people who are overweight because there is elevated cholesterol in the body. This is broken down into sugar where it is transported to the blood stream. The increased glucose level is so high such that despite some of it being taken up by the cells, there is still a large amount that is left in the blood stream, thus causing diabetes.

Genetics. The condition is common in people who have a genetic makeup where there is insulin resistance or the pancreas does not produce enough insulin.

Lack of exercise. Exercise is needed by the body for effective metabolism to take place. When one does not engage in exercises regularly, the glucose that is present in the blood is not appropriately taken up by the cells, resulting in diabetes.
 If treated, diabetes doesn't have to affect your life. However, if left untreated, the complications are many. When diabetes isn't addressed medically, the following may occur:Cell damage. Glucose alcohol accumulation within the cells causes osmotic damage leading to cell injury that affects nerves, kidneys, lens and blood vessels. Because of this, its avoid to avoid injury as much as possible.

Hypertension. Glycosylated collagen increases the thickness of the capillary basement, narrowing their lumens and affecting retina blood vessels. The net result is that blood vessels undergo sclerosis due to protein and glycogen glycation. This increases clotting and blood pressure.

Xanthomas. This is the technical term for yellow lipid nodules on the skin or in the eyelid due to hyperlipidemia.

Skin complications. Fungal and bacterial infections, recurrent furuncles, and neuropathic foot ulcers are all common. They ares usually painless because there is a poor blood supply, causing neuropathy (nerve damage) and therefore no sensation

Ocular complications. New, abnormal blood vessels may form in the iris. In time, cataracts may form in the lens as well.

Nervous system complications. This includes delayed nerve conduction, nephropathy, retinopathy and neuropathy as a result of destruction of the small blood vessels in all vital organs.

Macrovascular complications. This includes atherosclerosis, coronary heart diseases, stroke, peripheral ischemia especially in the lower limbs, and claudication (pain in the lower limbs).

Gangrene of the foot. This is also known as "diabetic foot."

Renal complications. This presents itself in the form of urinary tract infections, which often recur.

Gastrointestinal complications. This includes constipation, diarrhea, and gastroparesis with gastric dyspepsia.

Genitourinary complications. Impotence may happen due to poor blood flow in men; in women, vulvovaginal infections (infection of the mucous membrane of the vagina), and dyspareunia (painful sexual intercourse for females, mainly due to dryness of the vagina), are also common.
 Type 1 is mainly an autoimmune disorder resulting in a complete shortage in insulin secretion. Its onset is acute and the patients are normally thinner and younger; 3 out of 4 people with type 1 develop it before the age of 20.In type 2 diabetes, on the other hand, there’s a defection in insulin secretion as well as insulin resistance, which is a condition in which the body produces insulin but muscles, fat and liver cells don’t respond properly. More insulin is needed to make glucose tolerance normal (with no value to it), resulting in high sugar levels and high insulin levels at the same time. Patients are normally older, most are overweight or obese, and most cases are asymptomatic.

