 If you do, you will avoid getting in trouble from your parents (socializing is tough when you're grounded), or the time crunch of trying to make it up at the last minute.;
, This may sound overrated and boring, but your grades in middle school really have a huge impact on your future.Book more time than you'll think you need just in case. Learn more now and you'll be able to balance your time better in high school too, because it won't be as difficult.
 Study a subjects at least 2 a week for 10-20 minutes minutes. If you have trouble in one class, study 3-6 times a week until you get it.
 Most middle schools have study halls to do homework or other work. Also, many teachers don't mind if you do the night's homework in their class. The more you get done in class,the less you have to do at home.
 Try to have a good outlook on school. Usually, middle school kids hate middle school because they don't realize how fun school can be if you're creative.
 You will be social and you will also be learning. Just make sure that person won't goof off or waste too much time.
,, You should be exercising regularly, but if you're not, try to set aside time to do so for at least 60 minutes 4 times a week. Most middle schools have P.E., so you can add this in as well. If you can, try to join a team sport. That way you can socialize and exercise at the same time.
 Try to fit in socializing activities at least once a week. Take advantage of times to socialize such as when switching classes or at lunch.
 For example, let's say you have to study but your friends want to go shopping with you. The smart thing to do is say no. Save things for other times if you need to.
 If you are like most middle school kids,you probably spend more time looking at a screen then you need to.Limit it to no more than 2 1\2 hours every weekday and 5 hours every weekend.Fill this empty space with exercising, socializing, studying, or other activities. This does not include school-related things like researching things online.
 You can also do this step in the morning if you want.
 Try to find at least 30 minutes a day (best if right before bed) to relax and wind down. Draw, read, whatever you want to do.If this is right before bed avoid exercising or anything that might wake you up.
 You are probably under 14, so get at least 9-10 hours of sleep a night. So if you have to wake up at 7:00, go to bed at 10:00 at the latest.

