 The negative ions the dryer emits cause your hair cuticle to lay flat, which smooths out frizz and coarseness, resulting in straighter, shinier hair.Ionic blow dryers tend to be on the pricy side, but there are affordable versions out there.
Be sure to get one that comes with a nozzle attachment.
Look for one that is at least 1500 watts.;
, Ceramic-plated flat irons straighten hair faster and more efficiently than other types of irons, and they are also the most gentle on hair.Look for one that’s no wider than an inch and a half, since anything wider isn’t ideal for straightening hair (the wider ones are better for styling hair).Ceramic flat irons are the best choice for those who have fine to normal hair.
If you have thick, curly hair, opt for a gold or titanium-plated flat iron.Some companies make flat irons plated with a blend of ceramic and titanium – these are excellent choices for coarse hair.
 For general hair brushing (not blow drying), a boar bristle brush is the ideal choice because it's very gentle on your hair. Boar bristles also add shine and sleekness by redistributing the natural oil in your hair as you brush through it.Avoid hair brushes with nylon or plastic bristles for general hair brushing. These tend to cause breakage and hair damage.
 Make sure you get one that has a combination of boar hair and nylon bristles, which will create a smooth, glossy sheen.Avoid using round metal brushes when drying your hair to prevent breakage and damage.
 These will give your hair a big moisture boost and encourage your hair to lay flat and look smooth.Check the labels for ingredients like Argan oil, keratin, avocado oil, vitamin E, Moroccan oil and coconut oil.


Avoid clarifying shampoos and conditioners, which strip your hair of moisture and result in limp, dull hair.If you are regularly using smoothing and straightening tools and products, use deep conditioning treatments at least once a week to restore your damaged strands.If you dye your hair, choose a straightening shampoo that includes the ingredients sodium laureth sulfate and sodium lauryl sulfate. These will help preserve the color., Serums smooth the hair cuticle, add shine, and protect your strands from environmental damage.Look for serums with Argan or Moroccan oil and avoid those that have a high percentage of alcohol in them. Alcohol can be very drying.
Use sparingly, especially since people with thin hair will need to use far less serum on their hair than those with thick hair., Blow drying and flat ironing your hair can cause significant heat damage if you aren’t using a product to protect it. These products often come in spray bottles and require that you spritz them on before using heated tools on your hair.Sometimes thermal protectants are advertised as “heat activated” products, but they are essentially the same thing – they are designed to protect your hair from heat damage.Look for thermal products that will also help to protect against humidity and tame frizzy strands.
 Many of the “shine” finishing sprays on the market contain silicon, which is harmful, so look for versions that are silicon-free.


Hairspray with a light hold functions well as a finishing spray, especially if you can’t find a silicon-free finishing product.
 Use your smoothing shampoo and conditioner to prep your hair for best results. Shampoo gently. After you apply the conditioner, comb through your hair with a paddle brush to evenly and thoroughly distribute it before rinsing it out.If you have long hair and want to avoid washing your hair daily, use dry shampoo in between washings to keep your locks fresh.
 Pat your hair gently with a towel, working downward.Rough towel drying can encourage hair to curl up, especially if you already have a natural wave to it. Allow your hair to air dry until it’s about 80% dry before blow drying it.


Blow drying wet hair is extremely damaging and it can also cause your hair to become frizzy., This is the same direction as the hair cuticle, so applying it that way will ensure that you get the sleekest results.,


Once your hair is dry, use the cool setting on the hair dryer to blast it with cool air for about 60 seconds for an additional shine boost., If you have thick or long hair, it may be easier for you to tie most of it up and bring it down a section at a time to straighten it.

Work slowly and steadily and don’t iron over the same section of hair more than 2-3 times.

Make sure your hair is completely dry before you begin – if you hear a sizzle, stop and use your blow dryer for a few more minutes before resuming.Adjust the heat setting on your flat iron to suit your hair type.If you have fine or damaged hair, set the temperature at 300 to 350 degrees.
Normal hair can use the 350 to 400 degree setting and if you have coarse hair, use the 400 degree setting.
 Don’t neglect the ends of your hair, which tend to dry out the most when subjected to heating tools. Then allow your hair to cool down completely before applying a light might of hairspray or finishing spray all over your hairstyle to set it.


If you don’t wait for your hair to cool down before applying hairspray, you may hear some sizzling, which means you’re damaging your hair.
Instead of misting, try spraying your mixed nylon and boar bristle brush with the hairspray and then running it through your hair to avoid stiffness or stickiness.