 Sometimes it can help to limit yourself by choosing a specific genre of writing to focus on in your novel. Once you choose a genre, try to stick to the genre so you have limitations on your writing and are able to lean on the rules of the genre to start writing.You may decide to try writing a historical fiction novel, a science fiction novel, a fantasy novel, or a romance novel. You could also try your hand at writing a horror novel, a humorous novel, or a young adult novel.
 Many writers are also experimenting with blending several genres together to create “cross-genre” novels and stories. You may be more inspired by combining several genres together so you have more options in your novel and can play around with several different genres in your novel.For example, you may try blending together fantasy and romance to create a fantasy-romance novel, or blending science fiction and horror together to create a sci-fi-horror novel. Often, readers respond well to interesting cross-genre novels as they offer several elements of different genres in one story.
 Some writers begin their stories by creating the core conflict. The core conflict is the situation or premise of the story. It should contain a challenge or a struggle for the protagonist or main character of your novel. Having the core conflict in place might help you then determine the plot of your novel and how you are going to put your characters in a scene.Your core conflict should have an external element. This is a problem or issue the protagonist is dealing with externally, in the outside world. This problem should be resolved or at least addressed by the end of the novel.
There should also be an internal element to the core conflict. This is a problem or issue your protagonist is dealing with internally, within themselves. Giving your main character an internal struggle will add to the tension of the novel and help to build the plot.
 It may help to nail down your story idea by trying to create an outline of the plot of your novel. This can help you get a general sense of where your characters are heading in the story. The plot outline can act as a map or guide for your story, though you may end up deviating from the outline if inspiration strikes as you write your novel.

You may use a plot diagram to create the outline. The plot diagram will have six distinct sections, forming the shape of a triangle, with the climax at the top of the triangle. The six sections are: the set up, the inciting incident, the rising action, the climax, the falling action, and the resolution.
You can also use the snowflake method to create the outline. You will do this by creating a one sentence summary of the plot, followed by a one paragraph summary of the plot, and then a spreadsheet of scenes.

