 If you see the need for a specific amendment, there is a good chance that you are not alone. Before starting your own campaign, look to see if other people or groups have already gotten the ball rolling with a campaign of their own. Supporting an existing movement will help the cause more effectively than starting a second movement.


Search the internet. You should be able to find evidence of other movements fairly easily, as most will have some kind of Web presence in a formal website or social media sites.
Pay special attention to movements already backed by congressional representatives. If a suggested amendment already has official backing, this means that it has gotten attention and may be gaining traction. It is farther in the process and more likely to succeed than one that is still at the grassroots level.
 One way that people typically use to make congressmen aware of their voices is the petition. By signing existing petitions you show support for a particular proposed amendment and can demonstrate to Congress just how much support the principle has among U.S. citizens.


There are any number of websites online that make it very easy to organize a petition drive. Some like Petition2Congress send letters directly to the legislature. Another, We the People, generates a response directly from the President if the number of signatures crosses a certain threshold. While not directly involved in amendments, the White House could bring attention to the issue.Read the wording on the petition carefully before you sign it. You should always know exactly what it is that you are supporting, and you should be able to agree with it completely before you put your name down.
Always be honest when signing a petition. Do not make up extra names or identities. If the petition goes through a verification process, the names will need to be verified and fake names could serve to invalidate it., If there are existing campaigns or movements in support of a particular amendment, get involved. Volunteer your time with an organization or a petition drive to help spread the word.


Publicity is key. Spread the word in your own community by talking to your neighbors, friends, relatives, and acquaintances. Participate in a door-to-door petition campaign.
If the movement has a website, check the site for specific suggestions on how you can get involved in the process.
 A direct call to your local federal representatives or senators can make it clear to them where you stand on the issue. If enough people place calls to the same representatives, or deluge them with letters, those representatives are more likely to lend their support to the cause.


Your locality will have an attached House representative. Each state also has two senators.
If you do not know who representatives or senators, it is fairly easy to find out. Try looking them up on a website like Govtrak.us. 