 Depending on whether you are the dominant estate holder or the servient estate holder, you will have the option to terminate an easement by either abandonment or prescription. Depending on which party you are, the first step in terminating an easement in these manners is to either stop using the easement or to block use of the easement.


If you are the dominant estate holder, you can terminate an easement through abandonment. The first step in terminating an easement through abandonment is to cease to use the easement at all. This means you cannot do what it is the easement allows you to do. For example, if you have an easement that allows you to drive over someone's land to get to your own, and you want to terminate the easement through abandonment, you must cease to drive across the other person's land in order to get to your own.
If you are the servient estate holder, you can terminate an easement through prescription. The first step in terminating an easement through prescription is to block the other party's use of the easement. For example, if you have allowed another landowner to drive across your driveway in order to get to their land, you could put up a fence across your driveway and not allow the other party to get through.
 Once you have either stopped using the easement or blocked the use of an easement, depending on which party you are, you will have to either show an intent to relinquish your easement rights or you will have to block the other party's use of the easement in an open manner. If you do this, the easement will be terminated.


If you are the dominant estate holder, while you are not using the easement, you must also show some intent to relinquish your rights under the easement. For example, apart from not using the easement, you may also tell the other land owner that you do not need the easement anymore.
If you are the servient estate holder, apart from blocking the other party's use of the easement, you must also do so openly. This means you must block use in an obvious way, so that if the other land owner were to inspect the land, he or she would notice and become aware of your blocking. For example, putting a locked fence in front of your driveway is likely considered open. However, putting a small log that can easily be removed in front of your driveway may not meet this requirement.
 Once you fulfill the requirements of terminating an easement by abandonment or prescription, record an easement termination document with the applicable registry of deeds.Because a lot of easements are recorded interests in real property, if you do not record its termination, the easement may still appear on a title search and may affect the land's value and potential uses.You can usually find an easement termination document by going to your county's court website or by calling your county's clerk of courts and asking for help.When you look on the website or call the clerk of courts, you will be looking for, or asking for, an easement termination template you can use to record a terminated easement.
To record something, you will have to take your real estate document terminating the easement to your recorder's office and pay a fee.The document will then be given a number and a time-stamp indicating when the document was recorded.It is then filed with any other documents that have been recorded on that specific piece of property.
Recording documents provides a traceable chain of title to a specific piece of property, including any other interests that may exist on that piece of property (e.g., mortgages, liens, and easements), and it is therefore incredibly important that you record documents quickly and accurately.Because of the importance of recording, you should consult an experienced real estate attorney whenever you are going to record something. He or she will be able to help you through the process and will ensure you accomplish the goals you set out to accomplish.

