 Liver of sulfur, composed of potassium sulfide and related chemicals, reacts with copper to create different colors. While this material is more expensive and potentially more dangerous than the substances used in other methods, this method has the best chance to create a much darker patina.
 Wash the copper clean with warm, soapy water. Relatively clean copper items, with no oily sheen or stuck-on dirt, may instead by wiped with a clean cloth or treated with a clear household cleaner.
 Liver of sulfur can be purchased in several forms. Liquid liver of sulfur is pre-diluted, but may have a shelf life of only a few weeks. The gel form and dry form must be mixed with water before use, but if stored properly, they can last much longer.Note that the dry form, also sold as "lump" or "nugget' liver of sulfur, may release dust that can cause harm when inhaled.
 Put on latex or rubber gloves before handling the liver of sulfur, as it can irritate skin. Work outside or in an area with good air flow, especially if you are working with dry liver of sulfur. Liver of sulfur has a strong, unpleasant smell, which the ventilation will also reduce. If you have safety goggles, wear them.


If liver of sulfur gets on your skin remove clothing to expose the affected area and rinse in running water for fifteen minutes.If this substance gets on your eyes, rinse in running water for fifteen minutes, occasionally moving your lower and upper eyelids apart to expose more of your eye to the water. Seek medical attention.If you swallow liver of sulfur, induce vomiting immediately and seek medical attention., Dry liver of sulfur should be gently tapped until you break off a pea-sized nugget; the darker material from the interior of the lump will be more effective.Mix this pea sized nugget with approximately 1 cup (240 mL) of water. Gel or liquid solution should be diluted according to the instructions, as different brands may contain different concentrations of liver of sulfur or already be pre-diluted to the correct strength.


Cold water and more dilute solutions should work fine when treating copper, and allow more control over the exact color.Using warm water or hot water may darken your copper faster, but never mix liver of sulfur with boiling water, as this produces harmful gas., Baking soda will neutralize the liver of sulfur, preventing it from darkening your copper more than you desire. Prepare a mixture of baking soda and water in advance so you can stop the color change as soon as you desire. In a separate container than the liver of sulfur, stir together approximately one part baking soda with sixteen parts water.Use a container large enough to soak your copper object in.
 Using gloves and tongs, or tweezers for small items, hold the copper under the surface of the liver of sulfur and water solution for a short time.


If your copper object is too large to dip into the solution, use a brush to apply the solution, or transfer the solution to a wider, shallower container.
 Remove the copper from the solution and examine it for color changes, taking care not to hold it near or above unprotected eyes. Depending on the concentration of the solution, and the temperature of your copper, you may see any color from pink to black. Dipping it into the solution additional times should produce darker colors, ending in a black or grey patina.


If the color changes are minor, try heating the copper in a pan of hot, but not boiling, water. Higher temperature should produce a more dramatic color change.
If the color is not dark enough, try mixing in 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) pure ammonia into the solution. Adding additional ammonia may result in a reddish color, rather than black., Once you've reached the desired color, let your copper item soak in the baking soda bath for a few minutes.Remove and wash in warm, soapy water.If the color change has progressed too far, or if you would like to create a more uneven, antique look, gently scrub the patina with steel wool or a paste made from baking soda and a few drops of water.
Baking soda may also be added to the liver of sulfur solution after you're done. This will neutralize the liver of sulfur and allow you to safely dispose of it down the sink., Any wax or lacquer intended for metals can be applied over the new patina according to the product's instructions. This will prevent or slow down further color change as long as the wax or lacquer is kept clean and not rubbed off.

