 The most simple and common thing to do during commercials is catch up on some things. You can try emailing someone, texting someone, going to the bathroom, read (if that is your thing) and more! Look at the key and quality tips below for more ideas.;
, Snacks can help you stay more interesting in the show. Also, get a drink to keep you occupied! Chances are, you will get thirsty from your snack.
 If you are not alone, try chatting with your peers! You can chat about the show, or anything else during those long and boring commercials. You may even learn something new about each other!

, One thing you can do is count the commercials. You can even do this every single commercial of the episode or movie. They can be the same, or a load different. Also, if you are with others, you may end up having different results!

, During the commercials, if you are with others, you can try acting out the commercials! Take turns while the other person is sitting. Also, if there are multiple people in the commercial, you can act it out together!

, Charades is a fantastic game to keep you and your friends occupied. You can even try acting out characters in the movie, episode, or show!

, Truth or Dare is one of the most popular games in the world. It is also great to keep you and others occupied during those commercials!

, If you have not brushed your teeth, do so, fast. Wash your hands, use the restroom, fix your makeup, or even just touch up your hair. You can do many things to freshen up and make use of your time during commercials. The time an average person wastes waiting for commercials to end can add up to an extremely overwhelming amount.
 If you are by a computer, you can go online, email each other, check your status on a website, and more.
 Get some blankets, pillows and more for a comfortable and fun area to enjoy watching your fave episodes, shows, movies, and more!

, If you have guide on your TV, you can plan ahead and check what shows are on next!

,]]Text a Friend. You can also just simply text a friend while waiting for those commercials! Be sure to remind them that you are watching a show and just leave or tell them you have to go when it is back on and the commercials are over.

