 A two or three year old toddler can generally learn to count to ten, or even higher, although they may not understand that numbers represent quantities. For a young child, the first step is to learn the correct words in the correct sequence: "One, two, three, four, five…"


Start early by making counting part of your regular conversations. For example, you might say: "It's time to put on your socks! One sock, two socks!"
Count things throughout the day, such as oranges in a basket, crayons on the table, people in a room, etc.;
, Money is symbolic and difficult to understand for young minds, but a toddler is not too young to learn about trade and bartering. Since the concept of trading one thing for another is really the basis for understanding how money works, this can provide an early foundation for understanding financial concepts later.


Teach your toddler about one to one trades by swapping and sharing toys when playing. For instance, if you are reading a book and your toddler wants to see it, ask him or her to bring you another book so you can both have one.
Teach your toddler about trading based on comparative value. Give your toddler a plate of blueberries, and give yourself a plate of strawberries. Ask your toddler if he or she would like a strawberry, and then ask for three blueberries in exchange for one bigger strawberry.
 While your child won't understand the difference in value between a penny, nickel, and dime, he or she is old enough to begin learning the correct names for each piece of money. Identify the right words when you are shopping, by telling him or her "I'm going to pay for this with a dollar," or "I need five dollars and a dime to pay for this."


You can also turn coin identification into a fun puzzle. Take a piece of blank cardstock and trace the outline of coins on the paper. If you're in the United States, for instance, you would trace a penny, dime, nickel, and quarter. Then, place the coins in a pile next to the paper and ask your toddler to match them each to the correct image.Be sure you watch your child closely while he or she examines or plays with coins. Some toddlers have a tendency to put coins in their mouth or nose, which can pose a safety hazard.
 While it can be fun to give your toddler a treat every time you go to the store, your toddler needs to begin to understand the importance of waiting and saving money.


It is OK to tell your toddler that you don't have enough money to purchase something they ask for at the store. Explain that it is expensive by saying, "This toy costs ten dollars, but we don't have ten dollars to spend on this. If we buy this toy, we can't buy your brother his birthday present."Teaching your child patience and the value of waiting helps him or her understand the importance of not making rushed purchases. You can turn every day moments into "teachable moments." For instance, when your child has to wait in line to ride a carousel, talk with him or her about how sometimes you have to wait for what you want. Although this is not directly related to money, it instills an important lesson that applies to finances., Kids of all ages love playing store, and toddlers in particular are keen to copy behaviors they see adults doing.You can set up a simple store in the living room by placing empty food boxes, produce, or other small nonperishable items on a table top. You can give your toddler a reusable shopping bag and some play money and allow him or her to gather and "purchase" groceries as you act as the cashier.
Don't forget to switch roles and let your child also have a turn at the cash register. Allow him or her to make change incorrectly for now; the important thing is to understand that trade takes place when someone makes a purchase.
 Your toddler might not understand what is happening, but allowing him or her to pay for groceries or other items is a good first lesson in how money works and how purchases are made.


If your toddler is big enough, allow him or her to put items on the counter for purchase. Then, after the cashier rings up the purchase, hold your child so he or she can hand the cash or credit card to the cashier.
If your toddler receives money for a holiday gift, help him or her pick out something from the store and purchase it themselves. This way they begin to understand that money can be exchanged for something they want to have. It helps to let your toddler carry a small purse or bag to hold the money and any change they might get.
 One of the most important money skills that some people never seem to learn is how to save money. Purchase a cute piggy bank for your child. If you can, choose a clear one or another clear container so that your child can watch his or her money accumulate.Consider giving your toddler a very small weekly allowance. For example, you might give your child a quarter or fifty cents. Your toddler can put that allowance into the piggy bank and save it. You can help him or her count it regularly. Be sure to explain that each week, there is more money than there was before. The more he or she saves, the more the money grows.
When your toddler asks for a toy in the store, set a goal together to save money to purchase it. If the toy is too expensive for the child to afford on his or her allowance, consider giving more money for household chores or "matching" the child's contribution to make the goal attainable.
 Take your toddler to the store with you and talk with him or her about your options.Use words like "more expensive," "less expensive," "cheaper," or "a better deal" to help your child learn that saving money is preferable.


Plan your shopping trip in advance, including any toys or treats you might purchase for your child. Most young children ask for things at the store. Tell your toddler beforehand whether or not you will purchase anything in particular for him or her, and stick with what you say. That helps your child learn not to make last minute impulse decisions., Allowing your toddler to choose between alternatives helps reinforce the important lesson that money only goes so far. It also gives him or her some personal stake in how money is used, so they will be more open to learning to use money wisely.


If you have $20 to spend on an outing with your child, make a list of things in that price range and let him or her choose. For example, your child might choose between seeing a movie, going to the pool, or going for ice cream. Explain to him or her that they can only choose one because you only have enough money for one.
You can also try giving your child a few dollars and asking him or her to choose the vegetable or fruit for your family's dinner., Coins present a choking hazard to toddlers and cash is covered with germs. Some toddlers might also accidentally rip or tear bills, so be sure your child knows how to properly handle money.


Explain to your child that he or she should never put money in their mouth.
Make sure your child washes his or her hands after handling cash.

