 Ensure that you have all the information about the examination, exam pattern, eligibility and syllabus. Getting into the examination mood is crucial because it helps you work hard and study extensively.;
, The right books are important for this examination.  Make sure that you have opted for the correct study material. Join a coaching institute and ask the faculty about the relevance of the books to the current syllabus and what other resources you can use.
 The GATE syllabus covers all the engineering concepts that you would have covered in three or four years of graduation. Analyse the focus area of the subject as per your specialization.
 Always make short notes at the end of each chapter, which will allow you to revise the information quickly and often. Underline the important details, highlight the key points and maintain a separate notebook or flash cards for key information and formulae.
 Once you cover a topic, check your level to know where you stand using question papers from the previous years and other sample papers. Try to solve these without the guidance of the answer bank

, Enrolling for test series will help you to have a regular check on where you stand. You will be able to discover the areas that you need to focus on more. Register with an institute or purchase online tests, books or practice CDs for best results.
  Ensure that you complete your syllabus on time. Do this by planning your short term goals and schedule in advance. Stick this schedule on your wall or cupboard to ensure that you stay on track.


Keep reviewing yourself and take notes of any trick that you applied to improve your course and how much did it affect your score.
Even if you have joined coaching classes, make your own plan and discuss with your friends to check if you are on the same track. Never avoid and omit chapters or subjects completely. Make a timetable to accommodate all lessons and studies.
 Give less time to recreational activities like watching TV, surfing the net or weekend partying. Skip these activities until you achieve your goal or at least achieve a major chunk of your short term goals.


Hit the pause button on weekend movies, social networking and chatting. Talk to people to keep yourself updated, rather than to while away your time. Sleeping is important to rejuvenate your body. Both over and under sleeping will have their consequences. Set an alarm and get up on time, start your day early and endeavour to excel every day.

