 If you can't find one, you can make your own. Paint a 1½-inch (3.81-centimeter) wooden block white with acrylic paint. Add a thin border on each face using acrylic paint. Next, paint a letter on each side. If you need to, use a stencil to make the letters.


Red, yellow, blue, and green are classic alphabet block colors.
 Cut a 1½ by 3-inch (3.81 by 7.62-centimeter) strip out of red or green felt. Cut a 1½-inch (3.81-centimeter) long slit into it to separate the legs. Round the ends of the legs to make the feet.The strip needs to be the same width as your alphabet block. If your block is narrower/wider, cut the strip accordingly.
 Coat the bottom of the block with hot glue. Quickly press it down onto the feet, just above the slit.


For a final touch, consider gluing little pompoms or jingle bells to the ends of the feet.
 Cut a ½ by 4½-inch (1.27 by 11.43-centimeter) strip out of red or green felt. Round the narrow ends to make the hands.If you'd like to, you can cut little notches into the side of each hand to make gloves or mittens.
 Turn the block so that the feet are facing you. Draw a horizontal line of hot glue across the top of the block. Quickly press the arms down into the glue. Make sure that the arms are of equal length on both sides.
 This will make the collar.If you want something fancier, cut a short piece of 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide white lace, and run a straight stitch along the edge. Gather the lace until it coils into a circle, then tie the ends of the thread to hold the collar together.
 Make a large top of glue on top of the arms, right in the middle of the block. Press the center of the white collar into the glue. Don't glue the entire collar down; this will allow it to stick up a little.
 The triangle needs to be wide enough needs wide enough to wrap around the a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wooden bead, plus extra for the seam., Fold the triangle in half lengthwise so that the slanted edges are touching. Secure the edges with hot glue.


For a final touch, consider gluing a mini pompom or a jingle bell to the tip.
 Draw a ring of hot glue inside the rim of the hat. Quickly push the hat on top of the head. You can stick the hat straight down onto the head, or angle it back slightly for a more fashionable touch.


Make sure that the bead's hole is inside the hat.
 Add two small dots for the eyes, and a curve line for a small. Add some rosy cheeks, and a pink or red dot for the nose. You can make the face using acrylic paint and a thin paintbrush, or you can draw it on using permanent markers.
 Coat the bottom of the bead with hot glue. Press it down onto the center of the collar. Hold it until the glue sets.
 Cut a short piece of 1/16 to 1/8-inch (0.8 and 3.2-millimeters) wide ribbon. Thread the ribbon onto a tapestry needle. Push the needle through the tip of the hat, and pull the ribbon through. Tie the ends of the ribbon together to make a loop.


Match the ribbon's color to your elf.

