 Monitoring your dog’s health rests in part with making regular visits to the veterinarian. For dogs under the age of 7 years, visit your vet every year. The vet will check for signs of illness, keep them up to date on vaccines, and will treat your dog for parasites and worms.
 Dogs that are over the age of 7 years should visit the vet every 6 months. The vet will check for signs of illness, keep them up to date on vaccines, and will treat for parasites and worms.
 Responsible dog owners get their pets vaccinated regularly, wormed, and treated for parasites such as fleas.


Vaccination is essential even if you carry your toy poodle everywhere, or he rarely goes outside. This is because some infections such as parvovirus are caused by particularly hardy viruses that can attach to your shoes. Therefore, they can still pose a risk to even the most pampered of poodles.
Talk with your vet about implanting a microchip in your dog. A microchip will help you track the dog if he gets lost.
 One of the health problems that toy poodles are prone to in later life is diabetes mellitus (sugar diabetes). The hormones associated with estrous (heat) in the female can trigger diabetes. Therefore, it is wise to get your female toy poodle spayed.


If spaying is done before the female’s second heat, this also has a beneficial effect in vastly reducing her risk of developing mammary cancer in later life. Toy poodles often live into their teens. Each time a bitch has a season, it weakens the lining of her womb and makes her more likely to develop a pyometra, which is a potentially life-threatening womb infection. Thus, spaying whilst she is fit and strong removes the possibility of needing emergency surgery in later life when anesthesia can pose a higher risk.Neutering a male toy poodle does not give the same compelling health benefits. Neutering a male is mainly done to prevent unwanted breeding and to control behavioral issues such as aggression or dominance.
Talk with your vet to learn more. Discussing your dog’s health with your vet will give you a good idea about which direction to take.
 Small but resilient, toy poodles often live well into double figures. They do however tend to suffer from health issues as they age. Diabetes, poor teeth and heart disease are most common. These issues, once identified, can often be managed in order to help your pet live a long and active life.Watch for signs that indicate a problem, such as increased thirst, urinary accidents, coughing, lack of energy, bad breath, difficulty chewing, or weight loss. If you see any of these symptoms, speak to your vet.