 Discuss, and show, your specific acne problem to a dermatologist and work with him to develop a personalized treatment plan for your specific situation. Several topical treatments (i.e. creams, lotions, gels, etc.) are available via a dermatologist that may work for your acne. Those treatments may include:Topical antibiotics that you can dab onto your problem areas to help control the bacteria that is causing your acne.
Topical retinoid medications, which are made from vitamin A and can help unclog your pores, and they can also help antibiotics work more effectively.
 Oral antibiotics (i.e. pill form) are also available from your dermatologist for acne problems, should your dermatologist deem them a good treatment plan for you. These antibiotics would be similar to those you’d take if you had any other type of infection, such as a bladder infection. They’d help to kill the bacteria that is causing your acne.


Some doctors may also consider prescribing oral contraceptives (i.e. birth control pills) to young women with acne problems. Some low-dose oral contraceptives, which contain a combination of the hormones estrogen and progestin, can actually help control and reduce the amount of acne on your skin., You’ve probably heard people telling you not to pop your own pimples (and they're right) — but this doesn’t mean that a doctor can’t do it for you! Medical extractions area a safe way to clean out infected pores without the increased risk of scaring that can happen when popping pimples on your own. Since medical extractions focus on specific pimples, you will probably need to go back to the doctor again if you suffer from another breakout.Spas that offer facials specifically for helping clear up acne may also perform extractions, and this option is certainly better than doing it yourself. However, you may want to ask the aesthetician what type of products they’re using on your skin during the facial to ensure they don’t end up clogging your pores all over again!

, Chemical peels must be done by a trained professional. That professional will use a high concentration solution of something like salicylic acid, glycolic acid, or trichloroacetic acid (TCA) to remove the top layers of skin on your face (or elsewhere on your body where you have problems). The removal of these layers of skin helps clear up excess oil and dead skin to help your pores work properly.Chemical peels should not be done to people who are also taking oral retinoids (like isotretinoin) as the combination of the two products can cause your skin to become severely irritated.
While the effect of one chemical peel may show results for you, chances are you will need more than one to achieve a lasting effect.
 Cortisone is an anti-inflammatory steroid medication that can be injected right into an acne lesion. The cortisone will reduce the swelling of the lesion acne within 24–48 hours after the injection. Obviously, because it’s being injected directly into a specific pimple, it is more of a spot treatment than an overall solution and is normally not used for those with severe acne., Light therapy has shown some promise for people suffering from acne, but it is still a “work-in-progress”. The idea behind light therapy is that certain types of light (i.e. blue light) can target specific bacteria that causes acne and help reduce the inflammation in your pores. Most light therapy is done by a professional, in a clinic. But there are some at-home solutions available as well.Similarly, several lasers have been used to help clear acne breakouts and improve scars.
 Isotretinoin, which is an oral retinoid, can help reduce the amount of sebum your pores produce, which in turn will help reduce inflammation and acne.However, isotretinoin, which is also known as Accutane, is normally used by doctors as a last resort for patients with severe acne who who haven’t responded to other methods of treatment. If it is prescribed, it is normally only taken for four to five months.Isotretinoin has some very serious side effects. It can increase the amount of fat in your blood to risky levels, and it can impact the function of your liver. It can also cause serious dryness to your skin, especially your lips and areas where you have acne. Doctors will usually test your blood regularly to monitor these potential side effects.
The most serious side effect of isotretinoin is birth defects. Obviously this means it should never be taken if you are pregnant, think you might be pregnant, or are trying to get pregnant. If you are sexually active while taking isotretinoin, you must protect yourself with at least two forms of birth control to ensure you do not get pregnant.