 For this trick, you'll need: two pieces of plain paper, a clear glass cup, a pen or pencil, scissors, clear tape, a coin, a table to perform the trick on, and a piece of cloth or fabric.


Make sure the cloth or fabric you choose is big enough to cover the glass completely when you lay it on top of the glass.;
, Place the glass top down on one of the pieces of paper. Use your pencil or pen to draw on the paper, around the top of the cup.
 Remove the glass from the paper, and then use your scissors to cut out the circle you drew in the paper. Go slowly and cut along the pencil guide as closely as possible.
 Stick small pieces of tape onto the cut out paper circle. Stick the shape onto the top of the cup, so the glass is covered with a piece of plain paper. Trim the edges with scissors so that when the glass is upside down on a bigger piece of the same plain paper, it is not noticeable.


You only need four small pieces of tape, around the edge of the circle.
 The upside down glass on the piece of paper should look like a normal glass, with nothing unusual able to be seen from a distance of a few feet.
 Have with you the other, unaltered sheet of paper, your cloth, your coin, and the glass. Put the sheet of paper on a table. Place the glass with the topside down on the paper.
 Now is when you gather your audience. Put a coin on the sheet of paper. Tell your audience you will make the coin disappear.
 Lay the cloth over the glass so that it's completely covered. The coin should still be visible somewhere else on the piece of paper.
 Grab the glass near the bottom of the upside down glass, with the fabric still covering it. Place it so that the glass lies over the coin.


This is an excellent time to distract the audience with some flourish. Try making an exaggerated gesture over the glass with your other hand as you move it.
 The paper on the bottom of the glass should have covered the coin. Your audience won't know because the paper looks the same. You have made a coin disappear!


Before you remove the cloth, you can increase the entertainment factor of the trick with some magical flourish. Use a wand, or say some made up magic words. It's up to you, so you can get creative here.
 You can do the same thing again to make the coin reappear. Just cover the glass, move it away from the coin, and remove the cloth. Now the coin has reappeared!]

