 Planning your trip to Europe well in advance? If you have enough time left before your trip to be able to receive mail, you may be able to order Euros online. This is an easy process — simply visit a major currency exchange site (like, for instance, travelex.com and foreignmoney.com), follow the prompts to place your order, and provide proper payment information.With this option, you can usually choose to have the Euros delivered to your home. Some sites even offer free shipping on orders over a certain value. You usually may also pick your order up at a currency exchange location.
 Most services that allow you to order Euros online will also give you the option to order over the phone. This is true both for major exchange websites like Travelex.com and for smaller local or regional exchanges. In the latter case, contact options can vary from location to location.


To contact Travelex via phone, call 516-300-1622., In addition to Travelex and other currency exchange sites, you can also usually order foreign currency from your bank. Depending on your bank, you may be able to place this order either online or over the phone. In either case, the basic process is the same: you contact the bank, place your order, and the currency is delivered to your home. Be sure to allow time for the Euros to arrive before you must leave for your trip.


If time is short, you may be able to pick the Euros up in person shortly after placing your order.
 Nearly every location that allows you to buy Euros will charge you a small fee to do so. Usually, this is done by taking a percentage "cut" of your money — for instance, a currency exchange might give you 90% of your money's value in Euros and keep the remaining 10%. It is difficult to get a perfectly "fair" exchange between your native currency and Euros, so plan accordingly.


Your best bet to avoid these sorts of costs may be to visit a bank that you are a member of. However, even in these cases, there may be minor fees for changing your currency.
 The values of the world's currencies are constantly changing. Depending on how valuable your home country's currency is compared to the Euro, you may enjoy a favorable exchange rate or be forced to deal with an unfavorable one. In general:


It's best to buy Euros when your home country's currency is relatively strong compared to the Euro. This means that each unit of currency you spend will get you more Euros for your trip.
On the other hand, for the opposite reason, it's not favorable to buy Euros when your currency is weak compared to the Euro.
Visit xe.com for an up-to-speed look at the exchange rates between the world's most important currencies., It should go without saying that it's only wise to buy Euros from licensed, reputable agencies with names you trust. Paying a little extra in exchange fees is always better than unwittingly committing a crime in a foreign country. Don't accept an offer from a stranger to change your money to Euros — you may end up short-changed or with a wallet full of counterfeit currency, which is a serious crime.


The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission additionally warns against so-called "forex" (foreign exchange) investment opportunities. In these schemes, unwitting investors are tricked into buying large amounts of foreign currency with promises of "high returns coupled with low risks."In reality, the scam artists steal the money — and often get away with it, because it is difficult for police to pursue criminals across national borders.

