 Your mind does not create weaknesses on purpose. These traits are created in an attempt to protect you or serve you in some way. The sooner you understand what that is, the sooner you can find a more positive way to cope with that situations, leaving no need for your current weakness.For example, a weakness in approaching strangers could stem from being taught that strangers are dangerous and that protecting yourself meant staying away from them.
Remember that nobody can be perfect at everything. If you struggle with certain skills or subjects, consider your strengths instead. For example, you may not be good at math, but you can celebrate how good you are at writing.
 There are multiple ways to look at any task or situation. Instead of focusing on skills that you lack, try tackling tasks with the skills you do have. This can build your confidence and make you capable of doing more things that you thought possible.For example, if you are intimidated by math but great with computers, you can tackle budget related tasks by plugging everything into a spreadsheet and letting it do the math for you.
 Networking with others is a strength in any situation. Admitting that you need help in a certain area will help you to include team members and other partners in your tasks. You can also learn to overcome your weaknesses by observing how others tackle those tasks.If you find it difficult to reach out or to rely on others, this might be your weakness! You can take steps to learn how to depend on others.
 You can take a class, workshop, or training to develop some skills. You could also seek out a mentor to help you grow as a person and overcome your weaknesses. You can also read a self-help book or online coaching materials. If your weaknesses are the result of emotional roots, you could even see a counselor to help you work through these underlying issues.A therapist or mental health professional can help you identify your patterns and habits so that you can make positive changes in your life.

