 Prepare a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish by greasing it lightly with shortening or nonstick cooking spray.Alternatively, you could use a cast iron skillet instead of the baking dish. The skillet should be seasoned beforehand. Place it into the oven as it preheats, then remove it when you are ready to pour in the batter.;
, Crack two eggs into a small bowl. Gently whisk them together until the yolks and whites are roughly combined.


Break the yolks with the top of the whisk, then whisk the eggs together for 20 to 30 seconds. The yolks and whites only need to be partially combined; they do not need to be foamy or consistently colored.
Note that you could also use a fork instead of a whisk

, Add the cornmeal, flour, and baking soda to a large mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients together until evenly combined.


Use a wooden or plastic mixing spoon to combine the dry ingredients. Continue stirring until the cornmeal and flour look evenly intermixed.
This recipe uses standard yellow cornmeal. If you decide to use self-rising cornmeal, however, do not add any baking soda to the cornbread batter.
 Pour the buttermilk, beaten eggs, and vegetable oil into the dry ingredients. Mix together until the batter just barely combines.


If desired, you could mix the wet ingredients together in a separate mixing bowl before adding them to the dry ingredients. Doing so may make it slightly easier to combine the ingredients thoroughly, but it usually isn't necessary.
The finished batter may still have a few lumps in it. Most of the lumps should be beaten out, however, and you should not be able to distinguish any one specific ingredient from another.
 Pour the prepared cornbread batter into your greased baking dish. Use the back of a spoon or spatula to even out the top.


If you're working with a room-temperature baking dish, firmly grasp the baking dish by its sides and sift the dish back and forth. Doing so should help distribute the batter evenly throughout the pan.
 Place the baking dish into your preheated oven and cook the cornbread for 20 to 25 minutes, or until it becomes dry and golden brown.Test the inside of the cornbread by inserting a toothpick or knife through the center. The utensil may pull away a few moist crumbs, but it should not pull up any wet batter.
 Set the cornbread aside and allow it to cool to room temperature before proceeding with the cornbread dressing steps.


You can use the cornbread immediately after it cools, but you could also store it for up to two days in your refrigerator or up to two weeks in your freezer before preparing the cornbread dressing.
When storing cornbread for later use, place it in a freezer-safe plastic bag. Remove as much air as possible from the bag before placing it into your refrigerator or freezer.
 Meanwhile, lightly grease a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) baking dish with cooking spray or shortening.


Even if you're making the dressing immediately after making the cornbread, it's still a good idea to turn the oven off in between. The cornbread will need to cool for several hours before you can work with it, and leaving the oven on during that entire time would be a significant waste of energy.
 Crumble the cooled cornbread into a large bowl or stockpot. Break up the toast with your hands and add it to the cornbread crumbles, stirring gently to combine.


Note that the prepared cornbread will produce roughly 4 cups (1 L) of crumbles.
The white bread can be toasted in the oven or with a toaster. If preferred, you could skip the bread and use 3 cups (750 ml) herb-seasoned stuffing, herb-seasoned croutons, or crumbled biscuits.
 Cut the butter into chunks and toss it into a large skillet. Place the skillet on your stove over medium heat and allow the butter to melt.


Butter will produce the richest, most traditional flavor, but margarine can be used as a substitute. Liquid cooking oils are less ideal, however.
 Add the diced onion and diced celery to the melted butter. Cook the vegetables for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the onion turns translucent and both become notably soft.You can save time by using packaged, pre-diced vegetables instead of chopping the vegetables yourself. If you choose to do this, you'll need about 1 cup (250 ml) diced onion and 1 cup (250 ml) diced celery.
 Carefully pour the onion and celery mixture into the cornbread mixture, then stir the ingredients together until evenly combined.


Scrape all of the melted butter out of the skillet and into the cornbread mixture, too. Do not strain the cooked vegetables from the butter.
 Add the broth into the cornbread-vegetable mixture 1 cup (250 ml) at a time, stirring well after each addition.


Only add as much broth as needed to make the dressing thick and slightly soupy. The dressing does need to be thoroughly moist to avoid drying it out in the oven, but there should be no excess puddles of moisture sitting on top of the dressing after you add the broth., Sprinkle the salt, black pepper, and poultry seasoning over the cornbread mixture. Stir well to incorporate these ingredients into the dressing.


You can adjust the seasonings to taste. Start with 1 tsp (5 ml) of each, stir well, and taste the dressing. Add additional seasoning as needed, working with 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) at a time.
The dressing mixture should taste exactly as you'd prefer it to taste after you finish adding your seasonings. Make all adjustments during this step; do not taste and adjust the seasonings after you add the eggs.
 Lightly beat the eggs in a separate bowl, then pour them into the bowl of dressing. Stir well until evenly combined.


Beat the eggs for 30 seconds using a whisk or fork. The yolks and whites should be slightly combined before you add the eggs to the dressing mixture.
 Spoon the cornbread dressing into your prepared baking dish. Use the back of the spoon the spread the dressing and even out the top.
 Place the baking dish into your preheated oven and bake for 45 to 60 minutes, or until the dressing is set and golden brown.


To prevent the dressing from burning, cover the pan with foil for the first 30 minutes. Remove the foil and allow the dressing to continue cooking uncovered.
Check for doneness by inserting a toothpick or knife into the center of the dish. It should come out clean if the dressing is ready.
If you prefer drier dressing, you can let it continue baking for 5 minutes past its "done" stage. Monitor the dressing closely, however, to prevent the top surface from burning.
 Allow the cornbread dressing to cool at room temperature for several minutes before spooning out individual servings. Enjoy it while it's still warm for the best flavor.

