 Most people with asthma will be more comfortable sitting and not standing or lying down. Keep the person upright to assist with lung expansion and ease of breathing. Let the person lean slightly forward onto you or a chair for support. Some asthmatics may sit in a "tripod" position by leaning forward with their hands on their knees to relieve pressure on their diaphragm.


Asthma is exacerbated by anxiety but it is not triggered by anxiety. This means that during an attack the individual will respond more rapidly when he is calm. Anxiety releases cortisol in the body which constricts the bronchioles, the passages by which air passes through the nose and/or mouth to the air sacs of the lungs.It's important that you stay calm and reassuring as this can assist the person in maintaining calm.
 Even if the person cannot verbally answer due to wheezing or coughing, he may nod or gesture towards his inhaler or an instruction card.


Ask the person if he has a written asthma emergency action plan. Many individuals who are prepared for asthma attacks will carry a written emergency plan with them. If the person has one, take it out and help him follow the plan., Asthma is often exacerbated by specific triggers or allergens. Ask the individual if something in the immediate area might be triggering an attack and if the person communicates a response, try to remove the trigger or remove the person from the trigger if it is environmental (like pollen or weather-related).Animals
Smoke
Pollen
High humidity or cold weather

, Do this to keep the person calm and reassure him that you are working with him, not against him.


Women may keep their inhaler in their handbags and men in a pocket.
Some asthmatics, especially children or the elderly, may have a clear plastic tube called a spacer that attaches to the inhaler. A spacer delivers the medicine into the mouth with less force, making it easier to inhale.
Children and elderly people who suffer frequent asthma attacks may also carry nebulizers, which deliver asthma medication through a mouthpiece or mask. They are easy to use, because the patient breathes normally and are thus ideal for the young and old, but are somewhat bulkier than the MDIs and require electricity to work.
If the person does not have an inhaler, call emergency medical services, especially if the asthmatic is young or elderly. People suffering from asthma attacks without inhalers are serious risk of asphyxiating.
 If the person has his head resting downward, temporarily lift his upper body back.


If there is a spacer for the MDI, attach it to the inhaler after shaking. Remove the cap from the mouthpiece.
Help the person tilt his head back if necessary.
Have the asthmatic exhale as much as possible before using the inhaler.
Allow the person to administer his own medication. Inhaler dosages must be appropriately timed, so allow the asthmatic control of this process. Help the person support the inhaler or spacer against his lips if necessary.
Most asthmatics will pause for a minute or two between puffs.
 Monitor the asthmatic until paramedics arrive.


Even if the asthmatic seems to get better after using their inhaler, it is best if a paramedic or healthcare professional can assess the person. If the person does not want to go to the hospital, he can make that decision after being informed of his health status.
Continue to help the person with their inhaler if necessary; even if the asthma attack does not decrease in severity the medication will help keep it from worsening by relaxing the airways.

