;
, If you’re already signed in to Twitter on your web browser, skip to step 3.
 You can use TweetDeck to manage an unlimited number Twitter accounts, but Twitter recommends signing in with an account that you don’t share with others.,



Home: This is the normal tweet stream that you see on Twitter.com or the Twitter app. This stream shows tweets from everyone you follow.

Notifications: Here’s where you’ll find all interactions, such as people tweeting at or following you. This is the same as clicking Notifications on Twitter.

Messages: All of your Direct Messages appear in this column. Double-click a message to view its contents and send a reply.

Activity: This is the stream of actions being performed by users you follow, such as when they follow someone, favorite a tweet, or add someone to a list.
 It’s the icon that looks like two peoples’ heads on the bottom left area of the screen., You’ll type this at in blanks at the bottom of the “Accounts” panel on the left side of the screen.
 Now the account will appear in the Accounts column, which you can access any time by clicking the Accounts icon.


You can keep adding more accounts in the same manner.
To see a list of all accounts currently signed in, just click the Accounts icon and use the scroll bars to navigate the column.
When you compose a new tweet, you’ll be prompted to choose which account you want to tweet as.
 It’s on the left side of TweetDeck, in the center of the gray bar.
 You’ll see several options for additional columns that can be added to TweetDeck. In addition to the 4 default column types you’ve already learned about, you can add a few new column types:List: You’ll be able to choose any existing Twitter list you’ve set up with the app or on Twitter.com.

Collection: Here you’ll have the option to curate a list of tweets for the world to see.

Likes: A running list of everything you’ve liked on Twitter.

Mentions: It’s like the Notifications column, but only displays tweets that contain your Twitter handle.

Followers: A running list of people who follow your account.

Scheduled: Any scheduled tweets that have yet to be sent will appear here. The tweet will disappear from the column when the scheduled time arrives.

Messages (all accounts): Displays direct message to any logged-in account in a single column.

Mentions (all accounts): The same principal as Messages, but with tweets that contain the handles of any logged-in account.

Trending: Shows a list of popular hashtags.
 If you have multiple accounts logged in, you’ll have to choose the user whose information will appear in the new column.


If you selected Mentions (all accounts) or Messages (all accounts), you won’t have to choose a user.
 It looks like two horizontal lines with hollow circles over each. This is where you can modify or delete the contents of the column.To change the user whose information appears in the column, click Users and select a different account.
To be notified when something new appears in a column, click Alerts and choose your preference.
Click Content to see options for narrowing down what appears in the column. You can choose to see certain types of tweets or exclude them based on criteria of your choice.
Click Remove to delete the column entirely.
 This is how you can compose a new tweet or direct message.


To reply to a tweet you see in one of your columns, click the left-facing arrow just beneath the contents of the tweet instead, and then continue with this method.
To retweet, click the double-arrow retweet button beneath a tweet.
 You can send a tweet from any account connected to TweetDeck.
 Like using the Twitter app or website, there’s a 140 character limit on tweets.


If you’re replying to a tweet, leave the handle of the person to whom you’re replying in the text box.
To add an image, click Add Images, then select the image.



To send a tweet right away, click Tweet.
To schedule your tweet for a different time, click Schedule Tweet, then choose a time and date.
To send a private message to someone on Twitter, click Direct Message, then choose a recipient.
, You can search for any text, including usernames and hashtags.You can use an asterisk (*) in place of a word. For example, type “The best restaurant in Portland is *” (including the quote marks) to see results like “The best restaurant in Portland is Pizza World.”

,, By default, the results will appear as a list of tweets. To search for usernames instead, click Users at the top of the search box. If you’re searching tweets, here’s how to get the most from your search:


Click Content to filter by information in the tweet, such as certain words or media types.
Click Users to filter out users whose tweets you don’t want to see, or to select results in a particular language.
Click Engagements to filter by amount of replies, likes, or retweets.
 This will add a new column to TweetDeck containing a constant search with the criteria you specified.


You can add as many search columns as you like.

