 Center backs control the defense and much of the game. You must want the responsibility of directing players to help defend, keep the offside line straight as an arrow, and win absolutely every cross or shot put into the box. Center defenders are physically all-around players, but they must be big enough to challenge for every header and muscle attackers off the ball.


Center backs must have a high soccer intelligence, knowing when to step up and attack.
When they get the ball, center backs must be able to locate and distribute to the midfield.
While speed is important, it is more important to be able to read and win tackles.
While good foot skills are always important, center backs can prioritize them less., Outside backs need to be able to run down and tackle some of the field's fastest players and tend to have the speed and physicality to do so. Furthermore, outside backs will often sprint up the field during openings and counterattacks, creating an "overload" where there are more offensive players than defensive.


Most outside defense is one-on-one, meaning smart tackling is a must.
Outside backs tend to be good crossers, hitting long balls up and into the box when on offense.
While all positions should work on both feet, outside backs can often get away with a much stronger single foot.
 Not all coaches play with a sweeper, who sits back and covers the entire width of the field, helping out where needed. Sweepers tend to be the last player before the keeper, and must swing back and forth depending on the attack. They must also be able to read and cut out through passes before attackers can get to them.


Sweeping is very similar to playing center back, but you usually do not have a partner beside you as a sweeper -- you have a stopper in front.</ref>

, Stoppers can run all day and are quick to the ball. They are marked up on one specific players, usually a very talented forward. They stay near him/her throughout the game, rarely leaving their side, to effectively neutralize great players and take them out of the attack. A stopper is usually paired with a sweeper, who sits right behind him/her and covers the space a stopper can't., Within these three positions there is a lot of variability. This is why communication is so crucial. For example, with two center backs, are you both going to float around the middle, or is one person responsible for the left side and one for the right? Your position is much more than where you start on the field, it is how you must move around it:


If an outside back attacks, should a center back slide over to fill the empty space or will a midfielder drop back?
Who covers people on corners and set pieces. Is there a taller or more effective aerial player who might mark up on crosses even if they aren't a center back?

