 A sentence fragment is a statement with a period, question mark, or some form of punctuation that fails to stand on its own as a sentence.


Fragments are most often a piece of a sentence disconnected from a main clause. For example, "My old roommate never paid rent on time. Which is why I need a new roommate." The second part of that thought is a sentence fragment. It can be corrected by merging the two. "My old roommate never paid rent on time, which is why I need a new roommate."Sentence fragments can also be a sentence without a main verb. For example, "A book with a morally ambiguous main character." This tells about the book and its characters, but there's no action happening which means it is not a full sentence. A possible revision would be, "This book features a morally ambiguous main character" the verb becoming "features."Sometimes, sentence fragments lack a subject. For example, "With the intended effect of the law being deterring drunk driving in the city." The subject is unclear. A revision might be, "The law's intended effect is deterring drunk driving in the city.", Run-on sentences can be somewhat difficult to detect as they can sometimes appear grammatically correct if not read closely. Run-on sentences are very long sentences when two or more clauses are joined without the use of a comma, semi-colon, conjunction, or other means of connecting sentences.A good way to detect run-on sentences is to read a work out loud. Listen to your own voice. If you find the sentence difficult to finish in a single breath, and if you find it's hard to follow when spoken out loud, it might be a run-on sentence.A run-on sentence can usually be corrected through the use of a comma, semi-colon, or other device to unite the two sentences. For example, "My favorite movie is It's A Wonderful Life it is a very heartwarming Christmas story." This is a run-on sentence as the two clauses ("My favorite movie...", "it is a...") are not properly connected. It could be fixed in a number of ways.
You could break down the run-on into two sentences. "My favorite movie is It's A Wonderful Life. It is a very heartwarming Christmas story." You could use a semi-colon, as the ideas are connected. "My favorite movie is It's A Wonderful Life; it's a very heart warning Christmas movie." You could also use a conjunction to unite the clauses. "My favorite movie is It's A Wonderful Life because it's a heartwarming Christmas story."

, Sentence sprawls are very long sentences that, while usually technically grammatically correct, can be difficult to read. Some writers use sentence sprawls stylistically, but unless a sentence sprawl is intentional and meant to convey something to the reader you should minimize their use. In general, if you notice a very long sentence that takes up more than two lines, try to break it up into multiple sentences., Subject/verb agreement means singular subjects have singular verbs, and plural subjects have plural verbs. People sometimes make mistakes with S/V agreement when writing sentences with multiple clauses or longer sentences as they lose track of what the subject was.


In some sentences, the subject appears before another noun and you may accidentally have the verb agree with the second noun over the actual subject. For example, take the sentence "The profits brought in by the bar industry is off this season." At first glance, this may appear correct as "is" comes after "bar industry." However, the subject of the sentence is "the profits," not the bar. Therefore, the correct construction would be "The profits brought in by the bar industry are off this season."When joining two singular subjects with a conjunction like "and", the verb should be plural even though the subjects themselves are singular. For example, "Mary and her friend takes the train into the city each day" is incorrect as both "Mary" and "her friend" are singular nouns, but they are presented as a plural unit. The correct construction would be "Mary and her friend take the train into the city each day.", Shifting between present and past tense may confuse the reader. Make sure your verb tense is always in agreement.


People often slip up by mistake with tense agreement, especially when typing quickly. Past and present tense verbs are often spelled in similar ways, leading you to make an error. For exampled, "James entered the room and sit down on the chair." As "sit" and "sat" differ only by one letter, this is an easy mistake to make. The sentence should be, "James entered the room and sat down on the chair."

, Even people generally good with spelling and grammar occasionally make mistakes.


Dropped words are a common typo. You may forget the "is" or "the" in a sentence if you worked too quickly. Reading a work out loud can help you catch dropped words.Do not rely solely on spellcheck. Spellcheck can be a helpful feature but it does not catch all spelling and grammar errors. If, for example, you typed "quite" instead of "quiet" spellcheck would not catch this error.
Know what words you tend to misspell. Words like "unnecessary," for example, can trip people because of the multiple letters. Keep a running list of words you frequently stumble over and pay attention to their use in your paper.