 Each day, you should have someone come by and help you get set up for the day. This is especially important if your activity is severely limited. Think about what you will need during the day so you get get yourself set up for the day.You may need someone to help put drinks and food next to you so you can reach them when you need a snack, a meal, or are thirsty.
Make a list of things you may want throughout the day, like your laptop or tablet, a cell phone charger, the remote to the television or DVD player, or a book.
You may want to arrange to have your partner help you in the morning, then have a friend or family member come over midday.
 Sitting around all day may lose its appeal after a day or two. You may find yourself feeling bored, irritable, or even depressed. To help combat this, you should find ways to fill your day. You can choose housekeeping tasks or even recreational tasks you have been putting off because you’ve been too busy.Try making a budget, paying bills, or organizing your mail.
Work on planning menus for the next few months so you will have less stress after the baby comes. Lookup new recipes and ways to cook things.
Take up sewing, knitting, or crocheting. You may want to work on other crafts.
Get caught up on your reading list. Make your way through the latest movies you haven’t seen, or marathon a television show.
Write e-mails or letters to friends and family members.
 Even though you are on bed rest, there are some household chores that can be done in bed. You can keep yourself busy with different tasks to avoid feeling useless, bored, or disconnected. Finding ways to get involved will also help lighten the burden on your partner.


You can do various things from bed, like cutting vegetables for dinner, folding clothes, helping your kids with their homework, or paying bills.
 Even though you are on bed rest, you should try to get on a schedule. Wake up at the same time each day and have meals at the same time. You may want to change out of your nightclothes into clothes you can wear around all day. Make a list of tasks to do each day so you can have something to do.Your schedule doesn’t have to be overly specific. You may just have a time where you take your bath, a set time when you read, and a time when you watch television with your children.
 One thing you may do when you’re on bed rest is to get any medical details in order for your birth. This means talking to your job about any maternity-leave benefits or getting health insurance forms in order. You may go ahead and choose a pediatrician for your baby or apply for child care.Find out about which breast pumps are covered by your insurance if you are going to nurse and get the form for this.
You may also want to come up with a birth plan during this time. If you are choosing a natural child birth, you can work on the techniques involved. For example, if you are using hypnobirthing, work on the visualization exercises, or practice the breathing techniques for Lamaze, etc.
 You can use your bed rest as time to prepare for your baby’s arrival. This means taking care of things you may not have gotten around to yet. You can get together a registry or make a list of things you will need to buy. You can also work on baby announcements and thank you notes from baby showers.You can also stock up on any items you need for the baby, like diapers, baby wipes, or shampoo with online shopping.
You may want to draft a new will or take care of any guardianship details.
 If your doctor says it is okay, you may be able to work from home. This may help with any financial hardships you face because you had to stop working early. This may also help appease your job if they are unhappy that you are on bed rest.With many jobs, you can do most of your activities just with a computer and the internet.

