 The signal is the movie on your Blu-ray, the TV show from Netflix, or the music from Pandora. Following the flow of the signal will help you figure out the right inputs and outputs on your gear. Everything starts at your media source (Blu-Ray player, Apple TV, etc.) because this is where you movie is located. On some TV’s this is known as the “source components.” Think of your movie as a physical object: it “moves” from your media player to the receiver, which sends half of it to the speakers (sound) and the other half to your TV (picture). In general, your signal flow is simple:


Media player (source output) connects to the receiver (source input).
Receiver (audio output) connects to the speakers (audio input).
Receiver (signal/source output) connects to the TV (signal/source input).If you are not using a receiver, connect directly to the TV. You will then send the TV audio (audio output) to the speakers (audio input) if you have a sound bar or speakers.
 Reduce the risk of electric shock by turning everything off and unplugging the TV and receiver. Make sure your speakers are off.
 HDMI (High-Definition Multimedia Interface) is the industry-standard cable for home theater, and for good reason: it can send audio and video signals through one cable. This will not only save you time, but massive headaches. Every modern TV and sound system will have HDMI inputs. The cable is the same on both ends, which resemble flat, two-tiered USB cable ends.


All HDMI cables are built identically, so do not be fooled into buying a $50 cable when a $5 HDMI will work exactly the same way.If you cannot use HDMI for some reason, consider buying a converter. Bring your old cable into a local electronics store and ask them if they can help you change your connection.
 If you don’t have and HDMI cable you can also use RCA cables, which is a collection of a Red, Yellow, and White input. Attach one end of the cable to the output of the media player and into the receiver’s matching “source input” port.


If your receiver does not handle video (ie. it is an audio receiver, not a home theater receiver), then you should plug your media player directly into the TV’s “input” port., This is almost always accomplished with an HDMI cable, but some advanced systems may connect wirelessly. Simply attach your receiver’s “source output” or “video output” into one of the inputs on your TV. Remember the input you chose – this will help you select the right input on your remote to see your movies.


If your receiver does not handle video, you need to reverse this connection. Think of the source flow again. If the information is coming from Blu-Ray player to the TV, and you want the sound to come out of your speakers, you need to send sound from the TV “audio output” to the receiver’s “audio input.”

, At this point, you should have everything you need to test the video. Turn on the TV, receiver, and media player and switch to the correct input number on your TV (this corresponds to the input you connected everything to, it's labeled on the back of the TV as HDMI 1, Component 2, etc.). You should see a picture from your DVD player or smart device. For troubleshooting:


Check all of the inputs. Are any connections loose?
Attach the media player (output) directly to the TV (input), skipping the receiver, to make sure that the media player works.
Check that you have the right signal flow. Things should go “out” from the media player and “in” to the TV.
 This is often the most complex part of any home-theater installation because every room has different needs and challenges. While the basic wiring is easy, hiding the wires professionally takes time and forethought. Speaker wire is actually two attached wires, a red and a black. The wire runs from the back of the speaker to the receiver’s “Audio Output” ports. Connect one wire to the red “input” on your speaker and the red “output” on the receiver and do the same with the black end to connect your speaker.


Some modern speakers have plugs instead of speaker wiring. In this case, the wires are color coded for easy access.
Most speaker wire is covered in a wax sheath to protect it. You must use scissors or wire cutters to trim this sheath and pull it off, exposing the bright copper wire inside. This wire makes the connection, not the sheath, so you must remove the wax to get your speakers working.
 Once you can get them to work, move on to the rest of the speakers.
 Surround sound works because the DVD tells the receiver where to send the information. If there is a stalker creeping up in the movie, you want your rear speakers to sound like leaves are crunching behind you, not the front ones. Make sure you attach each speaker to its appropriate channel, which is usually labeled ("rear audio," "front speaker," etc.).


Some pre-packaged systems have label ports while high-end systems can automatically detect which speaker goes where, allowing you to plug them all in anywhere. If there are no labels on the back of the receiver, simply plug them all into the “audio output.”
The subwoofer is usually labeled as a “sub out” or “sub pre-out,” and may need a specific subwoofer cable., This not only looks professional, it prevents people from tripping and ripping cables or pulling down speakers accidentally. Run cables under rugs, staple them to the baseboards along the sides of the walls, or run them through the walls if you are comfortable with carpentry.


There are a variety of services, including teams at Best Buy or Geek Squad, that will run your wires for you for a fee.
 Speakers are generally easy to attach, but that doesn’t mean problems won’t arise.


Check the channel on your receiver. When you plug in your speakers to the receiver, you’ll often see them categorized as “audio output, channel 1.” This means your receiver can handle multiple speaker formats. Make sure the channel on the front of the receiver matches the channel you plugged yours speakers into.
Check the inputs. They should be firmly attached. Make sure that the same wire connects the red end of the speaker to the red end of the receiver or they won’t work.
Test your speaker by plugging in an iPod or music player and testing that before trying a DVD.

