 Want to lose weight? This is the only reliable way to do it. Since one pound contains about 3,500 calories, you'll need to burn approximately 3,500 more calories than you eat as food in order to burn one pound of weight.


Don't get daunted by these numbers. 3,500 calories is a lot to lose in a single day. Shoot at first to lose around an extra 250 to 500 calories a day.
Get in the habit of counting the calories you eat. A lot of people don't know how many calories they consume until they actually start writing them down. Carefully measure your portion sizes, and make a list or a calorie counter journal to keep track of all the food you eat during a given day. Like a budget, this list will help guide and inform your weight loss program.
 Eating a balanced meal in the morning to start off the day is important. It gives your body the energy it needs to perform essential tasks. But eating a whole lot of food right before you go to sleep isn't good for you, not because your metabolism slows down, but because the types of foods you are likely to eat right before bed are often bad snack foods.Studies have shown that animals that eat exclusively during their "right" cycles — that is, when they are most active — do better at weight loss than animals that eat during their "wrong" cycles — the night for humans, or daytime for mice.Eat late, risk putting on weight.
 In order to get extra weight off your whole body generally, and your thighs specifically, it's essential to eat the right kinds of food. Scientists and doctors routinely recommend going with a combination of:


Lean protein: white poultry meat, soy and dairy products, fish, etc.
Vegetables and legumes: spinach, kale, broccoli, carrots, peas, lentils, beans, etc.
Fruits: citrus fruit, bananas, apples, kiwi, pears, etc.
Whole grains: whole grain pasta, whole grain bread, etc.
Nuts and seeds: pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, flax seeds, almonds, walnuts, etc.
 Overly processed foods, foods with the saturated or trans fats, and foods that fit into a high-glycemic diet are ones that doctors recommend staying away from. These foods include:


Refined sugars: candy, cakes, sugary drinks (sodas), etc.
Simple carbohydrates: normal pasta, white bread, etc.
Saturated and trans fats: butter, solid shortening, lard, margarine, etc.
 Drink water to keep your body hydrated, your organs happy, and to partially help trick your body into thinking that it's fuller than it is. If you're really hungry, drink an 8 oz. glass of water before you start your meal. You will feel fuller, and you won't end up eating as much. This is because people often confuse hunger and thirst signals from their body.

