 Ginger has been used to treat nausea of many different causes including chemotherapy-induced nausea , , , and the nausea of early pregnancy., Ginger works by inhibiting or suppressing certain types of brain and gut receptors that are related to the sense of nausea.For nausea after chemotherapy, the recommended dose is 1,000-2,000mg in capsule form every day for the first 3 days.,For morning sickness in early pregnancy, take 250mg of ginger 4 times a day.Ginger has also been studied for the treatment of post-surgical nausea and has been shown to be very effective. , Be sure to tell your doctor that you want to take ginger, since it may increase the amount of bleeding during surgery.Take 500-1,000 mg one hour before surgery.
For nausea associated with food poisoning, gastroenteritis and most other non-serious causes, take 250-1,000 mg of ginger 4 times a day.Do not give ginger to children under 12 months old., If you prefer ginger tea to a capsule, you can also make your own ginger tea at home. Drink 4-6 cups of this tea daily.


Buy fresh ginger and cut off a 2-inch piece.
Wash the ginger and peel or cut off the tan-colored “skin” to get to the paler, almost lemon-yellow ginger.
Cut the ginger into small pieces. You can use a grater, but watch your fingers when grating. You need about a tablespoon of ginger.
Add the ginger pieces to 2 cups of boiling water.
Cover the pan and boil for another minute.
Turn off the heat and let the ginger tea steep for 3-5 minutes.
Pour off a cup and add honey or stevia to taste
Cool to a comfortable temperature and sip the tea.
 Relieving nausea is more effective with fresh ginger rather than ginger ale. First of all, most ginger ales do not contain real ginger. Second, they either have high levels of sugar, or high levels of High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS). When you are nauseous, you should avoid all sugars. The sugar generally makes you feel worse, since both high and low blood sugar can cause nausea!, Peppermint, clove and cinnamon may help relieve nausea, although it is not clinically known how this works. It’s possible that the herbs directly affect nausea centers in the brain. This helps to reduce any viral or bacterial infection that may be causing nausea. These herbal teas may also simply allow you to relax and minimize the sense of nausea.Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is another remedy for nausea that has been used in tea form for centuries. It may be particularly helpful when used to treat nausea associated with migraines.Do not take feverfew if you are allergic to ragweed, chrysanthemums, marigolds, camomile, yarrow, or daisies. These may be cross-allergies.


To make these teas, steep a teaspoon of the dried powder or leaf in 1 cup of boiled water. Add honey or stevia (and lemon) to taste.
These herbs all have been traditionally used to treat nausea and are all recognized as safe to use.