 Most states offer classes that teach blind and visually impaired people to get around safely, cook, shop, and carry out other everyday tasks. Consider attending some of these classes to build your confidence and prepare for living independently in the future.Find classes in your local community by speaking with a low-vision advocate in your area. EnvisionUS has a variety of programs for youth.You can also reach out to your doctor to locate classes.;
, Practicing household tasks while you still live with your family is a great opportunity to learn skills you’ll need as an adult. Ask your parents and siblings to help you practice cooking, cleaning, and doing laundry., Many social signals, such as eye contact and body language, are based on visual cues. Ask your parents, siblings, or friends to describe the gestures and facial expressions people make in certain situations, such as meeting someone new or flirting.With a little coaching and practice, you can learn to fit in socially with sighted people, which will put others at ease around you.
 The ability to get around alone is an essential part of becoming self-sufficient. Practice calling taxis, riding buses and trains, and paying fares. You should also learn strategies for staying safe while traveling.Consider hiring an orientation and mobility (O&M) instructor to help you learn how to get around by yourself.
If your parents are nervous about letting you practice traveling on your own, point out that blind and visually impaired people go places safely every day, and you’ll need to acquire the skill eventually, too.
 There are a wide variety of devices that will help you read, use the internet, and manage other aspects of your life. If you can, get familiar with some of these assistive technologies now, so using them will be second nature at college or work.Text-reading software, talking clocks and other electronic devices, and braille printers are a few of the items designed to help visually impaired people.
If you start to rely on technology, you should always have a backup plan for what to do if one of your devices stops working.
 If you have recently lost your vision, don’t hesitate to reach out to old friends. They may worry about saying or doing something wrong around you, so help them feel comfortable by showing them you’re the same person as before. Being outgoing and proactive is also the best way to make new friends.When you meet someone new, try to find some shared interests you can connect over. For instance, you could ask, “What kind of music do you like?” or “What’s your favorite book?”

, Look for a support group in your area for teens with vision impairment, or reach out to other blind or visually impaired students at your school. You’ll be able to relate to each other’s challenges and help each other find strategies for transitioning to independent living.You might search for relevant groups on social media networks or look up gatherings on Meetups.
 Talking with another blind or visually impaired person, especially one who is older and independent, can motivate you and boost your confidence. Having a role model or a mentor in your life also gives you someone to talk to when you need advice or feel like no one understands you.A role model can be a sighted or visually impaired adult like a teacher, coach, or other community leader.
 Everyone needs some relaxation and fun in their life. Work on developing your skill at something you already enjoy, or pick up a new hobby to explore in your free time.You can participate in almost any activity as a blind or visually impaired person. A few ideas include reading or listening to audiobooks, knitting, gardening, writing fiction or poetry, and cooking.
 Some teens feel they benefit most from attending a school for blind and visually impaired students. Others feel that attending a public high school prepares them better for going to college and getting a job.


Discuss the pros and cons of each option with your parents, taking your goals for the future into consideration., If you decide to attend college, you will be held to the same standards as your sighted peers. You’ll need to get around by yourself, take notes, study, keep your living space clean, and cook meals. Work on these skills ahead of time so you will be prepared to move out on your own., Think about what you enjoy doing and what types of jobs you think you’d be skilled at. You may be able to find helpful career-related resources through your high school, college, or community center. Blind and visually impaired people can do almost any job that sighted people can, especially since assistive technology has improved so much in recent years.
 Employers will require you to be reliable, productive, honest, and cooperative. Start cultivating these skills early. If you think you need to work on your future work habits, ask your family to help you come up with an action plan for strengthening your skill set.For instance, you could take on more responsibilities around the house to strengthen your reliability.

