 Nothing can prepare you for becoming a real Jedi better than having an understanding of the philosophies which made the idea of the philosophies somewhat religious. Though it was not George Lucas' intent to start an entirely new religion, he did have an intent to awaken the audience's spirituality in a way which transcended religion. Looking for these tidbits is a great start before making contact with the practicing Jedi.;
, Finding the right group--one which expresses its philosophy in a way which agrees with what you yourself believe to be true--is essential. It's best to look at multiple sites before you make your decision. And above all, don't feel pressured to take any oaths before you're fully willing and ready to do so. Some groups require that you take an oath before they will teach; others have absolutely no formalities, and will accept anyone who wants to learn. There are advantages to both, as well as disadvantages. Use your best judgment, but again: resist the urge to be one of the community until you've read through some of what they believe and see if it fits. This step can take a long time!


Remember, some training groups may not use the word "Jedi" to avoid copyright conflicts. Try keywords like "flow arts training", "guardian alliance", "jedi training intensives", and also "jedi training" from the Egyptian word related to the origins of the word Jedi.
 When you've found a group you're comfortable with, join it! Keep looking if it's not a perfect fit, and accept that each practitioner in the Jedi faiths are on their own tangents much of the time.
 For most groups, the instructions can be found on their web site, though they are often buried in forums. Keep sight of the goal, and be prepared to dig through years of posts in some cases. It's not easy, but it is worthwhile.
 Ever wanted to sword fight like the jedi do? You will be able to learn the light saber fighting techniques that the actors in Star Wars learned and self-defense, too!


In addition, practice Tai Chi and Qigong. These ancient internal martial arts forms give practitioners power through the development of Chi or Qi, an energy force in the body believed to be able to provide healing, and greatly increase the power of a martial artist in all activities. Do a search for Shaolin Monks Qigong to see a National Geographic Special on the secret powers of Qi.

