 Despite what you may think based on the looks of some punks, the movement isn't about fashion, so ladies, don't spend hours looking for the "perfect outfit" or putting on makeup, and guys, don't wear your "favorite shirt" or anything you don't mind getting beer and sweat on - and both of you, be prepared to have a shirt get ripped. These shows get very hot and sweaty after a while, and most of them stretch on in excess of three hours (most cities have a midnight - 2:00AM curfew though), so wear something that can breathe and not get ripped off easily. T-shirts, jeans/shorts, and good athletic shoes or boots are preferred. Tank tops, sandals, and skirts or baggy pants are not.;
, Whether you're talking to a bouncer, a band member, or another person in the audience, be polite and respectful. Strike up a conversation with someone between bands; who knows, you might find out about another cool band or even make a friend!

, If one begins to form, get out if you have no idea how to maneuver your way around in one. If you feel brave, however, know that it's mainly shoving and slamming into other people (slam-dancing) or running in a circle. Depending on the genre, some people (known as "hardcore dancers") will swing their arms and kick to the rhythm of the music. In all of these cases, nobody is intentionally hurt, and if you fall or want to get out, people will help you out. If you wish to leave, make your intentions known to the people at the "wall" of the pit by making a T shape with your hands to express your wish for "time out", otherwise, you may be mistaken for a slam-dancer trying to approach the wall and will be shoved back as a result. Do not take offense if this happens; just try to leave elsewhere.
 If you get hurt, it's nobody's fault but your own, since nobody forced you to do it. That being said, if you wish to crowd-surf, make sure that the people around you are cool with it, make sure your wallet, keys, and phone are someplace safe (to prevent them from being stolen) and keep your feet above people's heads. If you're a girl, you may get groped by a jerk in the audience; the people around them will usually retaliate for you, so don't go blindly kicking into where the person was. If you get dropped, try to protect your head and your back; your body can take an impact, but your brain and spine won't do that very easily. As for stage diving, don't stay onstage for more than three seconds, definitely do not touch the band members, and make sure that the audience will catch you. The bigger (height and weight wise) you are, the less likely they are to catch you. Other than that, just stick to the basics above.
 If you begin to feel dizzy or faint, get out of the crowd, get some water, and get into some fresh air. If you do pass out or even begin to get weak, you could lose footing and be crushed under the rest of the crowd. This has happened before (most infamously at a concert by The Who in Cincinnati and at a Smashing Pumpkins gig in the 90's), and you don't want it to happen to you.
 If water isn't free (it usually is at punk shows), conserve it as much as possible. If it's free, drink at least two glasses between bands or when you get tired, and maybe pour a little over your head to cool off if you feel hot enough.
 Retaliation will get you thrown out at best or assaulted at worst, so let the big guys do their job.
 Jump around like a maniac, scream until your voice goes out, go to school/work the next day with bruises and five hours of sleep, and have some good memories for the future.

