 Camels are very intuitive creatures. They will be able to tell if you're feeling nervous and angry. If they sense your anxiety or anger, they'll get even more spooked. Because of this, it's important to try to manage your emotions as much as you can, even if you're scared out of your mind.;
, Some people find that breathing in quickly, and then exhaling slowly, helps them feel calmer. Other people find that breathing in and out on counts of three helps. The important thing is to keep your breathing consistent.
 Your camel will eventually regain its composure and slow down pretty quickly, so long as you keep your wits about you.
 Yelling at the camel to stop will make it even more spooked. Instead, talk to the camel in a gentle, soothing voice as you attempt to get it to slow down., This will only make the camel feel even more scared and confused (and may cause it to speed up or become more erratic). If you want the camel to trust you, then he has to look at you as a friend, not an enemy.
 Pulling too hard may cause the camel to panic. It may also break the reins or pull the peg out of the camel's nose. This will cause it to panic even more.At the same time, however, you want to keep a firm grip on the reins. If they are too slack, the camel may sense a lack of control and take advantage of it.Camels are cud-chewing animals, so their reins are usually attached to a peg inserted into their noses, as opposed to being attached to a bit in the mouth. This means that, unlike with a horse, you can’t try to steer an out-of-control camel by pulling hard on the reins.
Make sure you have sturdy reins and a head halter, especially if you don’t have much riding experience. A head halter can make it much easier to regain control of your camel, and you won’t have to worry about hurting it by ripping the peg out of its nose.
 If the reins are attached to a head halter, you can pull on the reins gently to get the camel to turn in a circle and eventually slow down. Even if the camel has a nose halter, try to pull the reins in the direction that the camel wants to go (right or left) while getting it to move in a circle; work with the camel, not against it. If the camel decides to turn its head the other way, allow it to do so, and pull the rein on that side instead. The goal is to remain close to the group and not to get too off course or lost.


Only apply a slight pull to the reins when trying to get the camel to turn. It usually doesn’t take much, and an overzealous pull can hurt your camel if the reins are attached to a nose peg. Remember, a hurt camel is a frightened camel.
 If you can't get it to circle, you must hang on and let it run. Press yourself to the camel to lower your center of gravity. Grip the camel between your legs and hold the horn of the saddle (if it is available). If you aren’t using a saddle, hold on as well as you can, and lean back a little. This way, you won't be riding near the tip of the hump, which will be a very bumpy ride at high speeds.
 This should be your last resort. You should only do it if you've lost the reins or are moving quickly toward an even more dangerous situation, like a cliff. To dismount the camel, kick out of the stirrups and try to slide off the back side of the camel. If you can't, try to slide sideways out of the saddle. Try to hit the ground running, bending your knees slightly as you land.


Once you’re on the ground, try to grab the reins. The camel will most likely come to a stop once you have the reins in your hands again.
Most camels like to stay close to the herd. If you dismount and cannot grab the reins, the camel will likely come back once it calms down.
 Once the wild ride is over, have the camel sit. Dismount and keep a firm hold on the reins.
 Unlike horses, camels can kick in all directions. Their kicks are very powerful, and very strong. A frightened camel is a spooked camel. If you get too close to it too quickly, it may try to defend itself by kicking you., If you turn your back to the camel, it may chase after you.
 Even if your camel is no longer running, it may still be feeling anxious. Any sharp, sudden movements may only spook it further., This may help calm and reassure the camel. Talk soothingly to it, and try not to make any sharp, sudden movements. Be sure to keep a firm grip on the reins.