 You should have clean hands whenever you are touching the area around your band-aid to prevent the spread of bacteria and possible infection.Use clean water from a tap to wet your hands. Warm or cold is fine.
Turn off the tap and apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to create a lather with the soap making sure to coat the back of your hands, between your fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Continue scrubbing your hands for 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice in a row from beginning to end. Rinse the soap off of your hands with clean water from the tap.
Dry your hands with a clean cloth towel, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
As an alternative to washing your hands, you can use a hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol., Like washing your hands, cleaning the area around your band-aid can help prevent infection or the spread of bacteria during removal.


Fill a clean bowl with clean tap water and mild liquid soap. Warm or cold water is fine, although warm (not hot) water may feel more comforting.
Soak a clean washcloth in the soapy water and wring it out to remove excess moisture.
Gently wash the skin around and on top of the band-aid with the wash cloth. Avoid putting direct pressure on top of the band-aid as you do this. Instead, give it a quick wipe with the cloth.
Gently pat the area dry with a clean, dry washcloth.
 It’s important to move slowly here and are not too ambitious about how much you peel up. The less you peel, the less it will hurt.


If the band-aid is in a hairy part of your body, ripping it off slowly may be more comfortable.
It can help to get a fingernail up under the edge of the band-aid to tease the adhesive away from the skin.
 This part can feel like it’s taking forever, but in order to reduce discomfort, you need to work slowly.


Take breaks for as long as you need to in between tugs. This gives your pain reflex a chance to calm down.
This process takes extra patience, but you are getting there, slowly but surely.
How many times you repeat these steps depends on how big the band-aid is, and how much you are able to peel back each time.
Take your time, breathe, and stay relaxed as you work the band-aid off.
Remember, if you get bored, though, you can always switch to the quick rip method.

