 Along with the hangover that too much drinking can bring, alcohol dehydrates your body. Although we don't commonly think of it as such, alcohol is a toxin, and its ingredients result in your skin looking pale and pasty instead of fresh and plump.If you do drink alcohol, be sure to rehydrate yourself properly.
 Although sunlight can give you a healthy looking tan, it is also very damaging for your skin. This can lead to skin discoloration over time. If you have to be in the sun for very long, wear protective sun screen and large sunglasses to help protect the skin under your eyes., Salt makes your body retain water.This can lead to swelling. Because the skin around your eyes is thin and fragile, it's particularly vulnerable to swelling.
 The skin underneath your eyes is especially fragile and thin, and the blood vessels underneath there are very close to the surface. Harsh rubbing can irritate these areas, increasing the dark look underneath your eyes, as well as making the skin swell, which will make your eyes appear recessed by comparison.
 Your body is roughly 60% water. Your cells need water in order to be full and healthy, properly regenerate, and to get rid of waste products amongst other things.Drinking more water will give your skin a natural, healthy glow and better texture.
 Do this with retinol creams or lotions available at your local pharmacy, grocery store, or beauty supply shop. Moisturizing should happen at least once, if not twice, a day after properly cleansing your skin. Restoring moisture to your skin helps it to retain its youthful appearance.


Avoid using hemorrhoid creams around your eyes. These creams contain ingredients which may irritate the delicate skin around your eyes., Sleep is when your body, especially your skin, regenerates. Without proper sleep, your blood vessels are more likely to dilate, or expand.As mentioned before, the blood vessels under your eyes are very close to the surface, making them very visible: the larger they get, the darker your skin will appear.
 Think of your skin as a canvas: you want it to be as smooth and even as possible before you ever even advance to make-up application. This means minimizing and getting rid of any extra bumps that do not belong. Apply adhesive eye pads or a cold compress to the under-eye area to get rid of any puffiness or swelling.


If you are strapped for cash, chilled spoons, cucumber slices, or even tea bags can be used instead.