 The LEGO sets you can buy in the store come with instructions for building the creation shown on the box, and LEGO Creator sets have 3 alternative house models you can build.









Alternatively, if you have a lot of parts already and are looking for house patterns or just general ideas for your house, there are several websites that provide patterns for free. The official LEGO website includes some free patterns, like these instructions for a basic house as well as videos that show you how to build many different creations.
Many other websites also provide patterns for houses at varying challenge levels, like this one at brickinstructions.com.

Letsbuilditagain.com features a mix of old LEGO manuals that originally came with different sets and creations made by visitors to the website. They have many house patterns, too.
 The pattern will tell you which parts you need to make the house in the picture. Go through your LEGOs and make sure you have all the parts you need. Otherwise, you might get halfway through and find that you can't finish your house.









Even if you are building from a set, it's a good idea to make sure all the parts are there before you start building. Occasionally parts are missing, which can be very frustrating to discover part way through the building process. If you check your parts at the beginning and something is missing, you can take the set back to the store and get a new one it before you start.
 Go step by step through the instructions, laying your bricks in place exactly as shown in the instructions.









Sometimes it's helpful to count the studs (the bumps on top of each LEGO brick) between bricks in the pictures to make sure you get the spacing right.
 Once you've finished the house, you can customize it with your own LEGO parts. Maybe it needs some trees or flowers, or even a garage.









For example, you can turn your house into a winter scene by adding thin white pieces to the yard for snow, and making icicles out of clear pieces.

