 Locate the heart icon with the “i” in the middle either from the homescreen or the application drawer. Tap to launch iHeartRadio.;
, iHeartRadio uses your zip code to better improve the service it offers, by creating a list of stations that are closer to you. Type your zip code in the pop-up field, and then tap the “SET LOCATION” button on the lower right corner of the pop-up.


You can skip this by tapping the “SKIP” button right beside the SET LOCATION button.
 Tap “Log In” to access the login screen, and then enter your iHeartRadio login details into the fields provided. Tap “Log in” to continue.


If you don’t have an account yet, tap “Sign Up” on the welcome screen. Enter the necessary information into the fields on the screen, and tap “Sign up” to instantly get an account.
You can conveniently create an account by using your Facebook credentials by tapping on the “FACEBOOK” button under the “------Or Connect with-----” header, or use your Google+ Account by tapping the red Google+ icon right beside the FACEBOOK icon.
You can jump straight in and start listening by tapping the “Maybe Later” button at the bottom of the welcome screen, but you will not be able to create custom stations without logging in.
 After logging in, the app will ask you to select items from different categories, such as Sports, Classic Rock, and Pop, to name a few, so it can gather the right content for you. Tap the genres you like; there are no limits to how many you can select. Tap “Done” at the lower right corner to proceed.
 You will be taken to the Home section by default after selecting your favorite genres. The app aggregates the stations that you prefer by using the categories and genres you chose earlier. You will see these stations under the FOR YOU tab in the home section. Scroll down to see all the stations listed, and tap on the station of your choice to begin tuning in through the Now Playing screen.


Stop the broadcast by tapping the square stop button in the bottom middle of the Now Playing screen.
Tap the “SCAN” button beside the stop button to search for another station.
At any screen in the iHeartRadio app, you can tap the “Play” button on the upper right corner whenever there is a song or station playing, in order to go to the Now Playing screen for easy control.
 From the FOR YOU tab, swipe right to left to go the the MY STATIONS tab. This is basically a history of the stations you have visited. You can tap on any station listed to tune into it.
 Swipe from right to left when in the MY STATIONS tab to go the the PERFECT FOR tab. This tab lists categories of stations that are great for the moment you are at right now. Tap on a category (like Kids, A Traffic Jam, or Having a Laugh) to bring up a station list to choose from. Simply tap on a station to begin listening.
 When listening to a station or an artist, you can tap the heart icon in the lower right corner to add it to your favorites.


From any screen in the app, swipe from the left edge of your device to bring up the left control panel. Tap the Favorites section below the Home section, denoted by the heart icon, and you will see the stations you have favorited by pressing the heart icon in the Now Playing screen.
 Do this by tapping the “Share” button at the upper right corner of the Now Playing screen, and choose the apps to use to share the station.
 Tap the three-dot button at the top right corner of the Now Playing screen to see the Station Info.
 Swipe from the left edge of your screen to access the control panel. Tap the Live Radio icon, which is the studio microphone, to see the tabs for Live Radio.
 Tap the CITIES tab, which is the first and leftmost one at the top of the Live Radio screen. You will then see a list of cities in the US under the states they are in. Tap a city to see a list of live stations you can tune in to, and tap a station to begin listening.


At the bottom of the list in the CITIES tab, you will see the international item that you can tap to access some live stations from other countries. Tune in by tapping on a station.
 Swipe from right to left to change to the STATIONS NEAR YOU tab. This displays stations that are close to your location, especially those within your zip code. Tap on the station to listen to it.
 Swipe from right to left to get to the MUSIC & ENTERTAINMENT tab. It will bring up a list of genres, like Classical, College Radio, and Alternative, which you can tap to see stations that are dedicated to that particular genre. Tap on the station to tune in.


When selecting a genre, you will see three tabs at the top of the screen. The CITIES tab will let you choose stations from different cities by tapping on a city, and then the station of your choice. The STATIONS NEAR YOU tab will sort the stations close to your location, and the MOST POPULAR tab will sort only those stations that many people tune into.
 Tap or swipe to the TALK RADIO tab to access categories like News and Talk, Public Radio, and Sports. Tap on a category to see a list of stations in that category. Tap on a station to begin listening.
 Swipe inward from the left edges of your screen to bring up the control panel. Tap on the Create Station button on the left panel, right below the Live Radio button.
 Tap on the search bar at the top portion of the Create Station screen. Here, you will be able to type the name of artists, live stations, songs, or podcasts.
 After typing in your search, tap the tab below the search bar corresponding to the category where the source belongs. For instance, searching “Matisyahu” will show no results when you tap the Podcasts tab, but will show you results when you tap the Artists tab.


Tap the result to play the station, and it will continue playing music or broadcasts that match your search.
To change the songs that the app fetches, alter the search by entering new song, artist, station, or genre names into the search bar, and tapping the Enter key on your on-screen keyboard.
 Swipe in from the left edge of your screen to bring up the control panel. Tap the “Podcasts” button on the left panel, right below the “Create Station” button.
 The menu will show you the list of featured podcasts by default. Scroll down the list to see the featured podcasts. You can sort the list by tapping on the drop-down category menu on the upper left corner of the screen, which will show you many other categories for podcasts, such as Science & Technology, Spirituality, News, and so forth. Tap on a category to bring up the new list of podcasts.
 After you find the podcast you wish to listen to, tap on its name or portrait in the list, which will then begin to play the podcast.

