 It is best if this person is someone who knows the rules and has played the game before.;
, The King will always be the detective, and there should be one King. The Queen will always be the Doctor, and there should be one Queen. Choose a suit (such as Clubs) to be the Mafia. There should be 1 mafia member per 3 villagers, rounded down. Put those three types in the deck, along with enough regular cards for everyone else except for the moderator.
 The card that is picked is the character that that person plays. When everyone has taken and looked at their cards, the moderator will begin the game.
 The game begins with a day cycle, in which the Mafia do not yet know who the other Mafia members are.
, The people who have the mafia cards will open their eyes and decide amongst themselves (as quietly as possible) who they want to kill. They inform the moderator of who their victim is (by pointing to him or her) and the moderator will then tell the Mafia to go back to sleep.
 The sheriff will then point out one person that they suspect to be a Mafia member and the moderator will silently indicate (through a thumbs-up or thumbs-down) whether or not that that person is a member of the Mafia. If the Sheriff was right he eliminates the Mafia member and if he was wrong he knows another innocent (apart from himself or a person he chose wrongly on one of the previous nights). The moderator will then instruct the sheriff to return to sleep. Note: In an alternative way to play, the Sheriff/Detective does not automatically eliminate the Mafia member he/she has identified. Rather, it is up to the sheriff to convince the townspeople the next day who the Mafia member is.
 The doctor will then (silently) point to a one person to save. He/she could also choose to save himself (or herself). If the person chosen to be killed by the mafia was saved, they will survive the night. Otherwise, nothing will happen to the person saved and the person killed will die. If the doctor dies, the townspeople can no longer be saved from the mafia.
, The townspeople (this includes, sheriff, and Mafia) should discuss recent events. Nobody may show their cards, although they can try to convince others that they are a certain role. Once the discussion has evolved to a point where somebody has a suspicion, play proceeds to accusations.
 At this point, someone may make an accusation against another player stating that they think that the other person is part of the Mafia. Once an accusation has been made, it must be seconded by another player in order for the accusation to be taken to a vote. When someone has been accused and seconded, the accuser must explain the reasoning behind the accusation. Then other players may speak if they believe that the accusation is just.
 At this point, anyone who chooses to may defend the accused and the accused then has the right to defend him or herself and explain why there is no way that he or she could possibly be part of the Mafia. This can take place in a trial-like setting, where the accused talks about a fictional alibi and often accuses other players in his or her stead. Player's may cite their relationship to other players as a reason why they could not be in the mafia.
 The moderator now asks who thinks that the accused is guilty and a vote is taken. The voting process may or may not be anonymous.
 If a majority of the voting players vote guilty, the accused shows his or her card and is now considered killed. If no cards were used, the accused may simply state whether or not they are in the mafia. If there is not a majority vote of guilty, the accusations begin again. The day round continues until someone has been declared guilty and removed from the game, and the night round begins again.
 In one variation of the day cycle, no accusations or discussions take place. If the person was killed, the moderator makes up a story about who was killed, and how, without revealing who the killer(s) were. If the person was saved, the moderator explains how they were injured, found, and saved. (also without revealing any information about who the killer(s) were). This variation allows for some room to be creative, and have fun.