


Avoid getting scammed working on line by reading the job offer carefully and looking for spelling and grammatical errors. A legitimate job offer should contain complete sentences, proper grammar and correct spelling. If the job description you're reading has lots of mistakes or is poorly or strangely written, it could be a fake job posting by a scammer.;
,


Avoid online job scams by determining whether the job offer is realistic in what's being asked and offered for compensation. Scam artists often offer a large amount of money for a one-time job or an unreasonably high salary for very little work. If it seems to good to be true, it's probably a scam.



Doing your homework can help you prevent getting scammed working on line. Research the company that has generated the job offer. Visit its home page, look it up with Consumer Reports or the Better Business Bureau and verify that the listed address is legitimate. If the home page is a generic logo with no company history or contact information, it's probably fake.



Meeting with a representative of the company offering you the online work either in person or on the phone is a good way to determine the legitimacy of the offer. Be wary of job offers whose companies ignore requests for a phone interview or insist on conducting business only through email and on line.



One way that scammers get victims to give up information is by claiming that employees must accept payment through direct deposit, then requesting banking information to supposedly set this up. While a company might prefer you to use direct deposit, it can't require it and should never ask for your banking information.



Reject any online job offer that requires you to provide a startup fee or deposit. Lots of online work scams operate by securing this fee from you, possibly along with banking or credit card information and never delivering any job information or materials in return.



A legitimate online job offer should be made on a secure server site to protect any personal information you disclose when applying. If the application is on a generic web page without any security measures, it might not be legitimate.

