 The best plan for addiction management and rehabilitation may vary according to the substance on which your loved one is dependent.


Focus on information from sites with a medical or scientific orientation. Look for trustworthy sites such as government or university information.There is a lot of information on the web, but not everything you read about drug addiction is true or realistic.
Learning about the characteristics of your loved one’s drug addiction can help you understand what to expect. It can also provide guidance on how to best address the situation.
NIDA’s DrugPubs Research Dissemination Center provides resources on drugs, drug abuse, and treatment.;
, Addiction is a complex and widespread problem. It can have both physical and mental dimensions. Understanding the complexity can help you cope with the situation.


It is tempting to think that drug users just have poor morals or lack of willpower. But, there are underlying biological processes that make drug addiction very difficult to overcome.Drug abuse and addiction is a widespread problem. In 2009, about 23.5 million people over the age of 12 needed treatment for addiction. Only 11.6% of this number actually received the treatment they needed., Mental health professionals use a variety of methods to help people overcome addictions. Some of these include:Cognitive-behavioral therapy. This type of therapy identifies triggers, and thoughts or behaviors which contribute to use. Therapists can teach strategies to change behaviors. They can help increase self-control, stop drug use, and deal with other issues that may occur.
Contingency management. This is a behavioral approach that helps the client monitor their behavior. This helps them to slowly change the behavior with the use of positive rewards.
Motivational enhancement therapy. This approach helps clients identify why they want help. It helps them see why they might be ambivalent toward treatment and stopping drug use.
Family therapy. This approach involves the person's immediate family. It focuses on communication practices that can help or hinder someone's recovery.
 Groups like Al-Anon, Ala-Teen and Nar-Anon which offer 12 Step programs for the families and friends of people who struggle with alcoholism and addiction.


These groups offer support for dealing with the person struggling with addiction. Talking with people in similar situations can help you understand addiction and recovery. These programs also help you to recover from the emotional effects of a relationship with an addicted person.
They can also help you heal from guilt and past hardships with your loved one who is addicted. It is important to find support for yourself as you try to help your loved one. The Al-Anon webpage has search tool to help you find a meeting near you.