 An initial set usually consists of a Driver, a Mid-range, and a Putter. There are a few select courses that have pro shops, some that even rent discs. However, this is the exception and not the rule, so it is advised to find a local retailer (Dick's and Sam's each carry discs) or purchase a beginner's set online. You should get three discs.



Midrange cover everything in-between your drive and final putt. If you're only looking to get one disc, get a midrange, like the Roc or the Buzzcraft. They are shaped like normal Frisbees, easy to throw, and stay relatively straight. If offered, aim for a "stability rating" at or below 1.0.

Drivers have a sharp, pointed rim. They go the farthest but are the hardest to keep accurate. Again, beginners should aim for a stable, basic driver to begin with. Do not get an overstable driver to begin -- these tend to curve harshly.

Putters: are soft and round. They glide well but don't throw incredibly far, allowing your to drift towards the basket without overshooting., Most disc golf courses are free to play, and almost none require calling or reserving ahead of time. If you're unsure about the courses near you, check out DG Course Review.com, a user-made website listing all known courses along with ratings, maps, pictures, and even some shot recommendations for tricky holes.


When you arrive, look to see if there is a course map and grab one now. Courses aren't always well mapped. If there is only a single map, take a picture with your phone

, On some courses there will be multiple tees depending on your skill level, with those closer to the hole made for beginners and those far away for advanced players. Before shooting, note the location of your basket by consulting the diagram near the tee. DG courses can be tight, leading to basket confusion if you're unsure of the hole.
 You can change discs every shot, but you must stay within a pace of your disc. Usually, this means leaving your back foot near the disc, then leaning either way if you need help to get around an object. You can take a run-up to any shot, but you must release the disc within a food of where the last shot landed.
 If there are hole diagrams at the tee, they will indicate where is OB. Water is considered OB as well, so if you sink a disc you must add a stroke to your current hole. If you retrieve a disc from OB, you take your next throw from the closest in-bounds areas to where your disc sailed out-of-bounds. It should be the closest open area, but you should not move any closer to the hole than the spot where you went OB., You do not simply need to hit the chains, although they do help drop the disc into the hole. The disc must land in the cage in the basket in order to be counted.









The only exception is if the disc lands on top of the basket. This counts as "in the hole.", These are called "strokes," and they work just like normal golf. Every throw equals one stroke, and the lowest score wins. So, if you took four throws to finish a hole, then you have four strokes. If the next hole takes you three strokes, your score is now seven.


Remember to add strokes for OB or water traps. So, if you take four throws to hit the basket, but one of them went OB, then the hole took five strokes.
 Whoever won the previous hole throws first on the next one. If there is a tie, then the player with the lowest total score throws next. If there is still a tie, then alternate players with the first throw until someone takes the lead., Just like golf, you want to have the lowest score in order to win. This simply means it took the winner fewer throws than everyone else to complete the same holes, making them the day's leader., Disc golf is an amazingly community-driven sport. Most courses are free because people volunteer to keep them clean and playable, and users share the course graciously. Never act like you own the course, and always remember to share the inclusive, kind, and DIY spirit that makes the sport so special by:


Keeping quiet, especially when others are throwing
Letting faster groups of players "play through," by waiting one hole for them to pass you.
Pick up trash and respect local trees, plants, and wildlife.
Communicate when disc may hit someone, and stand behind throwers whenever possible.