 Self-talk is the internal dialogue that all humans have inside their heads. The more negative your self-talk is, the more it will negatively affect your confidence levels.Keep a self-talk log where you write down all the negative thoughts that come to mind when you’re practicing.
Rewrite your negative thoughts to be more positive. So “there’s no use in practicing, I’ll never become successful” turns into “successful people have to work hard and if I work hard, some day I’ll be successful too.”

, All performers have something they’re good at – that’s why people want to watch them. But all performers also have weak spots, and those are the muscles you really need to stretch.Take a class and work with your instructor to improve on your weaknesses.
Find a fellow performer who is really good at what you’re bad at and ask them for advice.
When rehearsing, don’t practice what you already do well – focus your session on the areas that need improvement and run those parts ad nauseam.
 Regardless of what kind of performer you are, it’s imperative that you see the way you are presenting yourself to an audience. Look at the way you carry yourself, the way you move your body. Practice what you’ll say to introduce a new song or joke.Set up a camera during your practice session and record yourself performing.
Be critical when watching it back and look for ways you can elevate your performance.
Practice each performance fifty times all the way through before stepping out on stage., Art and performance are completely subjective, so placing yourself in direct competition with someone is else is reductive. Instead of focusing on who else might be performing, focus on how you can make your performance the best you’ve ever done.Think of the best performance you’ve ever had, then try to top that.
Instead of thinking about what you don’t want to mess up, think of what you want to accomplish.
 Getting to perform for a living or to perform at all is a luxury. Regardless of how you feel about your craft on any given day, remind yourself that you love performing. This love and passion will shine through your performance and automatically make you a more engaging performer.


Remind yourself why you love performing every time you step out on stage.
If you’re having trouble tapping into gratitude, take a break from performing. You’ll be surprised at how much you miss it.

