;
, Fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water and place a heat safe bowl on top; make sure that the bottom of the bowl does not touch the surface of the water. Add the chopped chocolate and the butter, and turn the heat to medium. Stir the butter and chocolate with a whisk until they melt. Do not add the chocolate chips just yet.


You can use bittersweet or semi-sweet chocolate, or even a combination of both.The better quality chocolate you use, the better your brownies will turn out.
If you cannot find any unsalted butter, you can use salted butter instead; just remember to reduce the amount of salt later.
You will be mixing your batter in this bowl. Make sure that it is big enough to hold the rest of the ingredients.
 Once the chocolate and butter are melted, mixed together, and smooth, take the bowl off the saucepan and set it aside. Allow it to cool to lukewarm temperature before continuing.If you add the eggs too soon, the hot chocolate mixture will cook them.
 Add the sugar and vanilla extract first. Once they are evenly combined, add the eggs. Stir the mixture well after each egg you add.


If you are using semi-sweet chocolate, use 2 tablespoons less sugar., If you used salted butter, reduce the salt to just ½ teaspoon. Keep whisking until the flour is evenly mixed in and there are no lumps of clumps.
 The chocolate chips will give the brownies that extra, rich, chocolatey goodness. The walnuts are not completely necessary, but they will lend the brownies extra flavor and texture as well,

, Use a rubber spatula to help the batter spread evenly across the pan. If you need to, use the spatula to smooth down the top as well.
 You can check for doneness by poking a toothpick in the center. If it comes out clean, or if it has a few moist crumbs clinging to it, the brownies are ready. Once they brownies have baked, set them aside to cool off; leave them in the baking pan while they cool.
 Melt the butter in a medium-sized saucepan over medium-low heat. Stir in the cocoa powder and milk. Once the mixture starts to thicken and boil, remove it from head and whisk in the powdered sugar.These brownies are delicious enough on their own, but the frosting will give them some extra richness.
 If necessary, use a rubber spatula to help spread the frosting over the brownies. If you'd like, you can garnish the brownies with a handful of chopped walnuts. Keep the brownies in the pan while covering them with frosting.
 If you poured frosting over the brownies, consider putting them into the fridge for an hour so that the frosting can harden and set. Store any leftovers in the fridge.

