 Does your family take turns on who does the planning, or does everyone get input on the decisions?;
, If everyone is contributing equally, then everyone should have a say in the decisions. If one person is treating the other person or people to the trip, it makes sense, though, that that person would have a greater weight in the decision making process.
 Make sure that you can agree on a destination. If not, start making a pros and cons list for potential areas and come to a decision based on mutual agreement after discussion.
 One person may want to relax and catch up on sleep while lounging at the pool or on the beach. Another person may want to enjoy the nightlife of the area and party every evening. And yet another person may have interest in catching all of the sights or pursuing adventure activities like biking, parasailing or rock climbing.


Calculate how many usable days you have on the trip, and then think realistically how many hours per day you plan to be awake and up for activities. Plan your trip itinerary based on the timing available in the duration of the trip.
Write a list of activities that the both of you or the group of you want to see or do while on the trip. Follow-up by ranking the items on the list on a 1 to 3 scale, with 1 being items that you are giving the highest ranking and most importance to.
 If both of you are agreeable to certain activities then pencil those in and work the rest of the trip's timing around them.


Determine if all of the activities you have planned have to be done together. Think about timing that would allow one person to enjoy one activity while the other person goes off for a few hours to do his activity separately. For example, the wife might lounge at the pool while the husband does a guided fishing trip. Agreeing to spend a few hours apart to get in what you really want to do on a trip is one form of compromise that works better than forcing someone to do something on a trip that he does not want to do.
 Figure out if you can work the items into your schedule by compromising on time. You get "X" number of hours at the museum together (or whatever activity it is that you want to do) if you agree to spend that same amount of time doing what the other person would ideally like to do. The compromise here being that you both get to do what you want, and you make plans to do it together.

