 Aspen shavings make one of the safest and most natural forms of bedding. They also make for the best form of bedding following a mite infestation. Make sure you acquire Aspen shavings from a pet supplies store or website, as it will have been specifically treated keep mites away.Unfortunately, Aspen shavings do have one drawback: they are not quite as absorbent as some other manufactured options.
Your hamster’s cage may develop an unpleasant aroma more quickly with Aspen shaving bedding than with another option – however, this may be a good things, if it prompts you to clean the habitat more often.
 Your choice of bedding should account for several factors. Namely, choose a bedding that does not pose a risk to your hamster’s health or safety. There are several other good options that satisfy these criteria. In particular, consider:Carefresh Ultra or Carefresh Colors. Carefresh hamster bedding is soft, safe, and free of scented chemicals. It is made from cellulose fiber, which helps it absorb a considerable amount of moisture – a vital feature for hamster bedding. While most colored bedding is not recommended, Carefresh Colors uses a safe dye that will not harm your hamster.
Kaytee Clean & Cozy (unscented). This is a plant-based paper bedding that excels in absorption and odor control. Avoid the scented options; some hamsters can suffer from breathing complications when exposed to scented bedding.
 If you have ordered bedding and are waiting for it to arrive, or want to temporarily house one of your hamsters away from the others, you may use finely shredded paper as bedding. Make sure the paper is both non-toxic and free of any inks. Accordingly, do not use newspaper.Do not attempt to use paper as a continual source of bedding, as it will do an extremely poor job with absorption and aroma control.
 Whatever you use, you should take one final measure to ensure it is entirely free of mites or any other critters that may harm your hamster. To do so, place the bedding you’ll use in a new Ziploc bag and place it in the freezer for at least 48 hours. Allow the bedding to return to room temperature without the application of artificial heat. Simply leave it on the counter in the bag. Add it to your hamster’s habitat once it has returned to room temp., Believe it or not, there are several types of hamster bedding that are commonly sold, but that may actually harm your hamster. In particular, avoid pine and cedar shavings, and these may splinter into sharp, potentially injurious pieces. Further, these materials may give off toxic fumes when exposed to your hamster’s urine. Finally, avoid “fluffy bedding”, which is made from artificial fibers that your hamster may not be able to safely digest, as well as cat litter, which is also dangerous for hamsters to eat.