 Crohn’s disease can reduce your appetite and interfere with your ability to absorb nutrients. Both the symptoms and the medications may make you vulnerable to particular deficiencies. Do not take supplements without first discussing them with your doctor because they may interfere with other medications, even over-the-counter medications.Iron. Long-term intestinal bleeding can cause your iron to become depleted. If this is the case, your doctor may recommend that you take supplementary iron.
Vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is important for avoiding anemia, maintaining a healthy nervous system, and, for children, growth. This can be administered as an injection.
Calcium and vitamin D. Crohn’s may reduce your ability to absorb calcium and vitamin D from your food. In addition, if you are also on steroid medications, they may raise your risk of having lower bone density and sustaining bone fractures. Calcium and vitamin D supplements can help guard against this.Multivitamins. If you are malnourished or think you may have difficulty absorbing enough vitamins and minerals from your food, a multivitamin may help.
 While Crohn’s does not appear to be caused by specific foods, it may be possible for you to determine which foods are less likely to aggravate your symptoms. Write down everything you eat and how you felt afterwards to see if there are patterns. Some people report improvements when they:Eat bland, not spicy, foods. This may mean that the spices are prone to irritating the inflamed lining of the digestive tract.
Reduce dairy. Dairy may cause diarrhea, gas, and cramping which can make your symptoms worse.
Avoid fatty foods. Crohn’s makes it difficult for you to absorb fats. This means they pass through you. As they do, they make you more likely to have diarrhea. In particular, try to reduce your consumption of butter, margarine, oils, cream, and fried food.
Eat soft foods and be careful with high-fiber foods. Try baking or steaming fruits and vegetables to make them less crunchy. You may be particularly sensitive to cabbages, broccoli, cauliflower, nuts, seeds, corn, and popcorn. High fiber foods like whole grains may also be more difficult for your digestive system to handle.
Avoid caffeine and carbonated beverages. Caffeine is a stimulant and may make diarrhea worse. Carbonated beverages can increase gas production, leading to abdominal discomfort. If you are prone to diarrhea, be sure to drink plenty of water to avoid dehydration.
 You may find that by eating smaller amounts more often, you can reduce your symptoms. Eating five or six small meals may prevent you from overloading your system.Eat slowly and chew your food thoroughly. This will make it easier for your body to digest it and extract the nutrients.
 Smoking is associated with a greater risk of developing Crohn’s, more severe symptoms, and a greater likelihood of needing surgery. If you quit, it is likely that your Crohn’s will improve. If you need help quitting, you can get help and support by:Joining a support group or seeing a counselor
Talking to friends and family
Discussing nicotine replacement therapy or residential treatment with your doctor

, Though stress does not cause Crohn’s, it may make it worse. When you are stressed, your stomach produces more acid and digests food slower. Your intestinal activity may also increase or decrease. You may see an improvement in your symptoms if you:Exercise. Try to do at least 75 minutes of physical activity per week. This can include walking, running, biking, swimming or engaging in sports like soccer or basketball. Exercise will promote regular bowel movements and release endorphins which will relax you and lift your mood.Use relaxation techniques. Different people find that different things work for them. Things to try include deep breathing, meditation, yoga, art or music therapy, visualizing calming images, or progressively tensing and relaxing the different muscle groups in your body.Try biofeedback. With this technique, you are connected to a machine that measures your biological responses, such as heart rate, sweating, temperature, blood flow, etc. By learning to control your body’s reactions, you may be able to influence the cramping and discomfort in your digestive tract. But be sure that you go to someone reliable. Ask whether they are supervised by a doctor.Get social support. This may involve talking about the things that worry you with trusted friends or family members, seeing a counselor, or joining a support group. Talk to your doctor to find out if there are support groups for Crohn’s near you. If not, it may also be possible for you to join and online support group. Search online at www.ccfa.org.
 Many herbal remedies and nutritional supplements can interact with other medications, including over-the-counter medications. In addition, the dosages are not well regulated. This means that it is very important to discuss all supplements, herbal, and home remedies with your doctor before starting, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child. The following have not been shown to be successful in treating Crohn's.Acupuncture and hypnosis have not been thoroughly and scientifically evaluated, so it is unclear whether they are helpful.
Fish oil, probiotics, and prebiotics have not been demonstrated to be effective remedies for Crohn’s.

