 Particularly if you are recovering from a recent injury or have a health condition that causes joint stiffness, your doctor or physical therapist may prescribe therapeutic exercises for your sensitive joints.Even if you don't have a physical therapist, you can do range of motion exercises on your own to loosen your joints and increase your range of motion.
Never push past your range of motion. Each joint should be moved as far as it can comfortably go. Move each joint to the point where you feel some light resistance or some discomfort, but it does not hurt. Hold this position a few seconds and then return to a resting position. These are basic exercises specific to the individual joints you find sensitive. For example, if you have tight or sensitive shoulders, you can do shoulder rolls and then draw circles with your arms. Range of motion exercises for hips include leg raises and leg circles at different angles.
You may need to support the area near the joint during your range of motion exercises.;
, You don't want to rush exercise when you have sensitive joints, particularly range of motion exercises. Maintain good form and move slowly and deliberately, going only as far as you can without pain or discomfort., Yoga and pilates both can ease the pain and stiffness associated with arthritis and other conditions that cause joint sensitivity. Contrary to popular belief, you don't have to be extremely fit or flexible to practice yoga or pilates.Look for a class that is designed for people with sensitive joints. For example, your local community center may have a yoga class for people with arthritis.
You can use props to ease any pressure on your joints if you are having pain during the poses.
 Since these are slow, gentle movements, you generally can practice them every day without any complication. If you have a physical therapist, they may have prescribed range of motion exercises several times a day.Keeping your joints in motion keeps them from getting stiff or locking up entirely. If you have sensitive joints, keep working with them. You may improve their function or at least prevent a further decrease in mobility.

