 Though teeth grinding (also known as bruxism) does not necessarily have one single cause, doctors have identified several factors that can lead to teeth grinding during the day or at night, including:


Ear painIncoming teeth in childrenUnpleasant emotions (stress, frustration, anger, anxiety)Certain personality types (hyper-competitive, hyper-aggressive)A compulsive habit, often used to focus or cope with stressful situationsMisaligned upper and lower teeth (called a malocclusion)Sleep-related complications, including sleep apneaComplications caused by certain degenerative disorders, including Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease;
, If chronic teeth grinding is causing you severe jaw pain, you may want to consult your dentist on strategies you can take to prevent grinding, or at least reduce the side effects caused by bruxism.Use a mouth guard. This is especially useful if you experience bruxism at night. Wearing a mouth guard designed to prevent bruxism can help keep your upper and lower teeth separated and reduce the pain and damage caused by grinding.Correct your tooth alignment. In extreme cases of bruxism, your doctor may recommend wearing braces to realign your upper and lower rows of teeth, or having oral surgery to reshape the contours of your teeth.Have regular dental exams. Allowing your dentist to monitor and treat your teeth-grinding habits can help reduce the frequency of bruxism and reduce jaw pain., If extreme emotions or behavioral complications are causing the bruxism that has lead to severe jaw pain, you may want to consider ways of treating the emotional or behavioral causes.


Try stress-management exercises like meditation or rigorous exercise.Try therapy to address issues like anxiety, anger, or stress.
In extreme cases, medication may be recommended. Medication is not the preferred treatment for bruxism, but certain prescriptions, such as muscle relaxers, may help ease the tension and treat the pain., If the bruxism causing your jaw pain is related to stress or anxiety, making lifestyle changes could help reduce the incidence of teeth grinding and help prevent pain in the future.Try to manage stress. Find what calms you down, whether it's listening to relaxing music, having a vigorous workout, or a calming soak in the tub. Practice your stress-relieving activity every day, especially before bed.Avoid caffeine and other stimulants. Try drinking decaffeinated coffee or tea, or for best results, drink a relaxing herbal tea in the evening. Avoid tobacco and alcohol in the evening to promote a more restful night's sleep with lower incidences of bruxism.