 One way to increase the chances of having a good conversation is to find people who are interesting to you. Try to find people who you have something in common with. This will make it easier to get a conversation going and keep it lively.


For example, if you notice that someone is wearing the jersey for your favorite football team, then there is a good chance that you will have lots to discuss. Or, if you meet someone at an art show that you are attending, then you probably share a love of art that could make for an interesting conversation.
 The more unique, crazy, or uncommon experiences you have, the more interesting things you’ll be able to share in conversation. Go skydiving, jet-skiing, and mountain climbing. Take up an unusual hobby like writing letters to prisoners or sword swallowing. Then, the next time someone asks you what you like to do in your spare time, you’ll be ready to shock them, and an interesting conversation will unfold., People will not want to approach you if you seem haughty or unfriendly. Smile or tell a joke so that people see you as approachable and interested in conversation., When something weird or wonderful happens, you can use it to start an interesting conversation. You could make either a mental or a physical note. To make a mental note, try to take a snapshot of the scene. Remember where you were, what you were doing, and what the weird or wonderful thing that happened was. If you had a clever response, you should remember it, as well. If you want to make a physical note, write a brief description of the event on a piece of paper and put it in your pocket with a note at the end reading, “That was very odd,” or “It was quite strange!” Events that you might want to remember to start your conversation include:


somebody using a weird word (“Yesterday I heard someone use the word defenestrate. I didn’t even know that was a word!”)somebody doing something odd (“Yesterday I saw somebody running around in his underwear in the subway!”)
having a weird thought that might amuse or interest others (“You know, yesterday I realized how much plastic we use.”)

, Watch the news regularly. Get your news from a variety of news sources. Subscribe to reliable news sources like the BBC, NPR, and CNN on Twitter and other social media to stay up-to-date. You could also pick up a newspaper or news periodical to get the news of the day.


Talking to your conversation partner about recent political, social, and economic developments can provide an interesting start to your conversation.
For instance, you might say, "Have you heard about the strike at the meat-packing plant? It seems really serious."

, Popular topics for interesting conversation include the latest TV shows, movies, internet memes, and songs or musical artists. Listen to the radio whenever you can, and check out movies that you think seem interesting either at home or at the theater. Use apps like The Soup to stay informed about the latest in popular culture news, and follow your favorite bands, celebrities, musicians, and actors on Twitter.If there’s a new band, app, movie, or show you really like, use it to start an interesting conversation. For instance, you could say to your conversation partner, “Have you seen the new Ultra Man movie? It’s really great.”
Even if you don’t know every new film, song, or TV show, you can always ask questions to learn more from someone who does seem when it comes time to talk about pop culture. For instance if someone asks, “Have you seen that new movie Ultra Man?” you might reply, “No, is it any good? What’s it about?”

, If your conversation goes south, just excuse yourself politely and try to strike up another conversation with someone else.


Sometimes other people are just not interested in starting an interesting conversation.
If you decide it’s time to bail on a conversation partner, excuse yourself to get a refill on a drink, make a call, or say that you need to help the host of the party in the kitchen.
Tell your conversation partner, “It was nice talking to you,” before departing.

