 Since many attics are such small spaces, the last thing you want to do is clutter the room up with unnecessary furnishings. Opt for smaller pieces, such as a full-sized bed instead of a king, and only include what you need to make the space comfortable.
 This works especially well if you have white walls and opt for white or beige furniture. Some may find this style a little bland, but it can look chic and sophisticated as long as you choose high-quality pieces and fabrics.
 If your attic only has one or two windows and you cannot remodel the room to add another one, place your furniture so that the natural light will rest where you spend the most time. Usually, this means placing the bed beneath the window, but you can also place a desk or chair in front of the window instead.
 Attic bedrooms have a naturally quaint appeal, which makes cottage-style decorations fairly appropriate for the space. Door-style shutters also add noticeable horizontal lines to the space, contrasting nicely against the high angular lines of the ceiling.
 Sheer drapes block out most of the light but not all of it, so your attic bedroom never gets too dark, even when the drapes are closed. Moreover, since the room is so high up, the privacy offered by thicker drapes and blinds is not as important.
 Look for patterned bedspreads, armchairs, and drapes. These patterns add visual interest to the room in a subtle, enchanting manner, but louder patterns, like polka dots or brightly colored plaid, can overwhelm the bedroom if it is located in a smaller attic.
 Install a window bench that doubles as drawer space, or look for a bed frame with drawer space built underneath.
 Chandeliers and other hanging lights take advantage of the high vaulted ceiling and keep the floor looking less cluttered. If placed in the middle of the room, a hanging light can also disperse light more evenly than a floor lamp.
 Attic bedrooms can already seem removed from the rest of the house. This “out of the way” sense makes an attic bedroom the perfect place to escape to for solace. If you have enough room, a comfortable armchair can make the room feel like its own complete space.
 Attics are typically used to store boxes and trunks of extra belongings. Play to this idea by placing a large trunk at the foot of the bed. Trunks can act as both storage and seating.
 If your attic has a high enough ceiling, you can draw attention to this height with a canopy bed. The vertical poles pull the eye up and down, causing it to fixate on the height of the room, and the soft, draping fabric promotes a calm, relaxing ambiance.

