 If you intend to serve the trout whole, deboning it with scissors will allow you to keep the fish intact. Start by using the scissors to cut away the fins, the tail and any loose flaps of skin that might get in your way while you’re cutting. If the head has not already been removed, use a sharp knife to cut into the upper area of the gills just below the trout’s head; there are natural grooves here that serve as vents to the gills and make the perfect place to cut to remove the head.It’s not necessary to remove the skin prior to cooking.
When removing the head, bear down on the knife and use a quick chopping strike on the back of the blade to sever the backbone without making a mess., Make a small incision in the uppermost part of the trout’s belly where you removed the head. Slowly cut down the length of the belly. Use long, smooth motions with the scissors to keep the cut neat and prevent mangling the fish. Keep cutting until you’ve covered the length of the belly, ending where the tail was.


Raw fish sometimes contains small parasites and harmful bacteria. Remember to wash the scissors after using them.
 Open up the body of the trout by separating the fish at the cut you just made. Place the trout flesh side down against the cutting board. Run a narrow, blunt surface, such as the knife’s handle or the tip of your finger, along the backside of the trout where the backbone sits. Apply a moderate amount of pressure and make a few quick passes. This will help loosen the backbone so that it can be extracted with less difficulty.Be careful not to apply so much pressure that you damage the meat. The idea is just to start coaxing the backbone and ribcage away from the body of the fish.
 Turn the trout back over, skin side down. Take hold of the backbone nearest the tail section and pull it up and away from the flesh to remove it. Pull slowly and gradually, taking care not to tear away flesh or break any bones. When done correctly, the ribcage should come away effortlessly with the backbone.

You can also score alongside the edges of the backbone with your filleting knife if you’re having a hard time getting it out in one piece.
Don’t worry if the ribcage doesn’t come out as smoothly as you’d life. You’ll be picking out leftover bones anyway.
 With the backbone and ribcage gone, you’re left with a nice piece of fish that has been cut down the center and opened up; this is what’s known as “butterflying.” Keep the trout skin side down and run the blade of the knife along the length of the fish at an angle. This will dislodge any of the small, delicate rib bones (also called “pin bones”) remaining in the flesh so that they can be removed by hand or with tweezers.

Most of the remaining pin bones will be found in the darker meat around the center of the trout.
Remove as many of the pin bones as you can to avoid any unpleasant surprises while eating.

