 There are lots of ways to plump your lips, and most of them will start right in your spice cabinet! Some, however, may require a trip to the store (such as essential oil). Choose a lip plumper that works best for you, based on what you already own or what you are willing to buy. You do not have to use all of the lip plumpers in this section.
 In a small dish, mix enough cayenne pepper and water to make a paste (about ¼ teaspoon of cayenne pepper and a drop or two or water). Apply the paste to your lips with your finger. Leave it on there for 10 minutes, then wash it off.Cayenne pepper plumps your lips by irritating them. As such, you do not want to use this more than 2 or 3 times a week.
Alternatively, you can scoop some lip gloss or lip balm onto your finger, and sprinkle cayenne pepper on top.Use this instead of the paste.
 Mix 1 to 2 drops of cinnamon essential oil with about 1 teaspoon of lip balm or petroleum jelly. Apply it to your lips, wait 3 to 5 minutes, then wipe it off. Because of how intense cinnamon essential oil is, do not use this more than twice a week.If you'd something more natural, try coconut oil, cocoa butter, or shea butter instead.
If you have very sensitive skin, you might want to stick with just 1 drop of cinnamon essential oil, or try a different method.
Store any leftover lip balm in a small jar or empty lip balm container. Keep it in the fridge.
 Mix 2 drops of peppermint oil with 1 teaspoon of lip balm or petroleum jelly. Apply it to your lips whenever you want a little plumping action. Unlike the cinnamon version, you do not have to wipe it off, because it is not as intense or irritating.If you'd like something more natural, try coconut oil, cocoa butter, or shea butter instead.
Store any leftover lip balm in a small jar or empty lip balm container. Keep it in the fridge.
 Mix a pea-sized amount of lip balm or petroleum jelly with a sprinkle of ground cinnamon. Apply it to your lips, then wipe it off after 3 to 5 minutes.For something more natural, try coconut oil, cocoa butter, or shea butter.

