 One of the most well-known and effective ways to get rid of snails is to make beer traps. To make:


Place saucers, bowls or buckets (depending on the size of your problem!) of cheap, flat beer in your garden and leave overnight.






The snails will be attracted to the smell of the beer and climb into the saucer/bucket, where they will become intoxicated by the alcohol, fall in and drown.
If you aren't keen on wasting perfectly good beer on your garden snails, you can also make similar traps using grape juice or water mixed with 1/2 teaspoon of yeast and a tablespoon of sugar.;
, Copper is used by many gardeners to repel snails and slugs. You can use copper in one of two ways:


You can buy copper tape at a plant nursery and wind it around the perimeter of your vegetable patch or flower bed, or you can simple sprinkle copper pennies around the base of the plants you are trying to protect.
Copper repels snails due to a reaction between the metal and the mucous (or slime) produced by the snail as it moves. This sends the snail an unpleasant electro-neural signal, which basically feels like an electric shock., Another effective method many gardeners use to repel snails and slugs is to sprinkle crushed egg shells on the earth surrounding the vulnerable plants.


The egg shells have sharp edges which feel unpleasant under the snails' soft bodies, so they will avoid climbing over them to get to the plants.






This is a particularly green way of repelling snails, as the egg shells contain plenty of calcium which nourishes your soil., Studies conducted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture have shown that coffee is extremely effective at repelling and killing snails and slugs, It can be used in one of two ways:


You can place cooled coffee in a spray bottle and use it to spritz plants, leaves, soil and even the snails themselves.






Alternatively, you can sprinkle coffee grounds around the base of the plants you wish to protect from snails. This will also help to enrich the soil.
 One way to discourage snails is to encourage other garden creatures who snack on snails.


These include toads and frogs, who you can invite into your garden using ceramic toad houses. Turtles, garter snakes and salamanders are also believed to enjoy snails, in addition to most birds (especially robins).
Allow ducks and chickens to roam your garden. Ducks and chickens will also eat snails and slugs, and they are actually quite nutritious for them. However, ducks and chickens might trample or eat the plants as well, so be careful with this one!

, Diatomaceous earth is great solution for getting rid of snails. Just be sure to buy the non-toxic, food grade version.


Diatomaceous earth is a type of powdered rock made from the fossils of tiny sea organisms. It has very fine, sharp edges which is harmful to the snails' soft bodies.
Diatomaceous earth can be sprinkled on the soil surrounding plants and flower beds. However, it becomes much less effective when wet, so a fresh layer will need to be reapplied after watering your plants or following rainfall., The list of items people use to kill or deter snails goes on and on. Some other popular substances include:


Powdered ginger, talcum powder, ashes from burnt wood or lime. Lint from a clothes dryer can be used to deter snails, in addition to animal hair or fur.
Pick them up and move them. Moving snails just 20 feet (6.1 m) away from your garden has shown to be just as effective as termination .







