 If you're going to go pro as a fighter, you're going to have to be the best fighter you possibly can be. Study the techniques and training regimens necessary to whatever style of fighting you're interested in.



MMA is by far the most popular modern fighting style. Combining elements of boxing, kick boxing, Muay Thai, wrestling, and jiu jitsu, MMA will require that you develop a "total package" of fighting skills. If you're strong, fearless, and an adaptive learner, MMA may be the right choice for you.

Martial arts such as karate, tae-kwon-do, or ju-jitsu require a tremendous amount of mental as well as physical discipline to learn. The study of these will take many years to perfect and might involve moving to another country in order to study with the best possible trainers.
Wrestlers have a wide network set up in schools and universities. Consider joining a wrestling team to get the necessary skills involved in mat wrestling and as a foundation for expanding your fighting skills to other styles.
Boxing is the classic fighting sport. Old-school gyms filled with heavy bags and jump-ropes exist all over the country, in rural and urban areas. Often, youth boxing programs are available at relatively inexpensive rates if you want to get started early.;
, Do you want to go pro in boxing? MMA? Muay Thai? Even if you're interested in many forms of fighting, if you're going to be a professional, you'll need to specialize. Find a gym that trains in the particular kinds of fighting that you're interested in and hook up with a great coach who can teach you the secrets of the trade.


Consider joining more than one gym to learn from a number of different coaches and practice with a variety of opponents.
 Spar with a wide variety of opponents to hone your combat skills such as strike delivery, reaction, and speed of recovery. During sparring, wear protective gear to minimize the harm impact can do to your body.
 An experienced trainer who has trained professional or high-level amateur fighters will be invaluable to your career. He can help you develop your strengths and minimize your weaknesses by assessing how you perform, and adjust your training accordingly. He can also pair you with good sparing partners that challenge you appropriately during sparring., Highly regimented nutrition, expensive gym memberships, time commitments, and the toll on your body--the cost of pro fighting will quickly add up. If you break a wrist in a fight before you've gone pro, who's going to pay for it?


Get a physical job that will allow you the hours you want for practice and keep you employed while following your dream. UPS truck loaders have to lift heavy boxes but work early hours, allowing the rest of the weekdays free. The physical work will also do double-duty, keeping you in shape while you're making money. UPS also offers competitive insurance packages that will keep you safe.

