 Many people with darker hair may bleach or otherwise dye their hair at a salon. Before making a decision about dyeing your hair, talk to the hair stylist about potential damage.


If you're going platinum, there will be inevitably be some damage to your hair. A stylist may even refuse a platinum bleaching if your hair has been color treated previously as the damage could be more significant.Talk to your stylist about how you want to lighten your hair. He or she can evaluate your hair's current condition and decide what color treatment will provide the least amount of damage.;
, Damage caused by bleaching and dyeing is worse when it's close to your scalp and follicles. Consider allowing your roots to grow out slightly before re-dyeing your hair. This can help minimize damage., If you choose to dye your hair at a salon, it will need extra care afterwards. Talk to your stylist about how to give your hair extra TLC after dyeing.









Ask your stylist for recommendations for moisturizing conditions and other at home treatment options. Hair dye can cause hair to be dryer than normal.Consider a pre-wash primer before washing your hair. This can help block water, making a dye job last longer.Consider coconut oil or protein-based conditioners. These can help fix damage done to hair via dyeing and bleaching., Rinsing hair with vinegar and water helps lighten hair for some. Try mixing one part vinegar with six parts water. Then, rinse your hair for 15 minutes. Apple cider vinegar may work better and has a nice smell., Simple table salt may have an effect on hair color. Many people notice their hair gets lighter in response to swimming in salt water. Try adding one part salt with five parts water. Rinse into your hair and let sit for 15 minutes. Then, rinse and wash as usual., Vitamin C can lighten your hair and may actually improve its overall health. Take 8 or 9 vitamin C tablets, which you can purchase at most drug stores, and crush them. You can do this by putting them in a plastic bag and then rolling the tablets into a powder using a rolling pin. Mix this into your shampoo. Use the shampoo as usual over the next few weeks and see if you notice an effect., Rhubarb is a plant that has properties which can naturally lighten dark hair. Try adding 1/4 cup of chopped rhubarb to 2 cups of water. Bring the rhubarb and water to a boil and then allow it to cool. Strain the rhubarb and use the water to rinse into your hair. Leave the rinse in for 10 minutes. Then, rinse out your hair with clear water., If you're not into dyes or chemical treatments, many people swear by honey as a natural means to lighten hair naturally. Honey is deeply moisturizing but contains trace amounts of hydrogen peroxide that can help lighten dark hair.









Mix a small amount of honey into water or vinegar before applying it to your hair. Honey is sticky and difficult to wash out, so you want to dilute it before adding it to your hair.Coat your hair in a blend of honey and water or vinegar. Put on a shower cap and leave the mix in overnight. Wash out in the morning and see if you notice any results., Citrus juices, such as lemon or lime juice, may lighten dark hair. Try using citrus juices if you want to lighten your hair.









You can add a quarter cup of warm water to a cup of lemon juice. Place the combination in a spray bottle and lightly spritz your hair. Re-apply every half hour or so and see if you notice a difference after a few days. Make sure to condition regularly using this treatment, as lemon juice can dry out hair.You can squeeze limes into warm water and then place this in a spray bottle. Spritz your hair and cover with a shower cap. Let sit for 30 minutes. Then, rinse out and see if you notice a difference., Chamomile tea can also lighten hair for some. Cool some brewed chamomile tea and then soak into your hair, allowing your hair to get as saturated as possible. Wear a tight fitting shower cap for 30 minutes and then rinse., Cinnamon works great as a natural lightener. Dampen and condition your hair. Then, make a paste with cinnamon and water. Work it into your hair, getting each strand of hair as covered as possible. Put on a shower cap and leave in overnight., Hydrogen peroxide is a strong chemical that can lighten hair. Use it very carefully. Put some hydrogen peroxide in a spray bottle and spray it even over your hair. If necessary, use hair clips to pull hair out of the way to get hard to reach sections. Leave in for 30 minutes and then wash out with cold water., If you had a dye job you dislike, scrub your hair with a clarifying shampoo as soon as possible. Clarifying shampoos contain powerful surfactants capable of stripping away grime, chemicals, and hair dye.


You can find a clarifying shampoo at most supermarkets or drug stores. Follow any instructions on the bottle when applying clarifying shampoo to your hair.Clarifying shampoo can dry out hair. Be sure to condition your hair afterwards to prevent dry, cracked hair., If a clarifying shampoo doesn't do the trick, you can remove semi-permanent dyes by adding vitamin C powder to existing shampoo. This can help lighten a dye job by lifting some of the existing color from your hair.









You can buy vitamin C powder online or at a local grocery store. Mix one part vitamin C powder to 2 parts shampoo. Wet your hair and lather the shampoo in. Then, put on a shower cap. Drape a towel around your neck to prevent dripping and let the mix sit in your hair for about an hour.Once an hour is over, rinse your hair and allow it to dry. If it works, about 85% of the color will be gone. You might want to condition afterwards to prevent your hair from drying out., If you dyed your hair at home, call the hotline number on the box of dye. The people working at the phone center get questions all the time. They may be able to offer you helpful suggestions on how to remove color from your hair., Baking soda can help strip hair of chemical buildup. Adding baking soda to shampoo or conditioner may help remove chemicals in hair dye. It may take awhile longer to work in comparison to other methods. Using baking soda once a week may lighten dyed hair over time.