 Even with the best intentions, eating out at fast food restaurants or stopping by a convenience store may be the only option you have. However, reading the entire menu or walking through the entire store can help you get a good idea of what healthy options are available.


Review menus online before choosing a restaurant and make sure you have some healthy options. Or become familiar with the menu of your favorite quick restaurants. Find a few items that will fall into your healthy eating plan and stick to those.
Review the nutrition stats of different foods. Restaurants that have more than 20 locations are required to have nutrition information online and in the store.Find options that fit into your calorie guidelines or other nutrition requirements.
Avoid combo meals. This is when the calorie count can get really high at fast food restaurants. Stick to just a small sandwich or wrap if possible.
Avoid deep fried items if possible. Most fast food chains do offer grilled versions of a variety of sandwiches, wraps, and other meals. Choose grilled over fried for a lower-fat meal.;
, The typical fast food restaurants are not the only quick option. Many places serve soups, salads, lower-calorie sandwiches and other items that are not as processed, are lower in calories, and are slightly healthier for you.


Try using a map app on your smart phone or doing a quick internet search of available options in your current location. Look for something outside the typical burger and fry joint.
Remember, although some restaurants offer fresh salads and sandwiches, their foods aren't necessarily low calorie. Again, it's important to review the menu and nutrition information online first.
 If you're feeling famished and have no time to cook, swing by a grocery store for quick and healthy meal. Most stores will have a variety of options to fit your timeline.


No time at all? Pick up something from the salad bar or hot bar. Choose lean protein, vegetables, fruit and whole grains. Try avoid things that are higher in fat (like mac and cheese) or fried (like fried chicken).
Many stores also offer pre-made meals and cold pre-packaged salads (like chicken or tuna salad). Be wary of the fat and calorie content, but a small cup of chicken salad with a piece of fruit is a great quick meal.
 Not all your meals need to be 100% home cooked or made from scratch. Some convenience foods are still moderately healthy in addition to being quick. Surprisingly, gas stations sometimes have healthier food than fast food establishments.


Healthy convenience store foods can include: frozen low-calorie dinners (but be aware of the sodium content), low-calorie canned soups (again, watch the sodium content), individual packages of nuts, or "protein packs" (many stores sell small packages of lean protein foods like nuts, cheese, hard boiled eggs or deli meat alongside a fruit or veggie).
Convenience foods to avoid include: high calorie/high fat frozen foods (like pizza or chicken nuggets), fried foods from grocery store/convenience store hot bars, canned pastas, processed meats (like hot dogs) and pre-made sandwiches or subs.
Consume convenience store foods with awareness and moderation. Many times what makes convenience foods "convenient" is extra processing. Sometimes this doesn't affect the nutritional value all that much and other times it does. Exercise caution and use your best judgement.

