 Instead of sending out mass email blasts to hundreds and thousands of reporters and publications, cultivate 10-100 reporters who cover the beats relating to your industry. Try to speak to each reporter personally. Reference or comment upon articles they wrote about similar subjects before you inundate them with press releases. For example, send off a short email like this: "I saw your article about the bio-applications of 3-D printing, and I thought it was great. I'm in the industry, and you were right on the specifics. There's some stuff that's even more exciting in the pipeline. I'll keep you posted."
While you’re finding reporters who can be of value to you, figure out how you can be of value to them as well. Self-interest is just as powerful a motivator for a reporter as it is for you, after all.
 When you’ve identified the publications and reporters who are of the most use to you, find ways to nature those relationships. Among the easiest is to give them access to the press releases before anyone else—a head start.This is a technique known as “embargoing” a story. If you aren’t familiar with journalistic practices, it might seem unfair, but it’s widely accepted.
 When it comes to work, easier is almost always better. This applies to a well-known outlet and a new one equally, and it will make any reporter’s job a little easier if you give them an idea or two on how the story could be placed or an angle from which to write it.Make doubly sure to do this when you’re trying to grow your media foot print. If you’re reaching out to a new media outlet, make their job easy—tell them how you think your press release fits into their publication.
 If you want to create effective press releases in the future, you need to know whether the one’s you’re writing today are effective. The easiest way to do that is by following up. If a press release you write becomes the germ of a reporter’s story, contact them a week or two after it ran and see how the story did. See if there were any particular aspects of the story that played well, so you can tailor future press releases to those concerns.Following up is also a tried and true method for helping keep your professional relationships with reporters alive. It doesn't have to be anything fancy. For instance, "I saw your piece last week, and I thought it was great. I noticed you got a chance to use a few things from our press release in it. You getting any feedback that sticks out?"

