 The easiest way to keeping your plants safe is by moving them to a more secure location. Keep the plants in an area your cat can’t reach or has no access, such as a bedroom. This may protect your plants from your cat’s hungry mouth and fun-seeking paws.Put plants on shelves that are too high for a jumping cat.Place your plants on a balcony, sun porch, or room that your cat can’t access. Close any doors or use a gate to keep the cat out of the space.;
, High shelves or closed rooms may not deter a curious cat from your plants. If your cat continues to disturb the plants, consider hanging them from the ceiling. Install hanging planters without parts on which your cat can land. These can keep your plants safe from your cat’s paws and mouth.Install hanging planters near a sunny window that is far enough to keep the leaves from tempting your cat’s paws.
Use tall, narrow plant stands if you don’t want to hang items. Make sure the stand doesn’t having enough space for even an athletic cat to land.
 Some cats love to dig in a plant’s dirt. They might like the adventure of hunting for something or see it as an extra litter box. Putting a layer of rocks over dirt allows you to water a plant while keeping it safe from your cat’s paws.Find rocks in your yard or local beach or buy them at a pet store. You can decide on the size, but larger rocks may work better than smaller ones your cat can move aside with its paw.Use seashells or dried wood pieces instead of rocks if you want a more decorative touch. You can also try pine cones, the scent and feel of which can also keep a cat from the plant.
Place your rocks or seashells around the dirt in the planter. Try facing sharp edges of the rock upward, which can further deter your cat from walking on or digging in the plant.
 An alternative to covering dirt with rocks is a plastic or wire screen. Use landscape screening or cloth, wire mesh, or needlepoint “fabric” to keep your cat from digging in the dirt.Poke the screening you choose down in the plant dirt. Consider covering it with a few small rocks to hold it down and further deter your cat.
 Some scents, such as pine or lemon, repel cats. Purchase or make your own spray that is safe for your plant and cat. Apply the spray to the plant leaves or around the pot to protect your plant from kitty’s paws and mouth.Buy cat-safe deterrents at a large retailer or pet store. Read the usage instructions and spray the product on your plant. Many deterrents come in scents and tastes cats don’t like. One example is bitter apple.
Mix one part either lemon, lavender, or eucalyptus oil with three parts water in a spray bottle.Spritz this on the plant’s leaves or around the pot every day for a couple of weeks. This can teach your cat to stay away from the plant., Despite your best efforts, your four footed friend may still access your plants. Some cat owners physically punish their cats to deter undesirable behavior. This has little effect on the behavior and can make your kitty fear you.Using a firm, “No!,” and looking at your cat disapprovingly can keep your cat away from your plants.Stay consistent in your scolding. Cats eventually understand that, “No!” means you don’t like her behavior.
 Before humans domesticated them, cats ate meats that contained pre-digested greens. Because of this, it’s normal for cats to want to nibble at plants occasionally. Providing a safe plant for your cat to nibble may keep it from destroying your other plants. The following types of plants are safe for cats to eat:Cat grass
Catnip
Barley
Sesame
Rye
Wheat grass
LemongrassCatmint
Valerian

, Cats are not attracted to all plants. Some types of plants are not only beautiful and purify your air, but also don’t attract cats. Consider decorating with these plants and/ or placing them around other plants you don’t want your cat to access. The following plants won’t generally attract your four-legged friend:Aloe vera
Bamboo palm
Spider plant
Snake plant or “Mother-In-Laws Tongue”
Boston fern

, Cats love to play, which may be why your pet bats at the leaves of plants. Your cat may sit and hit at plants out of boredom. Check that your cat has enough toys to keep it stimulated and entertained.This may distract your cat’s attention for otherwise tempting greenery. Your cat may like:


Toys filled with catnipStuffed toys that squeak or chirpPlastic or paper balls
Wine corks
Rope
Cardboard tubes from toilet paper or paper towels

, Toys can stimulate your cat, but some have pieces that may harm your cat. Remove any small pieces that your cat could ingest.The following toy pieces may harm your cat:


Paper clips and rubber bands
Feathers
Tinsel
Ribbons or string
Sequins or other small decorations
Pins and needles

