 Tear gas is actually a dust that is sprayed into the air, whereas biological weapons are generally gases. While it is incredibly difficult and expensive to completely protect yourself against gases, you can easily create a barrier against particles at home.


Toxic ash from volcanoes, tear gas, and dust are all particle contaminates.;
, Using a razor blade, cut the bottom inch off of a large bottle and discard the bottom.
 Use a marker to draw a “U” across the front of the bottle, cap side down. This needs to fit snuggly across your face, stopping roughly at your temple and below your chin. Make sure you leave 5-6 inches between the bottom of your cup and your chin. Cut along your outline with your razor blade.


Start smaller than you think you need – you can always cut more away later.
The bottle should fit snuggly across your face, as this prevent gas from getting into your eyes., Glue 1 inch of rubber form insulation around the edges of your gas mask to create a seal. This will keep contaminated air away from your eyes and nose. Take your time with this step, trying on your mask multiple times to make sure it sits snugly across your face.


You can purchase rubber foam online or at large hardware stores.
If you can’t get your hands on rubber foam, use several layers of tape around the edges, or strips of fabric from an old t-shirt.
 Cut them near the bottom, as you will need them later to attach the mask to your face.
 Attach the elastic bands near eye level so you can securely keep the mask on your face without your hands.
 This is your filtration device. Place the hospital mask, preferably an N95 particulate mask (available online or at a nearby health supply store), at the bottom of your gas mask.


Seal the edge of the mask to the bottle with glue to prevent air from bypassing the mask.
 Attach it to your face, making sure there are no holes in the insulation that would allow contaminated air to your face. Make sure the bottle cap is off, and breath in the clean air.
 While this system is not as powerful as a military-grade air mask, it can successfully filter out some toxins as well as all particle-based contaminates like tear gas.
 Use a razor blade to slice off the top of the bottle, leaving an open cylinder. You can use any type of plastic bottle, but a 2-liter bottle will usually be big and unwieldy.
 Activated charcoal absorbs fumes and gasses from the air, providing an effective barrier against gases. While not perfect, charcoal can filter out chlorine and carbon-based chemicals.
 This should be the same size bottle as before. Slice 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) from the bottom, leaving as much of the top as you can.


Leave the cap on.
 This will remove any physical contaminants, like dust, ash, or tear gas, from your air. You can also use strips of old t-shirts, socks, or cotton balls.


Slide the bottles together and tape them shut. If you used the same sized bottles you can slide one into the other, creating a seal. Tape the bottles together so they stay shut. This is your air filter!

, Using a razor blade, cut holes in the bottom of the filter to allow air in.


Activated charcoal will absorb moisture from the air if left uncovered, making it useless, so only cut the holes when you need the filter.
 The easiest way to connect your filter to your gas mask is with an old vacuum hose. Clean it with soap and water and then attach it with duct tape around the ends of your filter and gas mask.


Because the charcoal could absorb the moisture from the air, becoming useless, only remove the cap from your filter when you need it., Activated charcoal absorbs chemicals and moisture, so it is useless after it has filled up. After every use or prolonged exposure to air you need to replace it with new charcoal.
 A t-shirt can actually protect you from large particles, like dust or tear gas, though not perfectly. Try to create as perfect a seal as possible using both hands to keep the shirt over your nose and mouth.Bandanas, towels, and blankets will provide similar protection in an emergency.
A simple piece of fabric can save your life against ash and dust from a volcanic explosion.
 WIKI LINK If you or someone you know feels light-headed, nauseous, or experiences seizures or loss of consciousness after inhaling a chemical, make a note of the chemical and call poison control immediately.


In America, poison control can be reached at the number 999.
 If the victim is able to move, get them to fresh clean air as soon as possible. Stay away from the source of the chemicals.
 This is called the “recovery position.” Roll unconscious people on their sides, using their upper leg to brace them. Make sure their mouth faces down so that they can easily expel anything that comes up. Wait for emergency services and follow their directions.

