 Throw yourself fearlessly into the heat of battle. Don’t wait for your enemies to bring the fight to you—get out there and take it to them! Players who take the commando approach don’t stand still for very long, and fare better with guns that shoot quickly, reload easily and have a high ammo capacity.If you plan on jumping into the thick of things, grab a gun with a quick rate of fire that can hold a lot of darts, like the N-Strike Raider CS-35, retaliator or a rapidstrike. If you want to use customizable guns, use the stryfe or the modulus ecs-10 blaster Be sure to pack a secondary weapon such as the disruptor for when your main gun runs out of ammo.;
, Hang back and defend home base or keep critical pathways covered by laying down defensive fire. Defensive players tend to post up in one place and maintain a limited amount of movement within the area. For these folks, weapons that fire in powerful bursts at close range will be ideal. Try the classic Nerf Ballzooka if you want to pack a punch, or the Zombie Strike FlipFury Blaster, which gives you two fully loaded cylinders to cut down on reload time.Mounted machine guns and heavy artillery with large magazines are ideal for careful, defensive players.
 If you’re playing in a more open space, you have the option of eliminating targets from a distance as a sniper. Nerf sniper rifles fire darts from long range with greater precision than assault-style weapons and pistols. Designated snipers can be a great asset to securing victory in a Nerf war, especially when you’re playing with large teams. The Longstrike CS-6 and Mega Centurion are generally regarded as Nerf's most well-rounded sniper models, though you might also fare well with the silence and range of a bow and arrow, such as the sleek and minimal Mega Lightning Bow. Some crossbows such as the Elite Crossbolt are also very accurate with a high capacity. You can be a sniper for defense too. If you're out of darts, have a magazine/clip refill and if you have a storage stock, store a clip in it. If your sniper is completely out of ammo, have an accurate pistol or even a silent-strike blowdart pipe. Some examples of accurate pistols are Falconfire, firestrike and clearshot.Patient players with good aim make the best snipers.
When sniping, keep yourself concealed to avoid being forced into a showdown.
 Do a little bit of everything. Run, jump, take cover, strike from a safe distance or get up close and personal to do your damage. Though different Nerf weapons have different functions and characteristics, it’s more about how you play the game. If you’re just in it to have a good time, you can make almost any type of gun work for you.Simpler is better for players who frequently play many different roles.
Nerf’s Zombie Strike line makes for good all-around weapons, with average range, decent ammo capacity and simple firing mechanisms., Once you have your play style or role as part of a team figured out, equip a gun of the right size to help you accomplish your mission. Heavily-armed defensive or stationary players will be able to make use of heavier guns like the N-Strike Elite Rampage or the Strongarm Blaster, whereas player who need to be mobile and quick on their feet should opt for less bulky weapons like the Elite Retaliator or classic N-Strike Maverick.Nerf guns can get quite heavy. The N-Strike Stampede ECS, for instance, weighs in at a whopping 5 pounds. This can make them hard to wield effectively if you tend to be quicker on your feet., Make sure you’ve got enough munitions to survive the round. Snipers and players who pick their shots carefully will be able to get by with weapons that hold fewer darts. The run-and-gun types, however, will want to either stockpile extra cartridges or arm themselves with a high-capacity wrecking machine like the Vortex Pyragon Blaster or the dreaded Lawbringer.Load up on extra Nerf magazines (sold separately) so that you can reload mid-game in the blink of an eye.
Certain Nerf guns like the Lawbringer and the Hammershot are cylinder loaded, which means it’s easy to scoop darts right up off the ground if you need to quickly reload on the spot., Why rush in and risk a make believe suction-tipped demise when you can pick off your friends from across the backyard? Set up a sniper post and wreak havoc on your foes from far away. Long-range weapons like the Longstrike CS-6, Mega Centurion or even a Nerf bow-and-arrow can help you accomplish this feat while putting yourself at minimal risk.Nerf’s long range weapons can send darts flying up to 100 feet.
One tradeoff of ranged weapons is that they don’t hold as many darts and often take longer to reload.
 You’ve got two hands—why not use two guns? Simply pick up an extra weapon and keep those trigger fingers working overtime. Try it with smaller, easier to handle sidearms like the Hammershot, stryfe, Triad EX-3, firestrike or even primary weapons like slingfire and hyperfire. What you’ll lack in ammo capacity and precision, you’ll make up for in having two of them. After all, it works in the movies!Take time to line up your shots. It can be easy to burn through ammo when you’re carelessly firing two weapons at once.
 When the big guns run out of ammo, you’ll need to keep a smaller sidearm on you to stay in the game. This is when pistol-style shooters come in handy. Tuck a Sidestrike, Elite Mega Cycloneshock or Elite Jolt Blaster into your waistband and switch over once your primary weapon is spent or experiences an unfortunate but inevitable jam. It may just be the thing that pretend-saves your life!Make sure you save a few darts for your sidearm. Many of the more compact Nerf guns only hold between 1-3 darts.
These types of guns are easier to dual-wield, provided you’ve got the means to carry them.
 Opt for a bow and arrow over a point-and-shoot device in situations where you need to be swift, silent and deadly. Nerf bows shoot long, sleek “arrow” darts impressively long distances with pinpoint accuracy. The original Nerf Bow and Arrow could fire approximately 60 feet (18.3 m), while the new Rebelle Platinum model launches arrows up to 100 feet (30.5 m)!The drawing and firing action of a bow makes significantly less noise than regular guns, which often click loudly when they shoot.
Bow and arrow launchers make excellent choices for snipers.
 If all else fails, mow down the competition with one of Nerf’s patented weapons of mass destruction like the Vulcan EBF-25 or Rhino-Fire blaster. These guns feature high capacity loaders that hold up to 25 darts apiece and can even be mounted so that you can block off hallways and other strongholds with a torrent of merciless foam mayhem.Nerf machine guns can shoot at a rate of about one dart per second.
Because of their complex designs and the amount of ammunition they require, machine gun models tend to be more expensive.
 Add a little variety to your games by having everybody switch to a Nerf sword or battleaxe for close quarters combat. Nerf’s new line of melee weapons are molded from a single piece of soft, sturdy foam that safely allows players to bash each other to their heart’s content. They can be strapped to the player’s back and used in addition to or in place of pistols and other sidearms. Best of all, they never run out of ammo.Pair a sword with an assault weapon like the Demolisher to become unstoppable in ranged or hand-to-hand combat skirmishes.
Come up with your own rules for how swords and axes can be used in battle.

