 At this time, you can also prepare your cupcake pan by inserting the paper liners into the wells.;
, You can do this using a handheld mixer or an electric mixer with a paddle attachment. To make mixing even easier, cut the butter into cubes first.
 Beat the eggs in one at a time, then add the vanilla extract with the second egg.
 To avoid any lumps and clumps, pour the flour and baking powder through a sifter.
 Do not over-mix the batter, or the cupcakes will be tough. For a more complex flavor, add 1 tablespoon of toasted poppy seeds., An ice cream scooper is a great way to do this. It is quick, easy, and it will ensure that each liner gets the same amount of batter.
 The cupcakes are done when the edges turn golden brown, and a toothpick inserted into the middle comes out clean. Another way to tell if the cupcakes are done is by pressing on one of the domes; if it bounces back up, it's done.
 Let them cool in the pan for 10 minutes first, then transfer them to a baking rack to finish cooling. Choose a frosting or glaze from below to decorate your cupcakes with.
 You can do this using an electric mixer or a handheld mixer fitted with paddles. This recipe will give you a frosting that is rich and creamy, perfect for spreading or piping.
, If you don't have any heavy cream, you can use half-and-half instead. At this point, you can also add other ingredients to alter the flavor of your icing.


If you'd like to make lemon buttercream, add 2 tablespoons of lemon zest, 3 tablespoons of lemon juice.If you'd like, you can also add in a few drops of yellow food coloring.
If you'd like to make blackberry buttercream, use only 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and add ½ cup (165 grams) of seedless blackberry jam., Depending on what you added to the frosting, and how thick you like it, you might not even have to use all of the sugar.


If the frosting is too thin, add more confecitoner's/icing sugar. If the icing is too thick, add more heavy cream.
 You can do this simply by spreading the buttercream on using a spatula. or fancier cupcakes, you can pipe them on using a piping bag and a decorator's tip.
 This icing is much more delicate than the typical frosting or buttercream. It is glaze-like and perfect for pouring or drizzling.
 How much liquid you add will depend on how thick or thin you want your glaze to be. Keep in mind that it will harden once it sets.


If you'd like to make a lemon glaze, use lemon juice instead., If you are making lemon glaze, consider skipping the extract and using 2 teaspoons of lemon zest instead., If the mixture is too thin, add some more confectioners'/icing sugar. If the mixture is too thick, add more of whatever liquid you were using. If you were using lemon, however, consider using just water so as not to overpower the other flavors.
 After a few minutes, the icing will set and harden. If the icing layer is too thin, wait until it hardens, then pour or drizzle more on.

