 It's best to start any yoga practice with a moment of meditation to bring your focus to your breath and tune out the outside world. This is especially important if you're going to be working on your balance, which depends on sharp mental focus.Meditate upright in mountain pose to get solid standing and distribute your weight evenly across all four corners of your feet. Having this foundation will make it easier to balance.
To stand in mountain pose, stand straight with your feet either together or no more than hip's width apart. Distribute your weight evenly so that your feet are flat on the ground. Roll your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades are melting down your back. The inner creases of your elbows should be in front, palms splayed out.
Extend your arms gently to the side or overhead, and take a moment to correct to your breath. With every inhale, think of grounding yourself to the earth. With every exhale, think of reaching for the sky.
 While chair pose isn't necessarily a balancing pose, it can help strengthen and firm up your quads and glutes, which are essential for maintaining good standing balance.From mountain pose, lower your hips as you exhale. Move as though you are going to take a seat on a chair behind you, taking care not to let your knees push out over your toes.
Only lower as far as you comfortably can. Ideally, your thighs will be parallel to the floor and your shins will be perpendicular to the floor.
Breathe into this pose, pressing your palms together in front of your chest and holding the pose for three to five breaths before rising back into mountain pose.
 While tree pose is considered an easy balancing yoga pose, it may present a challenge if you haven't worked on your balance very much. Make sure you have a sturdy chair, table, or wall that you can use to catch yourself.From mountain pose, shift your weight to your right foot and lift your left foot off the ground. Try to shift your weight without leaning – this will help your balance.
Bend your left knee and tuck your left foot inward, as though you were going to sit cross-legged. Rest your left foot on your right inner thigh, at whatever height is comfortable for you.
Engage your core and relax your shoulders. Focus your gaze on a spot two to three feet in front of you on the floor. Try to bring your palms together in front of your chest. If that balance is too difficult, you also can hold your arms out to the side to assist in balance.
Hold this pose for a couple of breaths if you can, then switch and do the other side.
 These three basic poses can be done as a flow to further test your balance and provide a good exercise for your hips, glutes, and core. Move fluidly between poses with a breath for each movement.Start in mountain pose, and then on an exhale lower into chair pose. Pause between breaths, and then rise up to stand as you start to inhale. On an exhale, raise one foot into tree pose. Sit it down as you inhale and return to mountain pose.
Repeat this flow three to four times. Don't forget to complete the flow twice, covering both sides in tree pose.

