 Even if you don’t have specific problems with your ears, it’s a good idea to see you doctor and monitor your ear health. This can help identify problems that could cause hearing loss.You can see your regular doctor to monitor your ear health or see a specialist for the ears, which is called an otolaryngologist.
If you have any symptoms of ear infections or a perforated eardrum, including bleeding or discharge of pus from your ears, see your doctor or go to the hospital as soon as possible., Buildup of earwax, which is also called cerumen, can cause hearing loss. Keep your ears clean to help prevent wax buildup and possible hearing loss.Use a soft cloth to wipe around the outside of your ear and on your outer ear canal.If you like, you can wet the cloth slightly with warm water.Wrap a paper tissue around your finger and gently wipe your outer ear and outer ear canal with the tissue.Apply an over the counter ear drops to remove wax.Avoid using cotton swabs or other instruments to clean your ears as this can run the risk of puncturing your ear drum or other serious complications.Avoid cleaning your ears too often. You need some amount of wax to maintain your ear health.
If you have significant ear wax buildup, consider seeing your doctor for cleaning. This is the safest way to remove the buildup and may also help you hear better.
 There are some drugs that can damage your inner ear from prolonged use. Avoiding these drugs as much as possible or for prolonged periods may minimize your risk for developing hearing loss or tinnitus.Antibiotics such as gentamicin and some chemotherapy drugs can affect hearing.Very high doses of aspirin or anti-malarial drugs may cause hearing loss.Loop diuretics may cause hearing loss.Some signs of hearing loss related to ototoxic drugs are: onset or intensification of tinnitus, fullness or pressure in the ear not related to infection, development of vertigo., Diseases that cause high fevers, such as meningitis, can damage your cochlea and impair hearing.If you have an illness accompanied by high fever, take measures to control the fever as much as you can.For temperatures above 102°F (38.9°C), you can take acetaminophen or ibuprofen to help bring down the fever.Adults can take aspirin to bring down a fever.Because of potentially fatal side effects, do not give aspirin to children with a fever.However, in an unfortunate twist, aspirin itself can contribute to hearing loss if taken in high doses. Make sure you always follow the recommended dose.
 There are some viruses, such as measles or rubella that can cause hearing loss in adults, children, and unborn fetuses. Getting vaccinated against these viruses may help prevent hearing loss in your or your unborn baby.Some viruses that can cause hearing loss are: cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, varicella zoster virus; and West Nile virus. Measles, mumps, rubella and rubeola can also cause hearing loss.You can get vaccinations for measles, mumps, and rubella—which is also called the MMR vaccine.In addition, vaccine are available for varicella zoster virus and vaccine trials for West Nile virus are currently underway.