 Although snail mail gets a bad rap these days, it's still the most personalized and delightful way to receive information from people. You can send cards, notes, drawings, printed photos, stories and more by mail, and your grandparents will be able to read it or pin up things without having to print out anything or read it online. In turn, your grandparents will send you things and you can have a reason to be excited about running to the mailbox now and then to check what's waiting for you.;
, Use a phone to keep in touch. Ask your parents which phone is best, perhaps the land-line, a mobile or cell phone or a computer phone service. The choice will depend on cost and how your grandparents feel about using the different types of technology. Organize a regular call time, such as once or twice a week or bi-weekly or monthly.
 Video chatting is a great way to be able to see each other and talk at the same time. A program such as Skype will enable you to do this. As with the phone, it may depend on how comfortable your grandparents feel about using this kind of technology. It can help to have someone set everything up for them and show them how to use it the first few times. Perhaps you could do that one visit, or ask a close family member or their neighbor to help set it up. Once again, decide how often you'll catch up for a video chat.
 This can be especially useful if you and your grandparents have different preferences and if it can save money.
 It's no good getting on the phone and going completely silent, making them do all of the talking. It will feel like a chore for everyone if that happens. Instead, make a list on paper prior to each talk so that you have plenty of topics to talk about. Things that you might like to talk about include: Your school happenings, sports results, things you've done with friends, places you've visited, favorite recipes, new discoveries you've made when learning, etc.


Ask your grandparents questions. Ask them about their week, the things that they've been doing lately and what their interests are. Ask them how their hobbies are going.
 It's a good idea to find things that they can hang up or place in their house somewhere to remind them of you. Some examples include: Artwork, photographs of you (including school photos), pictures you've drawn, things you've made, etc. It is also a nice idea to make gifts for your grandparents from time to time and send these over as parcels.
 You might go to see your grandparents with your family or by yourself, depending how old you are. Ask your grandparents to come and visit you and your family sometimes too.
 When you do get to see one another, try to spend some time alone with them, without other family members hogging the time too. This will give you a chance to have special time together.


Help out when visiting your grandparents. All grandparents love to see their grandchildren being helpful and making life easier for them.

