 Although the federal government used to mandate that states had to offer extended unemployment benefits, Congress did not renew this law in 2013. It now varies from state to state whether extended benefits are available. Your first step before moving on should be finding out if your state offers extended benefits.Most state Department of Labor (DOL) websites will let you know if extended benefits are available. Try visiting your state's DOL site and searching for extended benefits.
If you're unsuccessful on the DOL site, you could contact the state unemployment office directly by phone or in person. Employees should be aware if the state offers extended benefits.
States might only offer extensions during periods of high unemployment. If your state doesn't offer extensions at the moment, that may change in the future if an economic downturn is beginning. Keep checking in with the DOL to stay updated.;
, Since unemployment insurance is managed by the states, there may be different criteria for who can file a claim. The basic definition, however, is that you've lost your job due to no fault of your own (like being laid off) and are actively seeking work.If you've given up actively seeking work, you're usually no longer eligible for unemployment insurance.


Immigrants and permanent residents in the US are also eligible for unemployment benefits. The process is often the same as for anyone else, but contact your state Department of Labor to find out if there is anything else you have to do for benefits., Applying for extended benefits is similar to when you originally applied for unemployment compensation. If your state offers extended benefits, you'll need a few key pieces of information to get started. Gather all of this and have it on hand when you contact the Department of Labor to make the process as smooth as possible.Your social security number.
A complete work history.
Your reason for unemployment. The Department of Labor will probably check with your last employer about the conditions of your losing your job, so don't lie here. If you claim you were laid off but were actually fired for fighting with a coworker, you could be charged with fraud. The penalties for this crime can range from a fine to prison time.Since you're applying for extended benefits, the DOL may also ask about your job search and inquire about why you've been unable to find work so far. Also be truthful here. The DOL may contact jobs you've applied for to confirm that you sent in an application. If the DOL finds that you've lied about your job search, you could also be charged with fraud., Since laws are different from state to state, the process of applying for an extension will depend on what state you live in. For example, some states have a fully online application, while others want materials mailed. The best source for information on how to apply is your state DOL. Follow all the instructions they provide to ensure a successful extension of benefits., In addition to your employment history and proof of citizenship, there will be several government forms to fill out to request an extension. When you contact the DOL, they will either mail you these forms or tell you where you can access them on the internet. Fill them out completely and either fax or mail them to the unemployment office, depending on your state laws.Make sure all information is up to date and accurate. If the DOL has information that you submitted with your original request for unemployment compensation, double check it. If there are any errors, there could be an unnecessary delay in getting your benefits.
It may be useful to know that, in some states, forms can be completed at local unemployment offices with helpful staff.
 After you sign and submit all the necessary paperwork to your state unemployment office, you'll have to wait to receive word that you've been approved for extended benefits.When you get word that you've been approved, you should keep receiving payments for as long as the extension lasts or until you find work. Payment may come in the form of a check, but direct deposit into your checking account is more popular., When you receive your extension, don't slow down your job search. The extension may only be for a few more weeks, and then you probably won't be able to get another one. Take this time to continue your job search and find work before your benefits run out.

