 Empty the iron of all water. Lay a towel, t-shirt, or other cloth over the stain. This acts a barrier between the table and the iron. Turn the iron to low and rub it slowly over the fabric for a short period of time. Then lift the cloth to see if the stain has disappeared. If it hasn't, replace the cloth and repeat.Make sure the iron is set to no steam.
Act as quickly as possible. Dry as much of the table surface as you can before you begin.
Wipe away any moisture or water on the surface each time you remove the iron.White rings are caused by steam or liquid. The white color means they have only penetrated the wax or finish, which means they will be much easier to clean than a darker stain.;
, Buy a fine steel wool pad. Soak the pad in lemon oil. Very gently, rub the wool over the white ring. Then, rub over the stain with a cloth dabbed with denatured alcohol.The lemon oil is a lubricant and helps prevent the wood from scratching.
 Place toothpaste on your finger or a cloth. Rub the toothpaste with the grain of the wood until it heats. Dampen a cloth with water and then wipe away the toothpaste. Dry the water.Make sure the toothpaste you use is white and non-gel.You don't need a lot of toothpaste. Just a small dab will work.
Don't scrub too long. Try not to scrub outside of the stain area. This might wear the finish and top layer of wood.Repeat until the stains are gone.
 Take a blow dryer and turn it on high. Hold it close to the stain. The stain should start disappearing as the dryer dries the moisture. Make sure to move the dryer back and forth over the area.This will probably take 10-30 minutes.
Put a little olive oil on the wood afterwards to moisturize it., Products with oil, like mayonnaise, butter, and petroleum jelly, help seep into the wood and break up the moisture.Place the mayonnaise or petroleum jelly on the stain. Leave for an hour up to overnight.


Make sure to put more mayonnaise on the stain if it dries out.
To add some abrasive stain removing power, mix cigarette ashes with the mayonnaise or petroleum jelly., Mix baking soda with either toothpaste or water to remove the stain. If using water, mix 2 parts baking soda with 1 part water. Use a rag to gently scrub the stain.If using baking soda with toothpaste, mix equal parts together. Rub over the stain with a rag. Rinse with a damp cloth afterwards.