 As you get older and your life gets busier you will find that you spend less and less time with your mom. Although this is a normal part of life, you should still make time to connect with her. When you are spending time with your mom, be sure to give her your full attention and minimize distractions.If you are still living at home, designate an evening each week to spend time together. You could make dinner together, take a walk, or play a board game.
If you are grown but live close to your mom, consider scheduling time to connect every month by going out for a meal or coffee.
If you are grown and have moved far away, try making an effort to connect with your mom with consistent phone calls or emails.;
, It is often easy to remember to talk to your mom about the bad things that are happening in your life. However, you shouldn’t forget to also share the good details as well. This will help your mom feel more engaged and connected to you.Update her on your relationships and let her know who your friends are.
Keep her updated on your progress at school or work.
 Sometimes you may ask your mom directly for advice. Other times her advice may be unsolicited. Regardless, you should listen to your mom’s advice with an open mind. Even if you don’t do exactly as she suggests, let her know that you have taken her opinion and wisdom into consideration.Your mother will appreciate that you value her opinion and respect her enough to hear her out. If you don’t do this, it is likely to make her feel like you do not care about her or take her seriously.
Understand that if you are still living at home, you might have to listen to your mother in certain situations.
 It is hard to forgive someone when you are hurt and angry. However, if you do not forgive and move on, that hurt and anger will continue to affect you and your relationship with your mother. If this continues for a long period of time, it will cause even more hurt and anger which makes it even harder to forgive and move forward.Let go of petty things.
Forgive her for the bad things that might have happened in your childhood.
Understand that she is not trying to ruin your childhood or make you upset. She just wants what is best for you.

