 There are three major types of incontinence: urinary , fecal , and stress. Urinary continence is when you do not have control over your bladder. You may leak urine or not make it to the bathroom in time when you feel the urge. Fecal incontinence is when you do not have control of your bowel movements. Stress incontinence is when certain movements or activities (coughing, sneezing, running, jumping) put stress on your bladder and causes you leak urine.
 Try keeping a diary to learn what your triggers are. Information you should include in your diary are: the foods and drinks you are consuming; how often you go to the bathroom; the types of activities that cause you to leak. You should make your diary as detailed as possible.The information in your diary will also be helpful to your doctor. , A doctor will be able to help to identify the cause of your incontinence and create a treatment plan that is just for you. It is important that you talk openly with your doctor. You should not feel embarrassed because your doctor is used to helping people who have the same problem you have. Your doctor may send you to a physical therapist, prescribe medications, or even talk to you about the possibility of surgery. .


Your doctor will take a medical history, do a physical exam, talk to your parents, discuss a treatment plan, and run some tests. The National Association for Continence maintains a list of specialists across the United States. , Voiding is a part of bladder training that teaches you to go to the bathroom at specific times. You should discuss a voiding strategy with your doctor before you begin one. Scheduling bathroom visits helps to strengthen your bladder muscles and decrease the need to use diapers.


If you are a child, your parents can help you with your bladder training. Start by measuring how often you use the bathroom. If you need to go to the bathroom every 20 minutes, try to increase the time between 5 and 20 minutes. You should slowly increase the time between your bathroom visits until you can go 90 to 120 minutes.If you are older, you can increase the time between bathroom visits by 15 minute increment.