 Carbs provide fuel for your body, especially when you’re engaged in athletic events requiring endurance. While it’s a good idea to load up on carbs before engaging in physical activity, doing so before class can lead to postprandial somnolence, better known as a food coma. A food coma is the feeling of drowsiness following a meal with lots of carbs.


Carbohydrates in foods with a high glycemic index like snacking crackers, cookies, and soda are more easily digested than foods with a lower glycemic index, and leads easily to exhaustion and sleepiness.A balanced meal of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains is the best option to stay alert during class.
 Failing to get adequate sleep can lead to deficits in energy, motivation, and concentration.You will be more easily distracted and less likely to remember what was talked about or covered in class if you have not gotten at least 6-8 hours of sleep each night. Set a regular bedtime for yourself which enables you to obtain the requisite amount of sleep. If you wake at 6, for instance, tuck into bed around 10 the night before.
 If you read the material which will be covered in class the night before you go, you’ll have a better time keeping up with what the teacher is talking about. Use your reading to come up with some questions to ask in class. Coming into a class with some background knowledge will help you better connect with the new material presented in the lecture.
 As you take notes, if anything surprises you or makes you laugh, put a star by it. This will help improve your recall later and make the class more enjoyable. It’s always more fun to be in a class where you find at least something of interest than it is to be in a class where everything is boring. Listening and looking actively for an interesting tidbit will keep you alert and engaged.
 For instance, if the class is about the American Revolution, count the number of times you hear the word “Revolution.” Each time you hear it, put a small tally at the top corner of your notebook. Listening actively and being engaged in what the teacher is saying will keep you focused and prevent you from zoning out.
 Each time a student speaks, make a note of what they asked and what the answer was. Paying attention to what your classmates say can be a good source of information. Oftentimes, a teacher will address interesting and significant information in response to a student’s question. Paying attention to your peers’ comments and questions is not only respectful, but it can increase your attention on the class as a whole.

