 Based on choice, rather than assignment, a charter school is a publicly funded independent school, which is established by teachers, parents, or community groups under the terms of a charter with either a local or national authority. Schools are usually run by independent boards elected by the families of that school, and it's often required that board members have students of their own in the school. In exchange for its independence, a charter school is subject to performance reviews and may close for failing to meet agreed-upon outcomes. Charter schools can be small, independent operations or can be part of a larger education company.


These schools operate under the Charter Innovations, which include allocation of resources, new approaches to administration and governance, extended learning time, and educator evaluation.
Students attend charter schools as a choice made by parents or guardians, rather than a school district. Because of the opt-in nature of these schools, there is often greater parental involvement.;
, 6,723 charter schools currently exist in the United States, and these schools make up 6% of total public enrollment. An estimated 2.9 million children attend approximately 6,700 charter schools across the country in a variety of many settings --- rural, urban, and suburban. As of the beginning of the 2015-2016 school year, charter school students made up 6% of U.S. K-12 students in 42 states.
 Charter schools are the fastest-growing school option in the United States public education system. Over recent years, the number of charter schools has grown by six percent, nearing 7,000 as of the end of 2014. It is estimated that charter schools will begin to educate 20-40% of all public school students by 2035., Charter schools accept all students, regardless of where they live or of their ethnicity. In fact, they must be non-discriminatory in admissions and serve all students, including those with disabilities, and their students tend to be as equally diverse as public school students in terms of both race and economic status.If applications to attend a charter school exceed spaces available, the enrollment is deemed by a lottery system, and students who do not get the opportunity to attend can be put on a wait list.
 Since they are public schools, charter schools are unable to charge tuition. Therefore, they are based on a slightly different system than both private schools and district public schools. Like public schools, charter schools are funded according to enrollment and receive funding from the district and state. However, unlike public schools, charter schools often don’t have access to capital or facilities funding, or they may receive less than districts do from these funding sources.In fact, charters receive on average 28% less funding, or 3,509 dollars per pupil, than their public school district peers, which could determine program cuts. , Whereas public school teachers need teaching certifications, charter schools may hire educators that often have professional experience in their subject, but may not be traditionally credentialed. Charter school employees also tend to be more diverse than district schools. For example, Caucasian teachers make up 82% of district school teachers and only 70% of charter school teachers, and African American teachers represent 12% of charter school educators and only 7% of district school teachers. , Like any type of school, a charter school comes with its pros and cons. While it may get less funding, it can also offer an alternative learning environment that may work for your child. Charter schools are no longer just alternatives in low-income urban areas but are beneficial alternatives in rural and suburban areas as well, and successful charter schools can increase access to a high-quality education and help close the achievement gap. If you don't think that the district public schools in your area are the best option for your child, you might want to compare the pros and cons to consider whether a charter school would be a preferable alternative.

