 As soon as you can after you hit yourself and you think it might bruise, apply an ice pack to the area of the bruise. This will help slow the blood flow and reduce inflammation. Wrap the ice pack in a cloth instead of putting it directly against your skin. It can cause cold burn on your skin. You should also limit how long you leave the pack on your skin because it can cause skin irritation or low blood pressure.


You can also use ice cubes wrapped in a towel or a bag of frozen vegetables if you don’t have a pack handy. Frozen peas or other small vegetables work very well because they conform to your body shape. After use, you can refreeze them and use them as an ice pack again. You shouldn’t eat them if they fully defrost, though.
If you have a bruised or black eye, you can use a steak as well.;
, You can apply a pressure bandage, which is also called an elastic bandage, around the bruised area. This will limit the amount of blood and fluids that can leak. Make sure you don’t apply the pressure bandage too tightly


Remember to take it off after one to two hours. Restricting blood flow for extended periods of time is not healthy for you.
If the bruised area is swelling, try to raise that part of your body above the level of your heart., If you want to use a more homeopathic remedy, you can take arnica. Arnica is an plant that is in the daisy family and helps bruises as well as sprains and sore muscles. Arnica is used to reduce the amount of bruising and pain. It can also speed healing. It can come in tablet form as well as a cream or gel.


Take three to five of the tablet as soon as possible after bruising. You can continue to take arnica daily as long as needed for the bruise.
Creams or gels containing Arnica can be used daily as long as the skin has not been broken. Using arnica on broken skin will sting. Try brands such as Nelson’s Arnica Cream and Boiron’s Arnicare, which can be found in most larger drugstores and pharmacies., You can make a homemade parsley rub to treat your bruise. Parsley is high in vitamin K, which helps with blood clotting. Take some dried parsley, enough to lightly cover the bruise. In order to keep the parsley together as you soak it, take a clean nylon knee-high and fill the toe or foot, depending on the size of the bruise, with parsley. Tie off the end of the knee-high and soak the parsley-filled end in a bowl of witch hazel. Squeeze out the excess witch hazel and cover the bruise with the parsley-filled knee-high. Spread out the parsley evenly over the bruise.Leave this compress on for about 30 minutes and repeat twice a day.
You can only reuse the parsley twice, so you need to make a new poultice daily.
 A diet that is high in vitamins C helps build your resistance to bruising. Vitamin C also strengthens the walls of blood cells. Eat plenty of foods rich in vitamin C, such as citrus fruits. You can also take vitamin C supplements, which are readily available at more grocery stores and health stores.


Increasing your vitamin K intake may also help reduce bruising because it helps with blood clotting., There are some herbal essential oils that can be useful for your bruise. Add the essential oil directly onto the bruise. The amount will vary depending on the size of the bruise. Massage into the bruise. Do this at least once a day. The bruise should heal within one to two weeks. There are a few herbs that support wound healing that can be helpful for your bruise:


Hypericum/St John’s wort
Symphytum/Comfrey
Achillea /Yarrow
Plantago/Plantain
Calendula/Marigold