 Hot masses of air that rise cause wildfires to travel uphill, and walking uphill will slow you down anyway. Move into the direction that the wind is blowing, and locate this direction by looking to see where smoke is blowing.Try to look high in the sky for the direction of the smoke’s travel.
Look for the direction that leaves and branches are swaying.
 Once you’ve set your direction of downhill and upwind travel, look for a natural firebreak. A firebreak is an area that has comparatively less material for the fire to consume, like a rocky area or field of boulders, road, body of water, or patch of large trees that might retain more moisture than other nearby foliage.Steer clear of open areas with small, dry shrubs or bushes.
 If you cannot escape to a safer location, look for a trench or gully. If you find such an enclosure, try to quickly dig it out to create a space deep enough for you to fit your body. Crawl in, preferably with your feet facing the direction of the fire, and cover yourself with dirt. Make sure you can breath as you take cover.Call emergency services if you haven’t already done so. Let them know your location as precisely as you can.
If a wildfire is within close range, surrounding you, or otherwise blocks all means of downhill and upwind escape, and if no safe locations are available, you might have to resort to running through the fire’s leading edge into an area that’s already burned.
 Prevent getting stuck in a wildfire before hiking or camping by looking up assessing risks like weather conditions, extreme drought, any buildup of dry materials in your hiking or camping area, and the wind’s direction. Check with local park rangers if there is any threat of wildfire in your area.Don’t build a campfire in dry conditions, especially if your park ranger lets you know there’s a local burn ban.
If it’s safe to build a campfire, keep it small, contained, and away from trees or shrubs. Never leave it unattended.
Make sure your campfire is completely extinguished before you leave by pouring lot of water over it, stirring the ashes, pouring more water, making sure there’s no hissing sound, and lastly making sure it’s cool to the touch.
 Grab bare essentials as quickly as possible and leave immediately if you’re under a wildfire evacuation order. If you live in an area threatened by wildfires, contact your local fire department’s non-emergency line or search the internet to find out about any available email or text message alert systems.Call emergency services if you see a nearby wildfire but haven’t received an evacuation order. Don’t assume someone else has reported it.

