 You're going to have to get a cast to make a movie, because doing a one-man show on Animal Jam is very difficult.


Go to Jamaa Township or jam-a-gram some friends and have auditions, it's a good idea to have auditions, so that you find the right jammer for each role. You can have as many characters as you like, but not too many or it gets confusing.
Make sure you know what form each character will be in. For example, use bunnies as small children or babies, because of their size. If there is a couple, they should probably be of the same species.;
, Have costumes ready for your cast, because often people don't want to waste gems on clothing they'll probably only wear once, but don't use clothes you're deeply attached too, as you can't be 100% sure that they'll give it back afterward. If an addition to a costume costs very few gems (about 250 gems and under), it's okay to ask if they wouldn't mind purchasing a few things, but it is your movie, so you should have control of most things.
 It's okay to be the narrator, but sitting in the background and talking is distracting, and annoying, especially when the viewers can figure out what's happening just fine. If the action speaks for itself, a narrator is a waste of space. It's best, if you are the narrator, to have separate clips where you narrate, if you just have to have a narrator.


An even better idea, is to write at the top in text what's happening every so often, but whether it's a live narrator or text, don't describe every move a character makes, as they can always describe their own actions.
 Recording with a separate device, such as recording your laptop screen with an iPhone, looks lazy and bad quality. It's easy to find free, simple download screen recording applications that function on your particular computer/desktop device.


Another tip for recording: It looks a bit better if you don't show your menu bars (Bottom: map, animal, animal change, chat bar, actions, emotes, chat. Top: Mail, parties, achievements, gems, diamonds, news, adventure book, buddies), as it is distracting and constant notifications can make it look like you a) can't edit or b) are lazy with recording.
 Don't record the first time around, rehearse at least 5 times so that your cast can become fluent and rich in their character's shoes and remember their lines easily. Otherwise, it looks like you haven't really put much effort into it and only care about getting it up and posted on the internet.
 You can now promote your movie. Ask those starring in it to help promote it too.

