 Before you compose a snare, it's important to know that this mechanism does more than just trap a rabbit. If you are trying to trap a rabbit to relocate it, do not use a snare. A snare is essentially a noose mechanism that will kill a rabbit if it gets trapped and should only be used for hunting.


Different states also have different laws about snares, so make sure you check your state's guidelines on hunting with snares.
 Before you set a snare, you'll want to find a location that will give you the most success. A snare is best used in a more wilderness setting, like a forest where rabbits are frequent and the signs are easily identified. You can identify rabbits by their droppings (small, round, dry pellets), burrows, or tracks.
 To make a rabbit snare you will need wire (copper strands, picture hanging wire, or craft wire), wood or two sticks, and a tree that is bent. These materials will be used to create the noose, two part trigger, leader line, and engine, all of which are part of a Trigger Spring Snare. This specific type of snare is more advanced, so you may want to try a simple snare first.The noose is the part of the snare that will actually trap the animal. The two part trigger consists of a hook and a base. The base is a piece of wood, stuck in the ground that connects to the hook, which is what the noose is tied to. The leader line is a cord that is connected to the engine and the hook. The engine is usually a tree, like a bent over sapling or an extended branch, that provides tension to the hook and holds the snared animal.
Essentially, the snare starts from the tree, which is bent over, and at the bent over part of the tree the leader line is connected, hanging down until it connects to the hook, which is a piece of wood that stands straight up and connects to the base, which is also straight up, but stuck in the ground. The noose then connects to the end of the hook.
 The length of the cord to create your noose needs to be about 18-24 inches long. First, begin by taking the end of your wire and create a loop, about the diameter of a pencil. You can take a pencil and wrap the wire around it, and then twist it together at the end to create your loop. Then, with the remaining wire, run a few inches of it through the loop, creating a noose. You'll connect the remaining end of the wire to the trigger., Your trigger is composed of two sticks or pieces of wood that are carved out to fit together. Taking a sturdy stick, make a straight carve, halfway into the stick, about an inch from the top of the stick. Then, carve down, parallel to the stick about an inch, and make another straight carve, from the middle of the stick to the outside of the stick. Carve out that piece of wood until you have a cavern in the wood that resembles a mouth.
 The hook trigger will be turned upside down, and slid into the base trigger. Taking your other piece of wood or stick, place it up to the mouth of the base stick, with the top of the hook stick at the bottom of the mouth. Then, mark a line where the top of the mouth of the base stick hits the hook stick. Carve a straight line about halfway into the stick, creating a pipe shape. Your hook should then fit into your base.
 Once you have created your trigger, stick the base into the ground until it feels sturdy, and then tie the loose end of your noose around the hook part of the trigger, right above where the hook fits into the base., This line will be suspended from the "engine" connecting to the hook of the trigger. Tie the copper wire around the end of the hook, above where the noose is tied. Then, pull the line upwards to the end of your engine and connect it securely. When a rabbit enters the snare, the leader line and hook should pull away from the base, and the rabbit will be suspended from the tree.


If you can't find a bent over tree, then you can connect your snare to a branch that is weighted down. The engine just needs to have some tension, so that it can withstand the initial spring jerk and it needs to be strong enough to suspend the animal in the air.
Having a sturdy engine also leads to a more humane death, as the animal will die quickly, and it also prevents other predators from eating the rabbit.
 Before you set up the snare and wait to catch a rabbit, you'll want to test the snare by using a log (about five to eight pounds). Slide the log through the noose, making sure the hook and engine are working together to spring the noose into the air. If it seems to be working you're good to go!

, Your snare needs to be checked several times a day if possible, so that you can collect your game before it starts to spoil and to prevent it from suffering longer. Once you have caught a rabbit, remove it and use as much of it as possible. The rabbit gave its life for you, so you don't want to waste it!

