 If you're a non member on Animal Jam, or can't afford the diamond shop animals, this is your chance to be that animal! You don't have to be restricted to already in-game animals, you can pick any animal or creature you'd like to be! Wolf, monkey, cougar, dragon... You name it, you can be it!
, You Don't need to stay true to the actual game's art style, but if you want to, you can. You can add any color you would like to add onto your animal using coloring pencils, paint, or crayons, and have any pattern that you are willing to put onto your animal! Just make sure that your colors aren't the same as your friend's, or else they may get mixed up!

Cut out your animal or creature if you want/need to using scissors. In order to move your animal around, they have to be separate from the paper. If you are young, make sure you get help from a parent or guardian so you don't get injured.
 You can have that extremely rare item you've always wanted, as long as you can draw it! You can also have any item that you feel that your animal would have. You have to draw each item and cut them out if you want to be able to put on and remove your animal's items. Go wild, add as much as you'd like!, You won't be able to put a stand on it, sadly, but you can hold your animal easier on a Popsicle stick! You can create puppets on a Popsicle stick by gluing the drawing of the animal onto the stick. You can also use the Popsicle sticks for the emoticons you see in Animal Jam., You can have any den you would like, in-game or not! You can have beta items and member items (you would probably want those if you're a non member in Animal Jam). You can also have the items you can't afford in Animal Jam, or any item that is flat out not in Animal Jam.

Draw on a separate sheet of paper and Cut out your items with scissors if you want to move them around. ask a parent or guardian for help if you are young.
 This optional but it's fun to draw and interact with these places within Jamaa, on-line or not. You can even make your own custom place in Animal Jam! You can make as many worlds as you'd like to make, as well!, This only applies if you want to earn gems and buy stuff, but if you wanted to play it on paper so that you didn't have to waste time earning gems, then you probably wouldn't want these. If you do want these, however, you can make as many shops and games as you would like! If you have any board games to play with your friends, this is the perfect opportunity to play the game with them!, Adventures in Animal Jam creates its own plot, so you can either recreate Animal Jam's story, or make your own! Possibilities are endless if you make your own adventures!

Fill your adventures with danger and thrill! Adventures wouldn't really be fun without anything that is dangerous. Adding Phantoms, traps, and other thrilling and exciting things will make the adventure all the better!

Cut these out also so you can move them around. Ask a parent or guardian for help if needed.


Place rewards around your adventure. This will encourage your friends to explore your world and earn anything that you want them to earn, which can be just about anything!

Cut these out if you want to move them. Ask a parent or guardian to avoid injuries.
 the stand should be at least half of the height of the object and just as long as the object you want to stand.

Ask a parent or guardian to cut the strip out for you to avoid injuries.
,,,, The ground can be just about anything, including grass, stone, snow, and candy. Use an entire sheet (or several) of paper to draw the ground on, and add or subtract anything that you want to be in the ground.,,,, You can also cut all of the sides except for the back in half horizontally (left and right).,, You can also cut the entire box except the back in half horizontally.,,,, Even if they don't know what Animal Jam is, they will still have fun playing games, customizing dens and animals, and going on adventures with you. If the already play Animal jam, however, then they will enjoy experiencing the new twists you put onto the game. If you invite multiple friends, however, anything can happen!, You can do just about anything in the Jamaa that you have created with your own two hands. You can go adventuring, playing games, decorating, or just hang out with your buddies! You can even have zoos, art galleries, and clans in your own dens, just like the real game!, Sometimes, playing wild can lead to being wild, so it is advised to make sure anyone you invite over doesn't keep themselves calm.

Break up any fights or arguments. Sometimes, fights and arguments can (and will) appear over games, items or anything of the likes. Make sure you keep fists from flying and words from spoiling the fun by keeping everyone calm.
Beware the ever so dangerous Power Player. Power Players can and will effect Animal Jam, online or not, by spoiling the fun by being the top dog. Keep the Power Player from spoiling the fun by telling them to make their character not as powerful.
 This is to preserve space for anything else that will be where everything else is. This is also to keep the paper from being torn or shredded by something. Its also easy to unfold it without ripping it., If you don't, they might get lost, and you will have to find them. Someone or something may also end up stealing them if you don't secure them. Try putting them in a box or one of the buildings that you may have built., This is to save space for anything that you will put away. Even if there is space for everything while the buildings are open, its a good idea to close them just in case something decides to steal what's inside the building. It also saves space for anything you want to add to your world.