 If your tree came with lights attached to it, you will need to pull them off. Go over the tree, and pull off the little clips/tabs first, then pull the lights off.
 Pick at least four colors to use for your ombre design, including white.Choose a base color for your tree, then pick out different shades of that color: dark, medium, light, and white. For example, if you chose blue as your color, your color scheme would be: dark blue, medium blue, light blue, and white.Christmas trees have distinct rows or sections. Plan on having one shade per row.
 You will need one can of spray paint for each color that you will be using. It would be a good idea to buy a can of white spray paint as well. Even though your tree is already white, the white spray paint can act as an "eraser" if you make a mistake.Spray paint comes in both flat and glossy finishes. Pay attention to this when out shopping.
If you can't find matching spray paint, buy clear acrylic sealer in the finish you want.
 Some trees are built so that you can pull out the branches. If your tree is one of those, take these branches off now, and separate them into groups based on what row or section they were in. If it is not possible to take your tree apart, keep it together.
 Open up the branches and fluff them out. Take them outside, or to a well-ventilated area. Spread out some newspaper, and place the branches on top. If you don't have a lot of space to work with, start with the branches from the bottommost row.
 Paint the branches from the bottommost row your darkest color. Let the paint dry, then flip the branches over, and paint the back. The paint likely won't cover the branches completely, and you may have some white showing. This is fine.


If you didn't take your tree apart, simply spray paint the bottommost row using your first, darkest color.
 Leave the branches at the top of your tree white.If you can't take apart your tree, wrap a trash bag around the parts you have already painted. Make sure that they are dry first.
 If your spray paint had both glossy and matte finishes, your tree will look mismatched. Pick a finish (matte or glossy) and buying a matching can of clear, acrylic sealer. Spray the mismatches branches with the sealer. This way, all of the branches will have the same finish.


A sealer can also help the paint last longer.
Choose a non-yellowing sealer, if possible.
 Once the paint has completely dried, you can bring the tree back inside. Be careful when handling the tree, however, as some of the paint may flake off.
 You can continue the ombre scheme by placing matching ornaments in each section. You can also create a more subtle ombre effect by using ornaments that have neutral colors, such as black, white, silver, or clear.

