 One of the best things you can do when you are being bullied is to walk away. People who bully get satisfaction from the reaction. If you walk away, you control the situation by being able to remove yourself from it. You also are able to eliminate any reaction to the bullying.You may not be able to walk completely away. You may be in the middle of an activity or in a room. Try to put physical space between you and the person who is bullying you, even if it is just moving to the other side of the counselor.
 Though the temptation is strong, you shouldn’t answer bullying with violent, angry behavior. Camps have rules and consequences for those who get into physical altercations, like fights. To help control the situation and not get in trouble, you should not get angry or physical if someone bullies you.If someone pushes you or yells at you, try to walk away. If you can’t, take a few deep breaths to calm down.
If someone is hurting you physically, call out for help. An adult should be nearby who can help you.
 If it gets to the point where nothing else is working, you can respond to the bully. Do this by standing up to them in a non-violent way and telling them to leave you alone. Speak in a firm voice and avoid putting down the bully or calling the bully names.Hold your head up high and in a confident voice, say, “Leave me alone” or “I’m not going play with you.” Try to act brave even if you don’t feel brave.
Practice saying these things beforehand. If you practice, even if it is just in the mirror or your pillow. Saying the words through a few times can make it easier when you are faced with the bully.
 Though it may be difficult to ignore the bully, not responding can help discourage the bully. Since bullies generally want you to respond, cry, or get upset, by ignoring them, you are not giving them the satisfaction they are seeking. Though you may be really upset, try to ignore them.Try to pretend like the bully isn’t there. Tune them out.
You may want to turn and start talking to someone or put in earphones.
Ignoring them doesn’t mean that you aren’t affected or upset. You can cry when you are alone or talk to a trusted friend afterwards. The idea is that you don’t let the bully see you react.
 People often don’t bully when others are around, especially authority figures. Though you won’t be around counselors the entire time you’re at camp, you can try to limit the amount of time you are alone with the bullies.This may mean always having a friend with you when you walk around. When you have down time, you may stay within view of counselors in case the bully starts bothering you.

