 Add bubble bath to the mix. Oh joy! Put towels and equipment in place.


Ask your client to sit down, and gently place both feet into the warm, bubbly bath.
If your client is wearing old nail polish, clean toe nails with nail polish remover, before placing them into bath.d) After placing both feet into foot bath, take one foot out, and begin to scrub foot with foot file. This will exfoliate dead cells from the soles of the foot.
After about 5 min., place foot back into bath, and take out the other foot, and begin to file sole of foot.
Once this is done, put in bath, and take out the first foot. If there are callouses on the sole of the foot, scrape away with credo.
Then, use exfoliant cream on sole of foot. Place back into foot bath. Take out 2'nd foot, and repeat some of the last 3 steps
Then take out first foot for final time. Gently dry foot with towel, and rub cuticle remover on cuticles of all 5 toes.
While cream is soaking cuticles, cut toe nails with nail clippers.
After all 5 toe nails are cut, shape nails with nail file.
Upon completing this, take metal or orange stick, and clean out nail bed of excess dirt that is trapped underneath nails.
Once nails are cleaned, take hindoo stone, and clean off excess cuticle from nails, and push back cuticles.
Then take cuticle nippers, and nip away broken skin from nails.
When all these steps are completed, take nail brush and clean nails thoroughly. Remember that the water in the foot bath isn't too hot otherwise it'll burn your clients foot.;
,, First we take our massage cream or oil, and we pour a generous amount all over our client's client's leg. Then we begin to rub it all in, by running our hand up along the leg, and all the way down again. Repeat this step 3 times. After the first 3 times, we begin to do circular motions up along the leg. Press deeply into the leg muscle, as you are doing this. Go up as far as the knee, and then run your hand gently down the leg again. Again do this for about 3 times. Complete the the third step by coming all the way out to the toes, starting with the tiny toe first. Take your index finger & middle finger, and firmly run them through each toe. Move along to the sole of the foot, and make you hand into a fist, and rub it against the sole of the foot. After this step, go to the ankle and rub your client's ankle, soothingly. Repeat this with your client's other foot.
,,, First we separate nails with either nail separators, or use tissue paper. This is so that we do not get polish on to the toes. Next we begin polishing the nails with a base coat. Once all 10 nails are completed, we polish the nails with the colour client has chosen. We do all 10 nails TWICE. Finally put top coat nails.
 for nails to dry.
