 No matter what cat you choose, when bringing a new cat into a multi-pet home you need to introduce it very gradually. Keep the new cat in a room that is completely closed off from the other animals before you introduce it to them face to face.Place food, water, a litter box, a place to hide away, and a new bed for the cat in the room before you bring it home.
Don't be surprised if the cat is scared and hides once it is placed in this room. Allow it to have some time to adjust to its new area.
Be sure to spend a lot of time in the room getting to know your new cat. This is a great time for you to begin bonding with your new pet.
 While keeping your new cat isolated, let your existing pets smell the cat from under a closed door and vice versa. Letting all of the pets get used to the smells of each other before they meet is a great first step towards integrating them together.The goal is to allow all of the pets, both the new cat and the old ones, to get used to each other gradually. There may be some interest in smelling each other, there may be growling, hissing, or clawing at the door, or they all may ignore each other's smells. All of these are perfectly reasonable reactions to the new situation.
 Allow the new cat and your existing pets to meet each other after they are used to the smell of each other. This introduction should be done at a time when your pets are content, occupied, or distracted, such as during feeding time.It is unlikely that the first face to face meeting between your new and old pets will be successful. Don't get discouraged if there is a lot of hissing and growling. Simply let the pets see each other face to face and then separate them again.
 After you have made an initial introduction, you should supervise interactions between your pets and keep the interactions brief. There is a greater chance of success if you remember to take every step slowly and allow the animals to get to know each other in a controlled and slow progression.Supervise interactions at first. Do not leave your new cat alone with your existing pets, as this could lead to a bad interaction and even injury.
Have realistic expectations. It is very unlikely that your new cat will instantly bond with your existing pets. Remember that new relationships take time and it's important to allow all the animals to get used to each other.

