 A small planet or asteroid, a mountain, flat plains, etc.). Also, it is recommended to draw a lake or ocean. Remember to draw in 2D, and remember that these "cities" are always cut in half, so if you draw a sky-rise, draw the inside of it.
 If you drew a mountain or flat plains, read Section B. If you drew something random, like an island, read Section C.







Section A: For an asteroid, you should draw craters on the surface. Decide what kind of asteroid it should be (should it be a city? Maybe an alien-stickfigure base? Or maybe an unexplored planet?). If it's a city, decide whether you will draw the city on the surface, or make it a "hollowed out asteroid" by erasing a small section of the surface, and draw 2 walls on each side. Make it open into a large room, make more tunnels leading out of that room. Let them lead to other rooms, like the research center, McDonalds, the asteroid core, or other things! Let your imagination go wild!






Section B: For mountains, draw a gigantic jagged triangle-like shape in the middle of flat plains. It is recommended to make valleys with towns or cities in them, caves with secret passageways or ferocious animals, maybe even a mountain lake! For the flat plains, try making cities, oceans, and tunnels leading into the ground. For the cities, you need large buildings, so draw a gigantic rectangle sticking into clouds, and then draw the inside of them. You could have stickmen working at computers, a business meeting, or anything else! For the lakes, try to draw boats (don't forget the insides) and fish. You could make a comical scene with a fish, eating a smaller fish, which is eating a smaller fish, etc. For the tunnels, make them lead deep underground, with miners, beds, and other things. You could even draw a waterfall flowing underground coming from nowhere! Be creative, let your imagination go wild!






Section C: If you drew something random, like an island, a train, or something else, don't forget the major details. For something like an island, try to draw palm trees, exotic fruits and animals, maybe a shipwreck here and there, and don't forget the ocean on either side! For something like a moving vehicle, like a train, you could draw some people who "hitched" a ride in one of the cars, an extravagant dining car, or, if those things don't suit you, you could make your city ride the rails, drawing banks, homes, places to work, a movie theater, and more! Let your imagination go wild!

, Don't forget to add the stickmen to your city, and make sure they're doing something! They can be walking, or on the computer at work, or sleeping, or anything! Have fun!