 Many witches identify with various Gods and Goddesses from diverse pantheons, and most use different rituals. There are many different pantheons throughout history, the most well-known of which are Greek, Roman and Egyptian. Wiccans' worship any gods or goddesses they choose.;
, Most (but not all) witches follow the one rule: An it harm none, do as ye will. This means that they can follow any path, as long as no one (including the self) is harmed. However this does not forbid doing harm. It is advice. there are a set of laws known as the 161laws.
 These could include belief in the sacredness of nature, the existence of male and female in all things and the Wheel of the Year (celebration of the seasons).
 In many countries it is illegal to prosecute someone for practicing witchcraft.
, Witches believe in many deities, Gods and Goddesses but usually only work with two deities; the God and Goddess.
 Some witches believe that anything they send out comes back to them times three. For this reason many witches avoid curses or bindings. This is not an official Wiccan law, however, some believe this.


Ever mind the rule of three; what thou givest return to thee
This lesson well thou must learn
Thou only get-est what thou dost earn

, It is believed to be an energy that exists within everything, which can be changed with intention to cause something to happen. It could also be described as physical manifestation being affected by force of will. Spells and rituals make use of this idea.
 It shows that you care enough to understand what their religion actually is.
 Try libraries. Websites can also be helpful. Triumph of the Moon, or anything by Gerald Gardner is a good place to start. If your friend is truly of the Wicca, they'll have these books, or know of them. Amber and Jet is a good mailing list to look up, and your friend would find the information they have valuable as well.
 Your friend is going to be Wiccan. Shouting, predicting, and similar things will not help. Conversion is very unlikely. Do not discriminate or act like your friend told you that he or she was from a different planet. Encourage your friend to do research into the religion. Remember, all Wiccans' are pagan but not all pagans are Wiccan!


Do not let it come in the way of other things. Religion is normal, and your friend is still the same person he/she always was.
Your friend told you this out of trust. This is no time to gossip.

