 You may not know who you are, what you like, what you want to do in life, but this is okay. Create yourself, don't find yourself, create yourself. Create your own personality, but be yourself. Creating your personality doesn't mean copying others, but you can always get influence. Have confidence, a good sense of style and a contagious smile.;
, Bring out who you are in your own fashion sense. Don't throw on an outfit everyday -- spend time on how you want to bring out yourself in each outfit.
 You may change, and always will, but you will always be yourself. Know that if you are being yourself, and someone doesn't like you, they're not right. Ignore them and know that there are many other people you can impress, you don't need to impress anyone. Be yourself, everyone's going to get judged anyway, sometime in their life.
 Don't use someone as a friend just to act popular. This is very common. Find the real friends, the ones that you think will really be there for you, and not your popularity.
 Smile at everyone, compliment them, and start talking to them more. Once this happens, you may have a sleepover or hang out sometime, this can lead to a whole new friendship.
 Don't do drugs to be cool and don't be someone you're not to fit in. Nobody can make you do anything, and you are your own person. Nobody can own you, and never let them.
 This will make some people think you're sad, and others may think you have a low self esteem. Smile at people, keep your chin up and be friendly.
 Have great posture and do what you want. Don't be shy and never bully someone.
 Acting? Dancing? Whatever it is, perform, take classes or join clubs. Find something to make new friends and impress people that way.
 Remember that if you do have more friends, or impressed more people, know to stay who you are. Never judge people and know that even if you are trying to impress everyone, not everyone may be impressed, they're not worth it. You are. So, have confidence, keep your head up and smile.

