 Think about what specifically makes you uneasy in this situation. Is it that you feel that your boyfriend is paying more attention to her than to you? Do you wish that your boyfriend would spend less time with his friends and more time with just you? Try to pinpoint what exactly makes you uncomfortable. Here are some examples of specific situations that might make you uneasy:


The girl touches your boyfriend in what you think is an inappropriate way.
On weekends, your boyfriend spends more time with her than he does with you.
Your boyfriend texts or calls her when you two are spending quality time together.
They flirt in front of you.
 Let your thoughts sit while your jealousy simmers down a little bit. Make sure that the issues you address in your list are really what is bothering you. Look again at your list the next day and revise it.
 Designate a time to have a conversation just the two of you. Don’t talk to him when you are initially upset. Instead, address the issue when you are both feeling calm and rational. Here are some ways to begin the conversation:


“I’ve been feeling that you’ve been spending more time with her than with me the past couple of weeks, and it’s been making me feel insecure.”
“I love that you’re happy with your friendship with her, but the way she interacts with you sometimes makes me uncomfortable.”
“I am happy with our relationship, but I think there are ways that I could feel more valued and respected.”

, Each couple has their own "rule book" — some couples would seeing going to the movies with another girl as highly inappropriate, whereas other couples would consider this and other intimate contact ok. Having an open conversation about what each partner expects is key to guiding acceptable behaviors. Be clear about your needs — your boyfriend may have no idea his friendship or flirtation with this other girl upsets you.Work on defining these expectations with your boyfriend. You might say something like, "I don't want you to give up your friendships with other girls, but I would appreciate it if your focus is on me when we spend time together, and not on texting her."
Don't set boundaries that are vague or manipulative. Something like, "I want to spend more time with you" isn't specific enough. Try saying, “I want to spend more time together just the two of us. Could we designate a date night?”
Let your boyfriend know what is and is not acceptable to you. If you are not comfortable with him giving another girl a back massage, let him know that feels disrespectful to your relationship.
Be open to listening to your boyfriend's perspective and his boundaries as well.
 Address the concerns you have about your boyfriend’s relationship with the other girl calmly. Do not accuse him of infidelity. Focus on constructive ways to improve your relationship. Use specific language to ask him to change certain things about the way he interacts with the girl. Here are some examples of what you could say:


“I feel really uncomfortable when you choose to go to the movies alone with her on Friday night. I would like to go with you or would prefer you go in a group with other people, too.”
“I feel hurt when we're spending time together and you spend that time texting with her and laughing at your inside jokes.”

, Finish your conversation by giving your boyfriend a compliment or by showing affection for him.

If you’re working through the problems in your relationship, that’s a positive thing! Here are some examples of good compliments:

"I really enjoy when we spend quality time together."
"I feel that you really listen to me when I'm having a problem."
"You make me feel happy and supported."

