 The way you begin your day has a huge impact on the rest of your day. Get a good start by doing something that you like! Of course mornings are busy and rushed as it is, but carve out just a few minutes for something nice.Eat a yummy breakfast.
Listen to a great playlist while you get dressed.
Sit and enjoy a cup of tea.
 If you find yourself stuck in an unpleasant part of your day, think about another part of school that you actually like! This might be an after-school sports team or club, a class that happens later in the afternoon, or even your lunch break. Remember that all you need to do is be patient and make it through the tough moments, and later you'll be rewarded with the activity you enjoy. , Spending even just a little bit of time outside has been shown to reduce stress and help you feel happy. If you have the option to go outdoors during your school day, take it! If this isn’t an option for you, consider walking to school in the morning, or spend a little time outside in the afternoon. You can sit in a chair and read, go for a walk, or visit a favorite outdoor spot., If you find yourself getting overwhelmed or stressed out during your school day, you can do a visualization exercise in order to calm down.Close your eyes.
Relax your muscles.
Imagine a place that makes you feel happy. (Maybe this is a beach, or driving in a car with all the windows open, or even snuggled into your bed.)
Observe as many details as possible: What does it sounds like? What things do you see? Can you smell anything? How does the sand, blanket, or wind feel against your skin?
Spend a few minutes here.
Repeat this anytime you want to.
 Music is tied to our emotions. Sad music can makes us feel sad, and happy music can help us feel happy. Listen to some upbeat music as you get ready for school, on your way to school, or during a school break. This will lift your mood and give you a boost to make it through your day.
 One of the best ways to process negative thoughts (and promote positive ones) is to keep a journal. The therapeutic benefits to writing in a journal include helping you organize your knowledge, reduce your stress, and understand your emotions.Journaling can also be a good way to pass the time at school.


Find a notebook that you like.
Try to write in it once or twice during your school day.
Don’t shy away from negative emotions, but try to write down one thing you are grateful for each day.
 When you take on a positive attitude toward your teachers and classmates, they are more likely to display a positive attitude in return. Making an effort to be nice and pleasant can help your school day go by smoothly and quickly! Even you don't feel positive, faking it a little bit can have profound benefits for your health.Show gratitude. Thank your instructor for a nice lesson, or thank a friend for listening.
Compliment someone. Do you love a classmate's skirt? Tell her.

