 The Life Giving Amulet is a somewhat rare and valuable item available late in the game that resurrects you upon death once, but more importantly, it heals your Health and restores Sanity for as long as it remains around your neck. It will degrade over time while you recover your Health., While this takes a toll on your Sanity, you can take your Shovel and go dig up Graves. Graves resemble large mounds of dirt sometimes accompanied by stone grave markers. While you can find the occasional grave in the Forest, they sometimes spawn in large groups, forming a graveyard. Life Giving Amulets are somewhat rare yields from grave digging, so don’t count on this to be a reliable way to get it.

Shovels are made through the Tool tab with a Science Machine for 2 Twigs and 2 Flint. You can also use it to dig up Saplings, Grass Tufts, Berry bushes, and Tree stumps.
Be very careful when grave-digging. While the chance to spawn a Ghost is low, they’re also very aggressive and dangerous, and can bypass any armor’s protection. Fortunately, it’s easy to outrun them, so you can just run away and it will eventually find something else to kill.
 You can make this crafting station as soon as you get a Science Machine, and requires 4 Rabbits, 4 Boards, and 1 Top Hat. Head over to the Magic tab, represented by a red skull, then create it! Like the Science Machine and the Alchemy Engine, it’s a permanent structure., The Amulet requires 3 Gold Nuggets, 2 Nightmare Fuel, and 1 Red Gem to craft on your Prestihatitator under the Magic tab.

Nightmare Fuel can be hard to find, but reliably you can get them from lowering your sanity until your hallucinations become solid and killing the Nightmare Monsters that spawn. Once you get enough, quickly recover your Sanity immediately so you don’t die. If you’re feeling cautious, you can simply pick Evil Flowers, then craft Nightmare Fuel for 4 Dark Petals in the Magic tab of your Prestihatitator.
You can actually cultivate Evil Flowers for Dark Petals by placing some Bees near some Evil Flowers, and those Bees would slowly pollinate and propagate your Evil Flowers.
Red Gems can be found Underground, especially after earthquakes, from grave-digging, or by killing Red Hounds that occasionally spawn during summer.
 Once you have created the amulet, you can just equip it (right-click or select with the D-pad), and it will heal you of any injury for 20 times, or resurrect you once. Aside from that, you can just keep it on you nearly indefinitely.