 Wash the vase with warm water and soap. Pat it dry with a soft, clean towel, then wipe it down with rubbing alcohol. This will get rid of any oils that might prevent the foil from sticking.
 If you want nice, crisp lines, apply some painter's tape just above where you want the gold leaf to end.If you want a jagged line instead, you can skip this step., You don't absolutely have to do this, but many people find it easier to apply the gold leaf in smaller pieces. Whole sheets are typically harder to remove., Avoid getting any onto the painter's tape. You can use the brush-on kind or the spray-on kind. The brush on kind is great if you want a jagged line. The spray-on kind is great if you need to cove a large area. For small or delicate areas, use a gold leaf adhesive pen instead.Most types of gold leaf will have a paper backing. Leave this backing on the gold leaf.
 Once the glue dries, it will be tacky and ready for the gold leaf.Read the label on your gold leaf adhesive as each brand will be a little different., If your gold leaf has a paper backing, make sure that you place it gold-side-down onto the vase.If your gold leaf does not have a paper backing, it would be a good idea to handle it with tweezers so that it does not stick against your skin., If your gold leaf has a paper backing, gently rub your finger against it.If your gold leaf does not have a paper backing, gently brush the gold leaf with a soft, watercolor brush., Some of the gold leaf may be sticking up. If this happens, simply smooth it down with a soft, clean brush.If your gold leaf did not have a paper backing, you can skip this step., If the adhesive starts to lose its tack, you may have to apply more on. Keep applying the gold leaf, rubbing it, then peeling the paper backing away until your design is finished., Use a soft, clean brush, such as a watercolor brush, to gently brush away any excess gold leaf., Be very careful while doing this. If you get any chips in your work, you can try filling them in with extra gold leaf. The gold leaf will only stick to the areas that have adhesive on them., Extend the sealer just past the edges of the gold leaf onto the vase. This will help seal the gold leaf in further and prevent it from sticking. Don't worry if the sealer goes on milky; it will turn clear., As the sealer dries, it will turn clear. How long this takes depends on the type of sealer you used. Some only take 15 to 20 minutes to dry while others need a few hours.