 If you've gotten bored doing planks and sit-ups, try a full-body workout like swimming or kickboxing. These exercises strengthen and condition your muscles while also giving you a good cardiovascular workout.These types of workouts also add an element of competition that can give you additional motivation and jumpstart your old workout into something you find exciting again.
Kickboxing and similar activities also reduce stress, which can help you shed unwanted pounds.
If you have heart or blood pressure problems, consult your doctor before you decide to take on any intense full-body workout.
 Adding a new activity can shake up a boring routine as well as give you the opportunity to meet some new people and learn new skills. Think outside the box – or gym – and consider activities that may not traditionally be considered "exercise."For example, you might consider taking a dance class. Fast, intense dance styles such as swing can burn as much as 350 calories an hour.
Dancing also can improve your balance and general coordination, and may even boost your mood and lower your anxiety levels.
If you're an expert in a sport, contact a local school or community center and find out if you can volunteer to coach a kids' team. You can have a positive impact on your community and get exercise at the same time.
 If your standard workout consists of a few stretches followed by a jog around your neighborhood, check the map application on your phone and come up with a different route that covers roughly the same distance.For some people, seeing the same people, places, and things every day is comforting. For others, it gets boring and you can easily find yourself in a rut.
You may not even have to run in a completely different area. If you run a loop, just run it backwards.
 Your body needs time to recover after an intense workout. If you've noticed that you feel exhausted and lack motivation, or if you're constantly looking for excuses to skip your workout or quit early, you may have recovery problems.Think of recovery as similar to sleep. You can have a recovery deficit if you engage in too many fast, high-impact workouts day after day.
This is similar to the sleep deficit you accrue if you try to get by for several days in a row with only a few hours of sleep each night.
Both recovery deficit and sleep deficit are similar in that they can leave you exhausted and sore and sap your motivation.
Doing a slow, gentle, low-impact workout such as yoga in between more intense sessions such as an exercise boot camp can give your body the time it needs.
 If you're bored and have come to dread your workouts, it may be that all you need to do is move your routine to a different location. Particularly if you're always at home or in the gym, going outside can do wonders to reinvigorate your motivation.Working out at a different time can shake things up for you as well and get you out of a rut. This can be particularly helpful if you feel tired before starting your workout.
If you're a member of a chain gym, you might try going to a different location in another part of town.
Seeing different people and even taking a different route to the gym can make it seem new – even if once you get there you're still doing the exact same exercise routine.
Scenery doesn't just apply to what you see around you. If you normally listen to music while you workout, consider swapping out your usual tunes with a different playlist.

