 Many public libraries have conference rooms that are open for public use, but private libraries or public libraries in smaller towns may not have a conference room within the facility. If your city or county does not have an available room, look for a nearby library that will allow you to set up a club even if you are outside of its district.;
, Some libraries may not want more than one library book club to meet on the premises. Others may not mind, but remember that many people who want to be part of a library book club may already be members of the other club or clubs.
 Most libraries do not require extensive paperwork to start a new club, but almost all libraries will have some. At the very least, the library will probably ask you to read a list of rules about hosting a club and to sign your name to a sheet of paper, documenting that you read those rules.
 Most public libraries are fine with light refreshments, such as punch as cookies, as long as they are kept within the conference room. Not all libraries are fine with it, however, so you should check before deciding whether or not to provide any at your meetings.
 Ask yourself if you want a book group that is limited to literary books or to a certain genre, or if you want a group that is open to any genre.
 Most book clubs meet about once a month. Meeting on a monthly basis gives most members ample time to read each book. Moreover, a monthly meeting does not overtax library resources.
 As a general rule, weekdays work better for more people than weekends. If you want to attract a crowd of retirees or stay-at-home moms, meeting in the late morning or early afternoon works best. If you want to attract teens, you should shoot for the early evening. If you want to attract college students or working adults, the late evening may work even better.


Stick with one set day out of each month, such as the third Tuesday or the fourth Thursday. Go with a day of the week instead of a date, since dates can fall out on the weekend just as easily as they can fall out during the week.







