 When an orchid refuses to bloom, the reason is usually because it isn't getting enough light. If you are unable to provide the right amount of natural light for your orchid, look into setting up full-spectrum lights indoors. You can purchase these lighting systems at nurseries or order them online.There are sizes and shapes available to fit any space in your home.
You can adjust the lighting to meet the needs of your particular orchid species.
 Feeding an orchid the right fertilizers can stimulate it to grow faster and bloom sooner.Look for orchid food that contains nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K). It should also include trace elements like iron. Always read and follow the instructions of your orchid food carefully. Orchids should be watered thoroughly before fertilizing them.Some types of orchid food are granulated or dry. You must dissolve this kind of fertilizer in water before using.
Dry orchid food is highly concentrated. Never use it directly on the plant. Once the granulated orchid food has been dissolved in water, pour it directly on the plant.
 The active growing season for orchids is approximately March through November. Don’t fertilize from mid-December until mid-February. If you fertilize it less than that, its growth may become stunted and blooms won’t appear. If you fertilize it more frequently than that, you risk burning the roots and leaves of the plant. Burning an orchid’s roots with fertilizer will also prevent blooms from appearing.Read the instructions for your particular orchid food carefully, since they may vary slightly from product to product.
Make sure you fertilize just after the flowers fade to stimulate additional blooms. Fertilize again when new leaves or shoots appear and begin growing.
 Moth orchids (Phalaenopsis) are temperature sensitive. In nature, their blooms are triggered when fall arrives and the temperatures drop at night.If an orchid doesn’t experience a period of cooler nights, even an indoor orchid, it may refuse to make buds or bloom. If your orchid is sitting in a window, it’s probably experiencing natural temperature drops coming from outside to some extent. However, this may not be enough to trigger blooms. Before you go to bed each night, turn your thermostat down by 10 degrees.One to two weeks of nightly temperature drops will usually trigger an orchid to bloom, as long as it’s the right time of their growth cycle.
For Phalaenopsis orchids, provide night temperatures of 60°F (15.5°C) and day temperatures of 80°F (25°C).
 Stale, dry air will prevent an orchid from blooming. Orchids thrive in an environment where fresh, moist air circulates freely. While humidity is a necessity, it can also become destructively heavy if not ventilated well. Make sure the air around the orchid is fresh by opening windows or keeping a fan in the area on a low setting.