 Push-ups are not only great exercise for your triceps, but they can also strengthen the pectoral muscles that are located below the breasts. Doing too many push-ups at once can strain your arms, so start by doing just 2 or 3 sets of 10 push-ups in one day, if you're already physically strong. If push-ups are new to you, start with 2 sets of 5 and work your way up. As you become a push-up pro, you can "push" yourself to do even more each day. Here's how to do a push-up:Start with your stomach on the floor and your hands directly below your shoulders.
Slowly push your body upwards into the plank position by pushing against the ground until your arms straighten as you rise onto your toes.
Lower down to the ground without letting your stomach touch the floor and lift yourself up again.
If this proves too challenging, start off by doing push-ups while keeping your knees and lower legs on the floor. This is still a great workout for your pecs.;
, Go to a gym and work with a trusted spotter if you're new to this process. This is another great exercise that can help strengthen your pectoral muscles. All you have to do is find some dumbbells that are heavy enough to have an impact but not so heavy that they cause strain, somewhere around 7-12 pounds, and raise them in the air. You can also just do this exercise at home without a workout bench. Here's how to do it:Hold the dumbbells in both your hands with your hands resting on your thighs. Your palms should be facing downward.
Lift the dumbbells in the air while keeping your hands straight, with your arms slightly bent.
Once the dumbbells are raised above your head, gently lower them to your sides and repeat.
You can think of this maneuver as mimicking the movements of a pushup while being on your back.
 To do this, lie flat on your back, with your arms out at either side, holding light weights, ranging from 4-6 lbs. The weights should be held sideways, so the top of the weight faces you and the bottom faces away from you. Simply move your arms all the way outward, so your body is in the shape of a cross. When your arms reach their maximum span, just move them back inward, so they meet right above your chest. Keep moving your arms all the way out and then back inward to meet up above your chest.Do 2 sets of 15 fly lifts for your first effort. You can do more once you're comfortable with this move.
 This is another version of the push-up and also works your upper arms and pectoral muscles. Stand about two feet away from a wall with your palms pressed against the wall and your arms straight. Then, lean in toward the wall until your elbows are bent, while keeping your legs pretty much where they were. Use your arms and biceps to straighten out again. You can think of this as doing a push up against the wall.Repeat 10 wall presses 2 times for your first endeavor.
 These exercises will trim some belly fat, and strengthen your ab muscles.

Lay down with your arms to your sides and your knees bent. With your feet and arms still on the ground, sit up. Then, lay back down with your legs and arms in the same position.
Repeat ten times for your first set. You do not want to overdo it, so about 1 or 2 sets a day is ideal.
 That's right. If you really want to naturally get bigger breasts, then all you have to do is gain a few pounds. Your breasts will fill out along with your stomach, thighs, and other parts of your body that tend to gain weight more easily than the rest. You may not want to gain weight in order to get bigger breasts, but it's the most foolproof way to do it. To gain weight, just increase your caloric intake, focus on fattier foods like cheeses and sugary foods like cookies. Or just eat more of the food you love so you don't feel like you're actively trying to be unhealthy.


This is a good move if you're on the thin side and could stand to gain a few pounds anyway. Obviously, though, this may not be the world's most appealing solution.
 Estrogen is a female hormone that is responsible for increasing the size of your breasts, among other things. Though your body will naturally produce estrogen while you're going through puberty and even until you are 18 or 19 years old, there's no harm in focusing on eating more foods that contain estrogen to help your breasts get a bit bigger. Here are some foods that are known to be rich in estrogen:Lentils and chickpeas
Lima and kidney beans
Dairy products, such as cheese and yogurt
Fenugreek seeds
Spices such as sage, clover, and oregano
Fruits such as apples, cherries, and plums
Vegetables such as beets, carrots, and cucumbers
Grains such as rice, barley, and wheat

, Phytoestrogen comes in handy when your estrogen levels are low, when phytoestrogen takes over and helps increase your breast size. Studies have shown that phytoestrogen tablets have increased the size of the breast tissue in pre-menopausal women, and lots of delicious foods contain it, so there's no harm in adding them to your diet. Here are some foods that are rich in phytoestrogen:


Nuts such as pistachios, walnuts, cashews, and chestnuts
Beverages such as red wine, white wine, black tea, and green tea
Fruit such as peaches, strawberries, and raspberries
Flax seeds
Green beans and winter squash

, While eating foods that contain estrogen and phytoestrogen in moderation may increase your breast size, your should not take estrogen pills simply for this reason. If you do think you have a need for these pills that goes beyond needing bigger breasts, then talk to your doctor, but don't go take these pills on your own. Unfortunately, the same medication that increases breast size has been linked to breast cancer, blood clots, and other ailments that are definitely not worth increasing the size of your breasts.Some studies argue that there is no proof that estrogen or phytoestrogen increases breast size at all.
 Studies show that as many as 8 out of every 10 women are wearing the wrong bra size. Wearing a bra that is too small may actually make your breasts look smaller, not bigger, and wearing a bra that is too big can make your breasts hang more loosely and therefore can also make them look smaller than they really are. The trick to making your breasts look bigger? Wearing a bra that fits you perfectly. Here's how to find one and wear it correctly:Focus on the width of your band, not your cup size. Cup size is important, but only if you know whether you're a 32 or a 36. That makes all the difference.
Don't wear your bra on the tightest hooks unless that's how it fits best. Otherwise, hook your bra in the place where it feels the most comfortable.
Don't ever let your band ride up your back.
Make sure your bra fits the type of outfit you're wearing. Don't wear the same style bra with different tops, or some may make your breasts look smaller than they really are.
 This is another quick and easy fix -- no stuffing necessary. A padded bra can make your breasts look a bit bigger, and a push-up bra can take that to the next level. If you're in the market for a padded or a push-up bra, you should get fitted before you try one on, just as you should do with a real bra. Just make sure you don't get a bra that is so obviously padded that you've increased the size of your breasts by 3 -- that will be a little obvious.


In fact, you should avoid stuffing your bra with Kleenex or anything else that cannot take on the actual shape of your breasts. It will look silly if nothing else, and could lead to some embarrassment.
 Sound extreme? It's totally not. Women contour their breasts with makeup all the time, especially on movie sets. This creates the illusion of a lighter size and only requires a few brush strokes and for you to take care to not get makeup on the top of your shirt. You can even buy a makeup kit for this purpose if you're really committed; first, though, it's best to start off just using the makeup you have to see if you like the effect. If you want to give it a try, follow these steps:Get dressed, bra and all. Put on the outfit you're actually going to wear.
Tuck tissue or toilet paper into the front of your shirt to protect it from makeup.
Apply darker bronzer or powder in the area down in your cleavage area, moving down in between your breasts.
Blend this color up and outward, making a v-shape along the natural curve of your breasts.
Brush a lighter shade of eye shadow or face powder, such as gold or peach, over the top half of your breasts.
Use a sponge to blend the shade to create a natural and more full look for your breasts.
 Your mother may have been on to something when she kept telling you to stop slouching when you were a little girl. This is the easiest and quickest way to make your breasts look bigger. Having good posture by keeping your spine straight, your shoulders naturally raised instead of hunched, and your arms at your sides instead of folded across your chest, will not only make you look taller and more confident, but it will also make your breasts look perkier and bigger.


When you're hunched over, so are your breasts. When you're standing tall and proud, so are they.
 This is another easy trick for making your breasts look bigger than they really are. Wear tops with frilly lace or patterns in the chest area, wear horizontal stripes that stretch out your breasts, and try shirts with low necklines that show your cleavage without revealing so much that your breasts actually look smaller. Wearing tops that have one color above your breasts and a different color below can also make them look bigger.Shirts or dresses that fan out just below the breast bone can also enhance the size of your breasts.
Wear a dress or a shirt with an underwire and your breasts will naturally perk up.
Wearing shirts that are too tight around the breasts, such as tube tops that are too tight or halters that don't quite fit, will actually make your breasts look smaller.
You can also call attention to your breasts by wearing a pendant necklace that hangs in between your breasts.
 It's true: some birth control pills are known to enhance the size of your breasts. However, you shouldn't go running to the nearest doctor to get a prescription for the pill just for this reason. If you've just started being sexually active, are suffering from difficult periods, or have another reason for wanting to try the birth control pill, then talk to your doctor about whether or not this is the right decision for you.


Starting to take the pill can lead to some potentially unpleasant side-effects, such as mood swings and longer periods, so it is definitely not worth taking just to make your breasts get bigger.
 If you're a young girl, your breasts may not have reached their full size yet. Puberty affects everyone differently, and while you feel that your breasts may have reached their full size already, they can grow naturally well into your late teens, or even later in some cases, as part of your development process. As you get older, you may also naturally gain a little weight or decide that going on the pill is right for you, and your breasts may end up growing without you noticing it.Don't rush off to change the size of your breasts before you've grown into your body.
 You will see many adds for pills, supplements, or even injections that are "proven" to make your breasts grow naturally. However, there are very few pills or supplements that have been proved to naturally work, and which have not been shown to have negative side effects. It's better to do things the natural way, through diet and exercise, or even throw creating the appearance of larger breasts, than to do something that can have harmful effects to your body.


Talk to your doctor before you take any so-called supplement.
 Many women between the ages of 30 and 50 are paying up to $2,000 to use Botox to give themselves a breast lift. While studies haven't yet confirmed whether this is a dangerous move, some doctors do say that the effect is barely worth it, described as being barely different from the effect of altering your posture -- which you can do for free.