 Rating your anger can help you realize what type of events make you angry and the degree they make you angry. Some events might cause mild irritation, while others might trigger you wanting to blow your top. You don’t really need an official anger scale. You can make your own, for instance, on a scale of one to ten, or zero to one hundred. You can use what works with you.
 Your anger journal will help you keep track of what events anger you. You can also track the degree to which they anger you, as well as the surrounding events that preceded your anger or occurred during your anger. Monitor how you react when you’re angry, along with other people’s reactions to you. When you record in your journal, you can make the following observations:


What provoked the anger?
Rate your anger.
What thoughts occurred as you got angry?
How did you react? How did others react to you?
What was your mood right before it happened?
What symptoms of anger did you feel in your body?
Did you want to leave, or did you want to act out, such as bang the door or hit something or someone, or did you say something sarcastic?
What were your emotions immediately after the incident?
What were your feelings a few hours after the episode?
Was the episode resolved?
Keeping track of this information will help you learn what situations and triggers you are sensitive to. Then you can avoid those situations when possible, or predict when these situations occur if they are unavoidable.
 A trigger is something that happens or that you experience that brings on an emotion or a memory. Some common triggers for anger are:


Not being able to control other’s actions
Having other people fail to meet your expectations.
Not being able to control daily events, such as traffic.
Someone trying to manipulate you.
Getting mad at yourself for a mistake.
 Sleep deprivation can mount up over a series of poor nights of sleep or can be caused by not getting sleep for one night. Your metabolism, age, personal willpower and other personal makeup will all determine how you respond to sleep deprivation. The following effects can all contribute to your difficulty in keeping your temper in check:Increased susceptibility to accidents (due to poor coordination and sleepiness)
Increased susceptibility to colds
Rapid aging
Emotional problems (loss of control, anxiety, panic, depression)
Irritability, moodiness, reduced ability to cope with stress
Poor judgment skills, poor concentration, and inability to make decisions
Long-term effects of sleep deprivation may include obesity, heart disease, or diabetes.

