 The records of marriages are held by your County, and the way the information is kept and made available can vary from place to place. If your state and county has online marriage indexes, you can search through this online database to find information on the marriage. Not all states have these indexes, but if they do, it may allow you to find the person's wedding day without going to an office.Visit http://websearchguides.com/marriage_and_divorce_records.htm#partII to see if your state has a marriage certificate index.
 If you haven’t been able to find the information you are looking for online, the next step is to visit the country records office or courthouse in person. To do this you will need to know where the marriage took place, so that you can go to the relevant office. Marriage licenses, which show the date of marriage, are given by the county clerk and a search can be conducted at the County Recorder's office.You need to go with as much information as you have about the marriage in question.
This should include at least the names of the couple and the place of the marriage.
If you know approximately when they were married, this could help narrow the search.
 Once you are at the right place, you will be asked to fill out the paperwork required to request information on the marriage. You may be asked to pay between $10 and $50 to perform a search.You may be able to conduct the search online, through your county clerk website.
You may or may not need to submit a credit card number to conduct the search online.
 The US did not require civil registration of marriages until the twentieth century. If you are looking for information on an earlier marriage, it’s a good idea to try and check church records, which in some cases go back to the 1600s. To find the church records you will need to know where the person lived, as well as the denomination of the church they attended.


Church records are generally kept in churches and their archives, at historical and genealogical societies, and in libraries.
If the church doesn’t hold the archives, the headquarters of the denomination may do.