 Whether you are wearing a t-shirt or a long-sleeved shirt, the top should fit well enough that it isn’t loose but still permits you to move freely. The shoulder seams should fall right on the edge of your shoulder to achieve a natural look. The hem should rest on the middle of your hip for the same reason. If there are sleeves, they should end on your wrists, not your palms.For button-down shirts, the fabric of both sides should meet between the buttons without leaving gaps.
 Most people have no idea that over 80% of women wear the wrong bra size. The right bra should feel natural, resting flat on your chest and back. It shouldn’t appear wrinkled on you, make you feel squeezed, or cut into your skin. If yours has adjustable straps, use these before deciding your bra isn't the right size.Don’t be afraid of getting measured in a store. Be patient with the clerk as you get fitted.
 A good jacket or blazer should allow you to move in it. The seams will fall on the edge of your shoulders without making the fabric feel tight against you. An ideal sleeve length is when the fabric reaches the end of the wrist, but this can be adjusted according to personal preference.Buttoning is optional, but it is better to choose a jacket that still feels right after buttoning up in case you want a more formal look.
 Good pants allow you to move in them. You should be able to slip two fingers between yourself and the waistband, also including a little extra room to compensate for daily changes in body size. The fabric should look smooth on your legs, neither billowing nor wrinkling. The hem should make it down to your heels and rest an inch off the floor.Avoid pants that create a “muffin top,” skin bulging out the top around the waist. This is evidence the pants don’t fit.
Pockets typically don’t keep an ideal shape when you sit. If this is a problem, have a tailor remove them.
Take time finding jeans that fit your particular body shape and keep in mind that the heat from a mechanical dryer damages the elasticity, so choose a bigger size or washing method.
Skirts follow the same guidelines, except the hem typically ends right above the knees or right below the ankles. Choose skirts according to your height and body structure in order to accentuate your hips and legs., Judge a dress by its ability to fit over your shoulders. If it doesn’t fit well there, it most likely won’t hang well on you. If it fits well on your shoulders, chances are it will also drape well on your hips since these two spots align.


Be aware of the empire waist. This is the fabric line that rests below the bust. If it runs too high on you, the dress won’t fit well and tailors won’t be able to help.
 Swimwear follows the same rules as other clothing. Search for something that fits your largest feature and accentuates the rest of your figure. Treat it like your bra. You shouldn’t be spilling out of it and it shouldn’t cut into your skin.


If you have large hips, you can choose something that covers those and runs thin at your waist, for example., There are many different styles of shoes, but they all should be capable of protecting your feet. Choose the size that matches your biggest foot. The shoe should be the same shape as your foot. Good ones will leave enough space that you can slip a finger between the shoe and your foot, but they should still feel snug.Don't try squeezing into shoes and don't choose ones that you think you'll break in or fit into later.

