 No matter what the occasion, you’ll want your dog to be clean and well-groomed. You can achieve this at home with just a few steps. First, brush out your dog’s coat, paying special attention to any places that are matted together. To brush out mats, hold your dog’s fur close to the skin and gently work out the mat with your brush starting at the end farthest from your dog’s body and working your way up. Cut out especially difficult mats with a pair of scissors.Choose a brush (or multiple brushes) based on your dog’s specific needs. For example, dogs with short, smooth coats, like Chihuahuas or boxers, need a rubber brush to remove dead skin and a bristle brush to get rid of dead hair. However, a Yorkshire terrier, which has a long, luxurious coat, needs a slicker brush to remove mats and a bristle brush to brush through their hair once the mats are gone.;
, Generally, dogs only need to be bathed once every few months, so plan accordingly when you know you have a special occasion coming up. When bathing your dog, begin by spraying their coat all over with luke warm water. Add a dollop of shampoo to your hand and, starting at your dog’s head or neck, work your way down their body, gently massaging the shampoo in as you go. Rinse your dog thoroughly, making sure you get all the shampoo out of their coat.Only use shampoos formulated specifically for dogs. Human shampoos can cause dogs to suffer from dry, flaky, irritated skin and can leave them at risk for developing bacteria and viruses.Remove your dog’s collar before bathing and spend extra time on their neck. It is especially important to keep the area around their collar clean.Take special care to keep shampoo from getting into your dog’s eyes and nose when you’re washing around their face. Placing a drop of mineral oil around each eye can help keep shampoo out. Also, place a cotton ball in each ear to keep water from getting in them., Allow your dog to drip dry for a few minutes after you finish rinsing them, then finish drying them with a towel. If you want them to dry faster, you can also use a hairdryer (on the cool setting) to finish drying their fur.


You can also purchase a special dog dryer, which usually ranges in price anywhere from $30 to $300 dollars., After bathing your dog is a good time to cut or trim their fur. You may just need to do some routine maintenance, like cutting the hair on their belly and around their backside so it doesn’t pick up as much dirt and debris, or you may want to give them a full haircut. This is a good time to do either.


It is easiest to cut your dog’s hair when it is about 75 percent dry.
You can use either clippers or sharp scissors to cut their hair, depending how much you want gone and how short you want to cut it., To do this, you’ll need a guillotine-style nail clipper. Cut the tip of each nail off at a slight angle right before the point where the nail starts to curve under. Be extra careful to avoid cutting the quick, or the pink vein that runs into your dog’s nails. The quick can be hard to see under your dog’s nails, especially if they are black, so spend some time trying to figure out where it is before you begin trimming.


While you are cutting your dog’s nails, also check for dirt and debris between their toes. In addition, check the pads of their feet for any cuts or foreign objects.
If you do accidentally cut the quick, it will begin to bleed. Use styptic powder to help stop the bleeding., You can also opt to take your pet to a professional dog groomer. While it will be more expensive than grooming your dog at home, they are already prepared with the right tools to make your dog look its best. They are also familiar with the different needs of various breeds.


Your local pet superstore often offers dog grooming services. In addition, a quick Internet search should give you some more local options.

