 If you’re approaching your goal one way and you keep coming up on obstacles, try something new or different. Think about what you’re doing that isn’t working, then come up with an alternate solution. This may mean adjusting your schedule, hanging out with different friends, or waking up earlier.For example, if you’re trying to eat healthier yet somehow find yourself sneaking unhealthy snacks, avoid trips to the vending machine or the snack aisle in the grocery store. If you don’t buy unhealthy foods, you won’t eat them.
 Let’s face it, life is a rat race and can be quite hectic. Everyone seems to be competing for your time. Things seem to pop up unannounced, and you are needed in multiple places and for multiple people at once. Before you know it, you haven’t accomplished anything towards a particular task or goal that you wanted to accomplish.

Make an effort to assign at least 15 to 30 minutes daily that is just for you. This time is for you to tend to your own needs and goals so you can progress forward.
Make an effort during this time to write down and map out your plan of action, and each day mark off a particular task. Any good plan or goal starts with an idea that you write down on paper.
 Instead of quitting, take a short break. If you’re feeling frustrated or stuck on something, take a short break. You might need some time away to gain a new perspective or see your project through fresh eyes. Just make sure you don’t take a permanent break! Set a day to return to your project.For example, if you’re writing a song and are stuck, take a break and return to the song a few days later.
 Take some time out and focus on relaxation. If you’re feeling stressed, a little time away can help clear your mind and make you feel better. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help keep depression away and can help stabilize your moods.Daily yoga can help to relieve stress through gentle movements. Meditation can also help to relieve stress.
 If you’re feeling unmotivated due to symptoms of depression, you may want to seek professional help. Depression can lead to feeling tired, sad, and low in energy. Things that used to interest you or motivate you may feel boring or not interesting any longer. If you think you may be depressed, a therapist can help you relieve your symptoms and gain your motivation back.You can find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or a local mental health clinic. You can also ask a friend or family member for a recommendation or obtain a referral from your physician.

