 Just like how people can be rude or mean in traffic, people can act this way on the internet, where faces aren't as easy to see. People may say things online that they would never say to your face.;
, The why or for what reason doesn't matter. Because the answer is simple: There are people out there who are ignored by the others or even being bullied. Social Media are probably the only place which they can put a mask over who they really are, hide their weaknesses and insult others. You can't find any of them saying the same words out of the Internet. So realize this fact and don't be mean. Instead, Try to calm down and investigate the situation by knowing the real part of it.
 It's an essential to know the comments all, especially if you receive a lot of comments. Ask your admin to translate them all. It's so important to put time for this. Because you may have 10 comments of insults but 2 fan comments between. Never judge them all together when you don't understand the language.
 You might feel hurt, confused, angry, sad, or any number of emotions. This is normal, and okay. Take time to process all of this, without acting. This can help you deal with the stress, so that you will be able to re-approach it later with a clearer head.


Try venting about the problem in person to a trusted friend, family member, or mentor. (Do not mention it online yet.)
Find someone whose judgment you trust, and ask them for advice in handling this. They may be able to be there with you, and help you feel less alone.
 Sometimes, criticism of your work or actions can really hurt, and it may feel personal even if it's not. Wrap yourself in a fluffy blanket, sip a calming drink, and carefully analyze the comment. Is it personal, or was it something you did? Is there any validity to their criticism?


For example, there's a big difference between "that was a mean thing you said" and "you're a garbage loser bully who will never find true happiness."
Tell the difference between constructive and destructive criticism. Constructive criticism, while sometimes painfully blunt, tells you how to improve, such as "your story is a bit over-the top; it would benefit from more subtlety." Destructive criticism is not specific or meant to help you, such as "your story is a Mary Sue drama fest full of whining and unbelievable events."

, If you start hurling insults back, the admins may decide that you are just as much at fault as the aggressor is, and they may punish both of you or do nothing. It's extremely important to be a noncombatant. Don't respond, or if you must, be friendly and polite.
 Some comments are made by people whose first goal is not to be hostile; they are just bad at social skills or particularly grumpy today. So answer them in a very respectful and polite way. Show them that you are open to discussion, and invite them to talk politely without hurling insults.


For example, "I'm concerned that you feel my edit to the wiki page was a bad one, and am open to discussion about the ideas involved."

, If a commenter clearly does not mean well, and only is interested in being mean, the best thing to do is block and report. They may get banned for continuously breaking site rules. Whatever happens to them, when you block and report, you show them that they won't get a reaction from you. They'll discover that you're no fun for them, and eventually, they'll look for easier prey.


If you respond to trolls, other trolls may notice and decide they can get attention from you. If you feed one, five more may appear. It's best not to talk to them at all.
 Different websites will have different policies, and may or may not intervene on your behalf. Some stress good-faith communication only, and will dole out warnings and punishment to bullies. Others take a non-intervention approach, even if it is one party antagonizing another party that is trying to make peace. Some will even overlook awful messages, such as death/rape threats or messages like "kill yourself."


Whether people will care depends on your situation and the website. For example, some websites consider harassment of women normal and acceptable, and will do nothing.
Don't blame yourself if admins don't care. It doesn't mean that your pain is any less real or important.
 Don't let others see the bad words in your user page. Because there are young teenagers working with the Social Media. Teenagers are easily affected by what others do or say. They're the future generation of the world, so don't let the insults teach them how to insult!

, Nowadays, there are many campaigns such as "Block and Report campaign" which are being created to take action against insulting, especially on Social Media. Join them and if there aren't any in your country, don't be afraid to create one.
 realize that the person who insulted can't actually say the same words in the real world. Social Media are probably a good chance for these people to fake themselves. This never worth to put your time on thinking about. Because they are never real, but you are.

