 This guide utilizes deco bond, fake fur, fleece, and fusible fleece fabrics. However, you can substitute similar materials to suit your preferences. For example, in place of the fleece you might use a festive, holiday themed quilting fabric. Feel free to experiment with different options.


When choosing a substitute for fusible fleece, make sure you select a fabric that can fuse to other fabrics when heat is applied, like fusible fleece. Otherwise, you'll have to sew this fabric in place instead of ironing it on.
If you want to use a substitute for deco bond, be sure you choose a fabric that is similarly semi-rigid. This fabric will form an insert which will help your stocking stand upright on the floor without assistance, so substitutes need to be able to do the same. ;
, Your stocking will have four parts: two pieces for either side of the stocking, one for its sole, and one for its back. However, you'll only need three patterns: one for both sides, one for the sole, and one for the back. You may want to use a pre-made template online, which can be found with a online keyword search for "no hang stocking template," or you can make your own sewing pattern. To recap, you'll need a pattern for:


Both sides (only one pattern for both)
The back (rectangular shaped, to connect the sides together)
The sole (to connect both sides together at the bottom), Take your patterns and use a fabric pencil or piece of chalk to outline the patterns on your fleece, fusible fleece, and deco bond fabric. Each piece of fabric should have four patterns drawn: one outline for each side of the stocking, one for the back, and one for the sole. Then take your scissors and cut out the patterns from the fabric.


After you finish cutting, you should have a total of 12 pieces of cut fabric, which you will assemble together to form your stocking.
 In this example, the fleece will form the outer fabric of your stocking. Feel free to use other materials, like a Christmas themed quilting fabric.Attach the fusible fleece to the reverse side of the fabric's print/design.Generally, to fuse fusible fleece:


Lay it on an iron safe surface with the adhesive side facing up. Lay the outer fabric of your stocking so the opposite side of its print/design is atop the fusible fleece. Iron the fabric according to the manufacturer's instructions to cause it to fuse together., You're going to sew together your stocking with the outer, patterned side of the fabric facing inwards. This way, unsightly seams will be hidden inside the stocking when you turn it inside out when you're finished. Before sewing:


Position the left and right sides of the stocking that have been already fused together so the outer, patterned side of the fabric is facing to the inside of the stocking.
Use pins to hold the sides of the stocking together along the front seam. Make sure your fabric is evenly aligned.

Sew your stocking from the tip of the toe of the stocking up its front seam until you reach its top. Sew your seam 3/8" (.95 cm) in from the outer edge of the pattern., This part, and all following parts, should be oriented with the outer, patterned side of the fabric oriented inward. Use pins to hold position the back rectangular strip of your stocking so as to connect the side parts. Then:Use your needle and thread to sew the back strip of the stocking 3/8" (.95 cm) in from the outer edge of the fabric, from the back heel up to the top of the stocking.
 Use pins to position the sole in place, attaching it to the side pieces of fabric and the back strip. Sew your sole to the sides and back strip 3/8" (.95 cm) in from the outer edge of the fabric.


Once you are finished sewing on the sole, you can set this assembled section of your stocking aside.
 The deco bond layer will form a semi-rigid shell inside your stocking, which will enable the stocking to stand upright without being hung. But first, you'll assemble it separate from the rest of the sock. Put together the deco bond layer in the same fashion you did the rest of your stocking:


Use pins to hold fabric pieces in place while sewing. Sew the front of the stocking, from the tip of the toes to the top, 3/8" (.95 cm) in from the outer edge of the fabric.
Similarly pin in place and sew the back strip for the deco bond. Then do the same for the sole piece of the deco bond., Take the fused, sewn together part of your stocking and turn it inside out. Insert your semi-rigid deco bond shell into the stocking so it can stand upright. At this point, the print side of your fabric should be facing outwards, as it does normally. Then:


Pin your rectangle of fake fur along the top of your stocking and sew it in place. After that, insert your deco bond shell into the stocking so it can stand on its own.
Decorate your stocking according to your tastes. You might want to add glitter, use fabric markers to write festive messages, like "Happy Holidays," ribbons, bows, and so on.