 Tell your friends to bring over an old pair of jeans so you can all make cute cutoffs. To do make cutoffs, put on the jeans. Use a pencil to mark the cutoff point on either leg. Take off the pants and use a ruler to measure the cutoff point so it's exactly the same on both legs, then make a horizontal line where you want to cut. Use a pair of sharp scissors to cut off the legs on a slight diagonal, so that the crotch is just slightly longer than the outside of the shorts.If you want to cuff your shorts, cut them an inch longer than your measured cutoff point.
When you mark your cutoff point, sit down to make sure it's not too short before you start cutting.

Hem the shorts or wash them without hemming if you like the frayed look.;
, Tell your friends to bring an old maxi skirt or other piece of long material made out of pretty fabric. Lay out the fabric and use measuring tape and a pencil to draw a long rectangle in the shape of a scarf. Cut it out. Leave the edges raw for a pretty bohemian look, or hem the edges if you prefer a more finished appearance.
 Gather some pretty ribbon and beads. Have each friend thread beads onto a ribbon in a creative pattern. Tie knots on either side of the beads to hold them in place. Take turns tying the ribbons tightly around each other's wrists, and cut off the long ends. Swear to wear the bracelets until they naturally wear out and fall off. When someone's falls off, she can make a wish.
 Melt the ingredients below in a double boiler (or a small pot set inside a bigger pot of simmering water). When the ingredients are all melted together, pour the liquid into empty containers, like leftover tins from lip balm you've used up. Let the lip balm cool completely before you use it. Here's what you need to make enough for six small tins:


2 tablespoons coconut oil
1 tablespoon cocoa butter
1 tablespoon beeswax
Optional: a chunk of lipstick (for color)
Optional: 5 to 10 drops of peppermint extract

, Put a pound (16 ounces) of chocolate chips into a large, heatproof bowl. Heat a cup of heavy whipping cream until it's just about to boil (but don't let it start bubbling). pour it over the chocolate chips. Let it sit for a minute so the chocolate chips can melt, then stir until the mixture is smooth. Refrigerate for 45 minutes, until the mixture is firm. Use a spoon to scoop it into balls, then roll the balls in your favorite topping and store in the fridge until you want to eat them. Here are some yummy ideas for toppings:Cocoa powder
Crushed peanuts
Crushed M&Ms
Crushed peppermints

, Each friend gets her own large flour tortilla. Place them on a baking sheet. Top the tortillas with marinara sauce or pizza sauce. Add grated mozzarella and your favorite pizza toppings, like pepperoni, chopped onions, chopped mushrooms or chopped olives. Turn on the oven's broiler. Broil the pizzas for five minutes, until the cheese is bubbly and the toppings are golden brown. Remove from the oven, slice and enjoy.
 Boil enough water to make a cup of tea for each friend. Place a chai tea bag in a mug for each person. Pour boiling water into the mugs. In a microwave-safe container, pour in 1/2 cup half and half for each serving. Stir in 1 teaspoon of sugar for each serving. Microwave this mixture for 30 seconds on high. Take it out of the microwave, pour it into a container with a tight-fitting lid, and shake it up until frothy. Remove the tea bags from the mugs and portion out the milk among them. Sprinkle cinnamon on top to finish.