 Sometimes the situation might become more critical than you expected. Your friend might be pushing you even if you’ve already said “No, thanks." If the offer becomes insistent, you’ll have to make it clear that that is not what you want to do. Saying no again and more firmly is the best thing you can do at this stage. For example: “No thanks, I told you I don’t drink."
Even in this case, rudeness is not the best way to go. However, make the tone of your voice firm and look at your friend straight in the eye to make your message clearer.
 Try this course of action only if repeating your intentions has not stopped them from pressuring you. This will help you change the subject from the unwanted action to peer pressure itself.


For example, “I already told you I don’t want to smoke. I don’t like to be pushed to do something I don’t want to."
Once you’ve done it, you can try discussing peer pressure at large if you’re close enough with your interlocutor. It’s always a good idea to discuss with your friends what your friendship is based on, especially in critical situations when the friendship itself could be in danger.
 If someone else is around who shares your ideas, try to get them to back you up by bringing them into the conversation. Do this only if you know the third person will support you. If you’re not sure what their opinion on the subject is, wait to see if they speak first and step up to help you.


For example, you can speak in the plural if you’re sure your friend will back you up: “No thanks, we don’t smoke."
You can also address your back-up directly to change the subject, after saying “No, thanks” to the pressurer: “No, thanks, Mike, I don’t want to smoke pot. Why don’t we go to the movies instead? What do you think, Steve?”

, This might sound condescending and it’s best to avoid pressuring your friends; however, it can bring the subject to an end if other courses of action didn’t work out.


For example, if your sporty friend offers you a cigarette, you can answer ”I don’t smoke, and you shouldn’t either. It’s really bad for your stamina." If a friend mocks you for not having had sex yet, you can say “You can do anything you want with your life. Are you taking any birth control or STD precautions, though?”

, This is really the last resort: if nothing else worked out and you feel like you’re being harassed, the best solution is simply to make an exit. You can come up with an excuse to make it sound less awkward or simply walk away, depending on how critical the situation has become.


It’s always a good idea to still provide a little explanation before you walk away. Don't be confrontational, but make it clear that you’re leaving to avoid being pressured: “I think I should go now, I don’t like to be pressured.”
It could be good to point out that leaving is not so much your decision as the only alternative you have left: “That’s enough, I’m leaving. I’m sorry but you’re leaving me no other option.” This way, you’ll make the one who is putting pressure on you aware that your walking away is a result of their rudeness, not yours.

