 Girls love it when their dates talk to them and open up to them and talk about their feelings. But some boys don't like to talk about all that mushy gooey feeling stuff so you don't have to open up completely just talk about some things that might be bothering you and the girls motherly instincts should right kick in.;
, She listens to you, so why shouldn't you do the same? If her parents are fighting or if she's in a fight with her friend and she's talking about it don't just ignore her or try to change the subject, listen to her. Try to give suggestions to her on what to do.
 If a slow song comes on ask her to dance with you. If shes shy tell her to not worry about it, just don't make her do anything she don't want to do or don't pressure her to dance or anything. If she says no the first time then don't get upset about it, ask her if she is nervous about it and if she says yes or kinda then tell her every thing is going to be all right she is with you and that's all that matters and if she still says no then she's just really shy. 

, If you're at a school dance and the drinks cost money, ask her if she wants one. If you guys are at a formal dance do the exact same thing, but depending on the occasion of the dance the drinks might not cost anything. Just make sure you have money on you.
 Give her some room to see or hang out with her friends, she should do the same with you too. And don't just hang around your friends that will make her feel like you're the one in control of the date. But that doesn't mean she is there. You are both in control of the date, let her know that.
 Girls love it when boys are romantic. Maybe get her a rose or two before you head to the dance or before you pick her up. A corsage will also be nice if you don't think a rose will do.
 She is your date you should be proud of her. Introduce her to your friends and have her introduce you to her friends if she hasn't already. Girls love showing their boyfriends off to there friends and they like to also give hint to every other girl there that you are hers not theirs.
 Don't flirt with other girls. Girls are very territorial even if your girl doesn't seem like the jealous type.
 Don't forget to have fun with her, many boys are so worried about what they're doing wrong that they forget what they're doing right.
 Make her feel wanted and that she made the right choice to go with you.
