 Combine 2 cups (450 ml) of flour and ½ tsp (2 ml) of salt in a medium mixing bowl to make a classic pasta dough at home. Use a fork to whisk the ingredients together., Use your fork to push the dry ingredients to the side of the bowl to create a well or a hole. The hole will nest the eggs until you are ready to mix the ingredients.Keeping the ingredients in the mixing bowl will allow for easier clean-up.

If you prefer, pour the dry ingredients onto the counter and create the well., Crack each egg along the side of the mixing bowl. Drop each into the well., Begin to whisk the eggs with your fork. Gradually pull the dry ingredients into the well to incorporate it into the mixture. The mixture will be thin at first, but it will thicken and begin to look like dough as you incorporate more of the dry ingredients. Once it begins to look like a soft dough, you have incorporated enough flour. You may not use all of the flour that is in the bowl., Gently place the dough and any leftover flour onto a clean surface.The leftover flour will help prevent the dough from sticking to the counter., Begin to knead the dough by folding it in on itself. Lift one side of the dough and fold it toward the opposite side. After each fold, flatten the dough and repeat. This process will help toughen up the dough.Sprinkle extra flour on the counter if the dough begins to stick to the surface.
Continue to knead the dough if you notice air bubbles. If you see several, slice the dough with a knife and combine the sections by folding them together., When the dough is ready, the surface will be smooth. It will resemble a plastic ball.Stop kneading the dough at this time., Once the dough is ready, grab a clean mixing bowl and place the dough inside. Cover the top of the bowl with plastic wrap or a dinner plate. Allow it to rest for 30 minutes.After it has rested, you can use the dough right away or you can refrigerate it for 24 hours. Allow the dough to come back to room temperature before forming the pasta.