 Most treadmills require you to create a profile with basic personal information, including your age, gender, height, and weight. Creating this profile allows you to get additional information from the machine, such as the number of calories you've burned over the course of your session.Some more advanced treadmills only need this information and can do all the calculations for you to determine the zones at which you should be exercising. If you're programming your machine this way, keep in mind that you'll have to update it every so often as the information changes if you want to continue to get accurate results.
If you're using a machine at a gym, you probably shouldn't save your profile. Make sure you clear your information after your session is finished so the machine will be ready for the next person.
Keep in mind that if you don't enter any personal information, the treadmill still may show a number for calories burned. That number is calculated using a general formula, and may not be accurate for you, so don't rely on it.
 While many treadmills come equipped with heart rate monitors, they may not be as accurate as a separate heart rate monitor that straps around your chest. If precise accuracy is important to you, you may want to invest in one of these. This will help you determine the speed at which you reach certain heart rates.You can find a heart rate monitor that suits your needs and your budget and most sporting goods stores. If you know exactly what type you want, you also may be able to find one online for less money than you could buy one at a brick-and-mortar store.
Typically you can expect to pay between $50 and $200 for a heart rate monitor of good quality, depending on the type of monitor you choose and the brand.
If you don't want to invest in a separate heart rate monitor, you also can take your pulse yourself. However, keep in mind this won't be as precise because you may have to stop or slow down to safely take your pulse.
 Many treadmills have a number of heart-rate programs available from which you can choose, while simpler machines typically only have one. If there are several, review each one to find the one best suited to your exercise and fitness goals.For example, a hill training workout would provide a better all-over workout for your legs to strengthen and tone the muscles in your lower body and core.
If you don't have much time to work out, you might prefer a more intense workout with short intervals that keep you at optimal levels constantly so you can exercise for a shorter period of time and still get similar results to a longer workout.
A longer interval-training workout can help increase your cardiovascular endurance.
If the machine you're using doesn't have several preset options, you still have the option to create your own program, or to monitor your heart rate in real time and adjust the machine manually.

