 Many couples meet because of mutual friends. Though it may seem unlikely, you may end up married to your friend's cousin or former roommate. You can be open to being set up by your friends, who will know your personality as well as the personality of the person they want to set you up with. Or you can just go to a gathering with one of your friends, who may have an idea of a certain single person there that would be perfect for you.


Don't be shy -- your friends know what makes you happy and can help you find that perfect person without being too obvious about it.
 Common interests can make a relationship thrive, so look out for any special people who share your interests, whether you lock eyes with a cute guy in your yoga class, notice someone cute reading your favorite book in a coffee shop, or if you really click with that girl in your grad school class. The common interest can be a launching point for an exciting relationship.


The common interest will also give you an easy opening for a fun first date; if you're both into something, you can just do that thing together and see where it goes.
 It's a known fact that more people meet at work than they would admit. It makes sense: in a given day, you may spend more time with your coworkers than anyone else, and if you love what you do, then you and that person may have similar interests.


Though you shouldn't actively pursue your coworkers because that could be breaking your company code, if you really feel an attraction to someone in your workplace, be open to the possibility that this person could end up being really special -- as long as you follow company policy.
 Online dating has become one of the easiest ways to meet your future spouse. Online dating sites help you narrow down your choices based on common interests and other important qualities, and people who join online dating sites tend to be more serious about committing for life. About 20% of current relationships started online, so don't be shy about joining the trend.Even if you're squeamish about this option, just give it a chance. You can always end your membership if it doesn't work out.
 It's true: you really can meet your future husband at a loud, smelly, bar. Though it's less likely, the perfect person can come up to you at any time at all, so don't put your blinders up at the wrong time. Though you shouldn't be looking for your future husband at a company meeting or at a funeral, you should be open to the possibility that love can strike at almost any time. If you're receptive, then more people will be receptive to wanting to get to know you.

