 You can hurt your lower back by moving improperly into bed. Use the "log roll" whenever you want to lie down.Sit on your side of the bed, approximately where you want your buttocks to lie while you sleep. Lower your torso down onto your left or right side as you bring your legs up. You should stay in a straight plank during this motion.
To sleep on your back, roll in a plank motion from your side to your back. To go to your other side, bend the leg that is opposite from the side you want to roll onto. Press that foot down to push yourself onto your side. Learn to always move in a plank motion to avoid wrenching your back.
 Sleeping on your side with your knees drawn up can help relieve lower back pain by allowing the joints in the spine to open up.Place a king-sized pillow or body pillow between your legs when you are on your side.


Bend both knees and bring them up to a comfortable position. Avoid curving your spine. Place the pillow so that it fits between your ankles and between your knees at the same time. Using a pillow will help keep your hips, pelvis, and spine aligned and reduce tension.Use a thicker pillow if you’re a side sleeper.Alternate sides. If you’re a side sleeper, alternate which side you sleep on. Sleeping on the same side all the time can cause muscle imbalance or pain.Pregnant women should sleep on their side, not on their backs. Laying on your back can restrict blood flow to the fetus, which can affect the amount of oxygen and nutrients that reach the fetus., This action flattens your back, removing a large arch from your lower back region. It can relieve pain in just a few minutes.If you are a back and side sleeper, you can use a supportive pillow and pull it under your knees or between your legs as you switch positions.
You can also place a small, rolled-up towel under the small of your back for extra support.
 Sleeping on your stomach can place a burden on your lower back and it can create an unpleasant twist in your spine.If you find that this is the only way you can sleep, put a pillow below your pelvis and lower abdomen. Avoid using a pillow for your head if it places your neck or back in a strained position.Some people with lower disc bulges may benefit from stomach-sleeping on a massage table. This effect can be simulated at home by removing your regular pillow and placing an airplane pillow around your head. This keeps your face straight down during the night and prevents the neck twist. You can also place your hands together above your head and put your forehead on top of them.

