 Waldo is a cottage industry of his own. In addition to puzzles and the books, you can find online Waldo riddles and games.It works the same way; you are given a complicated photo that includes a sea of people and you're tasked with spotting Waldo.
Sometimes you will be given a multiple sentence riddle containing clues as to his location.
Waldo is often harder to spot because the illustrator uses colors to fool you. For example, don’t assume he’s in the seas of red you see.
 There are Waldo apps you can download on the Android and iOS smartphones. The newest apps are free.The plot involves a twister that has torn through the countryside, and you must locate Waldo and other hidden objects that the twister has scattered about, or they will be lost in the sea.
Unusual stories accompany each new land. You will use a map to visit each of the lands, and will earn coins as you find the objects in them.
The coins are used to unlock new lands. The game is called Waldo & Friends. One downside of it is that it contains ads. The positive is that if you are done with all of the Waldo books, there are plenty of other places you can find Waldo!

, You can increase your chances of finding Waldo in the app with a few quick strategies.Try playing the same scene again and again so you figure out where objects are placed, and you will be able to find them when you play again.
When you find an object, don’t tap it right away. If you find more objects nearby and tap them to get combos, you will end up with a higher final score.
Save bones for really tough scenarios because you can use them to instantly find an item. Wait until the final star of the game because they’re hard to get.
 Look for the colors that stand out in Waldo's clothes, or look for the hat. These items will either be differently colored from the surrounding scenery or will stand out as something out of context.


Watch out for Waldo lookalikes! Often, there will be Waldo impostors in red-and-white striped shirts or glasses, there to trick you into thinking you've found Waldo.
Be sure to look closely at the image you find to make sure it's the true Waldo.
Look for "extras." Often, scanning for the bonus items on each page, you'll uncover Waldo along the way! It's a two-for-one that can save many valuable minutes in your day.

