 The first step in keeping a record of your readings is taking your blood sugar. Your blood sugar is a measurement of how much sugar is in your blood.Wash your hands first. It's important to start with a clean hands, as you can introduce infections with the lancing device.Another option is using an alcoholic wipe on the area where you're going to lance. Turn on your meter, and put a testing strip in it.
Place the lancing device on the appropriate area. Most of the time, you'll use the side of your finger. However, some devices let you use other areas, such as your thigh or arm.If you suspect high or low blood sugar, it's best to use your finger, as it has the most up-to-date blood sugar level; glucose gets to the fingertips faster than other sites.Prick yourself. Draw the spring end of the lancet out and let go, allowing the part up against your skin to prick you. Watch for the blood to start pooling up.If it doesn't, you can squeeze your finger a bit to push out the blood.
Use the end of the strip to catch the blood. The strip should soak the blood up, and a reading will pop up on your meter.;
, Before a meal is a good time to check because it shows what your low reading is. However, it can also be good to check an hour or two after a meal to see where it is. It's also a good idea to check it before bedtime to make sure it's not too low. Usually, right before your bedtime snack is good.You'll need to check it about 2 to 4 times a day, but your doctor can help you figure out the right plan for you.In fact, you may even need to check it more than 4 times a day.


If you find you're having low sugar episodes in the morning or in the night, try setting an alarm to make sure you check it in the middle of the night, too.You may need to up how often you check during certain times. For instance, if you're sick or particularly stressed, you may need to check more. If you're taking a new medication, pregnant, or changed your diet, you may need to check it more.Always check if you feel like you are having low or high blood sugar.If you're having high blood sugar, you may have blurred vision, nausea, drowsiness, or be extremely hungry or thirsty. With low blood sugar, you may be shaky, anxious, weak, tired, irritable, dizzy, and/or very hungry., Once you take it, you need to record it right then. Write down the reading, as well as the date and time you took it.You also need to write down anything unusual. For instance, if you missed a medication, you should write that down.
You can also write down when you last had a meal or if this reading is right before a meal.
You can note something that may have made it go up or down, such as drinking a cola., The target range is the range you should strive to be in most of the time. You may occasionally go above or below it, but you want to stay in it as much as possible.Generally, the range you want to be in is 80 to 130 mg/dl.Not everyone's range will be exactly the same., If you try to sit down and write your journal at the end of the day, you're likely to forget what you ate. It will also be harder to remember portion sizes.Every time you eat, stop and record it right then.If you wait, you might be tempted to skip because you're too tired at the end of the day.
 As you write, try to estimate the amount, too. If you have trouble guessing at first, start measuring your food so you can see what certain amounts look like. Don't forget to include things like condiments and butter.As a basic guide, a piece of meat that is the size of a deck of cards is about 3 ounces.A half a cup of vegetables is about half a tennis ball.An ounce of cheese looks like four dice.For a cup of pasta or rice, compare it to the size of your fist., Include what you're feeling, as well. Writing down your emotions can help cue you in to why you ate what you did. Your blood sugar can also affect your emotions, so making a note can help you see patterns.Also, write down how hungry you were, as that can help you start to think about why you're eating.Use a simple scale, such as 5 being the most hungry and 1 being not hungry., Based on your serving sizes, take a guess at how many carbohydrates you ate. This step will take some getting used to, as you'll need to learn the average serving sizes and how many carbohydrates are in certain foods.Until you get it down, don't be afraid to look up a food to find out the carbohydrates. While dietary needs differ, you usually can eat 45-60 grams of carbohydrates at each meal. As a reference, these servings are each 15 grams of carbohydrates: 1/3 cup of pasta or rice, 1/2 cup of oatmeal, 1 slice of bread, 1 small piece of fruit, or 2 small cookies.Also, read labels. You can find out what you need to know if you look on the labels as you cook.
 This step is especially important if you are on insulin. Because you take different amounts of short-acting insulin depending on what you ate, writing it down can be helpful if you have an episode later., Writing a food journal helps you be more accountable for what you eat. You may not always remember that snack you had, but if you write it down, you can take it into account.It can also help you see patterns. For instance, maybe you're reaching for something sugary on days you don't eat enough for breakfast.Even though writing keeps you accountable, it also helps you think about what you're eating before you eat it., If you've been keeping separate food and blood sugar journals (and even if you're not), it's important to compare them to each other. That way, you can see how what you're eating affects your blood sugar level.For instance, you may need to eat a few more carbohydrates at bedtime if you're having lows overnight.
Maybe you're eating too many carbohydrates at lunch and that shows with a high reading just before lunch.
 If you notice some worrying trends, such as continually high or low blood sugars, talk to your doctor.She can help you adjust your medications or recommend a nutritionist to help with your diet.
 You don't need to just write down your food and blood sugar readings. Feel free to make notes about your day or doodle a little. That way, it will keep you interested.