 They will protect your eyes from the sting of chlorine. Once you get used to them, you’ll discover a whole new way of looking at the world.


Buy a pair that does not pinch at the nose. Good goggles should be snug but not pinch.
Push them against your face. If they stick around your eyes, that is a good sign they will not leak when you are in the water.
 It will protect your hair against chlorine damage and will keep your hair out of your face while you are swimming. Most importantly, swim caps make you more hydrodynamic in the water.


Latex caps are protect well against chlorine but are difficult to put on and remove. Putting a bit of talcum powder in the cap before you put it on and while it’s dry helps. Don’t use if you have a latex allergy.
Silicone swim caps are the most popular although they are a bit more expensive. They are commonly used by people with medium to long hair. They protect hair well against the water and are still flexible enough to put on and take off.They do, however, slip off your head more easily..
Lycra swim caps are more comfortable and more durable than silicone or latex. They are not waterproof, however, and tend to slip the most while swimming.
Neoprene swim caps are great for keeping your head warm in cold water. They are thicker, have seams, and often have a certain smell. They are great, however, if you are swimming outdoors in rivers, lakes, or reservoirs.
 Using flippers will improve a swimmer’s body position and their technique.Most importantly, they can be used to strengthen your kick to better propel yourself through the water. This propulsion will allow you time to focus on your stroke technique.


Using flippers will give you a sense of cutting quickly through the water. Remember this feeling and try to emulate it when you take the fins off.
Kicking efficiently is highlighted using flippers, especially if you have a cross-over kick. They will force you to keep your feet a proper distance. They will also help increase your ankle flexibilityby streamlining the position of your feet.
 This is the number one sign of commitment to swimming. Gone are the bikinis and frills; what’s left is consistent and streamlined. It’s best to think about your goals. Will you be logging long daily pool yardage or just a couple of times a week?


Buy a polyester blend if you’ll be spending lots of time in the water. If cared for properly, they can last for years.
Buy lycra swimwear if you won’t be in the pool daily. It’s soft, comfortable, and is known for its expansive stretchiness. Keep in mind though, that no material is impervious to chlorine so always pay attention to the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Both of these are designed to isolate your arms or your legs to better strengthen your techniques. While they are not strictly necessary (you can achieve the same effect by holding your hands together and focusing only on your kicks, or by tucking your feet together and only focusing on your strokes), they are wonderful at supporting your arms and legs as you move through the water.


Pull buoys and kickboards are a great resource to have if you have an injury. You can keep up with your workouts and rest the part of your body that is injured at the same time.

