 If someone tells you that you’ve said or done something racist, listen to them instead of becoming defensive. Acknowledge that you may have some biases you weren’t aware of. Look at your mistakes as opportunities to learn to treat others more equitably., Be honest with yourself about your thoughts and beliefs. Ask yourself whether you have prejudiced thoughts about any group of people.Prejudice doesn’t just involve using derogatory language or excluding others. Making assumptions or behaving a little differently around people of other races can also indicate prejudice.
For instance, if you cross the street or put a protective hand over your purse when you encounter someone of another race, the behavior is probably rooted in prejudice.
Don’t let guilt or shame stop you from recognizing any biases you have. You’ve got to acknowledge a problem before you can fix it.
Take some time to consider how your prejudices may have developed. Does your family also hold these views? Did your peer group contribute to these views? Did your views come from societal messages? Taking the time to reflect on where your views might have come from can help you to understand yourself better and make changes in your life.
 Racism is built into many established institutions. It exists in the educational, economic, political, and legal spheres, to name only a few. Learning about the racial biases in society’s systems will help you spot faulty and prejudiced thinking when you come across it.Redlining, the practice of refusing loans, insurance, or other services to residents of non-white neighborhoods, is one example of systematic racism., Many people use the words prejudice and racism interchangeably, but they aren’t actually the same. Prejudice is the act of judging a person negatively based on a factor like race, even if you don’t know them. Racism, on the other hand, is a system that limits minority groups’ access to important resources.Resources include things like health care, housing, jobs, and education.
Prejudice occurs at an individual level, while racism occurs at a societal level.

