 Do not be afraid to ask “Do you feel suicidal?”; or, “Do you feel like you want to kill yourself?”If the caller responds that they do feel suicidal, continue to ask direct questions to assess the following:


Lethality — Dangerousness of the plan, and is there potential for rescue if needed
Intent — The level of desire and intent to act on ones suicidal thoughts
Caller history — Is there a history of suicidal ideation? Were there actual attempts in the past and thought-out plans, or were these passive suicidal thoughts? Are there self-harming behaviors, and if so what are they? (i.e. cutting, burning, pulling out hair, hitting head on door/wall, etc.).
Substance abuse/use history — Do they currently drink alcohol or use drugs? Do they have a personal history or family history of substance abuse?
Symptoms — Feelings of hopelessness, helplessness, worthlessness?
Mental health History — Does the person have a history of mental health concerns, current psychosis, delusions, or hallucinations?
Medical concerns — Are there any immediate medical concerns that require treatment?
Coping skills — Does the person know of any healthy ways they can cope with their feelings?
Support system — Who or where are their primary formal and informal support systems?
Protective factors — There are some factors that can reduce the likelihood that the person will attempt suicide. Do they have supportive family and friends? Access to medical and mental health care?
Other concerns and factors that might cause this crisis— This might include lack of housing, no financial income, loss of loved one, or loss of belongings or employment. Are there other family/friend relationship problems?
If a person has a plan, a timeline, and a means to kill themselves, they should be considered high-risk and not left alone. Keep the person talking to you, and take their statements seriously.
 Focus on acknowledging and validating what the person is feeling. The more comfortable a person feels with you, the more they will be willing to disclose and allow you to help. Connect with them in a kind, nonjudgmental way.Keep your opinions to yourself. You may not agree with certain aspects of this person’s lifestyle. If you find yourself feeling judgmental, try putting yourself in their situation. Imagine what you would want to hear from someone if you were in crisis.
You could say something like, “I know you took a lot of drugs tonight, but right now, my priority is keeping you safe tonight. Do you have somewhere you can go right now?”

, Paraphrasing means to restate what someone says, usually using different or fewer words. The goal is to understand what the person means. It is beneficial to the listener to see if they were correct in their interpretation of the speaker’s words, and it is beneficial to the speaker to know if they are being understood.For example, the statement “I feel like I can’t get out of bed in the morning. I feel like I can’t stop crying most days,” might be effectively paraphrased as “It sounds like you are feeling very depressed.”
Even an incorrect paraphrase can help you achieve better understanding. It shows that you are putting effort into listening to the speaker, and it gives the speaker an easy opportunity to correct the listener.
For example, say the listener paraphrases the sentence, “I don’t think I can take it anymore” as, “You sound really tired.” The speaker could correct them and say, “No, I feel miserable and hopeless.” This helps the speaker clarify their feelings, and helps the listener stay on the right track.
 Having empathy means to be able to understand and identify another person’s emotions, as well as the ability to imagine what the other person may be thinking, feeling, or experiencing. When you empathize with another, you are “putting yourself in their shoes.”Expressing empathy for the other person allows that person to evaluate, clarify, and/or identify their own feelings. The person expressing the empathy may allow the other person to hear their emotion expressed in a different way, bringing further clarity to their emotions.For example, say a caller in crisis is expressing suicidal thoughts because they feel all alone in the world. In the last year, they have had several people close to them die. You could say, “That sounds devastating. You must be grieving these losses so badly right now.” The caller may not have put together that their feelings of loneliness are connected to their grief.
 These are ways to keep the person talking about a particular topic and explore deeper feelings. You can also deploy one of these sentences if you are feeling stuck in a conversation with someone, and you want to keep them talking, but aren’t sure where to go with them yet.These include questions like, “Could you tell me more about what happened?” or statements like, “I’d love to hear more about that.”
For example, if someone says, “I just don’t want to live anymore,” you could say, “Could you help me better understand what is making you feel that way?”

, Keep the person talking by limiting your use of “yes” and “no” questions, and instead, asking questions that require the person to explain, describe, and express their emotions.Give them space to answer the questions. Be comfortable with silence. They may be formulating their response.You could ask something like, “How did you feel when your son said that to you?” or, “When you said, ‘I don’t think he ever wants to see my face again,’ what do you mean by that?”

, This may include giving the person a referral for ongoing clinical care, support groups, education and information, resources for financial support or finding housing, etc. If the person needs immediate or emergency care, know the protocol to connect them.