 Give your baby a plate or bowl of food and encourage them to use their hands or a spoon, depending on the food. This will prepare your baby to feed itself with more precision in the future.For instance, you could feed your baby some baby food in a small bowl and provide a spoon. Or you could provide finger foods like small bits of diced apple that your baby can pick up and put in their mouth.
Your baby will probably make a mess. Tie a bib around the baby’s neck and lay a placemat on your baby’s tray. You can also place a blanket or towel on the ground around their high chair.
 After about seven months, your baby will start crawling. Stack pillows in low piles on the ground in front of your baby so they have a sort of maze to navigate. This will help them develop motor skills used to change direction and turn their head and neck., At around nine months, your baby may start copying things that you do. Perform an action, then narrate what you’re doing. For instance, you might wave your hands in front of you and say, “I am waving my arms like spaghetti.” Continue to engage in your motion of choice. Your baby will look at you first with curiosity, then with enjoyment. You could ask, “Can you wave your arms like wacky spaghetti, too?” Once your baby identifies your action with fun, they will copy it.Continue to introduce your baby to new motions that, if copied, could help your baby develop new motor skills.
You can play this game any time, anywhere.
Your baby will not copy you every time you perform a particular action.
 When your baby is about one year old, they will become more adept at working their fingers independently of each other. This means that they will learn to point at people and things they recognize. Acknowledge your baby when they do so. For instance, if your baby points at their ball, say, “Oh, you want your ball,” and roll the ball toward your baby. If your baby points at their sibling, say, “Yes, that is your brother.”, At some point, your baby will discover how to fill and empty a container (like a bucket, bowl, or other container) with an object (like dirt, sand, or toys). Once this occurs, your baby will probably go through a distinct fill/dump phase.You can help your baby develop and perfect these motor skills by providing lightweight buckets or bowls of varying shapes and sizes.
Provide a variety of potential fillings for the containers like toys cars, blocks, and stuffed animals.
If you take your baby to the beach or playground, encourage them to fill the bucket with sand, then dump it out.
 Once your baby is about one year old, they will be able to understand simple commands and perform simple tasks. Make requests of your baby that encourage them to build their motor skills. For instance, you could ask your baby to squeeze a toy that makes a sound, or press a button a light-up gadget., Once your child is 12 to 18 months old, they will be able to draw and scribble. They will not be able to write letters for some time, but you can help them get used to holding a crayon or marker by providing some along with a sheet of paper while they are strapped into a high-chair. Alternatively, you could allow your baby to scribble or draw on a large piece of cardboard or poster board on the floor.Sit across from your child while they draw and draw a picture of your own to demonstrate how to create images.
Monitor your baby while they use crayons and markers to ensure they don’t color on surfaces they shouldn’t. Do not let them put the crayons in their mouth.
 Nontoxic modeling clay provides opportunities for your baby to roll, smash, and mold using their hands. For instance, you could provide your child with some clay of different colors. Set your child in a seated position with a tray or other flat surface in front of them.Always supervise the baby while you let them play with clay so that they do not put it in their mouth.


Provide a set of plastic cookie cutters, too, so your baby can develop motor skills involved in pressing different shapes into the clay.
Don’t allow your baby to play with clay on a carpeted surface or it might end up getting bits of clay stuck on the carpet.

