 If you are writing about a specific article in The Federalist Papers, place a citation in text right after the quote. The citation should also note the article number.The citation would look like: Book title, article number.
For example: The Federalist Papers, No. 51.
You can also place the citation in a sentence, such as: “In Federalist Paper No. 51, Alexander Hamilton observed…” or “As Hamilton pointed out in Federalist Paper No. 51…”;
, It’s important to note any direct quotes from The Federalist Papers in your text by using quotation marks.So the citation would look like: As Alexander Hamilton noted at the beginning of Federalist Paper No. 78: “We proceed now to an examination of the judiciary department of the proposed government.", The citation should be in the following form: Author, Article name, in Book Name, ed. Name (Publisher, Publish Date), page numbers.For example: James Madison, Federalist No.10, in The Federalist Papers, ed. Clinton Rossiter (New York: New American Library, 1961), pg 77-84.
In your full citation in footnotes, you need to note the editor of the article. The Federalist Papers were not published as a unified work. They were gathered together over time by various editors.
Your footnotes should begin with “1” and follow numerically. They should be superscript at the end of the quoted sentence or phrase. Using a word processing program, the footnote should automatically also appear at the bottom left of the page., In the Chicago Style, you can cite any paraphrased sentences or summarized sections with a corresponding footnote. You do not need to cite the paraphrased sentence or summary in the text.For example, if you are paraphrasing the first line from Federalist No. 1 by Alexander Hamilton, you may write: “In Federalist No. 10, James Madison talks about deliberating the new Constitution and how important the subject is to the state of the Union.”
Though you have simply restated the first two lines of the article, you must still cite these lines as a footnote in your text. The footnote should have a full citation: James Madison, Federalist No.10, in The Federalist Papers, ed. Clinton Rossiter (New York: New American Library, 1961), pg 77-84.
 You will need to cite The Federalist Papers as a source in your bibliography. If you used a specific article in your paper or document, you will need to specify this in your citation.The citation should look like: Author, Article, in Book Name, ed. Name (Publisher, Publish Date), page numbers.
For example: Alexander Hamilton, Federalist No. 68, in The Federalist, ed. George W. Carey and James McClellan (Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund, 2001), 351–52.
If you are just using The Federalist Papers as a whole, you can cite it as one source. So the citation would look like: Carey, George, and James McClellan, eds.The Federalist. Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund, 2001.

