 Crawling requires you to stay low, using all four limbs to propel yourself forward. Find a way to rest on your arms and legs so that you are comfortable and without pain.


For your upper half, you may place either your hands or your forearms on the ground, depending on what is more comfortable.
For your lower half, rest on your knees and shins, with your legs flat and your hips on the floor, or on the tips of your toes.
 From your comfortable crawl position, move each limb individually forward to move across the floor. Though you can go in any order you want, the typical pattern is:


Right hand forward
Left knee forward
Left hand forward
Right knee forward.
 It is mostly used in exercise regiments. , The army crawl moves you quickly while keeping you as close to the ground as possible. It is also a staple of some cross-fit workout routines because it accesses a lot of different muscles and requires good core strength. To army crawl:


Prop up your torso with your forearms and toes, picking your hips off of the ground.
Alternate pushing off of each forearm to propel yourself forward.
Keeping your legs straight, pick up or drag your opposite foot forward along with your arm.
 This is one of the fastest ways to crawl while still keeping a low profile. A hybrid of the army and bear crawls, it requires strength and coordination to pull of quickly.


Start on you hands and toes like your are preparing to do a push up.
Reach forward with your right hand while moving your left knee up towards your left elbow, along the side of your body.
Repeat with the other side.
Focus on keep your hands and feet straight and your back flat. , When there is a fire, hot smokey air goes moves to the top of the room while cleaner air rests along the floor. By crawling to safety instead of running you avoid breathing in dangerous amounts of smoke and carbon monoxide.


Do not focus on technique so much as staying low and finding an exit.
Try to keep your head between 12 and 24 inches off the ground. 