 Find out as much information as you can about the side effects, benefits, and risks of the procedure.If the cancer is resectable (can be removed completely with surgery), then surgery is often used as a first step in cancer treatment. If the surgery works, your cancer will be removed; if surgery doesn’t remove all of the malignant tissue, you may need to be treated with chemotherapy or radiation. Ask your doctor:


“What are the chances of this surgery removing all the cancer?”
“Will I need to receive any other treatments before or after surgery?”
“Exactly what will you do or remove in this surgery?”

, In the weeks before surgery, you’ll need to visit your doctor’s office to take a number of pre-surgery tests. These tests will help your surgeon get a full picture of your health, and then plan your surgery.Pre-surgery tests will include:


Blood tests, to measure your blood sugar level, blood cell counts, how quickly your blood clots, and how well your liver and kidneys are working.
Chest x-ray to check your lungs.
Electrocardiogram (EKC) to evaluate your heart’s electrical system.
 Work with your doctors and follow any directions they give you. Prior to surgery, you should avoid eating food or drinking anything for 12 hours.Your doctor may also ask you to shave hair off of the area of your body closest to the cancer, so they can make a clean incision.
Be careful to protect yourself from getting sick prior to surgery. Your immune system may be weakened from the cancer and treatment, so make sure that you are not exposed to sick people, avoid large crowds, and practice good hand hygiene to avoid getting sick.
 After your surgery, you’ll need to spend time recovering at your home. Depending on the severity of your surgery, you may have decreased mobility at first. In this case, you should have someone rearrange things about your house so you don’t need to go up and down stairs.Talk to your doctor and see if you need to be on a special or modified diet for any length of time following your surgery.
Also ask your doctor about how long it will be before you can return to your normal daily activities. For example, you may not be able to drive or have sex for two to three weeks after your surgery.