 If your date asks you where you want to go, don't be afraid to make a decision. He or she obviously is being considerate by offering you the choice, and by making one, you're showing you can be decisive., For instance, a movie isn't a good idea because you can't get to know the other person. Try coffee or visiting a museum. Take some time to talk and connect., Being late says you don't respect his or her time, so show up at the time you agreed on or a little earlier., If you're trying to act indifferent, you're not going to make a connection with the person. Just be your usual self, emotions and all.For instance, if your date brings up a movie you really like, don't just say, "Oh, I thought that was pretty good." Don't be afraid to show your enthusiasm: "I really liked that movie! I loved how the main character evolved over the course of the film."

, Unless you're a doctor on call, you don't need your phone out. Show the other person that you respect her or his time and attention enough to not interrupt it with texting or talking on the phone., If you're too tense, it will come across to your date. Take a moment to relax yourself so you can enjoy the time your spending with him or her., Dating should be fun, not torture. Plus, if you enjoy yourself, your date will enjoy him or herself more, too.
 Every conversation is give and take, so take time to listen to your date, truly listen. That is, hear what the other person is actually saying instead of just thinking about what you're going to say next. Respond in kind to show you heard him or her.If your date says something such as, "I enjoy gardening," don't launch into how you have a black thumb. Ask some questions, such as, "Oh really? What do you like to plant? Do you have a big garden?"

, Everyone likes to hear nice things about him or herself. Take some time to say what you think is nice or unique about the other person.You can compliment a person's appearance, such as "You have a nice smile." However, you don't have to stop there. You could try, "You seem like a really confident person. I like that."

, Confident makes you more attractive. So don't focus on your flaws. Flash a smile, and put your best foot forward.One way is to make yourself more confident is to think about the best way the date could go. Run through an awesome date in your mind beforehand, and it will help you bring that about.