 Cats hate being restrained. If your cat feels restrained in the bath, she'll probably try to resist and struggle. Avoid any type of restraint in the bath. Allow her to feel like she’s in control of her movements.One way to restrain your cat without actually restraining her is to use your hand to block her movement in certain directions. You can do this without actually touching your cat.
 Your cat can feed off your emotions — if you’re panicking, she'll probably start to panic. If you’re calm, there’s a better chance she’ll be calm too. No matter what your cat is doing in the bath, or how scared she gets, stay calm. Don’t yell or raise your voice. Don’t freak out or panic. Talk to your cat the whole time in a soft and gentle voice, like you were talking to a baby., Throughout the whole process of giving your cat a bath, give her treats. For example, once you’ve closed the door and you’re filling the tub, reward her for being a good kitty. When you place her in the water, reward her for being a good kitty. If your cat loves treats, they might distract her enough to reduce her stress in the bath., Since she’s a cat and sleeps 18 hours a day, finding a time when she’s sleepy shouldn’t be too hard. If her sleepy time doesn’t correspond to a good time to give her a bath, have a high energy play session so she gets tired. Having an intense play session before the bath may be necessary for a kitten, as they’re almost always frisky., Before you put your cat in the tub, give her a good brushing. You want to get as much of the loose and shedding fur off of her before she’s in the water. Besides making the water dirty, it can also clog your drains. If your cat loves to be brushed, as many cats do, this brushing will help to calm her down and prepare her for the bath., Once it’s bath time, be prepared for your cat to meow, howl, and yowl. She might even hiss and growl at you as well. Do not panic! Cats like to vocalize their distaste and just because she sounds like she’s being tortured doesn’t mean she’s actually in any pain. Talk to your cat in a calm and gentle voice while she’s in the bath. Don’t make any sudden movements that may startle her., When the bath is done, you still need to work to keep your cat calm. While your cat is still in the tub or sink, use your hand(s) to wipe off as much excess water as you can from her fur. This is especially important for her legs and tail. Once that’s done, take her out of the tub or sink and wrap her in a warm towel. Use your hands and the towel to dry your cat as much as you can. If your cat is brave, you can even use a blow dryer — on the lowest setting of course.Even if you wipe off excess water before taking your cat out of the tub or sink, she’ll still be quite wet. You’ll probably need to use a second towel right away as the first one will be soaked quickly.
Until your cat’s fur is completely dry, keep her someplace warm (and clean).
If you have a long-haired cat, you’ll also want to brush her fur with a comb to remove any tangles.
Your cat will start to lick herself the minute she’s able to reach her fur. And she’ll continue to lick herself until she’s almost dry. This is completely normal.

