 This can help you to know what it's about and what others have thought of it. You can read reviews to see what others have to say about it and how many stars they rate it. And if you don't mind spoilers, you can read a synopsis of the film. For some people, knowing what will happen reduces the fear but not the thrill because it helps take the edge off.


Try looking up the plot on Wikipedia or IMDB (Internet Movie Database) beforehand if you don't mind spoiling the movie for yourself. It helps to know what happens when, so if you think you might get scared by that part, go to the bathroom or get a refill on snacks.;
, Perhaps the content is not of interest to you or maybe the reviews have canned the film and it seems a waste of time. Or, perhaps the reviews are glowing and you're keen to find out more. Decide whether or not you want to watch the horror movie.
 A way to stop getting scared is by watching the non-gory ones first, the ones with a great deal of suspense, and slowly move into the most frightening and gory ones. Keep in mind that gory does not mean scary and the movies are not necessarily scarier when they're gorier. Some horror movies without blood are actually scarier than some of the really gory horror movies.
 If it is dark you may not want to have to wander the halls alone.
 Having some comfort objects might help you to feel safer and will provide something for you to clench if the movie gets especially scary for you.
 There's no need to be trialing this alone!


Never watch alone if the movie is really scary. Watch it with people like your family members or friends. This will help.
 If you're really scared, you can watch the movie through your fingers.
 Or, turn away.
, Reminding yourself that it's just a movie with special effects (and sometimes a bad script) can help you to remember that it's just a gory play on film and not reality.


Try laughing at all the unrealistic parts. For example: Bad effects for blood, unrealistic bodies, fake fear, dumb-looking monsters, etc.
 Notice how the scenes were created so you can know how unreal the movie really is. This can help prepare you for future horror movies too.
 Something loud, horrific and gory is probably going to happen.

