 People often go through life without considering how their demeanor will appear to or affect others.Go out of your way to show people that you see them as your equal and care about them.


Ask a lot of questions when you meet new people and use eye contact to show that you’re engaged.
Express to people that you’re impressed with their achievements and skills.;
, This will demonstrate that you value their intelligence and insight.


Bring up subjects of interest and ask what they think about them. While you will be controlling the conversation, you will also be demonstrating that you value what they have to say.
 Kindness is the best way to disarm people that may not like you and set a civilized tone for disagreements. Studies show that kindness is one of the most powerful tools of persuasion.Be polite no matter what, especially during disagreements.
Be aware of common, unintentionally rude behavior. For example, don’t talk over people and don’t patronize or talk down to them.
Give a lot of compliments when breaking the ice or experiencing a lull in a conversation. If you like someone’s clothing or find them interesting or intelligent, express that.
Consider your body language during conversations. Smiling and maintaining eye contact will express kindness and positivity to those around you., It’s just as important for your emotional intelligence to understand what causes you to feel upset and disagreeable as it is to understand what causes this for others.A lot of poor personal relationships stem from mismatched expectations and a failure to honestly articulate them.


If you feel that someone is overly familiar or makes you uncomfortable with their behavior, express this in a forthright and polite manner. Avoid the temptation to simply ignore them or send non-verbal signals because they can be easily misinterpreted or overlooked.If you feel someone is patronizing towards you, politely tell them you appreciate their explanation while also signaling that you have your own knowledge on the subject.
 Before you can deal with a disagreement or confrontation in a productive way, you need to diffuse emotions that can serve as a distraction. People will often feel anger and anxiety during confrontations which harms their ability to reason and consider the consequences of what they say.If you notice that someone is particularly angry with you, suggest that you take a few moments to be apart and set a time to get back together to discuss your issues.
Say something like “I think we should take some time to cool off before we discuss this further.”
Take some time away from the confrontation and think about something completely unrelated that makes you happy. Imagine yourself on a beach or practice a hobby. By the time you come back to your issue, you’ll have a more positive perspective.
 You’ll never be able to completely control how other people feel about you but you can control your reactions. By maintaining your composure, a conflict is less likely to escalate and will have a less detrimental effect on you.You may also find that you make better and less emotional decisions when you’re composed.


Taking a deep breath or counting to ten are great ways to calm yourself and remove the reactive emotions that can be detrimental.
 It can be very difficult to relate to someone you’re actively disagreeing with. Take a moment to place yourself in their shoes and try your best to understand why they feel the way they do.Even if you don’t agree with them, empathizing with their position will demonstrate humility and respect on your part. This will reduce the risk of a single confrontation turning into a sustained enmity.
It may even help to ask them to explain their perspective. Say something like “I’m trying to understand your side of this.” It’s important to remain calm and practice active listening so they feel you truly respect their perspective.
 It’s easy to get caught up in a disagreement and feel like you have to stubbornly fight for your side of an argument.


Try saving your disagreements for a second conversation. This will allow the other person an opportunity to express their frustrations without interruption or the risk of escalation.Try to genuinely reflect on criticism and look for the truth in feedback. Even if you initial impulse is to dismiss this criticism, taking a moment to consider it will prevent you from reacting defensively.
Try giving the other person the benefit of the doubt and assume their criticism is valid.
 A great way to get perspective on a conflict is to ask a friend or a neutral party to hear out both sides and weigh in. You and the person you are in conflict with are both more likely to remain civilized and constructive with a third party present.
 Sometimes you can’t control whether or not other people like you and you simply have to manage the situation and keep it from getting worse. If you develop an unpleasant relationship that can’t be avoided, stay focused on what matters whether it’s work, a school project or common interests. Use these subjects to prevent the bickering and unpleasantness from cropping up.


Try initiating a conversation about a subject that has nothing to do with your conflict. You may find that other subjects will reestablish the more agreeable aspects of your relationship and create a more positive focus when you return to the conflicted subject.
It may help to clear the air so the other person understands you’re refocusing on more constructive subjects. Say something like “I know you’re upset with me but I think we should stay focused on what’s most important.”

, If you don’t understand why someone dislikes you, ask them politely and directly. You may find that the problems are simply based on miscommunication and all you needed was to clear the air.Say something like “I would like to better understand your concerns and ensure that you better understand mine.”
It might help to do this in a public place where they are less likely to react with extreme emotions.
 Even if you’ve been wronged, holding onto your frustration will not be helpful. Hurt feelings can often lead to problems in future confrontations so deal with your emotions first. Forgiveness will reduce your anxiety associated with the situation and help you move on.Forgiving doesn’t necessarily mean forgetting. If problematic behavior is repeated, your relationship might just be toxic and worth severing.
 Tense relationships often fester because neither party is willing to step up and make things better. You may find that this person was just waiting for an opportunity to make things better.


Ask “What can we do to get past our problems?” Invite them to get their grievances off their chest.
 Not all relationships can be fixed or even ameliorated. Hostility and conflict aren’t good for anyone and if they become inevitable, the best thing to do is create space.Say something like “I don’t think our relationship is good for either one of us. We should take some time apart or just avoid each other.”

