 The most telling sign that you may be being cheap instead of frugal is the willingness to sacrifice quality for the sake of a cheaper price. Pure and simple: simply buying the cheapest option available without regard for quality is cheap. Meanwhile, identifying the best item that will meet your needs and getting the best deal possible is frugal., Verbal statements are especially easy to catch, and can be a pretty good indication that you’re focusing on the wrong aspects of a purchase. For instance, watch out for flabbergasted comments such as, “I can’t believe they’re charging $9 dollars for a burrito!” and “I won’t pay more than $5 for a beer.”Keep in mind that it’s perfectly fine to have these thoughts and to make your personal spending decisions accordingly.
That said, if you’re the one that's always exasperatedly decrying the cost of items your peers happily pay for, you probably sound cheap.
 Another sign that you may be making cheap purchases is when your possessions commonly break. This is a symptom of always buying the cheapest option. Furthermore, it’s important to realize that a better option will usually last longer than a cheaper option, and you may wind up spending less overall by avoiding repairs and other costs.For instance, those dollar store flashlights you keep needing to replace are adding up. You could have simply bought a higher quality flashlight years ago and still be using it today.
 While there’s usually not an obligation to pay for something you aren’t directly responsible for, you should never take advantage of others either. This can be tricky in some social situations, but communicate clearly in early discussions about cost. This will help you avoid scenarios where you wind up trying to talk your way out of paying your share later on.For instance, maybe you plan to attend a bachelor party and a couple of the other attendees wanted to rent a limo. Weigh in on the conversation and offer a more frugal option before the decision is made if you want, but don’t say something like “I didn’t agree to that!” when the time comes to split the bill.
Another classic example that isn’t fooling anyone: “I forgot my wallet.” Instead of saying something like this, ask if you can pay them electronically, or pay them when you get home.

