 Strep throat is a contagious infection caused by streptococcus bacteria.The hallmark symptom of strep throat is a sore throat, but it’s far from the only symptom.


You may experience pain or difficulty swallowing.;
, In addition to a severe sore throat that starts quick, your throat tonsils may look red and swollen, sometimes with white patches or pus. You may also have tiny red spots on the area at the back of the roof of the mouth., The infection will also cause the lymph glands in your neck to swell. If you feel around your neck, you’ll likely notice the swelling, which will also be tender to the touch.Pay particular attention to the glands in the front of your neck, under your jaw at either side of your airway.
 Strep throat or other throat infections can cause bad breath.Your infected tonsils will begin to secrete dead white blood cells, which give off a particular protein-like odor.
 Fever and chills are two more distinctive symptoms of strep throat. The fever is usually highest on the second day of the infection as your body responds.Normal body temperature is 98.6°F (37°C). Fluctuations greater than one or two degrees Fahrenheit (one-half to one degree Celsius) are a sign that you might have an infection.
If you have a fever over 101°F (38.3°C) or a fever lasting more than 48 hours, call your healthcare provider., Anytime your immune system responds vigorously to an infection, you may also experience generally flu-like symptoms. These symptoms may include:Rash, usually on the chest with the look and feeling of sandpaper
Headache
Fatigue
Stomach ache, nausea, or vomiting (especially in children)

, Ultimately, your doctor will have to diagnose whether or not your illness is strep throat or caused by something else. Your body will begin clearing most viral infections that can cause similar symptoms within a day or two (not completely but a noticeable difference), so you should especially see your physician if symptoms persist at the same severity for more than 48 hours.
 OTC painkillers such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen can help reduce pain and fever.Take these medicines with food if possible, and do not exceed the manufacturer’s daily dosage.


Avoid using aspirin to alleviate strep throat symptoms in children and teenagers due to the risk of Reye’s syndrome, which can cause life-threatening swelling in the liver and brain., Salt water can also help alleviate strep throat pain. Mix about ¼ teaspoon of salt into a tall glass of warm water. Take the salt water in the back of your mouth, tilt your head back, and gargle for thirty seconds. Spit the salt water out after the back of your throat is coated.Repeat several times a day as needed.
For younger children, ensure that they understand not to swallow the salt water., Many people can become dehydrated when they have strep throat because the painful swallowing stops them from drinking. However, keeping your throat lubricated will actually help reduce pain associated with swallowing.Though it may be unpleasant at first, drink plenty of water.


Some people may find warm liquids more soothing than cold water. You may also want to try warm (not hot) tea with lemon or honey.
 Sleeping is one of the best steps you can take at home to help your immune system battle an infection. Stay home from work or school and get lots of rest.Since strep throat is highly contagious, you should also stay home to help avoid spreading the infection to peers.
 Your throat drying out overnight can lead to an especially painful sore throat first thing in the morning. A humidifier will add more moisture to the air while you sleep (or even as you’re resting at home during the day), helping to reduce the pain of your strep throat.Ensure that you clean a humidifier daily during use since they’re ideal environments for bacteria and mold., Throat lozenges and sprays designed to help with sore throat symptoms can also help reduce sore throat pain and painful swallowing. These products can help coat the throat to reduce irritation or slightly numb your throat to alleviate symptoms. Use as directed.


Do not give lozenges to children under age 4, as they are at risk for choking.
 Hard, dry foods that can scrape and irritate your throat will be more painful to swallow. Soups, applesauce, yogurt, and mashed potatoes are just a few foods that might be easier on your throat to swallow.You should also avoid spicy foods until your symptoms subside., Irritants to your throat—especially smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke—can cause additional throat pain.Other irritants you should avoid while you have strep throat include paint fumes and fumes from cleaning products.
 If symptoms persist, then you should see your doctor because strep throat can spread, leading to the bacterial infection in other parts of the body or other complications of your heart, kidneys, or joints. Your doctor will be able to perform a quick swab of your throat to determine your diagnosis, or he or she may also have a lab do a culture of a swab sample.If the test comes back positive, then your doctor will likely prescribe a course of antibiotics.
 Your physician will likely prescribe a ten-day course of antibiotics (though this can vary based on the antibiotic). Common antibiotics for strep throat include penicillin or amoxicillin unless you have an allergy to them, in which case he or she will likely prescribe cephalexin or azithromycin.When taking antibiotics:Take as directed until the prescription is gone. Skipping doses or stopping because you feel better can increase the chances of recurrence, as well as helping to produce antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
See your doctor again immediately if you experience an allergic reaction to the antibiotic, with symptoms such as hives, vomiting, swelling, or trouble breathing, or if your symptoms have not started to improve within forty-eight hours of beginning your course of antibiotics.
Do not return to work or school for at least twenty-four hours. You will still be contagious until you’ve been on the antibiotic for at least a full day.
 As with most infections, washing your hands well and often is one of the best preventative measures you can take.This goes double if you have strep throat and want to ensure that you do not spread it to those around you.
 Any time you cough or sneeze while battling a strep throat infection, you expel the bacteria, potentially spreading it to those around you. Make sure you take extra steps to cover your mouth whenever you cough or sneeze. Using your sleeve rather than your hands helps reduce the spread of germs even more, but if you must use your hands, ensure that you wash them immediately after., Eating utensils, cups, and anything else that goes near your mouth will have an even higher risk of potentially spreading strep throat to others. Avoid sharing these items and wash them in hot, soapy water to kill the bacteria.After you finish two days of antibiotics, throw away and get a new toothbrush to prevent reinfecting yourself.
A dishwasher works fine to eliminate the bacteria when it comes to dishes and utensils.