 The first time you contact your ex-spouse about this will set the tone for the entire conversation. Since you want this conversation to go well, keep all communication respectful and neutral. If you feel comfortable reaching out by phone, do it. Send them an email beforehand letting them know. Tell them the day and time you want to call and ask if that works for them. If you’re uncomfortable or unsure about a phone call, contact them by email first and go from there.


Your initial email can say something like, “I would really like to speak to you about Daniel’s wedding. I was thinking of calling you on Tuesday evening at 8pm. Does that work for you? If not, please suggest another time."
For good measure you could also add, "If you prefer to communicate by email, I completely understand. I am open to your preference.”;
, Once the conversation begins, stay focused. Money is a sensitive issue, so keep your tone neutral and polite. Start off by saying how happy you are about your child’s wedding. Find a way to then tactfully ask your ex-spouse if they can contribute. Avoid making any demands.Phrase it as a question.


You could start off by saying, “I’m so thrilled that our child is getting married. I really want to give Sally the best wedding I can. I know you love her just as much as I do and you want her big day to be special, too.”
Then get right to the point by asking, “If you are open to it, I would really like to have a conversation about her wedding costs. Would you be able to contribute?”

, Dragging out your old issues will only serve to ruin a conversation that should be about your child.Do not bring up your past issues at all. If your ex tries to instigate an argument, do not react or take the bait – this is what your ex wants you to do.Instead, remind them in a neutral tone that the topic is your child’s wedding. Get back to the point immediately.


If things begin to escalate emotionally, step away from the computer to calm down. Don’t reply in anger.
If you’re on the phone and this happens, explain that you will contact your ex at another time. Conduct all future exchanges about the topic via email.
 If the conversation begins to derail, steer it immediately back to the real issue at hand – your child’s happiness. This is something that is important to both of you and it should come first. Remind your ex of this fact as calmly and often as necessary. A bitter conversation with your ex about their wedding will deeply affect your child when they find out about it.


You could say something like, "This conversation is about Kelly and her wedding. It's not about us. I think it's important that we put our differences aside and focus on our child's happiness, don't you?"
For the sake of your child’s happiness, work hard to be patient with one another. Do your best to avoid creating any kind of negativity in connection with their wedding day., Talk to your child about their wedding plans before you speak to your ex. Get an idea of the total cost of the wedding – a ballpark figure is fine at this stage. Have a list of expenses that you can provide your former spouse, so that they can look it over themselves. Provide the total estimated amount to your ex and explain that, as of now, this is the figure you were given and that’s your goal.


Avoid immediately requesting a contribution amount – instead, get the other person involved. Make this a team effort.
You could start off by saying, "I have a list of expenses for you to look at, along with an estimated total cost. What do you think of these numbers? Do you have any suggestions? Your input is important to me."

, How you decide to split things up should be proportionate to your situations. For instance, if one of you is a doctor and the other an elementary school teacher, it’s unrealistic and unfair to expect both parties to contribute the same amount.


You don’t have to divulge your current financial situations to each other – that’s private information. Say something like, "You don't have to tell me any details about your current financial situation, but please let me know if you're struggling in some way. We can figure this out together."
Have your ex consider their situation and provide you with an estimated contribution amount. You will need to come up with your contribution amount, as well.
 After you’ve both put forward an amount that can be contributed, evaluate the situation as it currently stands. Do both contributions cover the full cost of the wedding? If you’re short of the goal, how short are you? Keep in mind that your child’s wedding should not put either of you at risk financially.If the amount is significant, there are additional options to consider to help cover the remainder. Let your ex know, "We can make this work. Let's look at additional options together. I have a few ideas in mind. If you have any, please let me know."
The process for covering wedding costs isn’t as rigid or traditional as it once was. Don't be afraid to explore other options.
 If your ex-spouse refuses to help, or if your combined efforts still don’t provide enough money to cover the wedding costs, you shouldn’t feel bad. Weddings are expensive and it’s rare to have one or two people covering the entire cost of a wedding these days. Contact the family of your child’s fiancé. Find out if they are able to help you close the gap.


Offer a few suggestions. You could say, "My goal is to give the kids a wedding to remember. Here is the estimated cost so far. Can we explore ways to make this happen for them? I was thinking maybe the parents on both sides could split the expenses evenly. Do you have any thoughts or suggestions?"
Another option is suggesting that each family covers the cost for the amount of guests they plan to invite., Sit the couple down and explain to them what your combined contribution amount for the wedding is. You’ll need to assess how far from the original goal you are and have a serious discussion about ways to make the wedding more affordable. Say to the couple, “We both want to help you pay for your wedding. Combined we can contribute $XX,XXX to a wedding fund to help you cover the costs. Can we make this budget work?”Offer suggestions for scaling back costs. The number of guests can be limited, for instance. Even decreasing the guest list by 50 can help.
You could also make the reception less traditional. Instead of having a formal dinner, you could have a gorgeous brunch spread outdoors, for example. Limiting alcohol will also cut costs significantly., It’s not uncommon these days for the bride and groom to help cover wedding costs. Sit down with both of them and explain where you are with the financial situation. Discuss possibly dividing the expenses up evenly between the couple, the bride's family, and the groom's family. If that’s not possible, find out if they can make any contribution and, if so, what the amount would be.Sit your child down and say, "We are exploring all options to cover your wedding costs. We have a lot of it covered already, but we haven't met the total goal. Can the two of you contribute anything?"
You could add, "If you can't contribute much, that's ok. We are looking into other options. If you can contribute anything, let us know now so we'll know exactly how close to the goal we are."

, If you decide there’s no way to cut back on costs, research wedding loans. There are companies that provide these loans services so that your child can have the wedding of their dreams. However, examine everything closely and read the fine print. Often these companies will charge an extremely high interest rate on the loan.