 The beauty industry is a huge one, and it’s ever expanding. In this vibrant industry where trends are constantly changing and new customers are always emerging, the key to beginning a career in beauty is to pinpoint where in the market you can find a place for your talent. The Beauty industry can be broadly divided into two parts:


Products. This includes cosmetics, Skincare, and fragrances.
Services. This includes beauty treatments, massages, tanning, manicures, etc.;
, Not all careers in the beauty industry are the same, or require the same kind of training and skills. Before you move forward, decide where you want to express your particular talent. Ask yourself:


Do you want to work hands-on with people?
Do you want to work with product management?
Do you want to use the Internet to reach your audience?
Do you want to create new styles and trends?

, Before you begin your career as a beauty expert, it is necessary that you gain the skills to do so. The majority of careers in the beauty industry require some kind of vocational training or schooling.


Some careers also require an undergraduate degree. These are often business related careers of the industry, which focus on sales, marketing, and product management.
Some careers in beauty require no more than personal experience and natural talent. If you strive to pursue your career as an Internet Blogger or Youtuber, additional training, while helpful, may not be necessary.
 It takes about two years of training and study to complete most beauty school programs. Because there are so many beauty schools out there, it's essential to pick the right school for you. Some schools receive approval by professional beauty organizations, offering their graduates a qualification that is more widely accepted.Here is a list of professional beauty organizations that approve curriculum at beauty schools all over the world:


CIDESCO (Comite International d'Esthetiques et de Cosmetologie)This world wide organization has a qualification that is accepted in 35 countries, where all its schools work by the same syllabus.
CIBTAC (Confederation of International Beauty Therapy and Cosmetology)This is the examining body of the British Association of Beauty Therapy and Cosmetology (BABTAC). All schools work to the same syllabus.
ITEC (International Therapy Examination Council)VTCT (Vocational Training Charitable Trust), In this millennium, the Beauty Industry moves fast, and the Internet moves even faster. Learn the ins and outs of the major social media platforms including Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Twitter, etc.


Even if you don’t plan to use a major Internet platform like YouTube or Facebook as your workplace, knowing your way around social media can bring you great advantages as a beauty expert. Learn what you can about these platforms and how to use them, you will need to post your work online later.
 Work experience in a beauty salon, or working as a Sales Assistant in a makeup store or retail store can provide valuable experience and a huge advantage for breaking into the industry.


Get a job at a health spa. Health spas have become increasingly popular in a beauty industry and typically do very well. This type of entry-level job offers you training in a hands-on beauty environment.
Most spas are looking to employ qualified beauticians, personal trainers and holistic treatment specialists, but will often hire recent beauty school graduates for shampooing, hairstyling, and nail care.
 Beyond having a great resume and reputable school with great references from the instructors, your professional portfolio will catch the eye of potential employers, setting you apart from your competitors. When you’re just starting out, your experience will be limited, this is okay. Include:


Your training and experience in school. This section can make up for the lack of experience you may have by demonstrating to employers that you have the commitments and professionalism to complete a training course in beauty.
A Cover Letter. Take this opportunity to introduce yourself, highlight key aspects of your resume, and explain your passion for becoming a beauty professional.
Photos. Include clear, sharp, and well-lit images illustrating your skill and style.
Your resume: Your resume should include details of your background, experience, skills and qualifications in one well laid-out document. Make sure it is free of spelling and grammatical errors.
Your License. One of the first things employers will check for is whether you are licensed, so if you have a license, include it!
Client testimonials. As you build your experience in the industry, you may want to ask happy clients to write a brief statement about their experience working with you. Also, include completed service checklists to show employers you are serious about giving clients a professional and complete service every time.
A Letter of recommendation. Ask instructors or stylists and professionals who are familiar with your work.
 Create a website or space in the Internet where you can display your portfolio. This will give potential employers an easy professional way to see your work. Be consistent with your designs and keep your online portfolio updated with the best new project.


There are several online services you can use to create a portfolio including Dunkedand Carbonmade., Working in this type of career, you will provide a wide range of beauty services to clients, including facials and body treatments. A Beauty Therapist's work involves the following tasks:


Carrying out skin analysis and giving advice about skin and body care.
Performing facial or body massage and figure analysis.
Giving advice on exercise programs and nutrition.
Using a variety of treatments and products to treat skin and body conditions.
 Use your artistic talent to create makeup and prosthetics for television, film, and runways. In some cases, the title of Make-up Artist can also include the responsibilities of hair and wig design as well.


Television and film are constantly looking for top-notch beauty experts and often pay quite well for their services.
As a make-up artist, the subject and application will vary a lot. This job requires flexibility.
Many make-up artists are self-employed.
 Image consultants are specialists who combine all aspects of fashion, beauty, and hair care into a single profession. Provide advice and expertise on public image.


Many Image consultants are self-employed, but there are also opportunities to represent an agency, or production company.
 Sales Reps travel on behalf of their brand or company to visit salons and educate their fellow colleagues on how to properly use their products. The job of the sales rep is to know everything there is to know about the product line and be passionate enough to get other people excited about it.
 A job like this requires natural charisma and top-notch tech skills. YouTube is one of the biggest platforms for internet blogging. Before you begin posting videos, think about what kinds of videos get the most attention and outline a business model for yourself.


Get the necessary equipment and learn how to use it. You will need a recording device, a space to work, and adequate lighting. It is recommended that you invest in a good quality camera and make sure your video quality is good.
Prepare your material. Once you have all the gadgets in place to record your first Video blog, make sure you know what to say and don’t be shy. Try recording tutorials for practice and make necessary adjustments to your banter, explanations, and demonstrations as necessary.
Edit your videos.
Think about what kinds of videos get the most hits.
Interact with your followers.

