 Place the ground beef in a large skillet and cook on medium-high until well browned.


Use a spatula or a wooden spoon to break the beef up into small crumbles as it browns.






The beef should appear fully browned at the end of this step, but it does not need to be fully cooked since it will continue to cook later in the process.






Drain the beef after browning it by pouring it into a colander. Return the beef to the skillet after draining it.
 Stir the taco seasoning, Rotel, beef broth, and macaroni into the skillet with the beef. Heat the mixture through until it reaches a boil.For a stronger tomato flavor, consider adding a second can of Rotel. The first can should be undrained, but if adding a second can, drain the tomatoes before dumping them into the pan.
Measure out 3 to 4 Tbsp (45 to 60 ml) of commercial or homemade taco seasoning. Alternatively, you could also use one standard packet of commercial taco seasoning.
 After the contents reach a boil, cover the pan and reduce the heat to medium-low. Let the contents simmer gently for 12 to 14 minutes, or until the macaroni is tender.


You can stir the contents of the pan occasionally as it cooks to prevent the macaroni from sticking, but do not lift the lid more than three or four times throughout the cooking process since doing so releases steam that could otherwise help cook the dish.
 While the beef and macaroni mixture simmers, start working on the cheese sauce. Place the butter in a medium saucepan and heat it on medium until it melts.


For a lower fat version, consider using margarine instead of butter. Do not use oil, however.
 Sprinkle the flour over the surface of the melted butter, whisking continuously. Whisk the flour and butter together for another 5 minutes, or until it becomes light brown.


The butter and flour roux should also become more fragrant during this time.
Do not allow the roux to burn, however. It should brown lightly but should not char.
 Slowly pour the milk into the roux, whisking continuously. Allow the mixture to reach a boil.


You may need to slow down your whisking after adding all the milk in to allow the milk a chance to boil.
As soon as a gentle boil starts, whisk the mixture more vigorously, continuing until the clumps of roux break up and the entire thing is smooth and thick.
 Remove the saucepan from the heat. Add the shredded cheese and stir it in until melted. Add the salt and pepper after that, stirring well to combine.


Shredded cheese works best because it melts the quickest. Cubes or blocks of cheese could also be added, but you should chop these blocks into smaller portions or shred them with a box shredder before adding them.
Cheddar cheese is recommended, but you could experiment with different cheeses for a simple way to change the flavor of the dish. Try something like Colby-Jack or Monterey-Jack. Use Pepper-Jack cheese for a spicy alternative, or try a cheddar blend for a more subtle change.
 Keep the cheese sauce warm until the beef mixture finishes cooking. Once the beef and macaroni mixture is done, pour the cheese sauce over the mixture and stir it in.


Stir gently to prevent the macaroni from breaking apart.






The cheese sauce should thoroughly coat all of the beef and macaroni mixture.
 Spoon the mixture into individual serving bowls. Serve the dish while it is still hot.


Refrigerate any leftovers in a sealed container and reheat before serving again.

