 Cut a length of yarn approximately 10 inches (25.4 cm) long. Knot one end, then weave the other end through the eye of a large yarn needle.


Pull about 4 inches (10 cm) of yarn through the eye of the needle to help prevent the yarn from slipping back out as you work.
A standard overhand knot should work for this step. Do not use a slipknot.
The knot must be larger than the gaps in your crochet work to prevent it from popping out as you embroider.
 Poke the needle into the back of the material at the point where you want the French knot. Pull the needle and the yarn completely through to the front.


Ideally, you should position the needle in between to stitches/strands in your original crochet piece.
Continue pulling the yarn through until the overhand knot at the end of your strand lies flat against the back of the work

, With the index finger and thumb of your non-dominant hand, pinch the yarn 3 or 4 inches (7.6 or 10 cm) above the surface of the material.


Lay the side of the needle against the yarn, positioning it in between your pinched fingers and the surface of the material.
 Using your non-dominant hand, wrap the yarn around the needle two to four times.


Continue pinching the yarn as you do this. You'll need to maintain a good amount of tension to prevent the yarn from unwinding.
The number of times you wind the knot will alter the thickness of the French knot. The more you wind the yarn, the larger the French knot will be.
 Choose a point directly next to the exit point, but do not use the same exact spot. An adjacent stitch gap should be fine.


Do not push the needle all the way through the material yet.
Do not use the same exact hole. If you do, the knot will likely pop out through the back of the fabric when you finish.
 Use your non-dominant hand to gently tug the yarn downward, causing the coils to tighten.


Continue tugging until the coils wind themselves into a tight bunch, snug against the top of the crochet material.
 Finish pushing the yarn needle through the fabric.


The needle and the tail hanging off it should run through the center of the bundled coils, tightening them into a decorative knot.
 Tie another large overhand knot at the back of the material to secure the French knot from the other side.


Trim the rest of the tail, if desired, or weave the tail through the back side of the crochet work to hide it.

