 Begin your letter with a greeting that includes the customer's name. Make sure the customer's name is spelled correctly. The letter will lose some sincerity if the customer's name is spelled wrong.


Start the letter by saying "Dear" followed by the customer's first name.If you are trying to be informal you can start the letter by saying "Hi" or "Hey" followed by the customer's first name.;
, Use the specifics of your experience with them and how that experience was positive for the business.Are you thanking the customer for his or her first purchase? Did the customer leave a positive review of your business online? Did the customer refer a friend to your business? Did you have nice interaction with the customer in your store? Whatever the customer did, make sure you include it in your letter.


Being specific about the reason you appreciate the customer lets the customer know that you are really paying attention and focusing on him or her.
Always thank the customer genuinely for their business and support as well.
If you are writing to a loyal customer, you may say, "Thank you for being a loyal customer and supporting my business for many years."
If you are thanking a new customer, you may say, "Thanks you for trying out our _____. We love when new customers give us a shot."

, Let the customer know that you are looking forward to seeing them again or serving any of their future needs.Your letter is a genuine show of your appreciation, but it is also a marketing tool to get repeat business. If you plan to contact the customer at a specific time, include that in the letter as well.


Mention future interactions in the closing sentence or paragraph.
As an incentive to have a future interaction with a customer you can include some type of incentive in your appreciation letter like a coupon or gift card.
You may say, "We look forward to seeing you again" or "I hope you to see you during the sale we are having next week."

, If you were writing a business letter, you may end the letter by saying "Sincerely" or "Best Regards." Remember that an appreciation letter is more personal. Choose a sign off such as "Warm Regards," "Thanks so much," or "All the best."Carefully proofread your letter to make sure that it does not contain any errors.
Always write your name after the sign off.

