 One of the main reasons many people shy away from asking for or accepting help is they view it as a sign of weakness. Most people find it easier to give help rather than to receive it. This is a form of self-judgment, and you may also be unwittingly judging others by having this attitude. Remind yourself that there is no way to get through life without help from someone. At some point, everyone will need help and extend help.


You can overcome this misconception by realizing that being able to accept and ask for help is merely a core function of being human. Showing vulnerability helps you feel more alive. It allows you to experience the full spectrum of what it means to be human. Therefore, it is actually a strength, not a weakness., When you view yourself negatively for receiving help, you isolate yourself from the rest of humanity. You can counteract this by practicing self-compassion, which means treating yourself just as you would a dear friend.


Would you judge a close friend for accepting help? Of course not. So, you shouldn’t judge yourself. Instead be mindful of the language you use. Rather than telling yourself you are “weak” for accepting help, remind yourself that you are “courageous.”
Give yourself a warm hug and repeat soothing phrases to comfort yourself. Caress your back and shoulders while saying, “You are only human.”, One amazing benefit reaped from accepting help from others is experiencing gratitude. Developing a practice of gratitude offers many advantages, from improving health indicators to strengthening relational bonds.In addition to saying “thank you,” you can cultivate gratitude by keeping a journal.


Take time at the end of each day to jot down a few things you are thankful for. These might include having food, shelter, and loving family who supports you.
 Recognize that accepting and appreciating help makes it more likely for people to help in the future. And this advantage doesn’t benefit just you—it spreads like wildfire to your community and the world at large. The more people feel appreciated for helping the higher the chances that they will help others in need.This means that by simply graciously receiving assistance from your loved ones, you start an incredible chain reaction of giving that goes on and on, inspiring future giving in others.
You might even start off the chain by saying, "By helping me, you have inspired me to help others. Is there something I can do for you?"

