 5,000 dollars in 5 days is most unlikely.;
, The first thing to do is to learn to View an Advertisement Effectively.
, Then check on those sites and their testimonies. Check email addresses, so you can contact them. Check if there is a physical address. This adds credibility. If you are interested in a particular business, contact them stating your interest and await a response.
 At the very least, it should have a listed telephone number and be available during normal business hours.
 Don't search online for "work at home". What you're likely to find are scams. Instead try well-established job boards such as Net-Temps.com or authoritative books like "The Work-At-Home Sourcebook."

, What kinds of jobs and industries really use home workers? With a little bit of research, you will quickly learn, for example, that working at home is common in the medical transcription industry, but there's no legitimate job known as "envelope stuffing."

, You don't have to pay a fee to work at Starbucks or Hewlett Packard. Likewise, legitimate work-at-home job offers do not require registration fees or payment for "instructions". In other words, if you have to pay them anything in order to go to work for them, they're probably not legitimate.
 Some people will try to sell you a get-rich-quick scheme, but 99% of them are scams. Talk is cheap. Scammers will promise you your money back if you're not satisfied, but they won't deliver on their promises.
 As with any other employment, either you already have the required job skills or you don't. If you need skills to get a job, enroll at the nearest college, vocational school, or technical school.
 If it were really possible to earn $1,000 a week assembling products at home, wouldn't everybody be doing it? The old adage still holds true: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!

, There you can check registration details.
 Be sure to read the guarantee carefully.
 If people have been scammed, they are very quick to broadcast that fact online.
 Are the photographs too professional? Are the reviews too good to be true? Chances are they may be false.
 Learn about such things online.
, There are some legitimate online home-business opportunities. Keep your eyes open. You will soon be able to distinguish between the scams and the legitimate businesses.

