 There aren't as many free tools available for Mac users, but AdwareMedic is one of the most powerful and it's completely free to use.You can download AdwareMedic from adwaremedic.com. Double-click the AdwareMedic.dmg file after it finishes downloading and then drag AdwareMedic into the Applications folder.
 AdwareMedic will begin scanning your computer for Zedo adware files.
 antivirus program. Most Mac users don't have an antivirus program installed, but avast! may be able to help get rid of pesky Zedo files.


You can download avast! from avast.com/free-mac-security. Double-click the avast_free_mac_security_online.dmg file and drag avast! to the Applications folder.
 and click Start in the "Full System Scan" section. avast! will begin scanning your Mac for virus infections.


You can uninstall avast! after you're finished if you don't want to keep it.
 Zedo infects your web browsers, so you'll need to reset them before using them again.


Open Safari and click the Safari menu.
Select "Preferences" and then click the "Extensions" tab.
Find and remove any toolbars you don't recognize by selecting them and clicking Uninstall.
Click the "General" tab and change the "Homepage" tab to whatever you'd like.
 If you have Chrome installed, reset Chrome to remove any Zedo plugins and reset your homepage settings.


Open Chrome and click the Menu button (☰).
Select "Settings" and then click the "Show advanced settings" link at the bottom.
Scroll down and click the Reset browser settings button. Confirm that you want to reset your browser.
 If you have Firefox installed, you'll want to reset it to get rid of the Zedo files.


Open Firefox, type about:support into the address bar, and press ⏎ Return.
Click Reset Firefox and then confirm that you want to reset it.
 In some cases, your hosts file may get modified by Zedo. The hosts file directs web traffic for your computer, and Zedo may modify it to automatically redirect you to their web pages.Open the Finder and then click Go → "Go to Folder".
Type /private/etc/hosts and press ⏎ Return.
Drag the hosts file onto your desktop.
Double-click the hosts file on your desktop to open it.
Ensure that no extra entries. All of the lines at the bottom of the document should refer to localhost or broadcasthost. Remove any Zedo entries and save the file.
Drag the hosts file from your desktop back into /private/etc/ and then reboot the computer.
 Your router's settings may have been changed by Zedo if it continues to surface after following the above steps. Resetting your router is the quickest way to fix this, but you'll need to set up your wireless network again.

Most routers have a Reset button on the back. You may need a pen or paper clip in order to push the Reset button.
You will need to set up your wireless network again after resetting the router.

