 Typically when applying plastic-dip, the working space should be indoors. If the weather permits, the process can be completed outside as well. If working indoors, there should be functioning ventilation and minimum temperature of 60 degrees. If working outdoors; there must be no rain, minimal wind, and at least 60 degrees.;
, Gather all the materials/equipment in the Things You'll Need section at the bottom of the article., With your jack, lift up the front-end or back-end of your vehicle depending on your preference, and place your jack-stands in their designated places. Place bricks behind two wheels that are not being taken off.
 Using your torque wrench/gun, carefully remove all the lug-nuts off the wheels of the lifted side. Once the lug-nuts are off, you can now take off the wheels and place them face up on your working space.
 If you are accessible to a power washer, power-washing your wheels with water will do the job. If you do not have a power washer handy, using the cleaner listed in the Materials/Equipment section will work. Clean/wash until no dirt/stains/debris is visible then dry completely.
 Take the 3x5 index cards or playing cards and tuck them in between the rim and tire of the wheels. Ensure the tires are not exposed through the cards because if plasti-dip were to fall on the tires, it would be very difficult to take the plasti-dip off the tires.
 Plasti-Dip is a rubber based spray paint, thus requiring a significant amount of shaking prior to application. Shake the can vigorously for about 2-3 minutes. When lines and/or dots appear on the bottom of the can, the can is ready for spraying., Working on one wheel at a time, this first coat should be a relatively light coating. With the can in hand and 10-12 inches away from the wheel, begin by spraying the entire outside lip of the wheel in a sweeping motion. Then spray the spokes vertically, working on one pair of spokes at a time. After the spokes, spray a coating in the center of the rim. Now both wheels should be completely covered in a light coating of plasti-dip, quickly spray over any spots you may have missed.
 If indoors, give the wheels 15-20 minutes to dry. If outdoors, give 15-20 minutes as well. If there is sunlight outside, the wheels will dry faster - 10-15 minutes. *Tip: The more time you give your wheels to dry, the better the end result.*

, By now, the first coating should be completely dry. Be sure to vigorously shake the cans again before the second coat. This coating should be heavy, so you should be spraying the wheel with a slower sweep.


Spraying method should be the same as the method used in Step 2 of Part 2.
Since your sweeping motion is slower for this coat, shake the can after every section/spoke.
 Though it is a heavier coating, the drying time is roughly the same as the first coating. 15-20 minutes if indoors, 10-15 minutes if outside with sunlight, or 15-20 if out without sunlight., The first and second coatings are the only required coatings when Plasti-Dipping wheels. The first coat is required in order for the following coats to settle instead of run down the spokes. The second coat is required so that it is possible to remove the Plasti-Dip off, or else the first coat will be permanent.

Follow Steps 1 and 2 from this part when spraying the remaining coats on the wheels.
 At this point, you should have completely finishing Plasti-Dipping two wheels. When you are certain that the two wheels are dry, carefully install them back onto your vehicle. Remove the jack stands and jack up the opposite side and place the jack stands on that side. Carefully remove the last two wheels and begin Parts 1-3 again., You have now completed Plasti-Dipping your wheels. Once the wheels are dry, carefully remove the cards from the wheels without dragging the cards.
 It is now safe to put the wheels back onto your vehicle. Make sure all the lug-nuts are securely torqued.
 Remove the jack stands, and carefully lower your vehicle.
 I know you're anxious to show off your new aesthetic wheels, but it is recommended to wait a few hours before driving.

The paint is fairly fresh, driving will potentially cause dirt and other debris to stick to the wheels.
