 LinkedIn is the biggest social network for professionals and it can not only help you connect with others in your field, but can also help you find new work.


Your LinkedIn profile is like your online resume. Keep it updated with your current and past work, a good profile picture, and content that you’ve created to showcase your abilities.
 Make sure you've filled out your LinkedIn profile and it's complete so that you are putting your best self forward. You want a clear, professional looking photo, and all the necessary information filled out. Include your education, work experience and a comprehensive bio that gives viewers a well-rounded picture of who you are.
Fill out your skills and ask for recommendations from your network. In addition, endorse others’ skills.
Create a vanity URL for your public profile. Instead of having a number id on your personal address, change it to your name. This looks more professional and makes it easy for others to search for you.
 Just like when blog posting and creating titles that incorporate proper keywords, you want to optimize your work experience to be more searchable. Instead of saying you were a “Blog Manager” think about what that job entailed and make your title more comprehensive. “Content Strategist and Marketing Blog Manager,” tells people more about your job and makes it easier to find when searching.
Don’t go overboard and create job titles that are overly long and complicated, however. You want to find a balance between descriptive and succinct.
Do the same with your job descriptions. Use verbs and relevant keywords in easy to read bulleted lists.
 Join and participate in relevant groups as well as connect with many people as you can.


Unlike Facebook where you might not connect with people who you’ve only met once, you can and should on LinkedIn. If you met someone at an event or party who you think is relevant to your work, connect with that person on LinkedIn. You never know when that connection could come in handy when looking for new work.
Join groups on LinkedIn that are relevant to you. Groups can help you expand your network and give you useful information. Groups you are part of show up on your profile and therefore, are connected to you when a search engine crawls your profile.
Post in these groups and enter discussions with others. You can then easily add more people to your connections and expand your profile.
 Endorsements have tremendous value when it comes to boosting and improving your profile.


Not only will endorsements from colleagues hold more weight, but an endorsement is also a great way to stay connected with others.
Go out and endorse others as well. By putting your name on an endorsement, you essentially put another link back to your profile on someone else’s page. It shows that you are active and might help someone come across your profile and connect with you.

