 Not all long-term hotels have the same services. Keep this list with you whenever you inquire about a hotel room.;
, Many corporations sign up for a loyalty program. Input your discount code along with your search terms on the hotel chain's national website to see the costs of a long-term stay.
 These include the Staybridge Suites, Extended Stay America, Hawthorne Suites, Homewood Suites, Residence Inn, TownePlace and Candlewood Suites. Keep these names in mind as you search online or in the phone book.
 The number of extended stay options differs greatly depending upon your location. If you do not have a local phone book, go to yellowpages.com to access phone book directories.
 This will give you the first options, and is likely to recommend hotels that specialize in extended stays.
 The websites are unlikely to give you any discounts. Call the hotel and ask for long-term stay discounts.


Smaller cities and towns are unlikely to have long-term stay hotels listed on this site. It is best used if you are going to a large metropolitan area.
 If you want to stay in a specific area, then you should establish the hotels that are located near your conference center or office.


Call these hotels individually and ask for extended stay discounts. Many hotels in areas that are growing offer extended stay rates, even if they do not advertise them in the phone book or online. You are guaranteeing them they will book a room, so do not be afraid to ask for a deeper discount.
 Search on Airbnb.com to find someone who is renting out their house for an extended period of time. These properties usually have similar amenities as long-term stay hotels, such as laundry, Internet and a kitchenette.
 Create a spreadsheet. Comparison shopping will help you to get the best possible price.


Remember to calculate costs like a rental car or parking. Although you might be offered a reduced rate, these costs can easily make an all-inclusive hotel more attractive.
 Inquire about the cancellation policy in case you need to cut your trip short. Inquire how easily you can extend your stay.


Booking with a credit card allows you to reserve without a deposit at many locations. You will also be able to request a refund that will be credited to your account, if it is allowed with the hotel's cancellation policy. It is recommended that you book early to secure discounts.

