 Symptoms of Effexor withdrawal may include dizziness, fatigue, agitation, anxiety, chills, nausea, headaches, irritability, twitches or shakes, hives, a clicking or buzzing sound in your head, sweating, feelings of unease, muscle pain, and insomnia. These can range from mild to severe. You may experience all of these symptoms or only a few., If you are in the throes of a withdrawal from Effexor, there are a few simple ways that you can cope. First, you should drink a lot of water. The more quickly you can flush toxins from your system, the sooner you can begin to feel better., If you are experiencing Effexor withdrawal, chances are you will not want to eat; however, allowing yourself to get too hungry is a drain on your immune system, and will not help you to bounce back. Instead, try to nibble on nutrient-dense food, like fruits, vegetables, or nuts.Ask a friend to bring you a fruit smoothie made with strawberry, banana, almond milk, and coconut oil.
Alternatively, eat a handful or trail mix or a couple pieces of beef jerky when you feel up to it.
 The best way to deal with an Effexor withdrawal is to sleep right through it. Do your best to clear your schedule and get as much sleep as you can. Even if you cannot fall asleep, simply taking it easy and getting some rest will enable your body to heal.This should only be done if you are well-hydrated.
Drink water before and after doing any intense sweating.
 Try to relax and take long, soothing breaths. This will help move oxygen through your bloodstream, lowering your heart rate and stabilizing your blood pressure. Deep breathing can reduce anxiety, panic, and even nausea. Deep breathing has also been shown to help with restlessness and headaches., Although the symptoms of an Effexor withdrawal may be uncomfortable or even painful, they won't last forever. In fact, most people report relief in as little as 24 hours (or 72 hours at the most). If detoxing from Effexor is your goal, you are on the right track. Your withdrawal symptoms will be gone in a few days or less.