 While there are numerous opportunities to fund your small-business start-up costs online, you can't take full advantage of most of them without a large network of friends, family, and followers.If you haven't already, set up social network pages and accounts for your business that are separate from whatever personal accounts you have.
You can follow and promote these pages from your personal accounts to encourage people already in your personal network to support your business venture as well.
This process should start well in advance of your fund-raising efforts. To use social networks effectively, you need to expand your audience beyond your immediate social circle of people you know.
For example, if you want to try crowdfunding, you typically want to start mobilizing at least six months before you launch your campaign.
You also should consider starting an email mailing list and encourage the followers of your social media accounts to sign up for it. Mailing lists are relatively inexpensive to create and manage, with a number of different services online that provide the tools you need.
Be careful not to spam your mailing list with unnecessary or repetitive emails. Make sure the emails you send provide something of value to the receivers.
 If you're starting a new business to sell a unique product or invention, you can stimulate a lot of interest by offering a pre-sale of your product online at a special price.Promote your pre-sale from your business social media accounts and your email list, if you've made one.
Set a limit on the number of pre-sale orders you'll take to ensure you don't run into a problem of being unable to deliver all the orders you've received.
Your maximum limit of pre-sales should be based on the amount of money you want to raise to fund your start-up costs, but you also need to keep in mind the amount of time it will take to deliver on each pre-sale.
You could potentially do this with services as well, giving these early buyers a discount for committing to your service early.
 Crowdfunding websites such as Kickstarter have revolutionized the start-up funding game in many ways, enabling you to pool small investments from people who believe in your products or services to gather the funds you need to launch.Read the platform's terms and conditions carefully before you decide to start a campaign with them.
Keep in mind that some platforms host campaigns only on an "all or nothing" basis, which means if you don't meet your goal you won't get anything.
If you decide to use one of those platforms, set an achievable and realistic goal that's as low as possible to ensure you get the money you raised.
Decide what sort of benefits or offers you want to provide for different levels of investment. The most successful crowdfunding campaigns offer rewards of correspondingly higher value at each donation level, allowing all donors to believe they are getting something worthy of their investment.
Personalized or customizable rewards often receive a good response. For example, if you want to open a coffee shop, you may offer to name a drink after donors who contribute a certain amount.
 Online lending clubs often are faster and simpler than traditional bank loans, and can provide more versatility for your start-up. With many competitors in this field, research several before you decide to sign up.While applications for traditional loans can take weeks, if not months, to process, online lending clubs may bring funding within a matter of days or even hours.
Another benefit of micro-lending is that you typically don't have to provide the detailed financial and background information you would for a traditional loan.
Since you typically have many micro-lenders funding small pieces of your total loan amount, they generally aren't going to be as picky as major lenders because there's less risk involved with smaller loans.
Depending on the service you use, you also may have the benefit of lower interest rates and shorter-term loans.
Keep in mind many club members may fund only a portion of the amount you request, meaning you may not get funding for your full start-up costs, in which case you'd have to evaluate other options.

