 You can make a simple, quick pattern for your shorts by tracing the outline of a pair of shorts that fit well on a piece of craft paper.


Fold your shorts in half. Make sure that the front pockets are on the outside.
Trace the outline of your folded shorts on craft paper.
Add 1 inch (2.5 cm) around the bottom and sides of the pattern for a seam allowance.
Add 1.5 inches (4 cm) to the top of the pattern for a waistband.
Cut the pattern out with scissors.;
, Fold your fabric in half and lay your pattern out on top. Pin in place.


The long side or center of the pattern should be placed along the folded edge of the fabric.
For a more accurate approach, sketch the outline of the pattern onto your material.
 Use sharp sewing shears to cut along the outline. This will create one full side of your shorts.
 Make another piece for your shorts using the same pinning and cutting method used for the first piece.


Fold your fabric in half and lay your pattern out on top, with the long side of the pattern along the folded edge. Pin in place.
Cut around the pattern to form another piece.
 Unfold your two pieces and line them together with the right sides facing each other and the wrong sides facing out. Pin together.


More specifically, pin along the two rounded seams of each piece. These seams are the ones you will be stitching together next, so keeping them evenly aligned is essential at this point.
 Use a sewing machine to sew along the rounded seams.


If sewing by hand, use a backstitch.
Allow for a 1 inch (2.5 cm) seam allowance.
You should be left with what appears to be a single connected "tube" of fabric.
 Turn the fabric over so that the stitched seams sit in the center front and center back of the fabric.


After sewing the two separated pieces together, the sewn seams will be on the outside edges. You'll need to rotate the shorts so that these seams are down the vertical center and evenly aligned with each other.
These sewn seams will end up forming the crotch of the shorts.
 Flatten the fabric so that the opening below the center line of the crotch can be seen easily. Pin along both sides of this material and sew together to complete each leg.


Use seam allowance of 1 inch (2.5 cm).
Sew these sides together using a zig-zag stitch.
These seems will fall out along the inner thigh.
 Fold over the upper edge of the fabric, leaving enough room for your elastic band. Pin in place, then sew along the raw edge to stitch the waistband down.


Fold over the top 2 inches (5 cm). This should give you enough room for the waistband elastic.
Sew a straight stitch with your sewing machine or a backstitch by hand.
Leave a small hole along the seam so that you can thread the elastic through it.
 Insert the elastic through the opening in the waistband and push it along the waistband until it reaches all the way around. When done, sew the opening in the waistband closed.


The elastic should be about the same size as your waist, minus roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm). Since elastic needs to stretch to stay secure, this extra space will make sure that the shorts stay snug on your waist.
Clip a safety pin to one end of the elastic to make it easier to feed the band through.
Alternatively, tape the elastic to a long chopstick to make it easier to feed through.
Pull both ends of the elastic through their respective openings along the waistband. Hold them taut as you zig-zag stitch the elastic together and the opening closed.
 Fold up the bottom edge of each leg by about 1 inch (2.5 cm). Pin in place and sew around the leg opening to create a hem. This completes your shorts.


Use a seam allowance of about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
Make sure that you do not sew the front and back of the shorts together. You need to sew the hemmed fabric around the opening of the leg.
When done, turn the shorts right-side out again and try them on.

