 This list should reflect the purpose of your shopping trip.


Do not buy anything that is not on the list. If you see other things that you want, or might need in the future, start a second list for a later shopping trip. Note the price of the item and where you saw it.;
, Before you set out on your shopping trip, decide how much you will spend.


Shop with cash only. Use of credit and debit cards has been shown to increase one's spending. If you take only the amount of money that you have budgeted, you will not be tempted to spend more on what you do not need.
 Before you shop, research what the items you need cost at different stores.
 When you are buying groceries, cleaning products, beauty items and paper goods, the store brand will often cost less.


Review store circulars or advertisements that come in the mail or with your newspaper.
Use websites that compare store prices for you. Popular sites that gather this information include www.mysimon.com, www.nextag.com and www.bizrate.com

, Retailers provide coupons for a variety of consumer goods, including groceries, clothing, automotive items and health and beauty items.


Look for coupons you can clip in your Sunday newspaper.
Save the coupons you might get when you checkout at grocery stores, drugstores and retailers such as Target and Walmart.
Go online for printable coupons. The most popular sites include Coupons.com, SmartSource.com and RetailMeNot.com. You can also sign up to have coupons delivered to your email address or mobile phone.
 Try different brands of merchandise if it is marked down or being promoted for less., If you need to buy clothing or accessories, look for the items you want online before you hit the mall. Sites such as eBay and Overstock often have the same or similar items for a lot less.
 For groceries, you can find great deals in "limited assortment" markets such as Aldi and PriceRight. For clothing, shoes or things for the home, check retailers such as Marshall's, Ross and HomeGoods.
 Mistakes can be made, and merchandise can be rung up wrong.

