 While it may be tempting to drastically cut calories and impose unrealistic eating expectations to hasten weight loss, a slow and steady approach is more effective and easier to maintain.


Change just one meal a day. Rather than redoing your plate at every meal, try eating just one healthier or smaller meal a day. You won't feel deprived with this gradual change, which will give you time to adjust to your new way of eating.
Eliminate or replace one snack a day. If you always have a cookie at your 3 p.m. coffee break have a peach instead or simply skip the sweet treat altogether. Or trade your large mocha for a cup of green tea with a squeeze of lemon.
 Having a reward system in place can help keep your enthusiasm high while dieting and prevent you from going off track.


Schedule a "cheat" day. Allow yourself one day a week when you can forget your dietary restrictions and eat whatever you want. It'll give you something to look forward to and keep you from feeling deprived.
Be careful of labeling a food as "forbidden." Human nature makes us desire something we can't have even more. Avoid saying that you can "never" have a certain food on your diet plan. Allow for exceptions to reduce the allure of certain tasty treats.
 To track your success in taking off the pounds, set up a system that will let you see how you're doing.


That same food diary you started at the beginning of your plan to track your eating habits can be used to track what you're eating on your new plan. Compare your entries from week to week to see trends, triggers and successes.
Use an online program. Enter all the information about your new plan (starting weight, goal weight, daily menus) into an electronic program that will keep your progress at your fingertips. Many of these programs offer healthy recipes and community forums where you can connect with others who share your goals.
Conduct weekly weigh-ins. It's not just what your food diary says that matters, it's what the scale says as well. Set a certain time each week to weigh yourself and make note of the results.
 You shouldn't beat yourself up about the occasional slip-up on your diet, but don't let yourself off the hook entirely. You've set a goal and charted a course, now it's up to you to stay on track.


Tell someone (or everyone) that you're dieting. Making a public declaration can increase your chances of success by holding you accountable to others. It can also engender the support you need from family members and friends who can cheer you on to your goal.
Join a support group. This could be formal group such as Weight Watchers or simply a group you organize yourself. Post an ad on Craigslist looking for weight-loss partners or organize or join a Meetup group dedicated to healthier eating.
 Dieting can be difficult and change isn't necessarily easy but keeping a good attitude can help you get over the rough patches you may encounter on your road to better health and a better body.


Post inspirational sayings on your fridge. Having mood-boosting words-of-wisdom close at hand can help you handle a difficult diet day.
Do things that make you feel good. Get a pedicure, have your hair done, buy a new perfume. Little things that make you feel special and pampered can offset the feeling of deprivation that can sometimes creep in when you're dieting.

