 In order for the game to recognize that you have played GTA V on a last-gen console, you will need to link your PSN ID or Gamertag to a Social Club account. You can sign up for an account via the “Online” tab in the Pause menu or on the Social Club website.If you already have a Social Club account, continue to the next step.


You can only link your accounts via the Pause menu if you have a Playstation Plus or Xbox Gold membership. If you do, you can sign up for a Social Club account from the Pause menu as well.;
, If you are linking your accounts via the Pause menu, go to the “Online” tab in the pause menu, then select “Character Transfer” and sign into your Social Club account. To connect your accounts on the website, sign in and go to the “Linked accounts” section of your account settings. Click on either the Xbox One or PSN icons to sign into the respective account. Once you sign in, your accounts will be linked.The PSN ID or Gamertag you link to Social Club needs to be one you previously used to GTA V on a last-gen console.
You will need to link your accounts on the Social Club website if you previously played GTA V on an Xbox 360 and now play it on a PS4, or if you played it on a PS3 and now play it on an Xbox One.
Although the button in the Pause menu is titled “Character Transfer,” you’re not actually required to have a previous GTA Online character. Once you link your accounts in the Pause menu, you will be taken to a character creation screen. If you do not wish to create a GTA Online character, you can exit and return to GTA Story Mode.
 After completing the third heist, Michael will have access to missions given to him by Solomon Richards. Meltdown is the third mission Michael does for Solomon. After completing the mission, Michael will have access to Solomon’s office, which is where one of the murder mystery clues can be found., It is located in West Vinewood, two blocks west of the Oriental Theater. Walk between the five buildings and toward the building to the southwest. The message will be scratched into the wall to the right of the window. This message reads “Old Fred acts nice but it ain’t so!”


Each time you find a clue, including the messages, an autosave icon will appear in the bottom right of your screen to indicate that you’ve successfully found the clue.
You can find the messages in any order.
 Go to the northwest corner of the theater. The message can be found on a wall to the left of a palm tree and to the right of a movie poster.


The message alludes to a clue you will find later: “Ain’t no mystery. They drowned her because of what she knew!”

, It is in the Alta neighborhood of Vinewood, two blocks east of a Ponsonbys store. The message is located in an alcove near the southwest corner of the building, below a light. The message you find here is “Fred makes cartoons for kids, funny thing considering what he hid.”

, Make your way down to the lowest level on the southwest section of the building. It is on a wall facing downtown Los Santos. This message reads “David Richards knows.” Solomon Richards is the son of David Richards.


You will need to find all four messages before finding the next clues.
 The next clue can only be found by scuba diving. When you exit a dinghy or submersible into a body of water, you will automatically be equipped with scuba diving gear. Since you completed the Meltdown mission, and therefore completed the second heist, a submersible can be found at Trevor’s airfield. However, you will need to transport it by latching it onto a Cargobob helicopter.


If you prefer to take a dinghy, they can be found near the docks on the southern coast of Los Santos.
 Drive the dinghy or submersible out to the west of Fort Zancudo. Exit the vehicle to equip scuba gear, then explore the ocean floor in this area. You will find the corpse of a woman whose head is covered with a bag, and her feet are encased in cement. Swim back to the surface and head back into the city.
 After 9PM, there will be a yellow mission marker outside of Solomon’s office in the Richards Majestic building.Go into his office and read the letter on the desk. The letter will give you more insight into the mystery and will lead you to where another corpse was hidden.
 You will need to purchase a flashlight attachment for one of your weapons. Having a flashlight is required to find the corpse, and this Ammu-Nation is closest to the corpse’s location.
 You can get there by following a road going south from the Ammu-Nation in Grand Chaparral. When the road forks, take the left road, and the mine will be located at the first large curve of that road. Use an explosive or shoot down the doors of the mine. Equip your weapon with a flashlight attachment and travel into the mine until you find the corpse. Once you do, you will gain a new contact in your phone. Calling that number will unlock two new vintage filters you can use for your phone’s camera.


You don’t have to use your phone’s camera to see the filters, as they will be applied to normal gameplay as well.
By calling the contact, one of the two filters will be applied. When you call again, the next filter will be applied. Calling the contact a third time will disable the filters.