 Before you do any kind of work or maintenance on your vehicle, it’s important that you first put on the necessary safety gear. Checking for oil leaks means climbing under the vehicle where oil will likely be dripping from above you, so eye protection is absolutely necessary. You may also choose to wear gloves to protect your hands from pinches, scrapes, or the radiant heat of the engine bay.Eye protection such as glasses or goggles are a requirement for this project.
Gloves are not mandatory but you may choose to wear them.
 Before jacking up the car, pop the hood and disconnect the battery to ensure the engine cannot be started for any reason while you are under the vehicle. Use a hand or socket wrench to loosen the bolt securing the black ground cable to the negative terminal on the battery. The negative terminal can be identified by the letters “NEG” or the negative symbol (-) above the terminal.Remove the ground cable from the negative terminal and tuck it to the side of the battery.
You will not need to remove the cable from the positive terminal.
 Make sure the car is on solid blacktop or concrete and use a jack to raise the vehicle to a height that allows you to climb or use a creeper to slide under it. With it at the appropriate height, place jack stands under the car in designated jacking points to support the weight of the vehicle.Never just use a jack to support the weight of a vehicle you climb under.
If you are unsure of where to place the jack or jack stands, check in your vehicle’s owner’s manual for designated jack points.
 Look around the engine from above and below for signs of an oil leak. There may be a small leak that allowed the oil to leak out over time or there may be a more significant leak that happened quickly. Because the oil system is under pressure, a large leak will result in oil being sprayed all over the area of the leak.If you see a small stream of oil running down a surface in the engine bay, follow it up to its highest point to locate the point of the leak.
If there is a lot of oil everywhere, the leak is likely substantial.
 There are a number of different fluids found in the engine of modern vehicles and it can be difficult to determine which fluid you’ve encountered while looking for leaks. Oil is usually brown or black, while coolant tends to be orange or green and windshield washer fluid is usually blue. However, once mixed with the dirt and grime of your engine bay, the color of the fluid may be difficult to assess. Wipe some of the fluid on a blank sheet of white paper to get a better idea of its color.Make sure the engine is cool before starting this process to avoid being burned by dripping fluids.
Look for brown or black fluids when searching for oil leaks.
 When looking for oil leaks, you may want to start at the common gasket failure points. Engines are made up of metal components bolted together, but simply bolting two pieces of metal to each other will not create a seal that can withstand the oil pressure in your engine. Because of this, automakers add gaskets at these locations to create a seal. If a gasket becomes compromised, the pressure of the oil will force the oil out the weak point and create a leak. While these common locations can be a good place to start, this is far from an exhaustive list of places you may find an oil leak.Look at where the oil pan bolts to the bottom of the engine block. The pan is the lowest point in the engine and is held in place by a number of bolts. Run your finger along the oil pan to identify where a leak may have started.
Check the oil drain plug on your oil pan to ensure it is snug and no oil is leaking from it.
Look for signs of oil leaking where the cylinder head meets the block (head gasket) and where the cover bolts to the top of the cylinder head (valve cover).
Leaks may also arise where the crankshaft bolts to the crank pulley on the bottom of the engine block.
 Once you identify the location of an oil leak, you’ll need to take corrective action to stop the leak from continuing. Locate the leak, then remove the component in place over the failed gasket. Scrape off any remnants of the old gasket before replacing it with a new one and bolting the component back into place. Some gaskets are simple and easy to replace, while others may require the removal of the engine from the vehicle. Assess whether or not the repair is something you are capable of doing, as you may need to have a professional mechanic repair the leak.If you can identify the leak, but lack the tools or expertise to repair it, bring it to a mechanic and let them know what you were able to identify.
You can purchase replacement gaskets at your local auto parts store.

