 A 5–10 gallon (18.9–37.9 L) glass aquarium is a good size for most scorpions that are kept as pets. It is very important that the enclosure has a locking lid, so that the scorpion cannot accidentally escape. However, the lid must also have small holes so that air can circulate throughout the aquarium., Scorpions come from either jungle environments or deserts. The type of material you should choose to fill your scorpion’s aquarium depends on your pet's species. If you aren’t sure what kind of scorpion you have, check with a pet store, entomologist, or vet that specializes in exotic pets.Jungle species from Asia and Africa will like a thick layer of peat moss (about 2.5 inches or 6-7 cm) in the bottom of the aquarium. You can also add bark chips on top.
Desert species will like sand (about 4 inches or 10 cm thick).
Don’t use dirt from your yard, as it may have pesticides or microbes that could harm your pet., You can make your scorpion’s aquarium more like a home by giving it some things to play on and burrow under. Good choices include:Wood
Ceramic pots
Bark

, Scorpions need a warm environment in order to stay healthy. They will also need to have some temperature variation so that they can regulate their body temperature.Keep your scorpion’s aquarium at about 77 degrees Fahrenheit (25 degrees Celsius). You can use a heat mat to help keep the aquarium at the right temperature. Look for one at a pet supply store.
The heat mat should be placed under the bottom of the aquarium, but should only cover about one-third of it. This provides a way for the scorpion to move around from warmer to cooler areas and regulate its body temperature.
If you live in an area that becomes very warm, you may not need to use the heat mat all the time, or at all.
You can attach a thermometer to the aquarium to keep an eye on its temperature. Look for one at a pet supply store. One used for reptile housings will be fine.
 Jungle species of scorpions will prefer a humid environment. Spray the aquarium of a jungle scorpion with water every day or two, but don’t soak it. It should not become moldy.You should only need to spray a desert scorpion’s aquarium with water once in a while.
 Pet scorpions can eat a variety of small prey, including insects, spiders, and mealworms. Crickets are recommended as regular food, since they are readily available from pet supply stores and/or bait stores.A large scorpion might eat a few (3-5) adult crickets once or twice a week.If you keep a supply of live food for your scorpion, be sure to care for it, too.
 Scorpions will need access to water, so you should keep a shallow bowlful in your pet’s aquarium at all times. Make sure that the water is clean, fresh, and chlorine-free., Scorpions are capable of eating prey that is quite sizeable. About once a month, you should give your pet larger offerings. Good choices include mice and small lizards or snakes., Ordinarily, scorpions are nocturnal. To mimic natural feeding habits, you should feed your pet at night., If your scorpion does not eat all of its prey at first, you should take the uneaten food out of its aquarium. Live prey that is left in the aquarium, including crickets, can attack and harm a resting or molting scorpion., If your scorpion seems to be eating less than usual, you may want to contact a vet that has experience treating exotic pets. Not finishing its food can indicate that something is wrong with the scorpion., Generally speaking, scorpions should not be handled. While the venom of most scorpions is not lethal, a sting can be painful. Individuals with allergies may suffer more severe reactions. In addition, scorpions may become stressed and ill if handled., If you must pick up your scorpion (in order to clean or change its aquarium, for instance), use a pair of foam-tipped tweezers or tongs. Be very gentle and do not squeeze your pet., The exoskeleton of scorpions provides good protection for them in their natural environments. However, scorpions can be crushed. When they are molting or have recently molted, their exoskeletons can be especially soft. Give your pet’s exoskeleton a chance to harden before handling it.