 Grease a muffin pan using butter, margarine or a cooking spray. This will make it so that your casseroles don't stick when you remove them from the oven., These will serve as the crust for each of your individual mini casseroles. If you are using a muffin pan with larger than normal pan cups, make sure to adjust your squares or circles of dough so that there is enough to fill them.
 Push the dough into the muffin pan cups so that the dough creates a layer in the cups. Some of the pastry should come out of the cup so that it's easier to remove them from the pan once the casseroles are cooked. You can find gluten-free pastry dough at the grocery store, or create your own gluten-free dough. Popular brands include Bob's Red Mill Gluten-Free Dough and Pillsbury's Gluten-Free Dough., Add your green beans and onions in a bowl. Combine the 10.75 oz of can cream of mushroom soup with 1/2 cup (118.29 mL) of milk and 1 1/2 cups (187 g) of shredded cheddar cheese. Stir the mixture with a large spoon until all of the ingredients are incorporated with one another. The texture should thicken as you mix.
 Use a spoon to fill each of your muffin pan cups to the top with the mixture of green beans. Make sure not to overflow the cups.
 Adding almonds to your casseroles is an optional step that will add a crunchy texture to your casseroles. The nuts will also become golden brown and will be a delicious accent to your dish. Cut up your almonds with a knife and sprinkle them on top of each of the casseroles.
 You want your oven to be properly preheated so that your mini casseroles cook all the way through.You can set your muffin pan aside while your oven heats up.
 Cook the casseroles until the dough and the almonds become golden brown. If you are using a thinner dough, you may have to reduce your cooking time. Keep a close eye on your casseroles and pull them out when the surface is bubbling and the crust is a golden brown.
 Remove your casseroles from the oven and set them aside for 5 minutes to cool. This will allow the casseroles to harden and will make it easier to remove them from the pan. Once they've had time to set, remove them and serve.

