 Take steps to increase your knowledge about anger. The first step in understanding any human behavior is to learn about it. It will give you a strong base of ideas and strategies from which to pull when you are dealing with someone with anger issues.


Access educational material on-line from reputable sources like the American Psychological Associationand the American Psychiatric Association. Subscribe to newsletters from groups that cover subject matter related to anger and other areas of interest.
 Show the other person that you have good intentions by remaining consistent in what you say and do. Many people go through life with a feeling of mistrust toward others. People who guard their emotions are usually those who have been hurt repeatedly in life. It’s not easy to forget when someone violates your trust, but holding onto doubt will likely cause you to suffer.It takes time and effort to build trust. Repeated positive interactions are the goal. Simply asking how someone is doing, or remembering that he has a tough assignment coming up at work or school lets him know you care enough to remember.
Think of ways you can show the person that your actions are inspired by goodness. Be kind. Do things like making the person his favorite meal, or tell the person you appreciate the things he does for you.
It takes courage to be vulnerable. Remember a person with anger issues may struggle with this notion. You can show your vulnerability by sharing your own struggles to help the other person feel more at ease.
 The ability to express emotions varies from person to person. Frustration and anger grow when you can’t find the words to express the emotions you are feeling.


Once you expand your vocabulary you can help others do the same.
Suggest and encourage the person to take classes in non-violent communication. The goal of these classes is to learn to express your feelings and needs with greater clarity and compassion.Gather lists that itemize numerous emotions to help identify the emotions a person is feeling. You can refer to that list to help determine if you or another person's emotional needs are satisfied, and when they are not. Strong emotions like anger are designed to help you respond to and cope with stress in your environment, but can become bad for us if not handled with care.Research has shown that if people have twenty words for anger (irritation, fury, rage, hostility), then they will perceive twenty different states and will better regulate their emotional states as a result., Keep your word, tell the truth, be transparent, and give without strings attached. Use these simple wisdoms to show that you are the type of person who can be trusted. Helping others overcome emotional upheaval can be difficult, but in the end you will find greater happiness.Successfully managing situations with difficult and angry people, builds skills that can be used at home, at work and in public. You will be well-equipped to handle each situation with confidence.

