 Asylum is a protection for people trying to avoid persecution from their home country. Someone who can prove eligibility for asylum will be allowed to stay in the United States and may eventually apply for permanent resident status., Asylum applications can either be affirmative or defensive. Affirmative asylum is the label used when an individual who is present in the U.S. prepares and files an application. Defensive asylum is the label used when someone in the U.S. is in the midst of removal proceeding, and asylum is used as an attempt to stay in the country.Someone in the U.S. could become a subject of removal proceedings either because he or she entered the country without proper documentation or broke some immigration law while in the country.
 To qualify for asylum in the United States, an applicant must prove a history of persecution or a reasonable fear of persecution. This persecution must be as a result of the applicant’s membership in one of the following five established categories:race
religion
nationality
political opinion
membership in a particular social group

, In addition to the first four basic classifications for asylum (race, religion, nationality or political opinion), women, in particular, may be able to qualify for asylum as members of a defined social group. In particular, you may be able to win asylum by proving that you suffer abuse at home based on your gender. In some countries, abuse against women may be an almost traditional part of the culture. This may be the beginning of identifying yourself as a member of a social group, sufficient for asylum.Particular types of harm that are directed internationally at women include the following:rape
female genital mutilation (FGM) - FGM is most prevalent throughout Africa and parts of the Middle East and Asia.
forced abortion
forced marriage - forced marriage occurs in many cultures throughout the world, stemming from poverty, gender discrimination, and lack of security.
domestic violence - in many societies, the laws, courts and local police may condone the practice of domestic violence or at least fail to take steps to prevent it
bride burning
honor killing
trafficking
slavery

, In most cases, matters of basic abuse, while individually tragic, do not rise to a level that qualifies for asylum. However, as more and more cases of abuse are identified, the need for asylum becomes evident. If you can demonstrate that part of your national culture includes the kind of abuse that you are suffering, and that your local government or police do not protect you, you may qualify as a special social group for asylum.For example, in Saudi Arabia, a woman is not allowed, by law, to admit herself into a hospital without the assent of a male relative.
In other countries, a woman who admits that she was raped could be accused of illegal sexual intercourse. Instead of being a victim, she can become a defendant.
 In some countries, limitations on travel, education, and employment can keep women from relocating to avoid the abuse they are suffering. In some countries, women need permission from or the accompaniment of a male relative to take public transportation. These limitations on movement and freedom can further support a woman’s claim for asylum.As one example, a woman from Guatemala recently gained asylum in the U.S. by convincing an appeals board in the U.S. that she is part of a social group defined as married women in Guatemala who cannot escape their abusive spouses., Working with an attorney is not a requirement to gain asylum, but it will definitely improve your chances of success. A good immigration attorney will understand the procedures, the deadlines, and the general expectations of the court. A good attorney is someone who will explain the process to you, help you understand what you need to do all along the way, and make you feel more comfortable about your asylum application.


For more ideas about finding a qualified attorney to help you, check out Find an Immigration Lawyer.
You can get a list of qualified immigration attorneys who offer their services either for free or at a reduced rate by contacting the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). You can call them at 1-800-870-3676, or see their website at 222.uscis.gov.The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees may also be able to provide support for individuals who are seeking asylum. You can reach this office by calling 202-296-5191., Unless you fall within a qualifying exception (see below), you must file your application for asylum within a year of entering the United States. If you fail to submit your application within a year of your latest entrance in the country, you may lose the right. To fall within the qualifying exception, you must be able to show the following:Your circumstances have materially changed; and
You file your application within a reasonable amount of time since the change in circumstances arose.
For example, if you have been living within the U.S. for more than a year, and then suddenly some political action in your country would make it unsafe for you to return, you may qualify to file for asylum beyond the initial one year deadline. You would still be required to act within a “reasonable” time of receiving this news., You will need to provide additional evidence that shows that you are facing persecution or abuse in your home country. You will be asked to provide your own explanation of your situation, but your case will be better supported if you have independent evidence.Any of the following could provide the evidence that you need: newspaper articles, affidavits from witnesses or experts, photographs, or periodicals that show that persecution against your group is happening in your country.Additionally, you may provide statements from a physician, a written journal you may have kept, official documents, testimony from any witnesses who may be able to appear on your behalf. Live witnesses will need to have first-hand knowledge of the persecution that you have suffered.
 If any of the documentation that you have in support of your application is in a foreign language, you need to provide a complete translation into English. The translator must certify that the translation is complete and accurate., Along with your application, you need to provide a passport-sized photo of yourself and each family member you include in your application. These must be recent photographs. On the back of each one, you need to print each person’s full name and their alien registration number (A-Number), if they have one.You should also make three copies of all passports and other travel documents.
 This form, titled the “Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal” is the primary document that you file to request asylum in the U.S. You can download Form I-589 at the official website www.uscis.gov, at the “Immigration Forms” link. You can also request a form by mail by calling 1-800-870-3676.Type or print all your answers in black ink.
The form must be completed in English, or it will not be accepted., When you have completed your application and all supporting materials, you need to put them together in the correct order, or they may not be accepted. The proper filing package should contain the following materials:Your Form I-589 application
A photograph of yourself. Staple your photograph to the Form I-589 at Part D
Form G-28. You need to sign this and include your attorney’s signature, if you have one.
The originals and one copy of all additional paperwork that you may have to support your application
If you application for asylum includes a spouse or unmarried child, you will need to provide evidence of your relationship. Evidence may include a birth certificate, marriage license or other official document.
 You need to send in three copies of your application to USCIS. If you are including family members in your application, you should include one additional copy for each family member. For example, if you are applying for yourself, your spouse and three children, you will need to provide seven complete application packages (three for yourself and four additional copies).Make sure that you keep a copy for your files.
 The filing of your asylum application will differ, depending on your status before the immigration service. You will need to submit your application and supporting materials as follows:File with the immigration court that has jurisdiction over you, if a case has already been started. This will most likely be the situation if you are filing a defensive asylum application, or if you have already come before an immigration court for some other reason.
If no case has already begun that involved you with the immigration court, then you should file with an immigration service center near your current residence. The USCIS website lists the applicable service centers at http://www.uscis.gov/i-589. Follow the link to “Where to File.”

, If you are already in the United States and have been stopped or arrested and face deportation, you may choose to file “defensive asylum." If you try to enter the U.S. without proper paperwork, you may be stopped at the border and turned away, or held for questioning and deportation. You may also need to file for defensive asylum if you have been convicted of a crime within the U.S. and are about to be removed.
 You will begin your request for defensive asylum by speaking to officials of the Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) or Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). When you are stopped at the border, or arrested for some crime, you need to tell the arresting officials that you fear persecution in your home country and are seeking asylum in the U.S. You should then receive information about the process for completing the defensive asylum application. You may also ask for a list of attorneys to represent you with your application.If your defensive application is the result of having been stopped at the border as you tried to enter the U.S., officials will question you to determine whether you have a “credible" fear of returning to your home country. Your fear will be considered “credible” if you can demonstrate a “significant possibility” that you would face persecution upon returning home. This screening interview should occur within 48 hours of your initial request for asylum.If you are facing deportation because you violated some immigration law, the court will question you within ten days to determine whether your fear of persecution is “reasonable.” A reasonable fear is defined as a “reasonable possibility” that you will face persecution if the U.S. deports you and sends you back to your home country., Once you begin the process by asking for asylum, you will receive a notice to appear for a hearing. This first hearing is the MCH, or Master Calendar Hearing. You must attend this and all hearings. Even if you are represented by an attorney, you must attend the hearing along with your attorney.At the MCH, you will not be questioned about your application. The purpose of the hearing is to set dates for submitting the portions of your application and to set future hearing dates.
 The judge at the MCH will set deadlines for submitting your application papers. You will need to complete the I-589 form and compile supporting documentation. You will need to file the original and one copy with the court, and provide one copy to the Department of Homeland Security trial attorney.