 Practice dribbling in a thirty-yard area, varying your speed and the part of your foot used to move the ball. You want the ball to feel like a natural extension of your feet, stopping, moving, and changing direction at will. Some ways to practice this include:










Obstacle courses: Set up cones or small objects in zig-zag lines, then dribble through them with the most controlled speed you can. Your goal is to get through all the cones without hitting any or missing them. As you get better, pick up the speed.

Juggling: Although this is not directly used in the actual game of soccer, being a better juggler will improve your 'touch' and overall comfort with the ball. Juggling is simply using your whole body (minus arms and hands) to keep the ball in the air as long as possible. Start trying to get 10 touches in a row, then move up to 20, 50, and 100., This requires great foot skills, but you should start working on it as soon as possible. Advanced soccer players intuitively know where the ball is at their feet most of the time, allowing them to look up and find the next pass or shot opportunity. Though you will always look down occasionally, the more you can keep your head up the better you'll be.


Practice picking your head up with every dribbling drill you do, especially in practice., These simple, quick exercises are a great way to work on your foot skills, even if you would never do the actual movement in a game. For all of them, get your feet moving as quickly as possible while remaining in control.








Bounce the ball in between your legs as if you are rapidly passing the ball from the inside of your right foot to the inside of your left. Work on using small movements to "chop" the ball back and forth.
Do toe taps by leaving the ball in front of you and alternating touches on the top of it with the bottom of your foot. To get fast, try and land on the balls of your feet each time, and keep your knees slightly bent.
Put the ball between your legs. Roll the bottom of your right foot on top of the ball, carrying the ball to the right. Once you've rolled over the ball, bring your right foot back to the center, passing the ball to your left foot and repeating. You can also do this in reverse, rolling the ball to the inside, pushing it to the right with the outside of your foot, then chopping it back to the center. This drill, though advanced, is a great way to practice total control., The best soccer players know that soccer is a team sport. Dribble too long and you will turn the ball over, every time. Thus, you need to spend the same amount of time practicing your passing as your individual foot skills. You should be able to make quick passes with one touch (not stopping the ball as it rolls to you), and be able to set up and hit a good cross in just two touches.Hit up against a wall for quick, easy passing practice. The worse your pass, the harder it will be to retrieve the ball and hit one back.
Get a friend, usually a striker, to work on crosses with you. Stand in the corner and have your friend point out where they are going. Have them start running, then hit the cross to them so that they don't have to break stride to get the ball.
Think about your weak areas and make a commitment each week to fix them. For example, if you want to work on shots, pick 2-3 days a week to go to the field and shoot for an hour. Once you feel good, use the same time to work on dribbling, or crosses, or some other advanced skill you need to practice.
 Warm up by spending your time with the ball alone: Dribble much faster with accuracy. Keep your head up slightly as you dribble the ball so you can see the field. Here are some popular moves which you should learn:










Flip Flap/Snake/The Ronaldhino

Move the ball with your outside foot to the outside, then quickly flip the ball back with the inside of your foot.
Your foot will wrap around the ball, pushing it away from you then bringing it back, fooling the defender.



Stop and Go

Jog slowly with the ball.
Stop for a moment, placing the bottom of your foot on the ball
Then, roll the ball forward and to the side of a defender, then take a big touch and run past the frozen player.



Scissors

Bring your foot over the top of the ball, faking like you're going to push it or pass it.
Once the foot is over the ball, bring it back, catching the ball on the way and going to opposite direction from the one your faked.
You can do this with the inside or outside of your foot.
 This should be a ritual, and not something you choose to do on certain days or at certain times. Training with a soccer ball 3-4 times a week will definitely improve your skill. Volley against a wall, or practice shooting with both feet on a trampoline or goal, if you have one. Practice foot skills, and juggle. Juggling will help with ball control. You should do this with both feet, so you are comfortable with both feet. Also, shoot and volley with both feet.









Many coaches recommend spending 30 minutes or more on skills every single day.

