 Today, the easiest way to figure out how many words you can type per minute is usually to use a program online specifically made to test this. It's easy to find dozens of these programs with a search engine term like "words per minute typing test." Though there are many of these types of programs available, most work the same way: you type a list of words within a certain time limit and the program uses your performance to calculate your WPM.


One great program for this is available at 10fastfingers.com.The test on this page is simple: just type each word on the screen, putting a space between each, until the minute timer counts down.
In addition to learning your WPM, this typing test will also tell you the number of mistakes you made and tell you which percentage of test-takers you scored in.;
, You can also determine your typed WPM manually — for this, you'll need a computer program you can type in (like a word processor or notepad program), a timer or stopwatch, and a source of text you can copy.


Set the timer for any length of time (in general, the longer you test yourself for, the less vulnerable you'll be to fluke performances.)
Your text should be long enough that you won't reach the end before your timer finishes.
If you don't have a word processor installed on your device, you can access one for free with a Google account at drive.google.com., When you're all ready to go, start the timer, then begin copying the text. Try to be as accurate as you can — if you notice a mistake while you're typing a word, fix it, but you don't need to fix mistakes in words that you've already finished. Keep copying the text until the timer goes off, then stop immediately.
 Now, finding your WPM is easy. Divide the number of words you typed by the number of minutes that you originally set your timer for. The final answer you get is your WPM.


Note that nearly all modern word processors have a "word count" feature, so you don't need to count your words manually.
For example, let's say that we type 102 words in 1 minute and 30 seconds. To find our WPM, we would divide 102 words/1.5 minutes to get 68 WPM.


