 If you notice your dog tends to jump up on people when you take them outside for a walk, you should use the “down” command. Teach your dog not to jump up on other people or other animals by using this command.If you notice your dog jumping on someone else, tell the person to calmly turn their back on your dog. Then say, “down” to your dog, lightly tugging on their leash. Once they get down, reward them with a treat.
 This basic command can help your dog stay calm and in one place if they get distracted or riled up outside. You may start by teaching your dog this command indoors and then try having your dog do it during their walks. This way, you can use it on your dog if they start to get too excited while on a walk or when around other dogs.To teach your dog to “sit and stay,” hold a treat in your hand. Then, tell your dog to sit. You may need to lightly tap their butt towards the ground so they know to sit. Once they sit, say “Good job!” and give them the treat.
Another way to teach the dog "sit" is to hold a treat above their head where they can see it. Slowly move the treat over their head towards their back. As you do this, say "sit." Usually, dogs will try to follow the treat with their eyes. As the treat passes over their back, they will naturally sit so they can see it. Reward the dog once they sit.
Then, hold another treat in your hand and say, “stay.” Only give your dog the treat if they stay in the seated position. Once they have sat and stayed for 10 to 20 seconds, say “Good job” and give them the treat.
 You may use this command if you plan to let your dog off their leash in your backyard or in a fenced-off area.To get your dog to follow the “go to place” command, lay out a mat or a towel on the ground outside. Then, hold out a treat and say, “go to the place” while pointing at the mat or towel. Once your dog goes to the mat or towel, say “sit” and “stay.” Give your dog the treat as a reward.
You may need to reinforce this command by having your dog practice it several times, rewarding them with a treat every time they do it correctly. With enough practice, your dog should respond correctly to this command, indoors and outdoors.
 If you are worried about your dog chasing after birds, squirrels, or other critters when you are outside with them, you should teach them the “come” command. Tell your dog to “come” if they start to stray away from you on their leash. Reward them with a treat once they return to you. Over time, they should follow the command without a treat as a reward.You can also deter your dog from chasing something they shouldn’t by taking out one of their toys and playing with them. If you notice your dog staring at a squirrel in the yard, for example, distract them by throwing the toy at them and engaging them in play.

