 Preventing this condition requires treating the underlying conditions that cause it and managing the potential conditions from which it may arise. Generally, speaking AVN is a result of thrombosis, emboli, or general bone fractures.


Thrombosis, and emboli mostly arise post-operatively, or after fractures and prolonged immobilization of fractured limbs. They both can be prevented by proper rehabilitation, and, if necessary, administration of anti-coagulant therapy, such as heparin.Anticoagulant therapy is commonly indicated for patients who are at risk for thrombosis, and the two main groups of patients receiving this therapy are those with prolonged immobilization of fractured limbs, and those undergoing post-operative prevention.

;
, Bisphosphonates increase bone mineral density leading to increased bone strength and delay the progression of bone collapse. They are antiresorptive medicines, which means they slow the dissolving process. Most are taken by mouth.Common brand names of bisphosphonates are Fosamax, Boniva, Actonel, and Reclast. Some are taken once a day, once or twice a week, or even once a month.
Nevertheless, studies on the effects of bisphosphonates on AVN in humans is not conclusive. If ever, its use is for early-onset AVN.
 This is a solution you inhale 6-9 times a day for high blood pressure.It is a vasoactive compound, meaning it widens the diameter of blood vessels. It is used in the treatment of blocked arteries or lumens of a blood vessel and stops the clumping of platelets in order to avoid blood clotting. By increasing the diameter of blood vessels, iloprost helps in increasing blood flow to affected bones and joints, thus preventing AVN.Iloprost is useful only in early-onset and not in advanced forms of AVN.
Iloprost can decrease bone marrow edema in the acetabulum of the hip joint, the foot, and the femur (or hip) bone.
The side effects of Iloprost are severe headaches, nausea or feelings of vomiting, and a temporary increase in hip pain sensation.
 This can break down blood clotting in veins around the hip joint. However, do know that this drug is still experimental as studies on enoxaparin's effects on AVN has focused on AVN caused by steroids.Why does it work? There is less movement of blood through a limb suffering with AVN, and stasis of blood occurs. As a result, stasis is a risk for thrombosis (clot forming) inside the blood vessels. These drugs make sure that there is a reduced chance of formation of these blood clots.
Treatment is 60mg per day for 12 weeks.Talk you doctor about whether he or she thinks this is a viable treatment option for you.
 Lipitor and Zocor are two popular options. Statins protect against AVN due to steroids and are normally used to fight cholesterol. In addition, these can decrease bone marrow fat cell sizes and decrease pressure inside the femur head. Statins have shown positive effects on bone-forming cells (osteoblasts), too.


These are especially potent for those on steroids.But statins are widely used against cardiovascular problems across populations as well., Getting hyperbaric oxygen treatment is said to heal early-onset AVN after around six weeks of treatment. Studies on the use of hyperbaric oxygen on AVN patients show promising results but this treatment is still experimental.


This is where you enter a special, closed-off room and breathe only pure oxygen. The air pressure is generally three times higher than normal. The idea is that there is more oxygen in your body, promoting additional blood flow., There are more serious treatment programs you can think about as well. Ask your doctor about the following:


Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is promising for stage 1 or 2 (early onset) AVN but studies on this are still few or limited. Therefore, this treatment is still classified as experimental. ESWT causes increased formation of new blood vessels and helps in bone regeneration and remodeling (formation of previous bone structure).Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy has some similar effects as ESWT such as increased formation of new blood vessels and bone tissue both in animal and human studies. This treatment is given for eight hours per day for a five-month average length of treatment.
 For patients who are taking glucocorticoids, whatever their condition is, it is very important to monitor their intake -- these medications can cause a plethora of side effects, including interfering with bone mass and bone strength. Glucocorticoids are one of the most commonly prescribed medications.


Almost a third of patients afflicted by AVN without a known cause (idiopathic), are linked to excessive glucocorticoid use. Thus, your physician should closely monitor your intake of these drugs, to prevent this specific side effect, but also many others.
They are used in numerous conditions - inflammatory, malignant, autoimmune, and in many skin conditions -- and their application is very diverse.
 Physical therapy methods and exercises must be started early on in the development of AVN. The use of crutches or other supportive devices must be used to avoid weight bearing on some affected joints like the hip joint. This is to avoid pressure on the affected bone and its blood supply.


Range of motion, muscle strengthening, and gait exercises are taught and provided by your physical therapist. Exercise will help increase blood flow to the affected joint, promoting healing of the bones of the joint and relieve pain. This is a very important part of prevention and treatment of AVN.
 When fixating the limb for immobilization, it is very important to properly position the fractured limb and all of its joints so that it can heal in an efficient way, but also prevent complications, like infection, hemorrhage, and more serious complications like thromboembolism.Depending on the location and severity of the fracture and the bone or joint affected, specific guidelines should be followed in order to maximize recovery and speed. Guidelines include the position of the limb, the amount of joints that need to be immobilized, the duration of fixation, etc.
If this procedure is not executed properly, and if the bone has regrown in a way that it shouldn’t, this can cause severe problems in rehabilitation, and significantly alter the course of recovery.
Rarely, but sometimes, a therapeutic solution can be “refracturing” the same bone or joint, so that it can grow back the way it should. It is very extreme, but sometimes proves to be the only solution. Thus, it is of extreme significance to immobilize the affected limb to avoid such complications.
 Well-planned rehabilitation following the removal of a cast, or any other form of immobilization, is imperative. After an adequate period of time for healing, movement and strength regaining exercises must be performed to return the strength of the muscles of the fractured limb.


After immobilization, the muscles of the fractured limb are very weak; proper strength regaining exercises are of utmost importance in order for the limb to be functional and useful as was before.
Your physician should give you all the necessary instructions during and after the rehabilitation process, in order to hasten recovery. These must be taken rather seriously, at least until the limb is mostly recovered.
 The Pavlik harness is an orthopedic contraption used for babies with DDH (hip dislocation). It flexes the legs upward, the knees to dangle downwards, and places the hips in a proper position, from birth to six months of age. This promotes proper hip development and lessens the likelihood of AVN in the hips. Nevertheless, the Pavlik harness is used only for certain types of DDH.


The brace must either be worn 24 hours a day or only removed when bathing; your doctor will know what's best for your scenario. It takes babies a few days to get used to it, sure, but in time they do.And, yes, they still wear diapers as normal.
 Surgical correction by the reduction of congenital or acquired hip dislocations by closed or open reduction is always an option if need be. If you're facing AVN in its advanced stages, this may be a wise decision. Talk to your doctor.


Reduction means to restore by surgery a bone fracture or dislocation to its correct position or alignment with respect to the other bones to which it should connect.

Open reduction means cutting through tissues to locate the bone and align it.
Closed reduction means there is no cutting through tissues and the bone is aligned correctly by external procedures.
 This includes fracture and surgery. When there is a thromb or an embolus, the same mechanism occurs as in a heart attack. In other words, there's a clog in the blood vessel in the bone, leading to a lack of blood flow, and, subsequently, to necrosis, and death of the tissue.


Fractures interrupt the arterial supply to the bone, and thus create a shortage of blood and nutrients, leading to the same outcome – necrosis, and, eventually, death of the tissue, if untreated.
 It has been found that previous administration of corticosteroidal drugs can be seen in 16-34% of those with “idiopathic” osteonecrosis (idiopathic meaning without known cause).It is also said that the risk for osteonecrosis increases with the increased duration of treatment and amount of glucocorticoids. However, it is still unclear how this mechanism triggers this condition.It is known, on the other hand, that these drugs interfere with bone density, and have been proven to cause the appearance of osteoporosis (decreased strength, and density of the bone) if used excessively., Osteonecrosis is a potential severe complication in people suffering from Sickle cell disease. The red blood cells in this condition are malformed, and due to their shape (like a sickle), they sludge together, and occlude blood vessels, and subsequently compromise blood flow through these vessels.As a result, infarcts and ischemia of the areas that are supplied by these blood vessels appears, and blood flow is compromised, thus leading to shortage of oxygen and valuable nutrients. With no oxygen, the tissues die.
 Similarly to patients with sickle cell disease, both conditions cause osteonecrosis via blood vessel occlusion. If an underlying cause present, that needs to be treated first and foremost. In certain cases, AVN is a symptom and not just a problem in and of itself.


In thrombosis, this is caused by a thromb (blood clot), and in the case of Vasculitis (a group of autoimmune diseases characterized by inflammation and damage of blood vessels), immune complexes made of antibodies directed to some of our own tissue are responsible for this condition.
 Diseases such as Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), and Cushing’s Disease can also bring about AVN. If either of these are a battle for you, you're at a very high risk for AVN.


Systemic Lupus Erythematosus is an autoimmune disease, and the condition itself causes a form of vasculitis, which causes occlusion in the same mechanism mentioned above.
In Cushing’s Disease, due to excess cortisol, there is fat cell enlargement causing hypertension, and occlusion of the veins in the bone., This doesn't happen often, but occasionally an individual experiences an autoimmune reaction to the transplanted organ, resulting in an occlusion of blood vessels by these immune complexes (similarly to SLE). Subsequently, there is lack of blood flow into the tissue that is affected by this reaction.


Though it probably goes without saying by now, this lack of blood flow leads to AVN when there is no blood or oxygen in the bone or joint, leading to tissue death.
 All of the mentioned conditions should be taken into consideration. However, as we have mentioned above, almost a third of idiopathic presentations are due to excess glucocorticoid use.


As we can see, most conditions that cause osteonecrosis have a more or less a similar mechanism: Disruption and occlusion of blood flow through the blood vessels, due to diverse causes. Trust your doctor will run a series of test to pinpoint the problem.

