 Check out a visitor's guide for your city and figure out which quintessential experiences you're missing out on. Are you a Chicagoan that has never been to the top of Willis Tower or a baseball game at historic Wrigley Field? Have you lived in San Francisco your entire life but never visited Alcatraz or walked across the Golden Gate Bridge?


Do a search for all the quirky little museums in your area and visit as many as you can in one day.
Go on a photo-walk and see your city in a new way. Go to a new neighborhood and document your day with your camera. Share the photos online.
Find out if there are any walking tours in your city. There may be a history tour, an architecture walk, or even a ghost walk led by someone well-versed in these areas.
Hop on a bus and ride it to the end of the line. See where you end up.
 Use your GPS to track down containers that have been hidden in your area. The "caches" contain a log book you can sign to show you were there and sometimes there are trinkets for trading.


Make sure you always put the cache back so other people can enjoy the hunt.

Make your own version of this for your friends, hiding something nearby and giving them a map or clues to help them find it.
 Check the local newspaper or search online for event listings. Find out if your city has a symphony, opera, ballet, and see if you can get a ticket for that night's performance. Look into jazz festivals, Shakespeare in the park, world music festivals, and public art displays.


Check the local library for readings and lectures.
Check any colleges in your area for film screenings, lectures, plays, dance performances, and other events.
Find out if there's an open mic night in your area and go perform that song or poem you've been working on.
 Take a "staycation" to the next level and spend the night in a hotel in your city. Take advantage of room service, go for a swim in the pool, and ask the concierge for his or her insider recommendations for the best restaurants and activities nearby.
 You'll be amazed by the edible plants that are growing just outside your doorstep. These classes are lead by experts who can tell you what's safe to eat and what to avoid (you should pretty much always avoid picking mushrooms).

