 The goal is to get the bird into the hands of experts as soon as possible. See if they are willing to take in the bird. While organizations like this may not have room for every common species, they may have the facilities to raise orphaned fledglings of rare or endangered species.


If no wildlife rehabilitator is available in your area and you are on your own, you may be able to contact a national or state level organization that can give you help., Make sure the fledgling cannot escape or injure itself in the cage. The bird should have plenty of room and should be placed in a warm and safe room away from predators.


Cover the bottom of the cage with soft padding. Make sure it is in a warm and calm space.
Do NOT put a dish a water in the cage. Baby birds get all the water they need from the food they eat. A bowl of water is just a hazard that the bird might drown in.
 Before you care for the bird you will need to know what kind of bird it is and what it needs to survive. Different types of birds have different diets, so you should find out what the bird eats before you feed it. Note that feeding the incorrect food can cause the bird serious illness.


If you can't identify the bird off the top of your head, look at a book of birds that live in your area.
Look up the bird type online to identify the bird and to see how to take care of it properly.
 It is incredibly important to feed a baby bird the right food. Some species eat mainly fruit and insects whilst others can be fed only special formula. This depends highly on what kind of bird you have and how old it is.


Once you've identified your bird, protein eating birds can be fed a mixture of baby bird food blended with meal or earth worms. Fruit eaters can be fed crushed fresh native berries like blueberries, blackberries,and raspberries in addition to baby bird formula.
Most pet stores carry baby bird formula mix.
 Once you figure out the fledglings nutritional needs, you can use a small baby spoon or straw with the end cut like a scoop and gently feed the bird the mashed up mixture. If you have a needle-less syringe that can be used instead of the spoon, but only small amounts allowing the bird to swallow well.


Taking on the responsibility of feeding the bird is a big one. You will need to feed the bird very often, even throughout the night.In some locations, you even need an ok from local wildlife authorities to raise a wild bird yourself.
Keep in mind that pet and bird stores can help you find a local wildlife rehabilitator and can help you figure out how to properly feed a fledgling.
You can gently massage the birds throat (crop) when it's swallowing the mixture and keep it warm.
Don't force feed the bird, this will result in getting bitten and the bird being overfed. Only force feed if the bird is a fledgling and doesn't accept you as a source of food yet.
Don't try to open it's mouth, it will bite. If you do, wear thin gloves so that no skin tissue is damaged.
 Keep handling to a minimum if you wish to release the bird one day. If the bird imprints on you, or sees you as its species, it will not fear humans and will not survive in the wild.

