 Water works to flush out toxins in your system and keep your body hydrated so that it can fight against the things that are ailing it. Although it is important to drink water on a regular basis, it is especially important to do so when you’re sick. Make sure you have a glass of water with you at all times, and that you are drinking it at least every hour.
 If you're nauseous and vomiting, you’ve probably lost a lot of fluids and are having a difficult time keeping fresh ones down. Sports drinks are enhanced with electrolytes, which your body needs for a speedy recovery. Grab your favorite flavor and gulp it down after throwing up to help replenish your body’s electrolyte and fluid supplies.
 While many juices can be filled with sugar and flavors that are hard on an upset stomach, cranberry juice offers some nutrients without the sugary punch. Drink cranberry juice when suffering from nausea, especially when you haven’t been able to eat any food.
 This sweet and sour combination works to settle your stomach quickly, without a ton of necessary fluids, Mix a teaspoon of lemon juice with a teaspoon of warm honey. Slowly sip the juice-like liquid over several minutes. You can take this mixture multiple times a day if your nausea doesn’t subside.
 Cinnamon has been used for decades as a natural remedy for nausea and vomiting. Mix ½ teaspoon of cinnamon with a cup of hot water and allow the mixture to steep. Drink the tea slowly several times a day until your upset stomach goes away.
 With a similarly autumn-esque flavor to cinnamon, cloves can also help to settle an upset stomach. Brew up a cup of clove tea by mixing a cup of hot water with a teaspoon of powdered cloves. Allow the mixture to steep for several minutes before straining out any large clove chunks.
 Ordinarily associated with cooking, cumin can actually work well in a nausea-fighting tea. Try a mug by mixing a cup of hot water with a teaspoon of cumin seeds. Allow the tea to steep for 10-15 minutes before removing the seeds and drinking slowly. A bit of honey can be added for sweetness if desired.
 Peppermint is on par with ginger as being one of the best natural nausea-fighting remedies around. Use a teaspoon of crushed and dried peppermint leaves or use a few fresh leaves with a cup of hot water to make the perfect tea. This can be drunk hot or cold, as many times throughout the day as you would like.
 If eating ginger isn’t enough for you, grab a can of ginger ale soda. Check your soda ingredients first though to make sure it is made with real ginger and not artificial flavor. Sipping a can of the ginger pop will settle your stomach and help to keep you from throwing up., Slightly different than a regular cola soda, cola syrup is a thick liquid used for treating nausea. With the same classic flavor of your favorite cola, it might be nice to sip on it while you’re sick. Pour a tablespoon or two over some crushed ice and sip the liquid slowly over several minutes.
 No matter what you choose to drink to stay hydrated, avoid chugging it down quickly or in big gulps. Your stomach is already irritated, so ease liquids into it with small, slow sips.