 Each type of herb requires different lighting conditions for successful growth. Determine the lighting needs based on the herbs you will be growing indoors. In general, most herbs require 10 to 16 hours of supplemental light.


Evaluate the light intensity required for your herbs. The light intensity will be determined by the bulb wattage of the indoor lights and how close the plant needs to be to the light source. The brightness of an indoor light is measured in foot candles or lumens. Foot candles refers to the amount of light hitting a given area, while lumens is the amount of light at the actual light source. Most herbs and vegetable plants require a high light intensity to yield a harvest.
Evaluate the light spectrum color best suited for your herbs. Natural sunlight contains a complete light spectrum, from red to yellow to violet. While herbs require a full color spectrum for photosynthesis, blue and red light are most critical. Blue light regulates plant growth, while red light stimulates flowering and vegetative growth.
 Fluorescent tubes are a low intensity lighting option ideal for herbs. Fluorescent lighting provides 60 to 80 lumens per watt, which is 2 to 3 times more light than incandescent bulbs. At a distance of 6 inches (15.2 cm) away from the bulbs, fluorescents provide 700 foot (213.4 m) candles; at a distance of 12 inches (30.5 cm) away, they provide 450 foot (137.2 m) candles.


Choose full-spectrum fluorescent lighting that most closely mimics natural light. The light color is created by a phosphor coating on the inside of the bulb. If full-spectrum natural light tubes are not available, use a combination of standard warm- and cool-white tubes.
Place herbs close to the fluorescent lighting source, preferably no more than 8 inches (20.3 cm) from the tube, to accommodate for the lower intensity lighting.
Select fluorescent lighting as the least expensive option for indoor gardening.
 Most commercial herb producers utilize HID lamps to grow herbs indoors. They typically produce 2 times more light than incandescent or fluorescent bulbs. HID lighting provides 120 to 130 lumens per watt, and is available in 150-watt to 1,000-watt bulbs. At a distance of 3 feet (.9 m) away from the bulbs, 400-watt HID lights provide 1,000 foot (304.8 m) candles and can illuminate about 25 square feet (7.6 square meters).


Choose metal halide or high-pressure sodium HID lights. Metal halide HID lights give off a bluish-white light that promotes strong plant growth. High-pressure sodium lamps are the most energy efficient HID lighting option, and give off a reddish light.
Place herbs several feet or meters away from the HID lighting source to ensure the lights don't burn the vegetation.
Choose HID lights for energy-efficient lighting.

