 Working out with a friend gives you a built-in cheerleader. You both are sharing similar workouts and goals, so you can provide support when the other is feeling down. Cheer your partner on, and they'll do the same for you., One of the best things about exercising with a friend is having someone hold you accountable for showing up to a planned workout. Whether you are meeting at a gym, the track, a park, or someone’s house, you have someone who depends on you to be there.Don’t wait to the last minute to plan your workout. Make a schedule of days that work for you and your friends. If you can’t plan multiple days at once, schedule the next workout as soon as you finish one.
 It’s easy to come up with excuses about why you can’t work out, whether they're real schedule conflicts or invented stories. Hold each other accountable so you stop making excuses and make time for the workout.If you are too tired, rely on your friend to motivate you. If you’re too busy, your friend can offer suggestions on how to reorganize things to prioritize your workout.
 Having a buddy by your side can give you the confidence to try new activities. If you have to go into a class by yourself, you may never walk through the door, but having someone with you can make a new activity less intimidating.For example, you may have always wanted to try a zumba, weightlifting, spin, or boxing class. Having a friend with you can help you get over your nerves or discomfort and try something new.
 Exercise buddies offer the chance to bond and become closer with the people you are exercising with. Often, people who exercise together talk about their days and lives. An added bonus is that you can share your frustrations and feelings.Long walks, hikes, or training sessions give you opportunities to vent your frustrations, but try not to stress out your workout buddy. Find the balance between talking and listening, and don't make every workout a high drama event.
 Have fun by coming up with workouts for each other. This can help you push each other and keep the workouts fresh and exciting.If you know your friend wants to improve upper body strength, come up with a routine with pushups and dumbbells. If you know your friend likes to hike, choose a hike with some built-in added exercises like sprints or bodyweight moves like lunges, push ups, or dips.

