 Your aim is to get your child to bathe and enjoy the experience, not to let her play during bath time. Play is incorporated as a way to make the experience enjoyable but your toddler needs to understand she’s not in the bathroom to play.


Allow her to play for a little while, but make sure that she understands that the reason she is taking a bath is because you want her to be clean.
 Adding a few toys to the tub can help your child to feel safer and more relaxed during bathtime. The toys will also distract your child while you wash her. Some bathtime toy ideas include:


A rubber ducky.
Bathtub letters and numbers that can stick to the wall.
Balls that float.
Plastic animal toys that will not be destroyed by the water.
 If your child is wary about the water, try to make the water engaging by adding bubbles. Your child will have fun playing in the bubble bath while you scrub her clean. Make sure to get bubble bath that will not irritate your toddler’s skin.


If you don’t have bubble bath, you can also consider blowing bubbles while your child is in the bath. The bubbles may help to distract her from her fear of the bath.
 While your child is in the bath, sing her a song or tell her a story that will distract her while you bathe her. You could even incorporate the bath into the song or story to help your child engage with bathtime.


You could come up with a story about a girl who set out on the high seas to find treasure. On the high seas she discovers that the only way she will be able to access the treasure is if she makes herself as clean as possible. (Consider purchasing some fake treasure for your child to play with after bathtime if you use a story like this).
 One reason that toddlers develop a fear of the bath is because they have had a bad experience where soap got in their eyes, or shampoo irritated their skin. To keep this from happening, make sure to purchase products that are designed for sensitive toddler skin.


Do not scrub your child’s skin too intensely with the loofah or washcloth.
 If your toddler absolutely refuses to take a bath, suggest that you take one together. If you are in the water with your child, she will be less likely to feel afraid.


Do not punish your child for outright refusing to take a bath; punishing your child could lead your child to develop an even deeper fear of bathtime.
 A lot of children find being rinsed off to be the scariest part of bathtime. This is because they have to close their eyes and have water poured over them, which could be scary for anyone, let alone a toddler. Explain each step of the rinsing process so that your child understands what is happening.


Tell her that she needs to close her eyes, but that mommy or daddy will be right beside her the whole time.
Assure your toddler that the water won’t get into her eyes if she keeps them closed. You should also mention that water won’t get into her nose, ears, or mouth if she doesn’t squirm around too much.

