 Real rubies glow with a deep, vivid, almost "stoplight" red. Fake gems are often dull: they are "light, but not bright." If the gem is more of a dark red, then it may be garnet instead of a ruby.If it is a real ruby, however, know that darker stones are usually worth more than lighter stones.Check for a consistent and even color throughout the stone. Fakes are more likely to contain blemishes and impure spots. That said: rubies do sometimes have imperfections.
Use the "stoplight red" as a guide, but do not expect to find a real ruby that is actually that bright. If you do, then the ruby is likely fake. A real ruby should be more like a bright traffic light, however, than like a dull stone.;
, Rubies and other varieties of sapphire are often faked as glass. If the glass and stone look similar, then you may just be holding two pieces of red glass!It is relatively common for dealers to fake rubies using a glass composite., Real rubies are extremely hard stones. Grind a fingernail or a coin into the surface of the "ruby" and see if you are able to scratch it. If the ruby shows a scratch, then there's a good chance that it is not a real ruby. Only a diamond can scratch a ruby.Composite rubies are not as durable as real rubies. There is a chance that the ruby is not a complete "fake," and just a machine-made stone., Gently scratch the stone against a hard, smooth surface: porcelain tile or a piece of clear glass. The stone should scratch the surface whether or not it is a "ruby." The tip-off, however, comes if the "ruby" leaves a red mark on the surface where you scratched it.The red mark might be a sign that the gem is artificially colored. It might tell you that the "gem" is actually made from a much weaker material.
 The stones commonly used as ruby imitations include garnets, tourmaline, glass, and composite gems.Garnets are dullish, dark-red silicate minerals. They are much softer than a ruby.
Tourmaline is a reddish-pink silicate mineral. Tourmaline is somewhat harder than a garnet, but much softer than the ruby.
Red-colored glass imitations are usually cheap, but not very durable. It should be easy to tell if a "ruby" is actually made from glass.
Composite rubies are real rubies that have been fused with glass. This makes the stone larger so that a jeweler can sell it for more money. Beware! Composite rubies are often sold as "real" rubies, for real ruby prices.