 A liquid highlighter will make the important areas of your face look more radiant. Highlight your nose by brushing a thin line down its bridge. Fill in the area between the eyebrows with diagonal strokes. Use gentle strokes as you move and watch as your skin begins to look younger and smoother.Try highlighting other areas. Color in the space between your lower eyelids and upper cheekbones. Place a little bit around your nostrils and above the arches of your eyebrows.
Your highlighter should match the tone of your skin. Those with light skin, for instance, wouldn’t want to use brown or orange highlighters.;
, Tap or massage the highlighter into your skin. You don’t need to use a lot of force. Small areas can be handled by patting in the makeup with a single finger. For larger areas, such as the bridge of your nose, rub your finger lightly up and down the highlighted area.When you’re finished, the highlighter won’t leave any obvious lines.
 Apply foundation over the areas you wish to sculpt. For your nose, brush on a line all the way down both its sides. The darker foundation should be next to the highlight on the bridge of your nose. Later on, your nose will appear thinner and more shapely.Try contouring other areas. Start at eyebrow level on the side of your head and follow your head’s curve upwards. Also, suck in your cheeks and paint from near your lower eyelid, along the hollow of your cheek, and down into your jawline.
Your foundation should also complement your skin tone, but be about two shades darker.
 Gently go over the foundation lines. Pat them down and rub them into your skin. The goal is to soften the lines so the foundation blends in and becomes undetectable., A stippling brush is useful for applying and blending in this second coating of foundation. Dip the brush, a cotton ball, or makeup sponge in the foundation. Tap the brush against your entire face. When you get to your nose, work from bottom to top and finish blending it with your fingers.This lighter foundation should be two shades lighter than your skin tone.
 Powder is used to reduce the unnatural skin glow some makeup, warm temperature, and bright lights can cause. Get a pressed powder a shade lighter than your skin tone. Use a brush to spread a light coating over the areas you highlighted earlier.
 Bronzer is useful if you think you look a little pale. Get a bronzer two shades darker than your skin tone. With your brush, follow the contour lines you made earlier. Use circular motions to blend the bronzer and highlighter.After this, you may continue to make adjustments. Try blending in some blush on your cheekbones, nose, eyelids, and chins.
You can also use a lip liner to draw on freckles and other beauty spots you covered. This will ensure your skin maintains a natural, no makeup look.

