 If you have a metal watch band, it may be attached with a spring bar and be replaced in much the same way as a leather or fabric band. The first thing to do is examine the point where the band is attached to the watch to determine which fitting it has. Look closely at the lugs at either side of the point where the band meets the watch.


If there are small hole on the outside of the lugs, this means that your band is attached with small screws that pass through the lugs.
If there are no holes, it will be attached with just a spring bar.
Now check to see if there are end caps on the band attached to the watch.
End caps are the parts at the end of some bands that protrude out like wings. If it looks like your band does not have a flat end, it has end caps., If you have determined that your band is attached with small screws through the lugs, you will need a small screwdriver, or another tool to remove and replace the strap. You can use a flat head watchmaker’s screwdriver to remove the screws. This is tricky work and requires a steady hand. Insert the screwdriver into the lug hole until you feel it catch in the screw and then turn it sharply anti-clockwise until the screw is loose.


Once you have removed the screw, try to carefully remove the spring bar piece that it was holding in place.
You may need to poke through the other side of the band to do this, and you may need to remove the screw on the other side of the band first.
Non-magnetic tweezers can be a useful tool to help you do this.
Make sure you store all the piece carefully when you are done., A band with end caps is generally attached to the watch with a spring bar and no screws. To see if your watch has end caps, look at the space between the lugs. If it appears that the band flows into the watch case, and there are no gaps, you probably have end caps. If you are uncertain, turn it over and look from the back. A watch with end caps will have an extra metal piece at the end of the band. This will have two parts protruding out that may look a little like wings, extending either side of the band.To remove the band you need to work to release the spring bar from the lugs in much the same as with other spring bar bands.
With end caps, however, once you release the spring bar, the caps will fall out loose. The spring bar attaches the caps to the band as well as to the watch.Repeat this for each side of the band, and be sure to keep all the pieces safe.
 Metal bands that are flat at the ends, with no end caps, are more straightforward to change. If there are no screws and the band is just connected with a spring bar, you can change it in basically the same way as you would a leather or fabric strap.


Insert whatever spring bar tool you are using into the point where the band is connected to the lugs, and carefully try to get the spring bar free.
Depress the band to expose the spring bar and then try to slide it out of the indents in the lug.
Repeat on both sides of the band, and be sure to keep all the pieces safe and secure.