 Maybe dogs aren’t your thing, but instead of focusing on his/her affection for dogs, learn to respect and admire his/her commitment to another living being.


View how your date cares for his/her dog to be a preview of how this person may be in a parental role. If you find a happy, healthy dog you can make an assumption that he/she could possibly be a present, positive parental role model. Of course being a good dog parent doesn’t mean that your date will certainly make for a good mother or father, however the fact that your date can consistently care for another living being is a positive quality.
Consider your date’s commitment to dogs to be an admirable quality. If you are looking to date someone who has passions and goals, a dog lover could certainly fit the bill.
Try to gain some of your date’s love for dogs. Perhaps you never really considered the topic of dog ownership or rescue, but dating someone who feels passionate about the topic may open the door to a new interest for you.;
, Not everyone is a dog (or animal) lover. So if you really don’t like dogs or any animal for that matter, let your date know, but in a very tactful, positive way.


Explain how much you admire his/her affinity for dogs. Start with a positive in order to set the tone for the conversation. Regardless of whether you like dogs or not, you can certainly admire your date’s passion.
Talk about an incident you experienced in the past with a dog. If you had a bad experience with a pooch in the past, communicate what happened with your date. Whether you were attacked or felt nervous in a dog’s presence let your date know so you can make adjustments to how and when you meet his/her pup.
Tell your date what kind of environment would make you most comfortable. If it means that you wait several months before meeting Fido, let your date know. You want your relationship to work and in order for you to get past your feelings about dogs you need to solidify the connection between the humans.
Be open to changing your mind. Don’t tell your date that you will never, ever like dogs or be open to being around dogs. As your relationship grows and deepens you may open up to at least tolerating or even liking his/her pooch. So don’t close the door on any possibilities.
 If you like dogs but are not as enthusiastic about them, you may need to set some boundaries that both you and your honey can follow.


Set boundaries for when and where the dog can coexist. Whether you sleep over or are having dinner at his/her house, communicate what you can handle and what you can’t. For example you may not mind the dog hopping on the couch with you while you watch TV but may draw the line at bedtime (insist the dog sleep in his/her own bed instead of with you).
Keep the relationship human-centric. If your date seems to want to talk about dogs or his/her dog during the majority of your dates, ask that other topics be discussed instead. Politely point out that you spend over half of your dates talking about Skippy and that you’d love to learn more about your date’s job or family instead.
Maintain flexible, fluid rules. Nothing has to be set in stone. As you get to know your date’s dog better you may develop the same level of affection and want to change a few rules.
 Meeting your date’s dog is a big deal, which can be compared to meeting someone’s children for the first time. Being fully prepared can put you're in a better position to keep your cool during that initial meeting, plus score points with your date.


Ask questions about the dog. In order to ascertain how you should approach the dog, ask your date about how the dog will be most comfortable. In some cases you should not look the dog in the eyes, pat him/her on top of the head or get in the dog’s face. Every dog has a different temperament so knowing how your date’s dog reacts to new people will allow you to prepare your introduction.
Bring a gift. You’ll score points with both your date and the dog if you bring a cute dog toy or treat (find out if the dog is allergic or cannot eat certain foods).
Follow your date’s doggy introduction instructions to the letter for a successful initial meeting. Even if the dog is super adorable and you have the urge to snuggle him/her do exactly what your date has instructed. This initial meeting will show your date that you respect how he/she wants you to meet the dog and will most likely set you up for a calm, positive introduction.
 Wondering why your date is in love with dogs? Doing a little research may unearth some answers and lend insight into why some folks are “dog people.”


Read about your date’s dog breed. If your date has a Pit bull Terrier you may want to read about this type of breed and it’s nature. Although Pit bulls have notoriously received bad press for being aggressive, this breed is actually very gentle when raised by a responsible owner.
Learn from dog and medical experts about the benefits of owning and appreciating an animal. From easing blood pressure to helping couples meet, dog ownership provides numerous positive health benefits. In fact, researcher Judith Siegel, PhD says that dog owning patients suffering from AIDS experience less depression than those who do not own a pet.
Research service dog organizations that train and supply special therapy and service dogs to people suffering from physical and mental disabilities. Seeing how dogs can help people may provide you with insight and appreciation for these animals.
 If you are both voracious dog lovers you may have found a match made in heaven. However, if your appreciation for your date’s four legged, furry family member is not as strong, determine if you can look past his/her dedication or not.


Is your date willing to compromise? Does your date want to see you halfway or has it turned into a situation where you feel that it’s “me or the dog?”
Are there certain habits that you can’t overlook? From kissing his/her pooch on the lips to talking incessantly about the dog 24/7, are there things that you just cannot live with no matter what?
Can you see yourself in this relationship long term--you, him/her and the dog? This maybe a “threesome” so you need to decide if you can accept your date’s dog as part of the package.

