 Nature settings are unconventional and very complimentary to the boho bridal style. Rustic ranches, farms, private estates, backyard settings, warehouses, lofts, gardens and vineyards are all great choices. Aquatic settings, such as on the beach shore or near a lake, are also popular options.Be sure that your chosen venue is comfortable for your guests and realistic for a ceremony setting.


For example, if you want to have your wedding outdoors, put the guests’ chairs in a shady area.
Look for settings that feature a lot of lush greenery that you can easily incorporate into your wedding theme.
 Use as many organic details as possible. Decorate with floral wreaths, garlands, potted plants and lush greenery. Select accents made of natural materials like burlap and wood. Look into a nature-themed ceremony arch, which can be woven with ivy, fresh herbs and fern sprigs. Embellish with simple florals like baby’s breath, daisies and roses. Line the ceremony aisle with plants or flowers that match your wedding theme.You could also cover the aisle ground with rose petals, fresh herbs or wildflowers for you to walk over.
Incorporate delicate accents such as lace, silk and velvet ribbons in muted pastel colors.
 Boho style makes use of eclectic details that can be mixed and matched to great effect. Try using an assortment of vintage serving plates and dishes that feature different patterns but share a color scheme. Combine different kinds of prints and fabrics – mosaic prints are popular, as are paisleys. Blend multiple styles with an assortment of different colors.Incorporate vintage-inspired details like mason jars, apothecary jars, regular lanterns, paper lanterns and string lights featuring old-fashioned Edison bulbs.
Accent with velvet, burlap, twine, ribbon, lace, dried flower bundles and floating tealight centerpieces.
 Keep the carefree bohemian vibe going by serving non-traditional wedding food catered by a local company. Check out farmer’s markets for locally grown and organic vegetables, fruits, greenery, herbs and flowers. Consider doing away a formal sit-down dinner and setting up something more casual, like an outdoor buffet. Serve homestyle and fresh foods.Check out artisan bakeries in your area for boho-inspired weddings cakes.
Look into boho-inspired food trucks to cater the food in an outdoor setting.

