 It is important for you to learn about what depression is an how you experience it. Depression is more than feelings of sadness. Reading the signs of depression and beginning to pick out what you experience will help you communicate your feelings to others. You might not have all of the following signs and may have a sign or two that are not in this list.Sad mood, feelings of not being worth anything, a lack of hope, or thinking negatively.Difficulty sleeping, waking up, or constant oversleeping.
Finding that you are more hungry or less hungry than usual or that you have lost or gained weight.
Not being able to enjoy or have fun doing hobbies or activities that you used to love.
Signs you can feel in your body such as pain or feeling tired all the time., Think about how you are feeling. Begin to write down how you are feeling and write down what signs you are experiencing.Also write down what is happening in your life around that time. Consider writing in a journal every day about it.After awhile you might be able to notice if there are certain patterns in how you are feeling. Figuring out your patterns might help you pick out what is behind or causing your depression. Ask yourself the following questions.


Are there times where you find that you are more depressed than others? Or where things feel more difficult, such as in the morning or at night?
Do you find you are more depressed or experience more signs during the winter months?
Are you more sad after spending time with certain people or doing certain activities?

, By tracking how you are feeling, hopefully you have realized what might be behind your depression. It may be events at home, problems with others at school, a chemical imbalance, or a result of a medical condition. If you have determined what is behind it, talk to your support group, parents, doctor and counselor about it. You will only be able to cope with and move on from your depression if you address it at the cause. After identifying what the cause is, begin to make a plan with your support group or doctor to overcome it.


If you are suffering from problems at school, such as being bullied, it is important you must speak to someone in authority to get the behavior stopped.
Talk through possible solutions with people who can help. Solutions may include having someone walk you home, or having teachers keep an eye out for bullying.
If the school does not handle it in the best way, then a drastic life change such as changing schools may be necessary. Your happiness is what is most important.
If it is a result of a medical condition or a chemical imbalance, follow the treatment your doctor has planned for you.

