 When going vegan, you are obviously cutting out all meat. Instead, you need to eat other forms of protein that are plant-based, including beans, grains, tofu, and nuts. One thing you do need to be careful about when going vegan is making sure you still get complete proteins.Meat-based proteins are considered "complete" because they contain all of the nine amino acids your body needs. The only stand-alone complete proteins in the vegan world are quinoa and soy.
However, though plant-based sources are often incomplete, they can be combined to form complete proteins, such as rice and beans or peanut butter with toast. You don't even need to eat them at the same time. Rather, you just need to make sure you're getting your protein from a variety of sources each day, including legumes, beans, nuts, vegetables, and grains.Some people who go primarily vegan may still eat meat occasionally, such as a piece of salmon. This is considered "flexitarian," and may be option may a good one for you if you are primarily going vegan for health reasons.;
, As a vegan, you can still indulge in grains like pasta and breads. However, for your heart health, it's best to focus on high-fiber versions, which help protect your heart's health. In other words, you want to choose whole grains, such as 100 percent whole-wheat bread and 100 percent whole-wheat pasta.Also, pick brown rice over white rice. You can also eat other whole grains such as oatmeal, bulgur, and quinoa.
 When switching to a vegan diet, you can still get all your nutrients from your food. However, you might need to be a bit more careful about making sure you're eating a variety of fruits and vegetables to get the nutrients you need.For example, while meat-based iron is more readily absorbed, you can also get iron from raisins, broccoli, beans, and wheat. Tofu and fortified cereals can also provide you with iron.
For calcium, eat almonds, dark leafy greens (kale, collard greens, bok choy, etc.), soybeans, and fortified soy milk. For vitamin D, you'll need to drink fortified soy milk or almond milk or eat fortified cereals.
Vitamin B12 is found in fortified soy milk and cereals as well.
Zinc can be found in foods like nuts, beans, and soy.
 If you're going to go fully vegan, you need to get used to reading labels. You'll find that many foods you assume are vegan may actually contain meat or dairy products. For instance, lard, meat stock, and gelatin are all common ingredients. Eggs, milk, and yogurt also sneak into many foods., On a vegan diet, you may not always have vegan options available to you out in public. It's a good idea to take snacks with you when you travel and to be prepared to ask a lot of questions at restaurants.Of course, you can always go for simple snacks on the road, like peanuts or cashews. It's also good to know ahead of time what brands have vegan options.
At restaurants, you may have to stick to simple things like a side salad at times. Sometimes, you may need to be a bit flexible and choose a vegetarian option instead. However, how flexible you'll be is entirely up to you.
 When you're new to veganism, it's going to take time to find foods you love. In addition, you'll need to spend more time on meal planning and in the kitchen, as you'll be creating different meals than you're accustomed to. You'll find fewer prepared ingredients you can use, so you'll need to take the time to make many things from scratch, which is healthier anyway.If you have no clue where to start, consider taking a cooking class that focuses on vegan eating., To be successful, you'll need items in your pantry that work in a vegan diet. That means having things like beans, various grains, and whole-grain pasta on hand, along with flavorful additions such as vegan condiments, tomato paste, spices, and various kinds of vinegar. Once you're stocked up, you can experiment with a variety of recipes.Consider using bulk food sections at natural food stores to stock up on things like dried beans, nuts, and grains., When switching over, you may find it difficult to give up some of the foods you love. However, many foods can be made vegan. For example, if you love chili, you can go with an all-bean version or include soy-based ground "beef" in it. You may find that it's not that different from your original recipe., Like meat, you can find dairy substitutes to use in your favorite foods. For instance, you can use a milk substitute such as almond milk, cashew milk, soy milk, or rice milk. You can also find yogurt substitutes, usually made from soy milk or coconut milk. Vegan "cheeses" are also available.You may need to try out a few varieties before you find ones you like.
 Just like any diet, you need to focus on adding flavor in healthy ways. Adding too many fats, for instance, can increase your caloric intake, which isn't good for your heart health. Add flavor through spices, salsa, fruit juice, vinegar, and mustard. Miso, a fermented soy paste, can also add flavor., Many meals are meat-based in Western culture. However, if you look to other areas of the world, you'll find many dishes are vegan, or at the very least, vegetarian dishes that can be adapted to a vegan lifestyle. Adding new and different flavors will help keep your new diet interesting.Try checking out cookbooks from the library that focus on cuisines from other parts of the world.
 A vegan diet is naturally lower in saturated fats, though you'll still find it in coconut oil and palm oil. It's also cholesterol-free, so you have that going for you.However, if you're eating a lot of prepackaged foods, you could still be getting a substantial amount of trans fat (look for hydrogenated oils on ingredient lists), which is also unhealthy. Make sure you're focusing on eating healthy fats.Try cooking with olive oil or canola oil for healthier fats. Other healthy fats include nuts, avocado, and flaxseed oil and meal., Whether you're eating vegan or not, added sugars are not healthy for your heart. Try to avoid or limit foods that are high in sugar, such as sodas, fruit juices, and desserts, to keep your heart healthy.Try to limit your sugar to 6 teaspoons a day (100 calories) for women or 9 teaspoons a day (150 calories) for men.Sugar is a sneaky ingredient, as it can be found in things like bread, tomato sauce, and a whole host of other foods.
 While you don't have to give up alcohol altogether, it's best to drink it in moderation. Men shouldn't drink more than two drinks a day, while women should stick to a single drink a day. Any more than that can affect your heart health.A drink is considered one 12 oz beer, five ounce wine, or one and a half ounces of liquor.
 Salt can increase your blood pressure, which is a detriment to your heart health. Your daily intake should definitely be under 2,400 milligrams, but getting it under 1,500 milligrams is even better to help lower your blood pressure.Make sure to read labels, as many foods sneak salt in.
Try using other herbs and spices instead of salt in your food.
 No matter what kind of diet you eat, processed foods tend to not be as good for your health. Focus on cooking healthy, vegetable-centered foods for yourself at home, instead of purchasing highly processed foods from the grocery store.Case and point: a number of junk foods such as potato chips and hard candies are actually vegan.
 Meatless options are not necessarily healthier. Some meat substitutes are high in sodium and fats. Tofu, for instance, can be high in fat depending upon how it is prepared. Make sure you are always looking at the labels to see if they are actually a healthier option than regular meats., Without fish in your diet, it may be a bit more difficult to get the omega-3 fatty acids you need. One good source is walnuts.Flaxseed oil and flaxseed meal are also a good place to get omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids are essential for a healthy heart.