 One of the most effective ways to encourage the audience to participate and to make sure your presentation is an interactive one is to explain this to the audience at the beginning of the presentation. When you tell people that you expect them to participate, ask questions, and engage with the material, they will be more likely to follow through.Make sure you are clear about how and when you would like audience members to interact. For example, will you have a designated time for questions at the end of the presentation? Is it okay if people stop you in the middle of the presentation? Is there a specific group activity you have planned? If you provide this specific information at the beginning, your presentation will flow more smoothly and the audience will follow your instructions.;
, Starting your presentation with an ice breaker will help engage your audience, and it will demonstrate that your presentation will be an interactive one. Here are a few ideas for simple icebreakers that will capture students’ attention and make sure they are focusing on your presentation:Request that people introduce themselves to audience members seated nearby.
Invite audience members to share why they are attending the presentation.
Ask audience members to share specific questions they would like you to address during your presentation. They will feel more invested in the presentation and pay closer attention to see how you answer their questions. As the person giving the presentation, you’ll also have a better idea of how to tailor it to the specific interests and needs of your audience.
 Many of us have sat through presentations that were more like lectures, where people talked at us rather than to us. To prevent this from happening and show your audience that you want and need their interaction, try opening the presentation with a question.Select a question that is related to the topic of your presentation and that you think the audience will find interesting or engaging. Instead of asking a very specific question that the audience may have a hard time answering correctly, ask them a question that is more broad and allows them to draw on their opinions or experiences since people like to talk about themselves. For example, if your presentation is on mental illness, you could start out by asking your audience how they think our society and culture portrays people dealing with mental illnesses.
When you ask the question, don’t be afraid to be silent for a few minutes to give people time to think. Look at your audience in an encouraging manner while waiting for a response. You can also give them a few minutes to write down their response, and then invite audience members to share. Some individuals are more comfortable when they can write out their responses or thoughts.
 If you are worried that people won’t respond directly to a question at the beginning of your presentation, try to poll the audience instead. Ask audience members to raise their hands or stand to demonstrate their response.This tactic should yield a good response rate, and people will feel less intimidated.
This poll will also offer you insight into what your audience is thinking. You can then emphasize certain aspects of your presentation to reinforce specific points.
 Another great way to set the tone for an interactive presentation that will impress students is to identify a problem at the beginning of the presentation. If you explain to students that you want them to think about this problem and brainstorm together about potential answers or solutions at the end of the presentation, they will be more committed and invested in the presentation.For example, if you are giving a presentation that deals with the history of immigration, ask students about potential solutions to modern-day questions about immigration. Then, revisit the problem or topic at the end of the presentation and discuss potential solutions.

